Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15134
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL RUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3134-IND)
DECEMBER 5, 1995
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Rupiah
At Appraisal in 1989
US$1.00 = Rp 1,770
Rp I million = US$565
Annual Average
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
1,843   1,950   2,030   2,080   2,160   2,237
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April I - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BAPPENAS    -    National Development Planning Agency
BPPT           -     Agency for Assessment and Application of Technology
DRN            -    National Council for Research
GOI            -     Government of Indonesia
HRD            -     Human Resource Development
ICR            -     Implementation Completion Report
LIPI           -     Indonesian Institute of Science
LPND           -     Non-Departmental Government Research Institute
MOEC           -     Ministry of Education and Culture
MOF            -     Ministry of Finance
NASTOT         -    National Steering Team for Overseas Training
NGO            -     Non-Government Organization
NPV            -    Net Present Value
OTO            -     Overseas Training Office
PHRDP          -     Professional Human Resource Development Project
PHRDP II       -     Second Professional Human Resource Development Project
RMPT           -     Regional Manpower Planning and Training
S I            -     Undergraduate Degree Program (Bachelor)
S2             -     Masters Degree
S3             -     Doctorate Degree
S&T            -     Science and Technology
SAR            -     Staff Appraisal Report
STAID          -     Science and Technology for Industrial Development
TPA            -     Academic Potential Test



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface  .................................................................                   i
Evaluation summary  .................................................................       ii
Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment
A.     Statement/Evaluation of Objectives.                                           I
B.  Achievement of Objectives.                                                       2
C.   Major Factors Affecting the Project.                                            7
D.  Project Sustainability.                                                          7
E. Bank Performance.                                                                 8
F.  Borrower Performance.                                                            8
G. Assessment of Outcome.                                                            9
H. Future Operations .10
1.  Key Lessons Learned .10
Part 11: Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans .14
Table 3: Project Timetable .15
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: .15
Table 5A:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .16
Table 5B:  Summary Status of Fellowship Programs by Recipients                      17
Table 5C:  Summary Status of Fellowship Programs .18
Table 5D: Status of Consultant Services .19
Table 6A: Project Costs .20
Table 6B: Project Financing .20
Table 7:  Economic Costs and Benefits .21
Table 8:  Status of Legal Covenants .22
Table 9:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .23
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions .24
Appendix A:         Mission's aide-memoire  .......................                         25
Appendix B:          Borrower contribution including Operational Plan                       28
Map No.             21853-IBRD
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3134-IND)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Professional Human
Resource Development Project (PHRDP) in Indonesia, for which Loan 3134-IND in the amount
of US$117.5 million equivalent was approved on November 28, 1989 and made effective on
February 22, 1990.
The loan was closed on the original closing date of March 31, 1995. Total loan
disbursement amounted to US$116.2 million and the last disbursement took place on August 2,
1995. It was immediately succeeded by PHRDP II, which: (a) provided continuing financing for
fellows still overseas in the midst of their education, as anticipated by the time-slice provisions of
PHRDP; and (b) continued the fellowship programs supported under PHRDP but with substantial
changes.
The ICR was prepared by David H. Clark of the Population and Human Resources
Division, Country Department 3 of the East Asia and Pacific Region, and reviewed by Ms.
Himelda Martinez, Division Chief, and Mr. Richard Calkins, Project Adviser. The borrower has
reviewed the document.
Preparation of this ICR was initiated in the Summer, 1994, and followed up during
the Bank's ICR mission in May 1995. It is based on materials in the project files. A summary of
the borrower's contribution to the ICR prepared by the borrower is attached as Appendix B; the
full report is contained in the Asia Files.






11
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3134-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
I.    The Government of Indonesia has been following a balanced strategy toward educational
development with the bulk of support going to lower levels of education. As part of the overall
strategy the Government has been carrying out small but significant programs to develop high
level professional human resources. The long term approach has been to support the development
of domestic graduate education, to a large extent with Bank funding. The short-term approach
has been to meet specific manpower needs in the civil service with overseas graduate degree
fellowships. The Bank has supported this latter effort in Science and Technology Training, FY85
(Loan 2599-IND) and with project-specific overseas training in a number of projects with
different agencies such as the Ministries of Education and Culture, Public Works, Finance, and
Manpower.
Project Objectives
2.    The objectives of PHRDP were to improve: (a) human resource policymaking and planning;
(b) the quality of professional, technical and managerial staff to ensure improved performance in
policymaking and implementation in critical areas of economic development concerned with growth,
with sustainable development, industrialization, increasing private sector participation and
decentralization; and (c) the quality of scientific and technological research and development, enhance
its management and improve the application of research and technology to industrial development.
The project had three components: (a) improved planning and management of human resource
development; (b) professional and managerial staff development; and (c) science and technology for
industrial development (paras. 1-3). A major part of the project were overseas fellowships for the
retraining of civil servants, managed by three largely independent PIUs: (a) Science and Technology
for Industrial Development (STAID), for S&T; (b) Ministry of Finance (MOF), for finance and
economics; and (c ) the Overseas Training Office (OTO), for other appropriate subjects.
3.    The project objectives were consistent with the Government's strategy for economic
development and were in line with the Bank's strategy for assistance in human resource
development in Indonesia. During implementation it became clear that limiting fellowships to only
civil servants did not support the need for high level manpower in the rest of the economy. A
balanced strategy for human resource development should probably have included an increased
supply of high level manpower for both the public and private sectors (paras. 4 and 5), and
through not only overseas but domestic fellowships as well (para. 40).



iii
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Estimated project cost at completion is US$159.0 million compared with the appraisal
estimate of US$168.8 million, with a cost underun of US$9.8 million (about 6%) which was
largely due to: (a) a renovation of OTO offices was not done; (b) much less equipment/materials
were acquired; and (c) reported costs of regular staff development programs, to be financed
100% by the Government, were significantly lower at completion than had been estimated at
appraisal. The percentage of Loan financing of the Project was 73%, compared with the appraisal
estimate of 70% (Tables 6A and 6B). Other than weak overall coordination among the
management units, largely because of the inactivity of NASTOT (para 27), there were no major
implementation problems. The project was well implemented and completed as originally
planned.
5.    The project has attained most of its immediate objectives without major shortcomings.
The fellowship components effectively served as a source of high level professional and
managerial manpower. They used procedures successfully developed previously and made
continuing improvements throughout the project (paras. 10-1 1). Sustainability of the project's
achievements with respect to overseas fellowships depends largely on the utilization of the
returnees and whether they make substantial contributions to the economy as envisaged in the
project objectives. Efforts have been made to improve utilization of the returnees, such as
improved re-entry arrangements and monitoring returnee performance.
6.    It is too soon to ascertain the actual impact of PHRDP fellowships on economic and
industrial development. Fellows have either just returned or are still studying abroad. Estimates
of likely impact were made based on the past history of the agencies in utilizing returnees and the
institutional arrangements for using high level manpower. Since most MOF fellowships and the
OTO fellowships to Bappenas from previous periods are yielding very substantial long term
development benefits to the economy and institutional conditions remain favorable, it is likely
that the long term impact will be substantial for similar PHRDP fellowships. For the other OTO
fellowships there is simply no evidence but it is not likely that the benefits are as great. For the
STAID supported S&T fellowships, institutional constraints have prevented previous S&T
fellowships for government research institutes from having much effect on economic
development, particularly private sector development (paras. 15 and 30). PHRDP S&T
fellowships are likely to show a substantial impact only if there are significant institutional
changes, such as new personnel practices for the LPNDs and complementing changes in
government rules that would encourage and reward cooperation between government research
institutes and the private sector. Appropriate institutional changes are now in process. There
seems to be a good chance that the fellowships will have, on average, a large enough effect on the
economy to yield a positive NPV (paras. 34 - 36).



iv
Summary of findings, future operations, and key lessons learned
7.    The project achieved most of its immediate objectives without major shortcomings.
Institutional changes are now in the process of being developed and implemented. There is a
good chance that the typical fellowship holder can have a significant effect on the economy
(para. 29, 30, 35).
8.    The fellowship programs will be continued under PHRDP II. Improvements in S&T
management will be continued under the proposed (Industrial Technological Development
Project) ITDP. ITDP would support further improvements in S&T policy and information
systems; and core activities to strengthen small and medium scale industries and their linkages to
large industries (paras 37 and 38).
9.    Lessons learned have been: (a) opening fellowships to private citizens would probably
have increased the impact of the fellowship program (para. 39); (b) more effort should have been
made to integrate domestic graduate education into the fellowship programs (para. 41); and (c)
it would have been useful if the design and m6nitoring of the project would have considered
whether the expensive overseas fellowship programs would have--or could have--an impact
sufficient to warrant the size of the investments (para 42).



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3134-IND)
Part I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
PROJECT REVIEW
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    The project had three major objectives: (a) to improve human resource development
policymaking and planning; (b) to improve the quality of professional, technical and managerial staff
to ensure improved performance in policymaking and implementation in critical areas of economic
development concerned with growth with sustainable development, industrialization, increasing
private sector participation and decentralization; and (c) to improve the quality of scientific and
technological research and development, enhance its management and improve the application of
research and technology to industrial development. These objectives were consistent with the
Government's strategy for economic development, since improving the capability of professional,
technical and managerial staff would be a key factor in successful implementation of development
programs; and were in line with the Bank's strategy for assistance in human resource development in
Indonesia.
2.    The project had three components: (a) Improved Planning and Management of Human
Resource Development, which included improvements to the management of overseas training; (b)
Professional and Managerial Staff Development, which included the Overseas Training Office (OTO)
and Ministry of Finance (MOF) fellowship programs; and (c) Science and Technology for Industrial
Development (STAID), which included S&T policy analysis, improving the management of S&T, and
S&T staff development and training, largely through overseas education and training. And the
project had four largely independent project implementation groups: (a) HRD/ BAPPENAS, which
managed the HRD policy and planning activities; (b) OTO, which managed improvements in the
management of overseas training as well a substantial professional and managerial staff development
fellowship program; (c) MOF, which managed the fellowship program for finance, monetary policy,
and related fields; and (d) STAID, which managed the Improvement of Science and Technology
Policy Analysis and Management and the Science and Technology Staff Development and Training.
3.    The major part of the project was directed at improving the quality of civil service staff,
largely through overseas fellowships, a continuation of the Government's short-term strategy toward
the development of high level manpower. The long term strategy has been to support development of
domestic graduate education, to a large extent with Bank funding. PHRDP contained three of the
four major organizations implementing overseas fellowships for civil servants (the other being the
Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC)). The three organizations had all been started in the
1980's with donor support, including the World Bank. PHRDP fellowships represented about 20%



2
of the overseas fellowship placements during the period of the project (the remainder through MOEC
and as part of other separate projects).
4.     The project was appraised in 1989 and went into effect in 1990, a period when the country
was moving into a phase of sustained, more rapid growth with a dramatic shift in the respective roles
of the public and private sectors. The fellowship program with almost all of its resources going into
the training of government employees, was perhaps an anachronism. At the time PHRDP was being
developed the government was not prepared to use loan funds on a wide scale to finance overseas
training for private sector staff (para. 2.33, SAR). Limiting fellowships to only civil servants ignored
the need for high level manpower in the rest of the economy. During implementation it became clear
that a balanced strategy for human resource development should probably have included an increased
supply of high level manpower for both the public and private sectors--indeed for whatever part of the
economy that the individual could make the greatest contribution to development.'
5.     The project was complex. It involved four largely independent implementation units which
provided fellowships to individuals from forty-three government ministries, agencies, and non-
departmental research institutes (LPND), and a number of public and private universities, strategic
industries, and NGOs, covering a wide range of disciplines in different universities and institutes in
more than ten countries; and carried out a number of other activities not related to overseas
education. Nonetheless the project was implemented well and completed as originally planned.
6.     None of the objectives were changed during implementation.
B. Achievement of Objectives
Fellowships
7.     Sixty-nine percent of project cost were to go to fellowships (and their administration). At the
end of the project 76 % had gone into fellowships. The largest amount of funds went to overseas
degree education, largely graduate education. The graduate fellowships of STAID and MOF were
directed programs with a specific clientele. OTO had a much more general objective of meeting
critical high level professional and managerial manpower shortages throughout the civil service.
According to the SAR, the education provided was to meet the institutional and higher-level staff
development needs of key ministries and agencies, focused on priority sector programs. As it turned
out each of the fellowship components had to deal also with the availability of suitable candidates.
MOF had no shortage of qualified staff. In the STAID component there were shortages of qualified
staff among some of the planned beneficiaries (notably the strategic industries) and a larger number
than anticipated in others (notably BPPT). In the OTO the issue of qualified staff among the
government agencies to be served was such that OTO became simply a source of overseas fellowships
available largely on a competitive basis to civil servants, including staff in public universities, plus staff
in private universities with a few going to individuals from NGOs. Because of new policies from the
I For example, according to 1991 data, virtually the only source of high level S&T manpower to the economy had been
fellowships retraining civil servants. Only 3.8 percent of those outside the higher education system holding a degree in natural
science or engineering held an MA or PhD degree. Ninety to 95 percent of the non-academic scientists and engineers worked
for government or a state enterprise, and almost all of the MA or PhD scientists and engineers working for govermment had
entered government with only a BA degree.



3
Government, focusing on the importance of decentralized decision making, OTO began to specialize
in fellowships in development planning, policy analysis, and development management.
8.     Table 5B contains the number of overseas fellowships supported by PHRDP, according to the
original agency or institution of the fellowship holder.2  The major beneficiaries for degree education
were the Non-departmental Government Research Institutes (LPND), particularly the Agency for
Assessment and Application of Technology (BPPT),3 and the Ministry of Finance. Other major
beneficiaries (receiving more than 30 degree fellowships) were Bappenas, the Financial and
Development Supervisory Board, and the Ministries of Industry and Agriculture. Public universities
received 74, private universities received 86, and NGOs received 14. Twenty-nine went to staff
from the government-owned strategic industries. The rest were spread out throughout a large
number of other government departments and agencies. The fellowships going to STAID represented
major changes to the stock of high level manpower in participating agencies.
9.     Non-degree overseas fellowships covered more individuals but represented a lower overall
cost. Again, the recipients covered a wide range of more than thirty-five government ministries and
agencies. More than one-half of the non-degree fellowships went to four ministries, the Ministries of
Agriculture, Industry, Health, and Religion. LPND received only 2% of the non-degree fellowships.
10.    Degree fellowships: achievement of INPUT objectives. The fellowship components
effectively met the objectives of the fellowship programs in terms of inputs--as a source of high level
professional and managerial manpower. The project built on procedures successfully developed in
previous projects, relying on fellowship programs that had all built up rigorous procedures for
selection of candidates and successful methods by which candidates achieve standards of language
proficiency required by the overseas university system before starting overseas academic training.
Out of all fellows who studied for a overseas graduate degree under PHRDP: 61% had finished the
degree by the end of the project; 36% were still studying supported either by PHRDP II or other
sources; and 3% had returned without yet finishing the degree.4 Fifteen percent of degree fellows
were women.
11.    There were continuing improvements in the fellowship programs throughout the project. All
components carried out longitudinal studies to improve the utilization of returnees. STAID
developed a "Link" program between a foreign and domestic university that not only provided a
graduate degree better suited to the needs for some STAID fellows but also helped to further develop
domestic graduate school capacity. STAID began to use BPPT returnees to help implement the
program, replacing international consultants in the process.
2 There is some double counting of individuals in Table 5B. An individual who was first supported for an MA and then
supported for a PhD would be counted twice. The data include individuals who had started their education prior to PHRDP
and were continued under the project, individuals who both started and completed their degrees under PHRDP, anld individuals
who began under PHRDP and are continiuing their degree under PHRDP 1I or from other sources. The data also include 18 MA
and 14 PhD 'pick-ups' by OTO; individuals who had gone abroad under other auspices and whose support was 'picked-up' by
OTO.
The LPNDs received 64% of PHRDP placements for PhD fellowships, 25% of MA, and 82% of BA. For those fellowships
going to LPNDs, BPPT received 39% of PhD placements, 56% of MA; and 68% of BA.
4 Those who returned to Indonesia without completing their degree are not necessarily 'failures'. The largest number were
PhD students. Some returned for family reasons; others because they had spent too much time and had nin out of ftnding.



4
12.    Degree fellowships: achievement of OUTPUT objectives. The output objectives of the
fellowships were to ensure improved economic and industrial development. It is too soon to
determnine the actual impact on economic development of the PHRDP fellowships, since most fellows
have returned for only a short period of time and some have not yet returned. Each component,
however, has been in operation for a number of years. The past history of how previous returnees
were utilized, their contributions to economic development, and the institutional arrangements for
using high level manpower should provide important indications about the probable impact.'
13.    MOF has a good record about the achievements of its former fellowship holders. It actively
recruited high quality BA graduates and fellows returned into a Ministry that had a large number of
6
staff with overseas education and had grown used to using such people to the fullest extent.
According to the MOF almost seventy percent of their officers who had studied abroad under
previous fellowship projects have made a significant contribution to the development of the modern
financial system and the economic reforms that have contributed to continued economic growth of
Indonesia. In particular the new banking, insurance, pension, income tax, value added, and property
tax laws would not have adequately developed without the contribution of these returnees. In 1994,
eight of the fourteen Echelon I officers in the Ministry were returnees from MOF overseas
fellowships. There is every reason to expect that MOF returnees will continue to make substantial
contributions to developing a viable and rapidly growing economy.
14.    A major recipient of OTO fellowships has been Bappenas where the situation is similar to that
found in MOF, namely a large stock of overseas educated staff and an appreciation by management of
the contributions that can be made by returnees from overseas education. Outside observers report
that the overseas fellowships have resulted in improvements in the planning processes and a change
toward a more problem solving orientation. The effects of other OTO returnees is less clear cut since
the fellowships are widely disseminated throughout the civil service and OTO has very little leverage
about the utilization of returnees in these agencies or information about the development impacts they
have made.
15.    The STAID fellowship program improved the standards of government scientists but in some
cases S&T returnees are not appropriately utilized. The program was a continuation of a four-stage
model by which GOI began to pursue technological development in the mid-1970's. There are,
however, severe institutional constraints preventing high level S&T manpower in government
research institutes from having a significant effect on the economic and industrial growth being led by
the private sector (para. 30). About 10% of LIPI's budget and 5% of BPPT's budget comes from
private sector funding. For a major part of STAID fellowships there is little evidence of that they
have had any direct effect on development in the private sector and only limited evidence about
effective demand from the private sector for their services.
5 There have been continuing tracer studies of past and present retumees but these studies focused on personal issues: were
returnees having difficulties reentering the civil service; did they have jobs to do; places to work; and career paths; were they
able to use their new training and skills; did their studies contribute to subsequent careers? These studies are useful for
improving the implementation of the fellowship programs but contain little information about the impact of the fellowships on
economic and industrial development.
6 Previous research on utilization of retumees from overseas fellows has stressed the importance of a critical mass and
whether the supervisor of the retumee has experience with fellows trained abroad and/or is a retumee.



5
Improving Human Resource Development Policymaking and Planning
16.   HRD/Bappenas. HRD/Bappenas was the smallest component, using about two percent of the
project funds. It was executed under the direct supervision of the Deputy Chairman for Human
Resources/Economic Affairs. The component contributed to two of the major objectives of PHRDP
by both improving: human resource development (HRD) policymaking and planning; and the quality
of HRD policymaking and planning staff. There were two sub-components. One sub-component
operated at the national level. The focus was on developing ongoing policy relevant analysis. The
work was directed by the Deputy Chairman and involved a foreign consultant and domestic
consultants who worked alongside Bappenas officials. It prepared HRD analytical studies, which
were a significant input into the development of Repelita VI and the second twenty-five year plan
(PJP II), and provided the basic steps and methodology for further implementation of the policies and
programs contained therein, with a focus on total factor productivity of specific programs.
17.   The other sub-component was the Regional Manpower Planning and Training Project
(RMPT). The objectives of RMPT were to: develop a framework for manpower development policy
analysis and planning at the provincial level; and assess training needs in manpower analysis for
regional officials and develop suitable training material for a short in-service training course. RMPT
focused its activities on seven pilot provinces. It brought together data from a number of sources
including new surveys, put together manpower strategy reports, and conducted a number of
provincial policy seminars. It contributed to a Bappenas staff development program at local levels by
producing a training needs assessment, an introductory course in Manpower analysis and modules for
HRD training. Training at the regional level was conducted under the OECF loan. Data and analysis
provided by RMPT also has had an impact on policy dialogue at the national level, being used in
discussions regarding the desirability and efficiency of government programs for vocational education
and training.
18.   Improvements in the management of overseas education under OTO. GOI had set up OTO in
1982 to advise on national policy on overseas training and to administer a general program of
overseas training. By the time that PHRDP was implemented OTO had developed effective systems
by which candidates were selected, placed, provided necessary language and academic preparation,
and supported while studying. During PHRDP considerable improvements were made, in particular
to increase the information available to potential participants, to provide strong guidance on the
selection of universities, and to improve 'marketing' of prospective candidates.
19.   The SAR called for OTO, in addition to its role as source of overseas fellowships to
government agencies, to provide policy advice, coordinate, improve efficiency and establish
information and monitoring systems about overseas training. As noted above, OTO continued to
improve its own fellowship program. However, with the exception of the Academic Potential Test
(TPA),7 little of its expertise was shared with other agencies also placing civil servants in overseas
training.8 Part of the problem was linked to the lack of leadership taken by the National Steering
7 The TPA, developed by OTO, is a test in the Indonesian language to measure academic aptitude. Prior to its development
overseas fellowships were awarded on the basis of foreign language ability, not academic aptitude. With the TPA OTO
identifies students with the academic aptitude for overseas graduate education and then arrange language training.
8 During the period covered by PHRDP, OTO placements made up less than 10% of all overseas placements by government
agencies. (Data are not available about privately supported overseas graduate education.)



6
Team for Overseas Training (NASTOT) (see next paragraph). OTO points out that they cannot
impose their systems on others, and there is apparently little demand by others for what they have to
offer.
20.   It was also expected that NASTOT, formed in 1989, would provide general strategy and
policy advice to GOI on overseas training as well as coordinate the four project components. The
weak performance of NASTOT was of concern throughout most of the project. NASTOT was
revitalized in 1993 towards the end of the project and has shown increasing activity. The importance
of maintaining a higher level of activity for NASTOT was discussed at some length by the team
preparing the follow-on project.
Improving quality of scientific and technical research (STAID)
21.   The Science and Technology component, in addition to its fellowship program, included two
other sub-components, one for improving the management of S&T and the other for improving and
implementing R&D management systems in LPNDs, particularly BPPT and LIPI. In both cases
implementation consultants were hired.
22.   The results of Strengthening S&T Policy Making and Planning have been: (a) an Action Plan
for follow-up S&T activities, including such items as recommendations for a component supplier
development program and the need for improving the Indonesian industrial structure by concentrating
on small and medium sized industries; (b) the establishment and funding of an S&T policy unit within
BPPT, which produces S&T Indicators, a very useful publication which is the source for most of the
S&T manpower data found in this report; (c) a proposal and pilot project for IPTEKnet, an S&T
information network linked to Internet; (d) establishment of the Project Analysis Unit (PAU), a
system for analysis and evaluation of S&T projects at the national level; and (e) strengthening the
National Research Council (DRN), which now manages the Competitive Research Grant program
(RUT). The results of the Strengthening S&T Management at BPPT and LIPI have been: (a)
development, pilot testing and some implementation of a Project Process Management System
(PPMS) and a Human Resources Management and Planning System (HRMS); and (b) assessment and
evaluation of the finance and budget management and office and logistics management systems at
BPPT and LIPI.
23.   In addition, there is a visible change in the capacity of the counterpart teams in continuing
activities that were initiated. Some members of the team were very active in the development of
human resource interventions and the proposal for the PHRDP II, while the others in the team
constituted the counterpart group to develop the project design for the proposed Industrial
Technological Development Project (ITDP) (para. 31).
24. The total cost of the consultant contracts was $12 million. The project team concludes that the
inputs were cost effective.. Although some of the outputs needed to be modified because of changes
in government rules and regulations the majority of the outputs were applicable and implementable
immediately.



7
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors not generally subject to govemment control
25.   All fellowship programs were assisted by consultant services for their management, in
particular, in monitoring, counseling and evaluation of fellows' performance while they were studying
overseas. The services provided by the consulting firms were often expensive but were effective and
made considerable contribution to a high success rate of the fellowship program.
Factors generally subject to government control
26.   Previous project implementation experience and capacity of the three PIUs were valuable and
contributed significantly to effective implementation of the project. The fact that the key PIU staff
were, with few exceptions, retained through the project period was another factor contributing to the
project.
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
27.   NASTOT, which was charged with the responsibility for providing policy advice to the
Government on overseas training as well as coordinating the four project components, was largely
inactive throughout most of the project. As a result, and until NASTOT's revitalization towards the
end of the project, each PIU managed its respective component independently, without sharing its
experience and knowledge with other PIUs, thus making it difficult to see the overall status of
expenditures and commitments (para. 20).
D. Project Sustainability
28.   Sustainability of the project's achievements with respect to overseas fellowships depends
largely on the utilization of the returnees and whether they make substantial contributions to the
economy as envisaged in the project objectives. Concerted efforts have been made to improve
utilization of the returnees. For example, all components carried out lonrgitudinal studies, improved
re-entry arrangements, and monitored returnee performance. These activities are continuing and
being expanded and improved which should help to further improve returnee utilization.
29.   Important institutional changes are also taking place which should improve the chances that
returnees will make a substantial impact on the economy. MOF is preparing to implement a pooling
arrangement by which fellows upon returning to the Ministry will be allocated within the Ministry
where their new skills can best be utilized. On a more general level, particularly important to the
OTO program, three new government decrees on education and training for professional development
designed to improve the quality of civil service performance have recently been announced.9 In
particular it is expected that the regulations associated with and implementation of Government
9 Government Decrees, No. 14 on Education and Training for Civil Servants; No. 15 on Appointment of Civil
Servants to Structural Positions; and No. 16 on Functional Positions of Civil Servants. The decrees have been
made but the regulations and implementation, which represent the interpretation or meaning of these decrees are
still in process.



8
Decree 14, regarding job descriptions and career developments of civil servants, will help agencies
make better plans regarding the use of highly educated civil servants and permit fellowship
components, such as OTO, to hold government agencies more accountable for the appropriate use of
fellowship returnees.
30.   With regard to the S&T fellows, it was noted above (para. 15) that there are severe
institutional constraints preventing high level S&T manpower in government research institutes from
having a significant effect on economic and industrial growth if that growth is to be led by the private
sector. Official cooperation of the LPNDs with the private sector brings few rewards and is very
limited. To have LPNDs do more with the private sector requires not only stronger incentives
improving outside funding but also more flexible management, which currently cannot support such
efforts. Efforts to change this situation are in process, in particular to: (a) develop new personnel
practices for the LPNDs to better encourage and reward cooperation with the private sector, so that
the investments in high level manpower made during the project can have more of an impact on
industrialization and economic growth; and (b) pursue changes in government rules regarding finance
and the civil service needed to make the personnel changes work.
31.   Follow-up activities to the achievements made in improving the quality of scientific and
technical research and in strengthening S&T policy-making and planning are expected to be
supported by a proposed ITDP appraised in June 1995 (para. 38). PHRDP II is also supporting
training of Bappeda level II staff in regional development planning and management techniques using
the modules for HRD training developed under the project.
E. Bank Performance
32.   Overall performance of the Bank was satisfactory. During the project preparation and
appraisal stages, much attention was paid to implementation arrangements to ensure smooth start-up
of the project. Project supervision was very satisfactory. Appropriate skill mix and continuity of the
task manager was an important factor in the satisfactory outcome of the project supervision.
Noteworthy was that a cross-sectoral approach taken in supervising the technical assistance
component for scientific and technical research contributed greatly to the quality of the technical
assistance.
F. Borrower Performance
33.   Project performance for each of the management units was quite satisfactory. Each unit was
conscientious in the implementation of their part of the project. For instance, each of the three
fellowship PIUs continued to monitor implementation and progress of its program throughout the
project making appropriate improvements when called for. There were problems regarding overall
coordination among the management units, largely because of the inactivity of NASTOT (para. 27).
One of the problems arising out of the lack of coordination was a lack of information about the
overall status of expenditures and commitments, resulting at one time in overspending on fellowships
by one of the management units.



9
G. Assessment of Outcome
34.   The program of overseas fellowships were expensive per person investments. The cost of a
Master's degree, including an estimated opportunity cost to the economy was about US$60,000; the
cost of a PhD, including opportunity costs, was about $180,000. To attain a non-negative NPV'° for
investments of this size, using a discount rate of 10%, would require that each MA returnee, on the
average, makes a continuing contribution to the economy of an extra or additional $6,000 per year,
over and above his or her contribution to the economy as a BA graduate; for each PhD, an extra
$18,000 per year. In the Indonesian context these are large amounts, but not impossible to meet.
The PHRDP recipients were almost all civil servants their salaries cannot be used to directly measure
their contribution to the economy. However one can ask whether the PHRDP fellows are likely to
have a large and lasting impact on GDP.
35.   The rationale for public support for overseas fellowships is that they are supporting new ideas,
new attitudes of openness, and 'agents of development', as well as providing high level skills not yet
available in-country that are needed to trigger or complement economic development. It is too soon
to begin any measurement about the impact of PHRDP fellowships, since most have returned for only
a short period of time and some have not yet returned. However, the past history of the agencies in
utilizing returnees and the institutional arrangements for using high level manpower provide
important indications about the probable impact. MOF fellowships to the Ministry of Finance and
OTO fellowships to Bappenas from previous periods are yielding very substantial long term
development benefits to the economy (paras. 12-14); the NPV for similar fellowships under PHRDP,
if they could be measured, would probably be positive. For other OTO fellowships, there is simply
no evidence but it is not likely that the benefits are as great. With regard to the STAID supported
fellowships, the institutional constraints preventing high level S&T manpower in government research
institutes from having a significant effect on economic growth led by the private sector have been
described above. So far there is little evidence that the S&T skills in government research institutes
have had a major impact on private sector development. Without appropriate institutional changes it
is unlikely that STAID fellows will have a substantial impact on the economy (para. 15). Officials are
aware of this issue and are in the process of developing new personnel practices for the LPNDs and
pursuing changes in government rules that would encourage and reward cooperation with the private
sector (para. 30). In addition appropriate changes in government practices are happening elsewhere
(para. 29). There seems a good chance that institutional practices will change allowing the S&T
human resources to have a very substantial long term impact on the economy.
36.   The project has attained most of its immediate objectives without major shortcomings (paras.
10-1 1). The NPV cannot be directly measured. However, there seems to be a good chance that the
fellowships will have, on average, a substantial and long lasting effect on the economy. The rating
for "assessment of outcome" therefore has been set at "satisfactory".
'0 Under ICR guidelines a minimum requirement for a satisfactory outcome is a NPV that is not negative iv'hen
future flows are discounted at ten percent for a major portion of the investment.



10
H. Future Operation
37.   The fellowship programs will be continued under PHRDP II, but with substantial changes
(paras. 40-41). The continuation will support: (a) fellows who had started under PHRDP and had
not completed their studies; (b) new placements; and (c) strengthening of the programs for more
efficient re-integration and better utilization of past, present, andcfuture returnees.
38.   Policies and infrastructure to strengthen of S&T management started during the project will
be continued. The proposed ITDP, which was appraised in June 1995, would support further
improvements in S&T policy and information systems first started during the project; institutional
strengthening of LIPI and BPPT to increase their services to help industrial development; and core
activities to strengthen small and medium scale industries and their linkages to large industries. In the
meantime changes in personnel practices and government regulations that would encourage better
cooperation with the private sector are being pursued (para. 30).
I. Key Lessons Learned
39.   During implementation it has become clear that opening fellowships to private citizens would
have probably increased the impact of the fellowship Under PHRDP, fellowships were largely
limited to civil servants, which did not include the need for high level manpower in the rest of the
economy (para. 4). In addition, as the economy has expanded and the private sector has grown the
civil service is no longer the major source employment for university graduates and it is no longer
necessarily getting the people who could best benefit from overseas education."
40.   The Bank's more recent projects recognize the importance of open competition outside the
civil service. PHRDP II concludes the Bank's program support for a special program of overseas
fellowships for civil servants and provides the basis for planning a new type of competitive overseas
fellowships to serve the needs of the entire economy. Under PHRDP II the fellowship components
will provide, on a pilot basis, a total of ninety overseas fellowships to fresh BA graduates,
complementing the University Research for Graduate Education Project (U1RGE) which includes over
900 merit-based fellowships for domestic graduate programs.
41.   The Government's long-term policy of meeting high level manpower needs was by supporting
the growth of domestic graduate education; its short term policy was through overseas education
(para. 3). With the exception of STAID, which helped to further develop some domestic graduate
programs, there was no attempt in PHRDP to integrate these two policies. All resources went to
overseas education, even in situations where adequate programs had been developed domestically
(often with Bank assistance) . This drew resources and good students away from domestic graduate
programs and probably slowed their development. Under PHRDP II fellows will be sent to a
domestic university when an appropriate study program of sufficient quality is available.
42.    At the time of appraisal the economic rate of return (ERR) was not estimated for the
proposed PHRDP. Estimates of the actual ERR to investments in the retraining of civil servants
" Only the BA fellowships were provided on an open merit-based competition open to any high school graduate
in the country.



11
would be very difficult to make because the effects are largely not quantifiable. Nevertheless it would
have helpful if the basic economic questions that lie behind the ERR would have been asked at the
very start. In particular: will the program achieve substantial long-term development results
commensurate with its costs? Application of such a standard at the very start of the project would
have very useful, for at least two reasons. It would have provided an economic discipline that did not
otherwise exist, particularly among the government agencies about the use of the funds going into
fellowships to train their employees. Second, raising such an economic question provides guidelines
to look for during design, implementation, and supervision. To conclude that an expensive overseas
fellowship makes economic sense requires a finding that the typical fellow will make a substantial
impact on the economy that will be sustained over a long period of time. The design of the project
should include how such a lasting impact will be made; monitoring of the project should include
whether the economic and institutional context is such that a large and lasting impact can be made.






12
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln 3134-IND)
Part II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives         Substantial        Partial         Negligible       Not applicable
(/)        ~~~(V)             (V)               (V)
Macro Policies                         l                                                  E a  E
Sector Policies                                       [   300
Financial Objectives                  D               [                 a                 E
Institutional Development            El                                  l                I]
Physical Objectives                   a               El               [ 
Poverty Reduction                    [                [                [                    l
Gender Issues                         a                 ]              []                 E
Other Social Objectives               5               5                El 
Envirornental Objectives                                l              El                 E]
Public Sector Management             El                                El                 E
Private Sector Development           E                E                  l                E
Other (specify)                                       El               E                  El
B.Project Sustainability             Likelv                  Unlikelv                   Uncertain
(i)                      (El)                        ()
O~~lE



13
Highly
C. Bank Performance                     satisfacton           Satisfacton                Deficient
(V)                      (9')                      (/1)
Identification                        lEl C
Preparation Assistance               a                       L                           =
Appraisal                             ]                      L]                         a
Supervision                         1                         Q                        [
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                        satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation                                   C
Implementation                                El             []              L
Covenant Compliance                                           5               5
Operation (if applicable)                     L              L                  ]
Highly                                             Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome               satisfactory   Satisfacton   Unsatisfactor     unsatisfacton
(9'             (9'              ('                (9'



14
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3134-IND)
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan Title                                       Purpose                             Approval      Status
Preceding operations
1. University development 11   To develop Indonesia's capacity to train its own university  1985      Completed
(Loan 2547-IND)            teachers and researchers through development of new
graduate-level programs in selected fields, initiation of five
specialized undergraduate fields of study, and strengthen-
ing of overall university planning and management.
2. Science and technology    To strengthen Indonesia's research and development            1985       Completed
training (Loan 2599-IND)    capacity by developing a nucleus of well-trained
Indonesian scientific and technical manpower, to develop
effective policies and procedures for the implementation
and monitoring of overseas fellowship programs; to
develop and strengthen collaborative relationships
between Indonesia and foreign universities and
research institutions.
3. Higher education          To assist in implementation of the higher education           1988       Completed
development               program through (a) improving sectoral planning, (b)
(Loan 2944-IND)           improving sectoral and institutional management in
higher education, (c) increasing resource mobilization,
(d) improving educational quality and efficiency, (e)
strengthening selected fields of study reflecting manpower
needs, and (f) increasing the contribution of universities
to regional development.
4. Accountancy               The accounting education component aims to raise the          1988      Scheduled for
development               quality of accounting faculty and teaching staff, and to                completion
(Loan 2940-IND)           prepare for future expansion of accountancy education                    in 06/95.
and training.
Following operations
1. Higher education          To improve quality and efficiency of higher education, to     1991      Scheduled for
development 11            alleviate human resource shortages, to improve planning                 completion
(Loan 331 1-IND)          and management, to increase mobilization of resources                   in 12/95.
and to strengthen regional development.
2. University research and   To improve the quality of graduate education in Indonesia     1994      Under
graduate education        by increasing competitive funding for domestic graduate               implementation
(Loan 3754-IND)           education and university research activities, strengthening
the procedures for selecting grant and fellowship proposals,
integrating university research with graduate training in
universities, strengthening research capacity and dis-
seminating research findings in universities.
3. Professional human        Follow-up of the PHRDP l; and aims to foster economic         1994      Under
resource development 11    development and industrialization and facilitate policies            implementation
(Loan 3825-IND)           of deregulation and decentralization by upgrading the
quality of professional, managerial, and science and
technology staff in key government ministries and agencies
both at local and national levels.



15
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3134-IND)
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle                             Date planned      latest estimate
Identification                               01-1989              01-15-1989
Preparation                                                    11/23-12/09-1989
Appraisal                                    06-1989               06-07-1989
Negotiations                                 10-1989               10-04-1989
Board presentation                           03-11-1990            11-29-1989
Signing                                           -               --12-18-1989
Effectiveness                                01-1990              02-22-1990
Midterm review                                  1992                10-1992
Project completion                           03-31-1994            03-31-1995
Loan closing                                 03-31-1995           03-31-1995
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
FY90      FY91       FY92       FY93       FY94       FY95    FY96
Appraisal estimate              3.0      18.0       40.0       65.0       90.0      117.5       ---
Actual                         5.6       12.0       41.7      75.8      103.0      115.8      116.2
Actual as % of estimate       186         67        104        117        114         99         99
Date of final disbursement  August 2, 1995



16
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3134-IND)
Table 5A: Key Indicators for Prolect Implementation
I. Key implementation indicators                           Appraisal Plan                              Actual at Completion
in SAR                                        (Expected Outcome at Completionl                         (April 1995)
HRD/BAPPENAS component:
1. Improvement of HRD policymaking
planning and monitoring at central,
provincial and local government levels:
National level                       - Commissioned policy studies and research     -HRD analytical studies were a significant input
- Improved HRD policymaking planning and         into the development of Repelita VI and PJP II.
monitoring                                      Also, provided basic steps and methodology
for further implementation of policies and
programs contained therein.
Provincial and local level           - Training for BAPPEDA staff in five piovinces  -Contributed to staff development programs at
through five domestic universities            local levels by producing a training needs
assessment, introductory course in manpower
analysis, and modules for HRD training, and carried
out training in seven pilot provinces. The data
and analysis provided also had a major impact
on policy dialogue at the national level.
OTO/BAPPENAS component:
2. Strengthening OTO                      - Overseas training policy studies, improved    -Considerable improvements were made, in parti-
strategies and procedures for preparation for  cular to increase the information available to
overseas training, re-entry and follow-up      potential participants, to provide strong guidance
studies                                        on the selection of universities, and to improve
'marketing' of prospective candidates. Reentry
studies were conducted
3. Overseas fellowships for key staff in  - Overseas postgraduate fellowships for          -1,370 placed: 338 completed degree, 126 still
central, provincial, and local gov't,     about 1,100 key staff                          studying under PHRDP II, and 7 returned without
PTS and NGOs                                                                             a degree; 899 completed non-degree overseas
fellowship programs.
MINISTRY OF FINANCE component:
4. Overseas and domestic fellowships       - Fellowships for 300 persons                   -262 fellows placed: 211 completed degree; 30 still
in finance and monetary policy for                                                       studying under PHRDP II, and 6 returned without
Ministry of Finance and related                                                          degree; 15 completed non-degree overseas
agencies.                                                                                program
STAID component:
5. Improvement of S&T policy analysis      - Strengthening S&T policy making and          -The results of strengthening S&T Policy Making and
and management:                            planning                                      Planning included: la) an Action Plan for follow-up
S&T activities: (b) the establishment and funding
of an S&T policy unit within BPPT, which produced
S&T Indicators; (c) a proposal and pilot project for
IPTEKnet, an S&T information network linked to
Internet; & (dl establishment of the Project Analysis
unit, a system for analysis and evaluation of S&T
prolects at the national level.
-Improving and implementing R&D manage-        - The results of the Strengthening S&T Management
ment systems in LPNDs, particularly at         at BPPT and LIPI have been: (a) development,
BPPT and LIPI.                                 pilot testing and some implementation of a Project
Process Management System and a Human Re-
sources Management and Planning System; and
(bl assessment and evaluation of the finance and
budget management & logistics management
systems.
6. S&T staff development                   Overseas and domestic fellowships               -1, 1 90 fellows placed. 509 completed degree,
and training                             for 1,146 persons.                             232 are continuing studies funded under PHRDP Il;
358 are continuing funded by other sources;
and 54 returned without degree; 37 completed
non-degree overseas program.
NOTE: At appraisal the fellowship program was designed on a time-slice basis and planned to be continued under follow-on projects; 388
degree program fellows are continuing studies overseas supported by PHRDP 11



17
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3134-IND)
Table sB: Summary Status of Fellowship Programs by Recipients
Agency                               PhD         MA           BA    non-degree
BPPT            LPND      Ag'y for Assessment & App of Tech       67      122          279         8
BATAN           LPND      Atomic Energy Authority                 52       22           23         4
LIPI            LPND      Inst. of Science                        39       24           56         4
Dep Finance                                                       19      140                     19
BAPPENAS                                                          12        38                    13
LAPAN           LPND      Aeronautics & Space                      7       21           38         1
Dep Public Wks                                                     6        16                     4
BPS             LPND      Statistics                               7       22            4         0
BPKP                      Financial and Dvlpt Sup Board            5       27                     27
Dep Industry                                                       5       45                     77
St. Industries                                                     3        26          77        21
Depdagri                                                           3        15                   170
Dep Agriculture                                                    2       29                      1
BAKOSURANTA  LPND         Survey & Mapping                         2         6          13
BPN                       Nat'l Land Agency                        2         4                     2
BULOG                                                              2         4
Dep Defense                                                        2
Dep Forestry                                                       1       24                      1
Dep Trade                                                          1       20                     25
BKPM                      Investment Coor Bd                                13
Dep Mining                                                                  11                     1
Dep Transmigration                                                          10
Dep Foreign Affairs                                                          8
Dep Health                                                                   7                    96
Dep Tourism & Post                                                           7                    21
Dep Information                                                              7                    20
Dep Education                                                                7                     8
Dep Religion                                                                 6                   174
Dep Hubungan                                                                 5                     1
Dep Cooperatives                                                             2                     1
Dep Social                                                                   2                    21
MENPAN                                                                       1                     5
Dep Justice                                                                  1                     2
BA KN                                                                        1                     2
Nat'l Archives                                                               1                     1
Dep Manpower                                                                 1
Environment                                                                  1
SEKNEG                                                                       1
Atty Gen                                                                     0                    44
LAN                                                                          0                    26
SETKAB                                                                       0                     1
SETNEG                                                                       0                     1
MENPERA                                                                      0                     1
Public Universitie                                                23        51                    62
Private Universities                                               8        78                    62
NGOs                                                               1        13                    14
Other                                                              1         1                    10
TOTALS                                 270       840          490      951



18
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Ln. 3134-IND)
Table 5C: Summary Status of Fellowship Programs
No. of    No. of
Status at project completion (March 1995)                fellows    fellows
No. of   No. of fel- No. of fellows still /P No. of  placed  completed
Program        SAR         No. of fellows placed   fellows  lows compl studying funded by fellows compared compared
target                            successfull!  against  PHRDP II Other   not  with SAR  with SAR
Total     Male  Female completed placed (%) (Ln 3825) sources compl.  (%)            (%)
OTO (Overseas)
MA             620        402     311       91        306       76%         95    -          1     65%         49%
PhD              37         69      62        7         32       46%        31    -          6    186%         86%
Nondegree          450        899     730      169       899       100%         0    -          0    200%        200%
Total - OTO      1,107      1,370   1,103      267      1 237       90%       126               7    124%        112%
100%     89%     22%_
MOF (Overseas) /a
MA             120        219      195      24        200       91%         14    -          5    183%        167%
PhD             60         28       27        1         11       39%        16    -          1      47%        18%
Nondegree          120         15      14        1         15      100%         0    -          0      13%        13%
Total - MOF        300        262     236       26        226       86%        30               6      87%        75%
100%     90%      10%
STAID: Overseas /b
BA             171        490      419      71        183       37%        181     105      21    287%        107%
MA             305        219      191      28        172       79%         24      17       6      72%        56%
PhD             72        173      153      20         70        40%        27      61      15    240%         97%
Nondegree         232          37      31        6         37      100%         0        0      0      16%        16%
Total-STAID (O'seas)    780       919     794      125        462       50%       232      183     42     118%         59%
100%     89%      14%
STAID: Domestic
BA              921       132      95       37         67       51%         0       57      8    143%         73%
MA             181        138      113      25         17       12%          0     117       4     76%          9%
PhD             20           1       1        0         0         0%         0        1      0       5%         0%
Nondegree          73           0       0        0         0         0%         0        0      0       0%         0%
Total-STAID (Dom.)    366        271      209      62         84       31%          0     175      12      74%        23%
100%     77%     23%
Total STAID       1146       1190    1003      187        546       46%       232      358     54    104%         48%
100%     84%      16%
TOTAL: Overseas
BA             171        490     419       71        183       37%       181      105     21    287%        107%
MA             911        840     697      143        678       81%        133      17      12     92%        74%
PhD            169        270      242      28        113       42%         74      61      22    160%         67%
Nondegree         802        951      775     176        951      100%          0        0      0    119%        119%
TOTAL          2053       2551   2,133      418       1,92        75%       388      183     55    124%         94%
100%     84%      16%
TOTAL: Domestic
BA              92        132      95       37         67       51%          0      57      8    143%         73%
MA             181        138     113       25         17       12%          0     117      4      76%         9%
PhD             20          1        1       0          0         0%         0        1      0       5%         0%
Nondegree          73           0       0        0          0        0%         0        0      0       0%         0%
TOTAL            366        271     209       62         84       31%         0      175     12      74%        23%
l_________I    100%   77%     23%
/a Does not include 8 MA fellows financed partly from Ln. 2472-IND (the Secondary Education Project) at the beginning of the project.
/b Of the 490 BA fellows 260 were transferred from OFP (Science & Technology Project) in 1992. Thirty MA fellows who proceeded
to PhD programs were counted twice as MA and PhD fellows in the total numbers of fellowships.
/c Of the 571 fellows still pursuing oversesas degree programs, 388 fellows will be funded under PHRDP II and the remaining 183 by
other sources than PHRDP II. All fellows continuing domestic degree study will be funded by other sources than PHRDP II.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
lLn. 3134-IND)
Table 5D: Status of Consultant Services
Cost 1$ 0001                             Consultant-months
Component                        Purpose/activities            Implementing         Appraisal                            Appraisal                                        Outcomes
Agency           estimates             Actual          estimates         Actual
IF)     ILl     IF)      ILl    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
I. HRD/BAPPENAS                Improving Human Resource Develop-          BAPPENAS/                  6.300               3.230      135     408      126      65  Contributed to: (al improving HRD policy-
ment (HRD) policymaking and plann-          HRD                                                                                   making and planning as well as the quality
ing; and development of regional                                                                                                  of HRD policy making and planning staff;
manpower planning and training                                                                                                    and (bl the development of Repelita VI and
(RMPTI                                                                                                                            PJP II. The RMPT contributed to a BAPP-
ENAS staff development program at local
level, and had a impact on policy
Sub1total                                              3QQ                3.230      135    408    126         05  dialogue at the national level as well.
II. OTO/BAPPENAS               Improving overseas training policy            OTO/                    6.100               4.150                       196      61  Strengthened OTO capability
BAPPENAS                                                 168      192                    to manage overseas fellowships,
including improved participant
Management of overseas fellowship            OTO/                                                                                  selection, predeparture training,
programs: (language training, academic    BAPPENAS                                                  152     126                    monitoring and evaluation, and
counseling, testing)                                                                                                               re-entry procedures.
Subtotal                                              6.100               4.150      320     318     196       61
Ill. Ministry of Finance       Staft development and training needs          MOF                       800                    0      48                Q       Q  No consultant employed.
IV. STAID                     Improving quality of scientific and tech-    BPPT/PIU                 12.300              12.900      535     513      505     101  Major outcomes of this component include:
nical research by strengthening S&T                                                                                                an Action Plan for follow-up S&T activities
policymaking and planning; and                                                                                                     including such items as a supplier develop-
strengthening S&T management at BPPT                                                                                               ment program and the need for improving
and LIPI                                                                                                                           the Indonesian industrial structure by con-
centrating on small and medium sized
industries; establishment of an S&T policy
unit within BPPT; a pilot project for
IPTEKnet, a S&T information network
linked to Internet; establishing the Project
Analysis Unit, a system for analysis and
evaluation of S&T projects at the national level;
strengthening DRN; establishment of a
project process management system and a
human resource management and planning
system and pilot testing of R&D management
systems in BPPT and LIPI.
Management of overseas & domestic          BPPT/FPIU                  2.500               2.120     192      -       147      69  Improved management, monitoring and
fellowship programs                                                                                                               evaluation of overseas fellowship programs;
developed Link programs.
_____________________  Subtotal  ___________14.800                       15.020      27      513     652      170  1
____ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___TO  T  AL                           _  _ _ _ _ _               28.000               22.400    1.230   1.239     974     22     _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _



20
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
IN DON ES IA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3134-IND)
Table 6A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimates (US$M)                    Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local      Foreign                           Local    Foreign
costs     costs            Total             costs     costs         Total
1. Training Programs
Overseas fellowships                        16.1           64.5           80.6           21.4       85.5          106.9
Domestic fellowships                          3.7           3.2            6.9            3.0         1.3           4.2
Regular staff dev. programs                 10.0            4.9           14.9            8.0        0.9            8.9
Subtotal                                    22 6                        1024            32 37.                   12021
2. Consultant services, systems
development & planning studies:
Consultant services                           1.8          14.9           16.7            2.8        18.6          21.4
Related support activities /a                5.6            5.7           11.3            0.7        0.4            1.1
Subtotal                                     7.4          268                              4        19            22-5
3. Civil works, furniture, equipment
and materials
Civil works and lands                        3.0            2.2            5.2            0.0        0.0            0.0
Furnitre & office equipment                  0.2            0.7            0.9            0.3        0.3            0.6
Computers and software                       0.2            2.4            2.6            0.0        0.5            0.5
Subtotal                                     3.4           51             D 3  80a                                  1 1
4. Project management                             5 1                          BD Si.         11.5        3 a           15,3
Baseline costs                              45.7          101.5         1472             47.6      111.3          159.0
Physical contingencies                          0.8           2.3            3.1                         -
Price contingencies                             4.8          13.7           18.5              -          -
TOTAL  /b                                     51.3         117.5          168.8           47.6       111.3         159.0
/a Most of these activities were covered under the consultant services.
/b The latest estimated cost at project completion was US$159.0 million, compared with the appraisal estimates of
US$168.8 million, with a cost underrun of US$9.8 million (about 6%). The underrun was largely attributable to the
fact that no renovation of OTO offices was undertaken, much less equipment/materials were acquired and fewer
consultant services were used. Some tables do not add up due to rounding.
Table 6B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimates (US$M)                    Actual/latest estimate IUS$M) /a
Source                            Local       Foreign                           Local    Foreign
costs     costs             Total            costs    costs          Total
IBRD                                            0.0         117.5          117.5             4.9      111.3         116.2
Domestic contributon                           51.3           0.0           51.3           42.8         0.0          42.8
TOTAL                                          513          117.5          168.8           4.6        111.3          159.0
/a Some totals do not add up due to rounding.



21
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3134-lND)
Table 7: Economic Costs and Benefits
An economic rate of return (ERR) was neither estimated for PHRDP at the time of
appraisal nor calculated after its close. Estimates of the ERR to investments in the retraining of
civil servants would be very difficult to make. In addition it is too soon to begin any measurement
about the impact of PHRDP fellowships, since most have returned for only a short period of time
and some have not yet returned.
However, a more general NPV standard has been applied during preparation of the ICR:
are the overseas fellowships likely to produce an economic impact large enough to produce a non-
negative NPV (when future flows are discounted at 10%)? Estimated impact was based on the
past history of the agencies in utilizing returnees and the institutional arrangements for using high
level manpower. Since most MOF and some OTO fellowships from previous periods are yielding
very substantial long term development benefits to the economy and institutional conditions remain
favorable, it is likely that the NPV will be positive for similar PHRDP fellowships. For the other
OTO fellowships there is simply no evidence but it is not likely that the benefits are as great. In
regard to the STAID supported fellowships, institutional constraints have prevented high level
S&T manpower in government research institutes from having a significant effect on economic
growth led by the private sector. PHRDP S&T fellowships are likely to yield a non-negative NPV
only if there are substantial institutional changes, such as new personnel practices for the LPNDs
and complementing changes in government rules that would encourage and reward cooperation
between government research institutes and the private sector. Efforts are underway to develop
and promote such changes (para. 30).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3134-IND)
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Revised
Covenant         Present     fulfillment  fulfillment             Description
Agreement    Section           type            status         date        date                  of covenant                       comment
Loan      4.01 (b)       Accounts/        In compliance     12/31        ---    Furnish to the Bank a certified copy of  In compliance. However,
audit                            each year              audit report on records and account of    there were some delays in
the project not later than 9 months after    early years.
end of each fiscal year.
Loan      Schedule 5    Project          In compliance    03/31/90        ---    Establish and maintain a Steering
para 1       implementaton                                           Committee on finance training and a
arrangements                                            Project Implementation Unit in the
MOF, and a Fellowship Management
Unit and Project Management Unit in
the Agency for Assessment and Appli-                                     N
cation of Technology (BPPT).
Loan      Schedule 5    Project          In compliance        --         ---    The borrower maintains existing
para 2       implementaton                                           administrative arrangements with
arrangements                                            respect to the relevant fellowship
and training programs until the
above are in place.
Loan      Schedule 5    Monitoring/       In compliance     12/31        ---     On December 31 each year,
para 3       reviews                          each year              commencing December 31, 1990,
report on implementation of fellow-
shiptraining, including programs,
costs, selection, placement, reentry
and allocation of fellowship with
respect to academic qualificatons
and domestic and overseas training.
Loan      Schedule 5    Monitoring/       In compliance    09/30/92       ---    Carry out a mid-term review on
para 4       reviews                                                 implementation and furnish to the
Bank its report on findings and
recommendation of the review.



23
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3134-IND)
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs /a
Planned                      Revised                         Actual
Stage of
project cycle        Weeks           US$          Weeks           US$           Weeks           US$
Preparation to appraisal     35                  _         35                         44.4         124,100
Appraisal                    20                            17                         10.7          32,000
Negotiations through         10                            10                          5.8          18,700
Board approval
Supervision                 51.5                         76.5                         71.5         218,700
Completion                  12.0                         12.0                         13.7          38,700
TOTAL              128.5                        150.5                         146.1        432,200
/a Data on US dollar amounts for other than Actual is not provided by the MIS.



24
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ILn. 3134-IND)
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Number                     Specialized     Implement-    Develop-
Stage of          month/            of           Days in     staff skills      tation         ment         Types of
project cycle        year           persons         field      represented        status      objectives     problems
Through appraisal       Nov 1988             3            1 7      technical                                                    l
educator
manpower
economist
assistant
Mar 1989            4           29        Same as                                                     l
above plus
S&T policy
Jun-Jul             3            32       technical                                                    l
1989                                      educator
S&T policy sp.
research asst.
Appraisal through
Board approval                                            .
Supervision             Jan-Feb              1            35       technical             1             1
1990                                      educator
May-Jul             1           46        technical             1            1       potential over-
1990                                      educator                                  commitment for
finance training
Sep-Oct             1           30        technical             1            1       distribution of
1990                                      educator                                  fellowships
placement by
country
May-Jun              1           20        economist   -        1             1       monitoring of
1991                                                                                expenditures
Nov-Dec              3  /b       29       economist             1             1       quality control
1991                                     opn officer                                of TA
Jul-Aug              4           19        economist            1             1       project
1992                                     tech educator                              management
S&T spec.                                  coordination
labor market                               among agencies
economist
Feb 1993             3           12       economist             1             2       re-integration
opn officer                                of returning
tech educator                              fellows
Apr 1994             2           10       trng spec.            1             1       monitoring of
proj assist                                expenditures
Completion              May 1995             2           12       economist              HS            S
I__ _ _ _ _   _     _    _ _.               opn  analyst
/a In conjunction with other activities.
/b Support was provided by EA31E in supervising the S&T studies component.






25
INDONESIA
Professional Human Resource Development Project (Loan 3134-IND)
Aide Memoire'
May 22 - June 1, 1995
1.    A World Bank mission consisting of Mr. D. H. Clark (mission leader/economist) and Ms.
M. Masuda (operations analyst) visited Indonesia from May 22 to June 1, 1995 for the preparation
of an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the Professional Human Resource Development
Project (Loan 3134-[ND). The mission held discussions with officials from: (a) the four project
implementation groups of PHRDP, namely the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the Overseas Training
Office (OTO/BAPPENAS), HRD/BAPPENAS, and Science and Technology for Industrial
Development (STAID); and (b) the Coordinating Team for Overseas Funds of Optimalization Plan
for Education and Training (COTOFOPET). A list of people met with during the mission is given
in Annex 1. The mission would like to express its sincere appreciation for the cooperation and
hospitality extended by the officials of the Government of Indonesia.
2.     One purpose of the mission was to provide advice to the project for preparing its own
contribution to the ICR. Draft reports were received from OTO, STAID, and HRD/BAPPENAS.
Final reports along with a summary not to exceed ten pages are to be transmitted to the Bank. The
reports and the summary should be independent evaluation reports by the Borrower on the project's
execution and initial operation, cost and benefits, the Bank's and borrower's performance of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement, and the extent to which the purposes of the loan
were achieved. The summary will be attached unedited to the ICR. If reports from each of
components are submitted but without a summary the ICR will simply note the existence of the full
reports but they will not be made a part of the ICR. The mission strongly encourages that an
overall summarv be submitted to the Bank to ensure that the Borrower's views are fully reflected in
the ICR.
3.    The mission also reminded the various components that thev are to submit a plan for the
'operational phase' of the project, including performance indicators to monitor operations and
development impact. The 'operational phase' is the period after the project has been completed.
An example of such a plan would be STAID's intention: (a) to introduce new personnel practices
for the LPNDs to ensure that the high level manpower--the investments made during the project--
can have a major impact on industrialization and economic growth; and (b) and to pursue
necessarv changes in government rules regarding finance and the civil service needed to make the
personnel changes work.
4.     The other purpose of the mission was to make the final review of project implementation
prior to final preparation of a draft ICR. During a previous mission each component had been
given a copy of the new ICR procedures and had been requested to provide certain information and
complete various tables about project activities and accomplishments to assist the Bank in its ICR
preparation. The requested materials were provided to the mission prior to or during its visit and
were discussed at separate meetings with each of the management components. The rmission
reviewed project implementation covering, inter alia, aspects of project design, implementation
1 This Aide-Memoire is subject to management review before finalizatton.



26
planning, organization and costs; loan disbursements; project developmental impact, economic
benefits and sustainability. Special attention was paid bv the Bank to estimating the likely
economic benefits of the various project activities, particularlv the fellowships.
HRD/BAPPENAS, OTO/BAPPENAS, MOF, STAIDIBPPT were appn'sed of the preliminarv
findings of this review which are summarized below:
*  the project substantially achieved two of its main objectives, namely of
improving human resource development policy making and planning and of
improving the quality of professional, technical and managerial staff in the
civil service. The fellowship components, building and improving on
procedures successfullv developed in previous projects, ran effective and
efficient overseas fellowship programs:
*  there was almost no brain drain and the success rate of fellowship participants
was very high,
*  in spite of the complexity of the project design involving four largely
independent management units, project implementation was completed as
originally planned;
*  if the project fellowships are to result in substantial development results in line
with the size of the investments, returnees must make very sizeable, continuing
contributions to the economy. It is too soon to deternine the impact of the
fellowship retumees under this project, since most have retumed for only a
short period of time and some have not yet retumed. However, the past
history of the agencies in utilizing returnees and the institutional arrangements
for using high level manpower should provide important indications about the
probable impact;
5.    The agreed upon schedule of activities and submissions is as follows:
The project will provide the Bank with its plan for the operational phase the
project and the final draft of the Borrower evaluation report by June 30, 1995.
The Bank will provide the project with the Bank's draft ICR for comments by
July 31, 1995.
The project will provide comments on the Bank's draft ICR and a final
Summnary of the Borrower evaluation by August 14.



27
Annex 1
GOI individuals who contributed to the ICR mission
STAID
Trulyanti Sutrasno. Deputy Chairman for Adminstration, BPPT
Rony Bishrv, Head, Center for Training and Education, BPPT
Ardito M. Kodijat, Center for Education and Training, BPPT
Dewi Odjar Rahardja, Head of Personnel Bureau, BPPT
Falatehan Siregar
Jumain Appe
Erlangga Pribadi
Sri Kusmaningsih
Bony Benyamin
Latief Nurbana
OTO
Bambang Pumomo, Chairman
Soewarto, Secretary
Moch. Ichwanuddin, Head Bureau 4
Sri Mulvani, Department of Economics, UTI
Supadi
Lilly Widayati
Asyraf Nazir
Kunia Idfi
Guspika
Esther Zonny
MOF
Marzuki Usman, Principal, BPLK
Noor Fuad, Head of Personnel Educatin and Training Centre
Widjanarko, Project Director
Zulkarnaen
HRD/BAPPENAS
Sayuti Hasibuan, Deputy for Economic Affairs, Bappenas
Maman Setiawan, Head, Manpower Bureau
Lucky F. Majanto
COTOFOPET
Benny Hoed, Secretary
Uu Supratrnan






28
PROFESSIONAL
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PHASE 1 (1989-1995)
(PHRDP I)
Implementation Completion Report
(ICR)
SUMMARY
Components:
OTO-Bappenas
STAID-BPPT
MOF
HRD-Bappenas
Prepared by
COTOFOPET
Jakarta, June 1995






29
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
1. INTRODUCTION                                   1
2. PROJECT OBJECTIVES                             1
3. PROJECT COMPONENTS                             1
4. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS OF       1
EACH OF THE FOUR COMPONENTS
A. OTO-Bappenas                                 I
B. STAID-BPPT                                   4
C. MOF                                          6
D. HRD-Bappenas                                8






30
SUMMARY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
Professional Human Resource Development Project Phase I
(PHRDP I)
INDONESIA
1995
1. INTRODUCTION
The Indonesian Professional Human Resources Development Project
(PHRDP), funded through IBRD Loan 3134-IND, is a comprehensive project
involving technical assistance and training through Indonesia's National
Development Planning Agency (Bappenas), Ministry of Finance (MOF), and
various scientific and technical non-departmental research institutes (LPND's). The
project is oriented towards a general management improvement of the GOI's
(Government of Indonesia's) policy planning, policy making as well as general
management skills through an intensive resources development program. As this
PHRDP has been followed by a second phase. it will be called PHRDP 1.
2. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The objectives of the project are to (a) improve human .. resources
development policy making, planning and implementation; (b) improve the quality
of professional, technical and managerial staff to ensure improved performance in
policy making and implementation in critical areas of economic development
concerned with growth, sustainable development, industrialization, increasing
private sector participation and decentralization, and (c) improve the quality of
scientific and technological research and development, enhance its management
and improve the application of research and technology to industrial development.
3. PROJECT COMPONENTS
The PHRIDP I consists of four components, i.e. the Overseas Training
Office (OTO-Bappenas), the Science and Technology for Industrial Development
(STAID), BPPT, the Ministry of Finance (MOF); and the Human Resource
Development (HRD-Bappenas) components. Each component is autonomous in
implementing the project, but the general policy is coordinated by the National
Steering Team for Overseas Training (NASTOT).
4. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS OF EACH OF THE
FOUR COMPONENTS
A. Overseas Training Office-Bappenas (OTO-Bappenas) Component
There are two kinds of training being evaluated: the degree training and
the non-degree training. For the degree training, placement success rate is
above 95% of candidates entered in the program. The timely availability of
necessary documents is a crucial matter in the placement; and OTO responds to
requests for rnissing scores in a timely fashion. OTO and Support Offices' staff



31
have worked together and established a solid relationship with admissions
officers and departmental admission committees at many universities to secure
successful admissions. Over the course of the project, there has also been a
noticeable improvement with regard to the systematization of transfer of
needed documents between OTO and the Support Offices. The continuing
emphasis on TOEFL preparation by OTO has had a positive effect in the form
of increasing the average TOEFL scores and decreasing the number of
participants who required to take intensive English.
The choice of universities where participants will apply has often been
made haphazardly and with insufficient information about selected universities.
Over the life of the project, OTO and the Support Offices have worked
together to increase the information available to potential participants and to
provide stronger guidance on the selection of universities. The results have
been quite positive in terms of increasing the percentage of participants being
admitted to one of their four university choices. The application process
requires a certain amount of "marketing" of prospective candidates. Most of
the better universities have many more qualified applicants than can possibly be
admitted; therefore, it is imperative that OTO candidates have advocates who
aggressively speak for the application through the entire process.
Currently (as of March 28, 1995), candidates have earned 306 masters
degree, and 32 Ph.D. degree programs have been completed with 126
continuing in the program (95 Master's, 31 Ph.D). The average length of study
programs has been 23.99 months for that Master's degree and 45.33 months for
the Ph.D. programs. The overall participant failure rate (defined as percentage
of participants who return to Indonesia permanently without completing the
program) is 2.03% (i.e. 7 participants -- 6 doctoral students and a Master's).
The reasons for failure vary but often relate to personal problems which arise in
the course of study.
The general target established by OTO for completion of the degree
programs was 24 months for Master's students and 36 months for doctoral
students. In actual operation over the life of the project and among alumni to
date, 63.52% of Master's participants have completed the program in 24
months or less (0.33% failed and 5.86% pick-up); and 7% of doctoral
participants completed their degree in 36 months or less (16% failed and 16%
pick-up). However, 30.29% of Master's students have received more than 24
months of funding (they received extension of their funding), and 61% doctoral
students have received more than 36 months of funding. Numerous factors
were identified as possibly leading to the need for extension of funding:
inadequate English language preparation, academic deficiencies, university
administration and regulation (such as cancellation of courses required in the
students program), lack of availability of advisors, breakdown in participant/
advisor communication, failure of experiments or other data gathering
activities, delayed or disrupted manuscript preparation, and health and other
personal problems.
An evaluation of the impact of degree training conducted by OTO using
USAID funds shows significant effect of the training especially on the alumni



32
career path, the benefit is in terms of increasing job responsibility, enhancing
skills, and other institutional benefits.
Among those significant impacts of degree programs are the returnees'
ability to introduce new ideas and techniques with high degree of acceptance
from colleagues (above 75%), changing procedures, and developing programs
and projects. The impacts mentioned above are more significant for returnees
holding PhDs than for those holding only Master's degree. Among important
obstacles facing returnees in trying to utilize their knowledge  in their
institution are lack of research funds, lack of scientific information, and
bureaucracy procedures and policies.
As to the non-degree training programs, they have become increasingly
important as a part of the OTO's overall human resources development
strategy. Such programs offer several important advantages, such as the shorter
time period required which is particularly important in attracting higher level
officials who cannot leave office for the long period necessary for degree work,
and who have difficulties in returning to "a student's mentality". Non-degree
programs can also take on a very specific focus, tailor-made of specialists of all
types. Non- degree programs can reach many more individuals than would be
possible with degree programs.
Under PHRD-1, a total of 899 participants have completed short-term
training. Participants have ranged from senior officials at the director level to
junior staff with only a few years of government service. The unique value of
non-degree training is that it can meet the needs and interests of this wide-
ranging clientele. Training topics have included various management courses
(including strategic management, personnel management, project monitoring
and evaluation, hospital administration, research management and planning, and
university administration); regional and local government development issues,
narcotic addiction and rehabilitation, and tourism. Training sites have been
varied within the U.S. and outside the U.S., including in the third countries.
The number of individuals participating in the non-degree programs is expected
to increase rapidly over the next few years. Some evaluation studies of the
impact of non-degree training programs have generally been quite successful.
Future plans for OTO-Bappenas are outlined in the documents relating
to PHRD Phase II, key issues of which are: (1) expansion of linkages to
various ministries to provide a broader range of services to them for human
resources development; (2) further refinement of training strategies among all
government agencies, (3) better research and analysis concerning the
effectiveness of training programs in improving productivity among
government staff.
As to the operational plan, OTO has a long-term plan to make effective
use of as well as to strengthen its alumni. The plan consists of a number of
activities comprising the following: (1) OTO will require that each beneficiary
sending participants overseas submits commitment letters to OTO guaranteeing
that appropriate jobs will be made available to returning participants; (2) OTO
will conduct a tracer's study, that is tracing the where about of the participants



33
and monitoring the optimization of the returnees' knowledge in the sending
agencies/work unit; (3) Based on the result of the tracer's study as mentioned in
point 2 above, OTO will conduct a seminar and take bilateral resolutions with
MENPAN, BAKN, LAN, and Bappenas on the returnees' future career paths
either in the sending agencies or other agencies including private companies;
(4) OTO is prepared to offer its beneficiary organizations assistance in
strengthening their personnel management systems to better accomodate
returning degree participants; (5) OTO will also establish with institutions
benefiting from OTO fellowships the possibility of establishing a standard
system for re-integrating returning degree and non-degree participants.
B. Science and Technology for Indlustrial Development-BPPT (STAID-BPPT)
Component
The specific objectives of the STAID program are concerned with: (I)
Improvement in Science and Technology Policy; (2) Improving the
management of science and technology; (3) Developing Science and
Technology Manpower Resources.
The implementation of the above objectives are in the context of the
second long-term strategy of the national development (PJP-II) as stated in the
Guidelines of State's Policy (GBHN), in which case the 1993 GBHN stated that
the development and application of science and technology must be supported
by highly qualified human resources obtained through education and training,
good institutional system, and availability of Research and Development
facilities. Furthermore, GBHN also stated that in order to achieve new
industrial countries like Singapore, Taiwan, Korea and other industrial
countries in the Pacific area, the need for scientists and engineers would
increase by 15,000 a year in the beginning of PJP-I1 and 65,000 a year at the
end of PJP-II.
On the basis of these objectives and context, the implementation of
STAID I project, especially the fellowship program, has supported, and is in
line with, the long-term S & T manpower development strategy. Such
implementation has been carried out through two units: STAID Projects
Implementation Unit (SPIU) and the Fellowship Project Implementation Unit
(FPIU). In general terms, project achievements obtained through such
implementation are: (1) The total number of overseas bachelor degree
fellowships (SI) far exceeded the original SAR (Staff Appraisal Report) target
(490: 171), especially for the BPPT (Agency for Assessment and Application
of Technology). A major reason for such excess was due to the large number
of bachelor degree fellows (260) transferred from the OFP (Overseas
Fellowship Program) to STAID. As well, candidates for training programs
were far less than originally anticipated, thus creating possibilities for more
bachelor candidates, (2) The total number of overseas Master's degree
fellowship within the LPNDs were reasonably close (193: 188) for most
LPNDs, except for the BPPT. Among the Strategic Industries, the actual
number fell short (26:97) of the original target, which was primarily due to a
lack of eligible candidates; (3) The total number of doctoral degree fellowship
far exceeded the original SAR targets (173 : 72). This was in large part due to



34
the large number of OFP fellows who continued their doctoral program under
the STAID scheme, or who, after receiving their Master's degree during the
OFP, continued to a doctoral program under STAID sponsorship scheme; (4)
The actual number of overseas industrial training fellows was considerably less
than that targeted. This was not due to lack of candidates, but was primarily
due to the problems in identifying the proper training program and training
needs with institutions abroad. The preparation, implementation, and
management of such programs proved to be a monumental problem; (5) The
total number of domestic bachelor degree (SI) fellowship exceeded the SAR
target, but this was only a case for one agency (i.e. BPS- the Central Bureau of
Statistics). This excess was a result of the special SI program in statistics that
was developed for BPS employees, who held only an associate degree (S0); (6)
The slight excess of domestic Master's degree program (S2) target was
primarily due to the special Master's program developed at the ITB (the
Bandung Institute of Technology) for BATAN (the National Agency for
Atomic Energy) employees; (7) The lack of Master's and doctoral programs in
S&T at the domestic universities presented a problem in fulfilling targets for
these programs; (8) Problems related to the identification of appropriate
overseas and domestic training programs persist.
The above achievements met the objectives or expected outcomes
regarding S&T policy and management in that they: (I) provide technical
assistance to the secretariat of the DRN (the National Research Institution) in
various important activities and products, such as in the preparation of manuals
and policy- making; (2) establish IPTEKnet (the network of Science and
Technology), comprising the establishment of Science and Technology
Information System design, Micro-IPTEKnet System, BPPT Information and
Data Clearing House, BPPT Gateway and Internet; (3) determine S&T
priorities for industrial development, comprising an Action Plan for Industrial
Development; (4) establish S&T indicators; (5) establish the Project Analysis
Unit (PAU), comprising proposal criteria and guidelines for project analysis
and selection; (6) establish an information system for planning, management
and human resource development, which covers the design and implementation
of Project and Human Resource Information System and a Manual for Project
Process Management System; (7) establish an Assessment of Finance and
Budget Management System (FBMS) and Office and Logistics Management
System (OLMS), comprising the Assessment and Recommendation Report for
FBMS and OLMS.
The impacts of the fellowship program on the various agencies/LPNDs
are in four ways: increased research financing, increased projects, increased
publications and improved capability in performing quality research; stronger
partnership among the public and private sectors, the industrial sector, and
research institutions; increased relationship between Indonesian research
institutions and overseas universities and research institutions; dissemination of
technological information through scientific publications and joint projects with
other institutions, domestic and overseas. The returnees will continue to
contribute to the overall improvement and strengthening of the infrastructure of
the LPNDs.



35
As to the operational plan of the STAID, the two implementation units
(FPIU and SPIu) will be involved. Within the FPIU, the sustainability of the
fellowship program will be ensured through: the STAID II follow-on program
for continuing fellows; award of new fellowships through STAID 1I for further
increasing the quantity and improving the quality of scientists and engineers;
continuously strengthening the domestic university systems through STAID,
thus improving science and technology manpower; strengthening the returnee
program and better utilization of returnees during STAID-II to ensure the
transfer of technology.
Within the SPIU, the STAID Project activities become an important
instrument in the strengthening of S&T management in Indonesia. Its
sustainability is ensured by the establishment of several policies and the
continuation of the project through: (1) establishment of government policies
during and immediately after the STAID project, such as the establishment of
one-gate policy for coordinating and selecting S&T activities, announcement of
Competitive Research Grants (called RUT --i.e. Integrated Competitive
Research-- and RUK --i.e. Cooperative Competitive Research), identification
of S&T priorities, policy direction for implementation of programs with
industrial direct links; (2) establishment of infrastructure for strengthening S&T
management systems; (3) support by STAID Project to the Indonesian research
institution and Ministry (DRN and MNRT) secretariats.
In addition to these, a project called Industrial Technology
Development project (ITPD) will be implemented for following-up certain
activities and programs, aimed at developing future technology-based
competitive advantages. The ITPD is conducted through a cooperation with
Ministry of Industry, LIPI (Indonesian Institution of Sciences), Bappenas, and
Ministry of Finance. Three main programs will be implemented in STAID-II:
S&T Management Policy and Information System; Management and Business
Integration Service; Core activities designed to improve and strengthen small-
and medium-scale industries and their linkages to large industries.
C. Ministry of Finance (MOI) Component
The PHRDP-I MOF component would support a program of about 300
(SAR target) fellowships for postgraduate overseas training, managed by the
Ministry of Finance (MOF), in finance and monetary policy and related fields
for MOF's staff, associated agencies and relevant staff of other Ministries,
including the Ministry of Trade, of Industry and of Foreign Affairs. Annually,
about 45 fellowships would be provided for postgraduate degree training,
focused on young middle level managers in finance, public and monetary
policy, public and business administration, accounting, and economics. As well,
about 30 fellowships would be provided annually for shorter duration non-
degree courses in these fields as well as in specialist subjects, such as taxation,
auditing, asset valuation, customs and excise procedures and data management.
In addition, about 30 staff years of domestic training would be provided in
related fields.
Overall, the project has gone well, particularly in the implementation of



36
the degree program, The overseas short-term training has not achieved the
targeted figure, due to the lirmited fields of study and the availability- of funds
used to support the degree program. The domestic short-term training could
not be implemented, due to the limited programs offered by the domestic
institutions and the various demands of the associated agencies.
However, the limited staff of the PIU (Program Implementation Unit)
and the frequent change of the project managers (three times) have become
one of the problems during the implementation of the PHRDP-I MOF
component. In addition, the project has no consultancy services to do the
programming and the related administrative tasks. The project has only hired
one EEO to do the placement and monitoring of the students, while also partly
managed the students in terms of sending monthly allowances, book allowance,
and other related expenses. As a result, there was a cost overrun in the amount
of US$1.3 million which has already been identified in the project during the
midterm review of 1992.
Apart from these, the project has generally been consistent with the
broader policies carried out by the beneficiary agencies. The MOF component
has trained qualified staff from some key Ministries, and it has been indicated
that the retumees have contributed their expertise to develop a new strategy to
achieve long-term development goals (see below). Thus the project has
contributed to the country   development strategy, particularly in the
globalization era, as a result of GATTS/WTO. In this case, the role of
retumees in each Ministry is very important, especially in the efforts of
reducing subsidies, protection, monopoly and other similar distortions.
The project achievement can be observed through certain quantitative
indicators: The total number of overseas fellowship provided under the project
is 219 for Master's program, 28 for PhD program, and 15 for non-degre
programs, making a total of 262 (as compared to the target of 300). Of these,
the failure rate is 5 (five) for the master degree and I (one) for PhD. It can be
seen from this figure that the rate for the Master's degree is very high, but only
a small percentage (15%) of the returnees manage to undertake the PhD
degree, due to the budget constraint. The financing of a six to seven-year PhD
degree program is felt to be very expensive. Moreover, the number of women
officials sent abroad is relatively small, due to personal or family reasons,
impossibility to leave her family for the length of study time.
As to the subjects offered, the PHRDP-I MOF Component under
World Bank loan No. 3134-IND only sent the students to the USA, with an
emphasis on the study subjects of Business Administration, Economics, Public
Policy, International Relations, Law, Accounting. These fields have proved to
be relevant to the MOF component and its associated agencies.
During its implementation, the project is divided into in- country pre-
graduate training and overseas pre-graduate training. In-country programs are
basically in the form of English preparation courses, and overseas pre-graduate
training is the preparation of fundamental thories (economic and quantitative
methods) at the Economics Institute, Boulder-Colorado, USA. The Master's



37
degree program in the USA required the completion time of about 24 months.
The ratio of completed versus incompleted training for the MOF component
was 213 to 5. The average cost is US$50,000 for the Master's program and
USS87,000 for the PhD.
In its project management, the MOF component has a Program
Implementation Unit (PIU), i.e. a Center for Finance Education and Training. It
has a steering committee consisting of five sub- components: Ministry of
Finance (MOF), Ministry of Trade (MOT), Ministry of Industry (MOI),
Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MOFA), and the Investment Coordinating Board
(ICB).
The PHRDP-I provided positive impacts for each Ministry in terms of
the returnees' participation and contribution in the development strategy. In the
case of MOF, the returnees participated in the development of capital market,
financial sector development (notably a package of new tax law, new insurance
law, new pension law), as well as in producing related ministerial and
directorate general decrees and regulations. The returnees in MOI, MOT and
ICB contributed in the real sector deregulation, and those in MOFA also
contributed in the development of diplomacy and international relations.
Since PHRDP-I has given positive impacts on the improvement of the
quality of government officials in Indonesia, the project will continue its role in
the second phase of PHRDP-11. PHRDP-II will be designed to reach more
specific targets, such as specific fields of study, to meet the needs of the
Ministries involved.
D. Human Resource Development-Bappenas (HRD-Bappenas) Component
There are two sub-components in this project: The Human Resources
Policy Studies and Research (HRD) and the Regional Manpower Planning and
Training (RMPT) Project.
Within the HRD sub-component, the project comprises four strategic
elements: Policy and Comparative Studies Program, System Development and
Implementation, Training Development, and Training Implementation. The first
element, i.e. Comparative Studies Program, is concerned with the development
of human resources policy initiatives to achieve overall output and employment
targets and to ensure balanced provincial economic development.
The second element, i.e. System Development and Implementation, is
for supporting the first component, in that it will provide strategic information
and analysis on national and provincial labor markets. Such information,
required in decision- making process with regard to human resources
utilization, includes, among other things: (1) economic growth prospects for
each province; (2) model development and projections of future trends in
output and employment growth by occupation- by sector- by province; (3)
model development and projections of future supply of skilled manpower; (4)
model development and projections of future supply of high level manpower
from the university system by field of study and by province; (5) model



38
development and projections of the impact of export growth on occupational
demand and human resources policy; (6) employment absorptive potential in
the provinces; (7) education and skills training requirements and the capacity or
capability of institutions to meet demands; (8) development of incentive system
to enhance creativity and innovation in both the public and private sectors.
The third element, i.e. Training Development, is concerned with
designing appropriate programs and with developing the curriculum, which
mainly includes: Human Resources Development Planning, Manpower Supply
and Demand Models, Economic Growth and Employment Projections/
Prospects, Regional Manpower Planning System, Sectoral and Sub-sectoral
Program Analysis, Economics of HRD.
The fourth element, i.e. System Development and Implementation, is
concerned with effective implementation of training programs, involving a
number of organizational consideration, one of which would be to establish a
committee responsible for operational requirements, training program
scheduling and monitoring.
The main thrust over the longer term of government's economic
development strategy is to enhance productivity and efficiency of the
workforce and elimination of underemployment and poverty through
appropriate development of human resources, technology and related
socioeconomic programs. For Repelita VIl, analysis needs to focus on
implementing policies and programs with particular focus on total factor
productivity of specific programs for the ultimate purpose of determining
programs of utmost importance, to reduce underemployment and alleviate
poverty. This involves an examination of: the present situation, challenges and
objectives, the present weakness, the total productivity growth, the efficiency
at the industrial level.
As to the implementation process for Repelita VI and the Second Long-
termn Development (PJP-1I), there are five steps to follow: (I) Definition of
objectives and identification of major factors influencing underemployment and
poverty; (2) Mapping of specific government programs to the factors
determining or influencing underemployment and poverty alleviation, and
articulation of government programs in relation to economic issues; (3)
Development and implementation of research agenda and methodology for
policy and program implementation, including an analysis of total factor
productivity at the industrial level in relation to the determining
underemployment and poverty and associated analysis of programs and their
efficiency, assuming a given institutional environmnent; (4) Determining
economic and labor market signals; (5) Given all the four steps above, it is
necessary to implement policies and programs involving recommendations,
budget requirements, operational guidelines and institutional c4ange.
The above sub-component has been complemented with the second
sub-component, i.e. the Regional Manpower Planning and Training (RMPT)
project, which constitutes a technical assistance project to the Bureau of
Manpower and Employment Promotion-Bappenas (i.e. the first sub-component



39
above). The objectives of the RMPT sub-component were: (a) to develop a
framework for manpower development policy analysis and planning at the
provincial level; and (2) to assess training needs in manpower analysis for
regional officials, and to develop suitable training materials for short in-service
training courses.
There are two broad kinds of output, namely for the areas of: (a)
Regional Manpower Development Policy and Planning; and (b) Training in
Manpower Analysis. In (a), the specific objectives were to provide policy
recommendations for regional manpower development: (i) as inputs in the
formulation of Repelita VI, and (ii) as inputs in the design and implementation
of specific prograns and projects during the course of Repelita VI. The RMPT
project focused its activities in the seven pilot provinces of North Sumatra,
West Sumatra, West Java, Central Java, East Java, North Sulawesi, and East
Nusa Tenggara. The outputs were: (1) Provincial productivity/ HRD
Manpower Data Bases; (2) Provincial Manpower Surveys; (3) Tracer Studies;
(4) Provincial Labor Market Studies; (5) Provincial Manpower Development
Strategy Reports; (6) Provincial Policy Seminars.
In (b), i.e. Training in Manpower Analysis, the following outputs were
produced: (1) Training Needs and Assessment and Syllabus; (2) Introductory
Courses in Manpower Analysis; (3) Training Modules for the Bappenas/ OECF
training Course.
As to the follow-up activities in the operational phase, the Bureau of
Manpower and Employment Promotion, Bappenas, intends to undertake the
following concrete steps to support the high priority the Government attaches
to human resources development for PJP-I: (a) Provincial Productivity/ HRD
Manpower Data Bases, to be regularly updated, expanded and improved by the
provincial Bappeda offices and the seven project provinces; (b) Provincial
Manpower Surveys, based on the establishment questionnaire developed in this
project; (c) Provincial Labor Market Studies, which will be undertaken by the
Bappeda in cooperation with provincial research institutions; (d) Provincial
Manpower Development Project Proposal, which will be prepared by Bappeda
on the basis of suggestions contained in the provincial manpower development
strategy reports; e) Manpower Analysis Course Modules, containing eleven
training modules prepared by the RMPT project, will be used to train additional
provincial and district level staff from various line Ministries; (f) Coordination
of Regional Manpower Analysis Activities, undertaken in the pilot provinces,
and the Bureau will promote methodologies and training materials by providing
assistance and support to the remaining provinces.



IBRD 21853
r.\         THAILAND              lOP                                 112                                lIt                                      124                             1 W                        INDONESIA
THAILAND              I 0r-                              112-                                                                          "    PHILIPPINES                      PROFESSIONAL HUMAN RESOURCE
8-w   -    -   -                                                                                             ,---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HIIPIE      DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
e                             BRUNEI                                 >
MALAYSLA                                A\,                                    J ,
)  !   /uMALAYSIA
12    5                          *
'r~SINGAPORE                                                             1719
14            .                                         1                          ,                  -.
-6~~~                 ~ ~                                                - 3ECU  .< lO                                               -)
E~ ~ ~ t0 -UATR   /sA                    @~ Ct^                                   
L0UANTN2 3AIST                                          \  o4boL*°-ti                S*    2*                                            24-N-                                                 
25           N
7          B                           j           *                        '1                                    -,. \
2 0                                                      27                                                      26
OI JAK 1M(ARTA                                                                                                                                          21
2. A  BARA7
4 DI YOGYAKARTA                                  6 A
JAM  U5ATUE NA                                                    GA                                                                                                                                                                    N                                    k  lU
5 TIA TIMUR                            T,ro. 3g  o.g  A       2    A  +           14  - x L- 'se
a SUIATAERA SELATAN                                CIiNboo                         S JAKARTA  SDnRca   Sea
9  IAU                                       A_      /-
10 IAMBI                                        A  -7 o 
IS SUATERA BARAT                             G     ..~*'            
2 SIJMAATERA UTARA                                             o        -             f                                                                                                I
13. DIACEH                                                   8od.-b~3~~.'o~y
14. KAUINTAN BARAT                                                                             II A4                                                                                         P
IS KALIMABTAN TENGAH                                                                     l.oA.o  5                22
16  AAPMAT oLATAM                                                          Ybnk                               -AO 22                                24
17 KAATA"N STIEAR10~                                                              4~(0                                        23          )
1a. SULAWESI TENGAH                                                                                            rw                               ---.                                  2                                          
IN~ ~    ~                    LIPI Inoelo  InohhuIo of /cene                                                                                                    p.                   PTPNA        ev   nien   n
20. SULAWESI SELATAN
21 SIJIAWESI IKEIOGGRA                                                                                                                                                                        PA
22 BALIB
23NUSATENGGARA BARAT                                                                                                                                                                                                               0                          SW
24 NUSA TENGGARA TIMUR                                                                                                                                                                                                                           K
25MIALUKU
26 IRLAN JAYA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3
27TIMOR TIMAUR                                                                                                                  lIP 06-124#                                                               IS. 
I_______________________I____________                                                                                                                  STRATEGFCIINDUSTRIES
NON-DEPARTMENTAL RESEARCH INSTITUTES IPD SjST IGCNDTRE
0BAKOSURTANAL. N.tionof Coordinating Agency for S.r-y and MOPPMng                                                                                     *  PT INKA: Railr-od Industry
AL BATAN: Nolio,ol Atooic Energ3y Age...y                                                                                                              U PT INTI: Telecommunications Industry
02 BPPT, Agen-y for As.s.tsnet and Applicoto,- of Technology                                   --  Pr-inc. Boundaries                                  A  PT IPTN: Aircraf Industry
0  BPS: C.ntrol B-reo of Stati,tics                                                            -     I.t.rnotOO... Boondories                          C) PT KRAKATAU: Stee Ind..try
*  LAPAN: Noti ...l Inshtole of Aero.ootics and Space                                                                                                  El PT PAL: Shiphoil4ing Industry
A  LIPI: fodonesion Institute of Sciences                                                                                                              4  PT PINDAD: Heac Eogie.-rin Industry
0D PEPUM DHtANA: Eoplosines Iodustry
PUSAT LENLIPI: Notion1 Engineering Lo6orolory
OCtO&SAB 890









IMAG TI NG
Peport No:       1-51 34
Type- ICP



