Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3134 IND
         (Professional Human Resource Development Project)
                              between
                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated December 18, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3134 IND
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  December  18,  1989  between  REPUBLIC  OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS the  Borrower,  having  satisfied  itself  as  to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set  forth  and  the  term  "Special  Account"  means  the account
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, various currencies that shall  have an aggregate value equi-
valent to the amount of one hundred seventeen million five hundred
thousand dollars ($117,500,000), being  the  sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with  each withdrawal valued by the Bank
as of the date of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account  in the Bank of
Indonesia  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  6 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be  March 31, 1995 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, at a rate for  each  Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in  respect  of  the  preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section  2.06  of  this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest  accrued  on  the  principal amount outstanding
during the  preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  a  six-month period ending
               on the date immediately  preceding each date speci-
               fied in Section  2.06  of this Agreement, beginning
               with the Interest Period in which this Agreement is
               signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means the cost, as
               reasonably determined by the  Bank and expressed as
               a  percentage   per   annum,   of  the  outstanding
Page  3
               borrowings of the  Bank  drawn  down after June 30,
               1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof
               as the Bank has  allocated  to fund: (A) the Bank's
               investments; and (B) loans which may be made by the
               Bank after  July  1,  1989  bearing  interest rates
               determined otherwise than  as provided in paragraph
               (a) of this Section.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower,  paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii)
of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
               "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the prin-
          cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
          time to time, at a  rate  for each Quarter equal to the
          Cost of Qualified  Borrowings  determined in respect of
          the preceding  Quarter,  plus  one-half  of one percent
          (1/2 of 1%). On each  of the dates specified in Section
          2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
          accrued on the principal  amount outstanding during the
          preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
               "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
          Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
          of Qualified Borrowings  determined  in respect of such
          Quarter."
               "(c)  (iii) `Quarter'  means  a three-month period
          commencing on January 1, April  1,  July 1 or October 1
          in a calendar year."
     (e)  Notwithstanding the provisions of  paragraph (a) of this
Section, the interest rate  for  the Interest Period commencing in
the  first  Semester  of  1989   shall  be  seven  and  sixty-five
hundredths percent (7.65%).
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate educa-
tional, administrative and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower  and the Bank shall
otherwise agree,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the  provisions  of Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment.
                            ARTICLE IV
Page  4
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
       (i)    maintain or cause  to  be  maintained, in accordance
              with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section,  records and
              accounts reflecting such expenditures;
      (ii)    retain, until at least  one  year after the Bank has
              received the audit  report  for  the  fiscal year in
              which the last withdrawal  from the Loan Account was
              made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders,  invoices,
              bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
              expenditures;
     (iii)    enable the  Bank's  representatives  to examine such
              records; and
      (iv)    ensure that such  records  and accounts are included
              in the annual audit referred  to in paragraph (b) of
              this Section and that the  report of such audit con-
              tains a  separate  opinion  by  said  auditors as to
              whether  the  statements  of  expenditure  submitted
              during such fiscal  year,  together  with the proce-
              dures and internal  controls  involved in their pre-
              paration, can be relied  upon to support the related
              withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this  Agreement  is   hereby   specified   for   the  purposes  of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Page  5
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          c/o Directorate General of Budget
          Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
          P.O. Box 139
          Jakarta, Indonesia
          Cable address:                     Telex:
              FINMINISTRY                      44319 DEPKEU-IA
              Jakarta                          45799 DJMLN-IA
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
              INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
              Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties  hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                   By /s/ A. R. Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated             % of
                          (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
Page  6
(1)  Civil works                1,100,000     60%
(2)  Furniture,                 3,300,000     100% of foreign
     equipment                                expenditures;
     and materials                            100% of local
                                              expenditures
                                              (ex-factory
                                              cost); 65% of
                                              local expendi-
                                              tures for other
                                              items procured
                                              locally
(3)  Consultants'              25,200,000     100%
     services,
     Systems
     Development
     and Planning
     Studies
(4)  Fellowships               83,800,000     100%
     and training
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated             % of
                          (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(5)  Project                    1,800,000     100%
     Management
     (excluding
     salaries and
     other routine
     costs)
(6)  Unallocated                2,300,000
                              ___________
          TOTAL               117,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding  the  equivalent of $3,500,000, may
be made on account of  payments  made for expenditures before that
date but after March 31, 1989.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are  to assist the Borrower to
improve:  (a)  human  resource  development  policy  and planning;
(b) the capability of  its  professional, technical and managerial
staff in policy  making  and  implementation  in critical areas of
economic  development;  and  (c)  the  quality  of  scientific and
technological research  and  development  and  its  application in
industry.
Page  7
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Planning and  Management  of  Human Resource Development
          (HRD)
1.   Improving HRD  policy  making,  planning  and implementation,
including: (a) conducting policy  based studies; (b) strengthening
national, provincial  and  local  level  HRD  planning systems and
procedures; (c) strengthening procedures for implementation of HRD
policies and plans;  and  (d)  providing  technical assistance and
training.
2.   Strengthening the  Overseas  Training  Office's capability to
advise  on  policy  concerning  overseas  training  and  to manage
overseas  training  programs  including:  (a)  rehabilitating  and
upgrading office accommodation;  (b)  supporting working groups on
improving re-entry  arrangements  and  increasing participation of
women;  (c)  supporting  a  program  of  research  including  data
collection, costs and benefits of overseas training, cross-country
comparative  studies,  selection  and  placement  procedures,  and
follow up  and  evaluation;  and  (d)  providing  equipment, staff
training and technical assistance.
Part B:   Professional and Managerial Staff Development
1.   A program of about  1100  fellowships  for overseas study and
training administered by the  Overseas  Training Office, for staff
of   selected   ministries   and   government   agencies,   public
enterprises,    private    universities    and    non-governmental
organizations, focussed  on:  (a)  public  policy  analysis in all
fields  of   development;   (b)   environmental  conservation  and
sustainable development; and (c)  administration and management of
public institutions and selected public and private enterprises.
2.   A program of  about  300  fellowships  for overseas study and
training  and   about   30   staff-years   of  domestic  training,
administered by the Borrower's  Ministry  of Finance, for staff of
the Ministry and associated agencies,  and relevant staff of other
ministries, focussed  on:  (a)  finance;  (b)  public and monetary
policy; (c) public  and  business  administration; (d) accounting;
(e) economics;  and  (f)  specialist  training  such  as taxation,
audit, customs and excise procedures and data management.
Part C:   Science and Technology for Industrial Development
1.   Improving  policy  making  and   management  of  science  and
technology including: (a)  establishing  a  Science and Technology
Policy Formulation Unit, carrying out studies on the institutional
structure and funding of  research, and identifying priorities for
science  and   technology   to   support  industrial  development;
(b) establishing a Project  Analysis Unit; (c) improving personnel
management systems;  (d)  establishing  a  science  and technology
information system;  (e)  carrying  out  studies  of financial and
office  administration  of  scientific  research  institutes;  and
(f) provision of technical assistance.
2.   A program of about 380  domestic and 780 overseas fellowships
for degree and  specialist  training and internship, administrated
by the Agency  for  Assessment  and  Application of Technology for
scientific, technical and managerial  staff of the Borrower's non-
departmental research  institutes  and  strategic  industries, and
technologists  from   other   departments,   in  applied  science,
technology, design and management.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
Page  8
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
April 15, 1995                                 2,140,000
October 15, 1995                               2,225,000
April 15, 1996                                 2,310,000
October 15, 1996                               2,400,000
April 15, 1997                                 2,490,000
October 15, 1997                               2,590,000
April 15, 1998                                 2,690,000
October 15, 1998                               2,795,000
April 15, 1999                                 2,900,000
October 15, 1999                               3,015,000
April 15, 2000                                 3,130,000
October 15, 2000                               3,250,000
April 15, 2001                                 3,375,000
October 15, 2001                               3,505,000
April 15, 2002                                 3,645,000
October 15, 2002                               3,785,000
April 15, 2003                                 3,930,000
October 15, 2003                               4,085,000
April 15, 2004                                 4,240,000
October 15, 2004                               4,405,000
April 15, 2005                                 4,575,000
October 15, 2005                               4,750,000
April 15, 2006                                 4,935,000
October 15, 2006                               5,125,000
April 15, 2007                                 5,325,000
October 15, 2007                               5,530,000
April 15, 2008                                 5,745,000
October 15, 2008                               5,970,000
April 15, 2009                                 6,200,000
October 15, 2009                               6,440,000
______________________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04  (b)  of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the  principal  amount  of  any maturity of the
Loan to be  prepaid  shall  be  the  percentage  specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the Loan  on  the  day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                         0.90
Page  9
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                          1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  the  Borrower  may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works aggregating  about  $1,800,000  equivalent may be
procured under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of competitive
bidding,  advertised  locally,   in   accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Office  equipment  and  materials  (excluding  computers  and
software) aggregating  about  $1,100,000  equivalent and computers
and  software  aggregating  about   $100,000  equivalent,  may  be
procured under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of competitive
bidding,  advertised  locally,   in   accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
Part E:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With  respect  to  each  contract  for  equipment  to be
awarded under  international  competitive  bidding procedures, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs  2  and  4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two  conformed  copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Bank prior  to the making of the first payment
out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
Page  10
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan  Account  on  the basis of statements of
expenditures. Such contracts shall  be retained in accordance with
Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 10% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions  of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank. Such  consultants shall be selected in accor-
dance with principles and  procedures  satisfactory to the Bank on
the basis of the "Guidelines  for  the Use of Consultants by World
Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World  Bank  as  Executing  Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
1.   The  Borrower  shall,  by   March  31,  1990,  establish  and
thereafter maintain:
     (a)  in  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Finance,  a  Steering
Committee on  Finance  Training  and  in  its  Center  for Finance
Education and Training (BPLK)  a  project implementation unit with
functions and staffing satisfactory  to  the Bank, which functions
shall  include  the  management   of   the  Finance  and  Monetary
fellowship training; and
     (b)  in the Borrower's Agency  for Assessment and Application
of Technology  (BPPT),  an  Implementation  Team  and a Fellowship
Management Unit and a Project Management Unit, each to be assigned
with staffing and functions satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Without  limitation  on  the  foregoing,  the  Borrower shall
maintain existing administrative arrangements  with respect to the
relevant fellowship and training  programs  until such time as the
above arrangements are in place.
3.   On December 31 of each year, commencing on December 31, 1990,
the Borrower shall report  to  the  Bank  on the implementation of
fellowship training,  including  the  training  programs, costs of
training  and  allowances,   selection,   placement  and  re-entry
procedures, and allocation of fellowships with respect to academic
qualifications and domestic and  overseas training, and shall take
into account the Bank's comments, if any.
4.   The Borrower shall, under  terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank and with the  assistance of consultants selected pursuant
to Section II of Schedule  4  to  this Agreement, carry out a mid-
term  review  on  the  implementation   of  the  Project,  and  by
September 30,  1992,  furnish  to  the  Bank,  for  its review and
comments, a  report  containing  the  findings and recommendations
made under such mid-term  review;  thereafter, taking into account
the Bank's comments, if any,  the Borrower shall make the required
adjustments in the  implementation  of  the  Project to attain its
objectives.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  11
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time  to  the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized  Allocation"  means an amount equi-
valent to $4,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from  the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account,  the
               Borrower shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
               deposits into the Special Account at such intervals
               as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the  time  of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
               of this Schedule  for  the  payment  or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
               basis of  each  such  request,  the  Bank shall, on
               behalf of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the Loan
               Account and deposit  into  the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower  shall have requested and as
               shall have been shown  by  said documents and other
               evidence to  have  been  made  out  of  the Special
               Account  for   eligible   expenditures.   All  such
               deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the
               Loan   Account   under   the   respective  eligible
               Categories,  and   in   the  respective  equivalent
               amounts, as shall have been justified by said docu-
               ments and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account,  the Borrower shall, at  such time as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, furnish  to  the  Bank  such  documents and other
evidence   showing  that  such  payment  was  made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible  Categories  less  the  amount  of any outstanding
Page  12
special  commitment  entered   into   by   the  Bank  pursuant  to
Section  5.02  of  the  General  Conditions  with  respect  to the
Project, shall equal the  equivalent  of  twice  the amount of the
Authorized  Allocation.  Thereafter,   withdrawal  from  the  Loan
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible  Categories  shall  follow  such procedures as the
Bank shall specify by notice  to  the Borrower. Such further with-
drawals shall be made only after  and  to the extent that the Bank
shall have  been  satisfied  that  all  such  amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as  of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account:  (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not  justified  by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence  as  the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the  Special  Account  (or,  if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise  agree,  no further deposit by the
Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
