Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 1611 1-TH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THAILAND
METROPOLITAN DISTRIBUTION REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
May 29, 1997
Infrastructure Operations
Country Department 1
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 1996)
Currency Unit - Thai Baht (B)
US$1 = B 25.25
BI = US$0.04
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
MW       -    megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
kWh      -    kilowatt-hour
Gwh      -    gigawatt-hour (I million kWh)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       -    Asian Development Bank
BMA       -    Bangkok Metropolitan Administration
BST       -    Bulk Supply Tariff
DSM       -    Demand-Side Management
EGAT      -    Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
EGCO      -    Electricity Generating Company
EIA       -    Environmental Impact Assessment
ERR       -    Economic Rate of Return
ESCO      -    Energy Service Company
ESMAP   -    Energy Sector Management Assistance
Program of the World Bank
GEF       -    Global Environmental Facility
IPPs      -    Independent Power Producers
MEA       -    Metropolitan Electricity Authority
MOF       -    Ministry of Finance
NEPC      -    National Energy Policy Committee
NEPO      -    National Energy Policy Office
NESDP    -    National Economic and Social Development Plan
NGOs    -    Non-Governmental Organizations
PDP       -    Power Development Plan
PEA       -    Provincial Electricity Authority
PTT       -    Petroleum Authority of Thailand
SFR       -    Self-Financing Ratio
WTP       -    Willingness to Pay
FISCAL, YEAR
October 1 to September 30
Vice President            Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Director              :  Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi, EAI
Division Chief/Manager    Jayasankar Shivakumar, EAIIN
Staff Member              Darayes Mehta, EAIIN



i
THAILAND
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                      Metropolitan Electricity Authority (MEA).
Guarantor:                     Kingdom of Thailand.
Implementing Agency:           MEA.
Beneficiary:                   Not applicable.
Poverty:                       Not applicable.
Amount:                        US$145 million (Fixed Rate Single Currency Loan).
Terms:                         Standard amortization term, grace period, and interest rate
for fixed rate US$ single currency loans with an expected
disbursement period of 3-6 years.
Commitment Fee:                0.75% on undisbursed loan balance, beginning 60 days after
signing less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:               Not applicable.
Financing Plan:                See Table 3.2.
Economic Rate of Return:       20%.
Map:                           IBRD No. 28455.
Project ID No.:                37086.






ii
THAILAND
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary ..................i
1.     The Energy Sector                                                                        I
A. Overview                                        .I
B. Energy Sector Institutions                               .I
C. The Power Sector                                     .2
D. Power Sector Reform                                    .4
E.   Demand Side Management and Electricity Conservation                   .7
F. Environment                                       .8
G. Bank Lending for the Sector                               .8
2. The Borrower .10
A. Institutional Analysis .10
B.  Organizational Restructuring and Development .15
3. The Project .20
A.   Project Objectives, Performance Monitoring and Project Description .20
B. Implementation .21
C. Environment .22
D. Cost Estimates .23
E. Financing Plan .24
F. Procurement .24
G. Disbursements .25
4. Financial Analysis                     ..26
A. Past Performance .26
B. Present Financial Position .27
C. Financial Outlook .28
D. Tariff Levels and Structure .30
E. Financing Plan .32
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Thailand in February 1997, comprising Daryes Mehta
(Principal Power Engineer), Rebecca Sekse (Financial Analyst), Enrique Crousillat (Senior Economist), Ranjit Lamech
(Restructuring Specialist), Maninder Gill (Resettlement Specialist), Jack Fritz (Environmental Specialist), Carolyn
Tager (Senior DSM Specialist) and Dirk Elsen (Senior Counsel). Peer reviewers wac Peter Cordukes (tENPD) and
Alfred Gulstone (AFTPS). The project was cleared by Mr. Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi, Director, EAI and Mr.
Jayasankar Shivakwnar, Chief, EAIIN. Ms. Theresa Gamulo and Ms. Devona Bell (Task Assistats, EAlIN) provided
substantial support in the preparation of the report.



iii
5.    Project Justification ................................. .                       34
A.  Justification .................................                            34
B.  Risks .................................                                    36
6.    Agreements Reached and Recommendation              ................................. 38
A. Agreements .38
B. Recommendation .39
Annexes
I .         Highlights of EGAT, MEA and PEA Operations .40
2.  Demand Forecast .41
3.          Electricity Supply Industry Structure ...42
4.          MEA's Existing Transmission and Distribution Lines .43
5.          MEA Organizational Restructuring Program .44
6.          Performance Monitoring Indicators                                         46
7.          Demand-Side Management Component .48
8.          Project Implementation Schedule .63
9.  Supervision Plan .71
10.  Cost Estimate .72
l.  Procurement Plan .75
12.   Disbursement Schedule .88
13.    Past Financial Performance .89
14.         Financial Projection .......................                              92
15.         Electricity Tariffs .......................                               98
16.         New Bulk Supply Tariff .......................                           102
17.         Economic Rate of Return (ERR) ....................... 104
18.         List of Documents in Project File ....................... 106
Charts
1.  MEA's Organization Chart .107
2.  Implementing Arrangements .108
MaD
IBRD No. 28455



1. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. OVERVIEW
1.1   The consumption of energy and electricity in Thailand has grown at high rates over the
past decade and particularly since 1986 due to the strong economic performance of the country,
arising from rapid industrial growth, and increases in exports, foreign investment and tourism. In
spite of this rapid growth, however, the energy situation in Thailand remains characterized by
relatively modest commercial energy consumption in relation to the country's development (320
kilograms of oil equivalent (koe) consumption of energy per capita compared with an average of
420 koe per capita for all of Asia). This includes a relatively high share (35%) of traditional fuels
in the final energy consumption. The primary commercial energy supply is projected to grow at
an average annual rate of about 8.0% over the next four years (1997-2000) and then at about
5.7% for the next decade.
1.2   While much of the energy growth in the early 1980s was met by imports, efforts in the
1980s to promote the development of indigenous energy resources had a visible impact on the
pattem of commercial energy consumption: the share of oil fell from about 90% of total primary
commercial energy in 1980 to about 70% in 1990. During that period, the shares of indigenous
lignite and natural gas grew steadily, reaching 10% and 16%, respectively, by 1990. Due to
Govermment's continuing efforts, the share of imported oil is anticipated to fall further to about
60% by the year 2005; it is, however, unlikely to decline below that level. A major increase in the
consumption of imported coal (mostly for power generation) is projected in the late 1990s, and
coal is expected to attain a share of 8% of primary energy consumption after the year 2001.
1.3   The sectoral composition of energy demand has been marked by a progressive increase in
the share of the transport sector, which grew 11% p.a. through the 1980s and by 1990 accounted
for 70% of petroleum products consumption. Electricity consumption has increased faster than
energy consumption as a whole, averaging 14% p.a. in the last three years. As a result, the share
of electricity in final commercial energy consumption grew from 11% to 15% in the 1980s, with a
similar increase in the share of electricity in primary energy use from 7% to 11%.
B. ENERGY SECTOR INSTITUTIONS
1.4   The energy sector in Thailand is operated by a number of well-managed and mature public
institutions. There are numerous energy-related agencies, spreading across many ministries and
include several cabinet level committees.  Energy policy and planning is vested in key
govemmental organizations. At the highest level is the National Energy Policy Council (NEPC)
which is chaired by the Prime Minister. The National Energy Policy Office (NEPO), the
secretariat to NEPC, acts as its operating arm, and functions primarily as a link between NEPC
and the country's energy state enterprises and conducts all energy policy work. NEPO is the de
facto regulator of the energy sector. Other departments involved in energy affairs are: (a) the
Department of Mineral Resources, responsible for assessing and preliminary exploration of the
country's coal and petroleum reserves; (b) the Department of Energy Development and
Promotion, which conducts research and development and monitors energy sector activities; and



2
(c) the Department of Industrial Works, responsible for controlling industrial air and water
pollution.
1.5   Energy state enterprises enjoy a large degree of autonomy in the conduct of day-to-day
operations; however, they are subject to strict government control in all matters relating to
investment planning and financing. Because of strict procedures for controlling public debt, all
loans made by energy state enterprises requiring government guarantees must be approved by the
National Debt Policy Committee and the Cabinet. While many of these enterprises still lack
financial discipline and autonomy or suffer from cumbersome personnel policies, they are now in
the process of undergoing a major restructuring of their organizations through corporatization,
with a view to privatization.
1.6   The Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT)-the dominant entity in the petroleum
sector-is involved in downstream oil and gas activities; upstream activities are carried out by the
private sector. PTT is responsible, inter alia, for the purchase, transport, processing and sale of
natural gas. However, PTT competes with international oil companies and has a third of the
market share in the distribution and marketing of oil.
1.7   The power sector is primarily organized around three wholly-owned state enterprises.
The Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT) is the major producer of electricity and
is also responsible for developing and dispatching the bulk-power high voltage transmission
system. EGAT has the authority to purchase electricity from co-generators or other private
sources for distribution over the grid. The Metropolitan Electricity Authority (MEA) and the
Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA) own the distribution systems and some subtransmission
facilities. MEA and PEA distribute electricity purchased from EGAT to the Bangkok
metropolitan area and the rest of the country, respectively.  Highlights of their respective
operation are provided in Annex 1.
C. THE POWER SECTOR
Electricity Demand
1.8   The power sector in Thailand has grown at a rapid pace over the past two decades. The
electricity market growth is among the highest in the world and has been fueled by the country's
high economic growth rate. Considerable progress has been made in making electricity widely
available, especially in provincial urban areas. Industrial consumption has also been growing
rapidly.
1.9   The latest demand forecast made by the national Load Forecast Subcommittee (composed
inter alia of NEPO, EGAT, MEA and PEA) takes into consideration the recent slowing down of
the economy and envisages continued but moderate load growth rates commensurate with the
expected economic performance. Base case demand growth rates for EGAT, MEA (Annex 2)
and PEA for the Seventh (1992-1996), Eighth (1997-2001) and Ninth Plan (2002-2006) periods
are summarized in Table 1.1. These growth rates are considered to be reasonable and achievable.
In 1994, Thailand electricity demand was 10,709 MW. The demand is forecast to increase to



3
13,637 MW by the end of 1996, to 19,899 MW by the end of 2001, to 26,392 MW by the end of
2006 and to 34,509 MW by the end of 2011.
Table 1.1: Forecast Demand Growth Rates
Fiscal Years                 1992-1996            1997-2001          2002-2006
ending September 30
MEA Sales Growth (%/6)           10.2                 7.6                 5.1
PEA Sales Growth (%/6)           14.0                 8.0                 6.3
EGAT Sales Growth (%)            12.5                 7.7                 5.7
EGAT Generation Growth (%/6)     11.5                 7.9                 5.8
Source: Load Forecast Subcommittee.
System Losses and Reliability
1.10  Total losses in the system were approximately 7.7% of total power generated in 1995,
down from the 1994 level of 8.6%. The level has fallen in recent years as problems with power
line upgrades have been resolved.  About 3.2%  of electricity generated has been lost in
transmission lines and transformers in 1995, better than the 1994 level of 4.1%. Distribution
losses as a percentage of power received were about 4.5% for MEA and 6% for PEA, an
achievement by both organizations which ranks with the best performing power utilities in Asia.
With the ever increasing demands placed on the distribution networks of both PEA and MEA, the
reliability of both these networks have been deteriorating substantially over the last few years.
Under the guidance of a "Reliability Committee" chaired by NEPO, several comprehensive
reliability studies have been undertaken by consultants. Implementation of the recommendations
of these studies, feature in the Eighth Plan investments of both MEA and PEA. Agreement was
reached at negotiations that MEA would contain its system losses at current levels (not to exceed
5%), and in consultation with the Bank, take any additional measures that would be called for to
meet this requirement.
Thailand's Power Development Plan
1.11  Meeting increased load demand and improving the electricity transmission and distribution
systems will require considerable investment, estimated at about B 429 billion under the Eighth
Plan. For a long-term profile up to the year 2011, the Power Development Plan (PDP)
recommends the installation of 33,676 MW of new generating capacity, net of the retirement of
2,747 MW of existing power plants. By September 2011, the sector's total capacity will be
43,918 MW comprising of 11% hydro, 25% conventional oil/gas fired, 7% lignite-fired, 11%
imported coal-fired, 10% combined cycle, 8% gas turbine, and 28% from independent power
producers (IPPs). EGAT's PDP has incorporated the Govemment's privatization program for the
power sector which includes the selling of EGAT's power plants at Rayong and Khanom to
EGAT's first subsidiary company, the Electricity Generating Company Ltd. (EGCO), and the
power purchases from IPPs.
MEA's Investment Program
1.12  Investments by MEA over the Eighth Plan (1997-2001) (see Table 1.2) amounts to about
Baht 57 billion (US$2.2 billion). Almost 24% of this program would be devoted to maintaining



4
and improving the supply reliability. This would result in an annual saving of about 7.2 Gwh in
"unsupplied energy" (valued at almost US$16 million) from the year 2002 onwards.  A fair
portion of the investment program would also be devoted to improving the environrnental and
safety aspects of the system (including conversion to underground distribution in congested areas
of Bangkok). MEA's investment plan, which is appropriate to the present circumstances, will be
updated regularly to reflect changes in the amount and geographical location of power demand.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that MEA would carry out an annual review and
update of its five-year investment program, discuss this with the Bank, and implement the
program taking into consideration the Bank's comments.
Table 1.2: MEA's Investment Plan (FY1997-2001)
(Baht billi on)
Fiscal Year                                   1997  3 1998   1999  i 2000    2001
Substations                                   2.4    3.2    3.2    3.4       3.7
Subtransmission                               1.8    2.4    2.6    2.8       3.0
Distribution                                  2.2    3.0    3.2    3.4       3.8
Underground conversion                        0.6    0.8    0.8    0.8       1.0
Public Utility Coordination                   0.8    1.0    1.0    1.0       1.2
Upgrading Primary Lines                       0.2    0.3    0.3    0.3       0.4
Management and Service Efficiency Improvement  0.1    0.2    0.2    0.2      0.2
Interest during Construction                  0.2    0.3    0.3    0.3       0.4
TOTAL                                      8.3    11.2   11.6   12.2    13.7
D. POWER SECTOR REFORM
1.13  Power sector reform in Thailand began in 1992 with the issuance of the seventh National
Economic and Social Development Plan (NESDP). The seventh NESDP which covers the period
1992-96, led to the development of a Cabinet resolution for power sector reform providing
indicative targets for restructuring, corporatization and privatization in the power sector. The
main objectives of this resolution are to: (a) reduce the investment and debt burden of the
Government; (b) promote private sector participation in the power sector through IPPs; (c)
encourage the operation of power utilities as commercial organizations with increased efficiency
and flexibility; and (d) utilize energy resources efficiently. Progress towards achieving all these
objectives over the last four years has been substantive. Despite the slippage of some targets in a
few instances, many of the reform goals specified in this seventh NESDP have been achieved or
are in advanced stages of implementation. Commitment to continued reform is also clearly in
evidence.
1.14  The Bank's operational involvement in the Thai power sector has continuously provided
inputs to the country's power sector reform process. Government strategy and implementation
have been in conformance with Bank policies and the recommendations for the sector as detailed
in the Bank's study-"State Enterprise: Improvement, Privatization and Private  Sector



5
Participation" (Report No. 1312-TH). The main elements of the reform strategy and future
implementation issues discussed below indicate the success of the Thai power reform effort in
meeting stated objectives.
Sector Restructuring
(a)   In February 1996, NEPO submitted and obtained approval by the Cabinet for a
medium-term structure for the Electricity Supply Industry. This structure shown
in Annex 3 propounds the formation of a central purchasing agency, a business
unit comprising the EGAT transmission system and hydro power plants. The
thermal plants under EGAT will be converted to three independent business units
by end-1997 and will sell power to EGAT's transmission business unit on the basis
of transparent power sales contracts. The generation business units are proposed
to be subsequently corporatized and privatized.
(b)   All sales of bulk electricity from EGAT (transmission company) to the distribution
companies PEA and MEA will be based on an efficient bulk supply tariff (BST).
The existing bulk tariff has in-built cross-subsidies as the tariff policy has required
that retail electricity sales by MIEA and PEA be priced uniformly throughout the
country. EGAT's differential tariffs to MEA and PEA have been the vehicle of
subsidization for the rural areas. It has been the Government's intention to
eliminate the cross subsidy from EGAT's tariffs. A Study on the Rationalization
of Bulk Supply Tariff to MEA and PEA was undertaken with Bank financing
under the Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project (Loan 3884-TH). The study
provides the basis for a more efficient BST structure and a means for regulating
the power sector entities. NEPO expects the revised bulk tariff structure to be
introduced by end- 1997.
Enterprise Reform
1.15  As part of a broader strategy of public enterprise reform in Thailand, the power sector
enterprises are being restructured to operate more like commercial enterprises. A strategy of
phased commercialization and corporatization is being followed. The objective is eventual
privatization. EGAT, MEA and PEA are each at different stages in this process.
(a)   The Government has established performance targets for enterprises in different
sectors that allow them to be classified as an excellent state enterprise. In the case
of the power sector, classification as an excellent state enterprise status requires:
(a) return on revalued assets greater than 6%; (b) labor cost below 20% of total
costs; and (c) annual productivity increases equal to or greater than 2%.
Achievement of the excellent state enterprise status provides management with the
authority to devise and implement a suitable staffing and compensation system.
EGAT achieved excellent state enterprise status in 1995. This step has had a
major impact in improving management incentives and is crucial to achieving a
smooth transition to a commercial operating status. Both PEA and MEA expect
to achieve this status in 1997.



6
(b)   Following an independent "audit" of EGAT under the Second Power System
Development Project (Loan 3138-TH), EGAT obtained government approval for
its organizational restructuring plans in February 1996. These plans are now being
implemented. EGAT has created six business units (i.e. profit centers), and five
operating units (i.e. cost centers). The business units are: thermal generation;
transmission; engineering; construction; mining and maintenance. The operating
units are: governor's office and internal audit; hydro power plants; administration;
accounting and finance; policy and planning and new business ventures. Asset
restructuring for the creation of profit centers is in progress. All transactions
between business units will be conducted on the basis of transparent transfer
prices. Once this structure is developed on a sound commercial footing, the
business units will be corporatized and then could either be wholly- or partially-
privatized. The progress on privatization will depend on the absorptive capacity of
domestic capital markets.
(c)   Following the preparation of a PEA Privatization Implementation Program under
the Distribution System Reinforcement Project (Loan 3138-TH), PEA prepared a
corporate restructuring action plan. The PEA action plan has been approved by
the Cabinet and is currently under implementation under the Distribution
Automation and Reliability Improvement Project (Loan 4067-TH). PEA will be
transformed over a 4-5 year period from a centrally controlled government agency,
to regionally decentralized corporate subsidiaries under a holding company
structure. Following an "audit" of MEA's institution under the Distribution
System and Energy Efficiency Project (Loan 3598-TH), MEA has recently
prepared an organizational restructuring plan in consultation with the Bank and
this plan is acceptable to NEPO. It is expected that MEA would follow a phased
reorganization strategy, first becoming a state holding company with separate
subsidiaries and profit centers. The separation of "supply" and "distribution"
would be a major step forward in the separation of distribution accounts and for
wholesale choice by large consumers.
Power Sector Regulation
(a)   In June 1996, the Cabinet agreed on two key principles for regulatory reform in
the power sector. First, the concept of independent regulation for the sector has
been accepted. This will begin with the separation of the policy and regulatory
functions of NEPO  and the creation of a separate unit with regulatory
responsibility. Second, the basis for tariff regulation will ensure that power sector
enterprises meet a minimum self-financing ratio (SFR) of 25%. SFR would be the
governing financial covenant for regulation in lieu of a rate-of-return on assets. A
large part of this work was completed under the study on the Rationalization of
Bulk Supply Tariff undertaken with Bank financing under the Lam Takhong Pump
Storage Project (Loan 3884-TH).  The detailed sector regulation principles
concerning investment, tariffs, and service standards will be defined under a
subsequent study on Regulation in the Energy Sector being initiated under the
Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement Project (Loan 4067-TH).



7
(b)   The regulatory principles developed by NEPO have been submitted for Cabinet
review and approval. In parallel, NEPO has also issued draft service performance
standards to the power enterprises (i.e. EGAT, MEA and PEA). The power
enterprises have begun to develop and revise their long-term investment plans and
prepare financial projections to meet these service standards. Discussions on these
financial projections and service standards will continue between the utilities and
NEPO. It is expected that the performance standards and financial projections will
be agreed upon by end- 1997, whereafter formal regulatory supervision will
commence.
Private Sector Participation
(a)   Asset Divestiture: In 1992, EGAT established EGCO as its subsidiary company
with an issued share capital of Baht 100 million divided into 10 million shares of
Baht 10 each. On September 30, 1993, EGAT held the entire equity with the
exception of 15 shares which were issued to EGAT senior management to comply
with the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) regulations. In 1994, a further 186
million shares of Baht 10 each were issued, all of which are held by EGAT except
for one million held by the Thai Property Crown Bureau and which increased
EGAT's total holding to almost 192 million shares. In addition to the flotation of
additional shares by EGCO during the year, it also set up its own subsidiary, the
Rayong Electricity Generating Company (REGCO). In November 1994, a public
offering of 204 million shares in EGCO raised Baht 4.5 billion. Presently, 58% of
EGCO is publicly listed, EGAT holds 41% of the equity and the Property Crown
Bureau the remaining 1%.
(b)   Small Power Producers (SPPs) and Co-Generation: The first step taken by the
Government towards increasing private sector participation was allowing co-
generators and SPPs to sell power to EGAT. In 1994, a co-generation agreement
was signed with a private company to bring on line a new 60 MW facility.
Currently, there are 20 SPPs with a total installed capacity of 669 MW mostly
utilizing traditional fuels such as bagasse, rice husk, wood, etc.
(c)   Independent Power Producers (IPPs):  To meet the ever increasing power
requirements, Thailand launched the world's largest competitive IPP solicitation
program. EGAT announced the first request for proposals on December 15, 1994
to purchase 5,000 MW from IPPs to the year 2002. As of December 1996, 104
registered IPPs/bidders have formed into 32 consortia and have submitted 50 IPP
proposals totaling 39,067 MW. Contracts are currently being finalized with about
seven developers.
E. DEMAND-SIDE MANAGEMENT AND ELECTRICITY CONSERVATION
1.16  While pursuing a large power development program, the Govemment has planned a thrust
towards energy conservation. The Bank has played a pioneering role in the development of



8
Thailand's demand-side management (DSM) program, supported by the Global Environmental
Facility (GEF) under the Distribution System and Energy Efficiency Project (Loan 3598-TH).
This program has a four-pronged approach: (a) provision of user and manufacturer incentives and
consumer education to direct practices and attitudes toward energy efficient technologies; (b)
development of efficiency standards and testing capabilities to exercise control and monitor
efficiency improvements; (c) development and promulgation of building and appliance codes to
allow for the enforcement of minimum standards; and (d) continued pursuit of technological
improvements and adaptation to Thai conditions. This program is progressing very well and is
recognized as the most comprehensive program of its kind in East Asia. The current demand
savings target of about 1,100 MW over the next five years, substantially exceeds the original
target of about 300 MW. However, the DSM program is currently being exclusively managed by
EGAT, MEA having no expertise in this field. Introducing DSM capabilities in MEA, deepening
the DSM focus to Thailand's most rapidly growing area, is planned under the proposed project
(para. 3.4).
F. ENVIRONMTENT
1.17  In the last few years, the Government has placed a strong emphasis on environmentally
sound and sustainable development. Its 1992 Energy Conservation Promotion Act, created an
Energy Conservation Fund, financed by surcharges on petroleum products and electricity. The
Act provides for a rigorous enforcement of energy conservation in factories and buildings. The
Environmental Quality Act of 1992: (a) substantially reorganized the environmental bureaucracy
making it more responsive to environmental protection needs; (b) established a Central
Environmental Fund for concessional financing of environmental projects by the private and
public sectors; and (c) recognized for the first time the importance of involving Non-
Governmental Organizations (NGOs) in development. Gaining from its experience under the
Third Power System Development Project (Loan 3423-TH), the Government has increasingly
emphasized involvement of affected people and selected NGOs in environmentally sensitive
projects and formalized this in the evaluation of Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs).
G. BANK LENDING FOR THE SECTOR
Experience with Past Loans
1.18 The Bank has made 25 loans to Thailand for power, of which 18 have been made to
EGAT, six to PEA and one to MEA. Of the 18 loans to EGAT, 17 have been fully disbursed and
the only on-going project is the Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project (Loan 3884-TH, signed on
September 8, 1995). Three of the loans to PEA have been fully disbursed; while the rest are
under supervision. The overall progress in the implementation of MEA's Distribution System and
Energy Efficiency Project (Loan 3598-TH) is satisfactory and about 90% of the work is now
completed. Under this loan, two studies were completed: (a) an "audit" of MEA's institution
which helped identify the entity's weaknesses and strengths and will underpin MEA's
organizational restructuring under the proposed project; and (b) Safety and Environmental



9
Considerations in System Design-whose recommendations are already under implementation by
MEA.
1.19  The design and procurement delays experienced in the earlier stages of MEA's project
have emphasized the need for: (a) early procurement of land for substations; and (b) advance
preparation of bid documents.  The proposed project addresses these issues through:  (a)
sufficiently advanced action having been taken by MEA in securing land for the substations (all
land is already available); and (b) issuing of the first lot of bid documents.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.20  Among the priority areas for Bank assistance identified in the Country Assistance Strategy
discussed by the Board on September 24, 1994, the development of physical infrastructure and
improvement in environmental management rank very high. These are also the priorities of the
Government and it has frequently reiterated the importance of Bank involvement and the weight it
attached to the Bank's technical assistance and operational support. Along with a modest level of
borrowing, the Government is keen to continue this involvement so as to elaborate and implement
strategies that have been launched with assistance from the Bank. The Bank's operational
involvement will help assure that the momentum of reform is maintained and the sector evolves in
an economically efficient, financially sound and environmentally sustainable manner. Already,
during the preparation of the proposed project, the Bank has been instrumental in: (a) MEA
developing a plan for restructuring its organization in a manner that has been accepted by NEPO;
and (b) encouraging MEA to proceed with DSM related work. Under the proposed project the
Bank would be assisting MEA in its efforts towards commercialization and corporatization as well
as becoming an important player in DSM, in spite of having no past experience in this area.






2. THE BORROWER
2.1   The Metropolitan Electricity Authority (MEA) is a state enterprise wholly owned by the
Kingdom of Thailand. It was established in July 1958 under the Metropolitan Electricity
Authority Act. MEA is responsible for the distribution of electricity in the Bangkok metropolis
and the adjoining provinces of Nonthaburi and Samut Prakan. Its current service area covers
about 3,200 square kilometers with a population of about 7.3 million people. MEA supplies
about 1.8 million industrial, commercial and domestic consumers. Although originally MEA also
generated electricity, its power generation function was transferred in September 1961 to what is
now the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT), which now supplies bulk power to
MEA.
A. INSTITUTIONAL ANALYSIS
Organization and Management
2.2   MEA is accountable to the Government through the Ministry of Interior. Policy control is
exercised through a Cabinet-approved Board of Directors composed of 14 members, including the
Permanent Secretary of Interior as Chairman and the Governor of MEA in an ex-officio capacity.
The Board, which meets monthly, operates with limited autonomy in a regulated environment:
government approvals and clearances are required on matters such as the investment program,
annual capital budget, borrowing, pricing, organizational structure, appointment of senior staff,
and major procurement decisions.
2.3   The original organization structure of MEA was based on a functional design, with clear
division of responsibilities and authority and a clear chain of command running from top to
bottom. Over the years, the organization structure (Chart 1) has evolved and developed in
response to continuing changes in MEA's external and internal environments. The growth in the
volume of electricity sales, increased number of customers and changes in office systems have
given rise to the establishment of new districts, the development of additional administrative and
control procedures in Head Office departments, and increases in staffing in most units of the
organization. MEA's desire to create new promotional positions to solve staff morale, retain key
staff, reward superior performance and avoid loss of successful staff to the private sector also led
to new sections, new divisions and even new departments. As a result, MEA's organizational
structure, which prior to October 1, 1996 had 26 functional departments at Head Office and more
than 240 individual sections, had become fragmented and complex.
2.4   Since inception, MEA has operated in close proximity to the Government and its
departments. As a result, MEA has developed a bureaucratic culture. Creativity, risk taking, and
professional and personal growth, particularly amongst younger professionals, are discouraged,
the responsibility for achievement of results is diffused and managers experience little sense of
personal accountability. The introduction of a business culture in all of its organizational levels is
necessary in order for MEA to move from an activity-oriented to a result-oriented management.
A consultant study (in association with Bank's Loan 3598-TH) has recommended the
development of a new business culture in which: (a) risk is balanced against cost; (b) managers at



I1
all levels are involved and participate fully in the overall management process; and (c)
management and staff are committed to the effective achievement of MEA objectives. With the
increasingly complex tasks that MEA would be facing in: (a) evolving an efficient distribution
network in a difficult environment; (b) improving the safety, reliability and environmental
acceptability of its operations; and (c) positioning itself towards achieving an excellent state
enterprise status with subsequent commercialization and corporatization, it is imperative that
MEA takes urgent steps to introduce a business culture into its organization and operate as a
commercial company. MEA management has embraced the need for a change in its business
culture and is now engaged in organizational restructuring to fall in line with modern management
practice. In this effort, it would need substantial technical assistance and advice.
Staffing and Resource Management
2.5    MEA's management and staff are professional and well-qualified. As of June 1996, the
total number of MEA employees is 12,974, down from the level of 13,220 at the end of FY95.
The total number of staff has been steadily dropping since FY93. The average age of the staff is
41 years old. About a third of the staff have received some form of higher education. MEA's
staff composition and educational qualifications are presented in Table 3. 1.
Table 3.1: MEA Staffing Evolution
Increase
FY91     FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95         1991-95
______                  _____~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~_  %  P.a _
University graduates          2,006    2,160    2,309    2,529    2,648      7.2
Technical diploma              1,671    1,721    1,740    1,740   1,710      1.5
Vocational certificate        2,695    2,585    2,386    2,166    2,100     -6.0
Others                        7,515    7,450    7,182    6,995    6,762     -2.6
TOTAL                       13,887   13,916   13,617   13,430    13,220   -1.2
Customer per employee           100      108      118     127       138      8.4
Gwh sales per employee         1.429    1.572    1.736    1.953    2.200     11.4
2.6    While MEA is over staffed particularly in the clerical and administrative areas, there is a
shortage of professional engineers and information technology personnel, which if not rectified
could cause serious problems for the company. The reason for the shortages is the inability of
MEA to attract and retain such staff because of the existing salary structures. There is also a
problem in retaining engineers due to dissatisfaction with the nature of their work. Many feel that
the tasks assigned to them are undemanding and inappropriate to a professionally qualified
engineer. MEA has completely halted all recruitment of every category of staff, apart from
engineers and except for specific skills not available in MEA nor capable of being developed in
existing staff in the short term. As part of its human resource development strategy MEA is
developing a plan for retaining engineers and a broadly based redeployment plan setting out
programs for transferring and retraining existing employees.



12
Training
2.7   MEA's Human Resource Development Department (HRD) has a very active program of
courses covering management, technical and administrative categories. The various courses are
derived from HRD Department's Five Year Training Plan which is reviewed and updated annually
in accordance with the organization training needs.  The Training Plan reflects managers
assessment of their staff's training needs and HRD professional training staff's evaluation of the
organization's requirements. Within the Training Plan, courses are provided internally by HRD
staff, assisted by experts from technical departments, and externally by availing of the services of
commercial training agencies, local universities, and overseas training programs. As MEA is now
entering a new phase of developing into a excellent state enterprise, it has started to refocus its
training and development activities. To make a successful adjustment, it is developing a program
to be implemented by the HRD Department between FY97-98 to develop the required
knowledge, experience and management skills necessary to reform MEA. In conjunction with the
General Affairs Department, the HRD Department would also revise and correct rules and
regulations in order to support MEA's move towards commercialization during the period FY97-
99.
Planning
2.8   MEA uses corporate strategic planning as a tool to enhance performance in the
management and administration of its corporate activities and in the carrying out of its
electrification mandate. The planning process seeks to integrate MEA's Corporate Plan, One-
Year Action Plans, and Annual Budgets. The preparation of the corporate plan and overall
coordination of the implementation of projects are the responsibility of the Policy and Corporate
Planning Department, which monitors performance and reviews project technical details,
associated financial and economic analyses, and financial forecasts of MEA. Planning for the
development of MEA's power distribution system is undertaken in the Power System and
Development Department. These two departments have the responsibility for implementing
Bank-financed projects. Financial Planning is the responsibility of the Finance Department.
2.9   MEA's principal planning document is the Corporate Plan, which includes the Power
Distribution System Improvement and Expansion Plan, covering a five year period. The Plan,
which is implemented in accordance with the NESDP and government policies, identifies MEA's
mnission and sets out its objectives and main targets. Each department identifies programs and
projects needed to deliver these main targets. Preparation of the Plan serves to formalize MEA's
planning and is intended to ensure an integrated approach covering the technical, financial and
economic aspects of developing the power distribution system. The annual budget is the
mechanism for funding the actual action plan. At present, the FY92-96 Corporate Plan has been
implemented and most of the targeted objectives have been achieved. While MEA has introduced
a strategic management process, the current situation has several shortcomings: (a) planning is
not driven by line managers, but tends to be imposed by the Planning Department; (b) the
planning linkages are weak, i.e. financial planning is not well integrated into the corporate
planning process, nor corporate planning with the budgeting process; (c) budgeting tends to be a
'top down" process and there is no mechanism at the district level to ensure that all staff
resources are included in the budget; and (d) management information is inadequate for the



13
current requirements. It is imperative that MEA improves its concept and process of planning.
Managers need to get involved in the line management responsibility of planning and the role of
the Corporate Planning Department should be one of facilitating the process.
Operational Management
2.10  MEA's challenge has been and will continue to be to absorb the continuing rapid growth
in its demand and the substantial increase in the size of its investment program. Over the past five
years, energy sales increased from 19,761 Gwh to 29,106 Gwh, over 11% on average. Annual
capital investments, which have been at the relatively low level of about Baht 1.1 billion in 1987
and 1988, surged in the 1990s: to Baht 3 billion in 1991 and to Baht 5.5 billion in FY95. The
number of consumers served by MEA increased from about 1 million in 1987 to 1.4 million in
1991 and to 1.8 million in 1995. Growth rates of this order imply a doubling of capacity every
eight to ten years with commensurate funding implication for MEA.  Along with strong
operational performance programs MEA needs to strengthen its organizational base to cope with
challenges posed by rapid growth in demand.
2.11  MEA conducts regular maintenance within stipulated intervals, and the standards observed
for major maintenance work are satisfactory.  MEA is well aware of the desirability to
underground as much of the 69kV and 24kV/12kV system as possible but also bears in mind that
undergrounding is 10-15 times more expensive than overhead lines, and has planned for three
underground cable projects in its five year plan. Power losses amount to about 4.5% of electricity
purchases and are favorable when compared to those for other countries worldwide. Installing
sufficient plant to cope with the growth rate while at the same time improving reliability figures
and keeping losses down to current levels would be MEA's major challenge in the coming years.
MBEA's plants are summarized in Annex 4.
2.12 This would be the second loan of the Bank to MEA, and MEA has now become fully
familiar with procurement under international competitive bidding. Processing of tenders and
award of contracts are undertaken equitably and expeditiously.
Customer Management
2.13  MEA has an effective security deposit system in place, which ensures minimum revenue
loss through bad debts, and MEA operates an effective disconnection/reconnection policy for
defaulting consumers. The overall level of accounts receivable has been maintained at one and a
half months or less of credit sales.
2.14  The customer system at MEA has several limitations; i.e. unnecessary manual intervention,
less than optimum use of computer systems, electricity bill limitations, inadequate debtors
management, and limitations of disconnection policy. These will be addressed in the short term by
the Rules and Regulations Improvement Program. Over time, MEA would need to install a
totally new customer system which would interface with other corporate systems such as
distribution facilities and work management systems to give a comprehensive customer
information base.



14
2.15  At present, MEA does not charge for the energy expended on public lighting. According
to the FY95 Annual Report this represented an expenditure of Baht 223 million. MEA needs to
review its policy of funding public lighting and consider whether a contribution should be made by
either the Government or the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration (BMA).
Accounting and Finance
2.16  MEA's accounting and financial systems have improved significantly as a result of a
technical assistance component under the Bank's first project (Distribution System and Energy
Efficiency Project, Loan 3598-TH), which included a component for accounting and financial
system expansion. The system is computerized and comprises some 80 individual programs
spanning 200 files. MEA produces financial accounts to acceptable international standards which
sustain an independent annual audit. It manages a huge customer base with a cash collection
performance which compares favorably with good international utility practice.  While the
accounting and finance systems and procedures in MEA satisfied its needs up to now, the scope
and structure of the systems need to significantly change and develop to accommodate the needs
of the new business culture. The important strategic tool of management accounting, used by
advanced utilities, is in use in MEA Headquarters and the districts. However, because of
organizational issues, its management accounting is underdeveloped and confined to the
budgetary process. Hence, it has a short term perspective and fails to provide the comprehensive
decision support and strategic analysis needed. The fragmentation of activities between the
Accounts and Budget Department and the lack of proper activity costing are other factors
hindering its development. These issues are being addressed by MEA.
Information Systems
2.17  In general, the development of software systems in MEA  is based on detailed
recommendations of the 1989 PA Consulting Group report, financed from the Asian Development
Bank (ADB) and associated with the first Bank project. Despite the importance placed by
management on information technology in facilitating institutional reform, MEA is not well-
positioned to exploit fully its present significant investment and to secure the benefits from that
investment. A review of current implementation indicates that progress to date has been less than
satisfactory, and in some cases, falls short of the original targets. MEA would address the total
future direction and shape of information technology with a view to developing a result-oriented
strategic plan for the structure and use of information technology in MEA
Audit
2.18  MEA has an Internal Audit Department with a staff of about 62 people; it reports directly
to the MEA Governor. The Internal Audit Department reviews the accounts of each department
and district office, focusing largely on asset management, accounting for materials and cash.
MEA operating divisions also are audited to ensure that they follow MEA guidelines. The scope
of internal audit, however, needs to be broadened so that much more locational auditing is done.
The audit function has a key role to play in system development and should sign off all new
systems before they become operational, ensure that policies and procedures not only are being
carried out but also that systems of delegated authority are functioning.



15
2.19  While the principle of financial auditing is established in MEA, technical auditing is non-
existent. Accompanying the greater decentralization of district activities and responsibilities, is
the need for greater accountability for their actions. Also, there is a growing requirement for a
quality ethic in every aspect of business both to meet increasing customer expectations and to
achieve high standards in business performance. Consequently, there is a growing need to
introduce a formal management auditing process of a high standard to meet the needs of
management at various levels.
2.20  Financial accounts in MEA reflect international accounting standards and are subject to
annual audit by the Auditor General. Accounts are produced roughly two months after the year
end. This reflects the fact there are two closings; the first one is done after all accruals and
provisions are posted and the second, which is the final one, done after all overhead
apportionment. Agreement was reached during negotiations that MEA would submit to the Bank
audited annual financial statements within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
Insurance
2.21  MEA carries adequate insurance protection against fire for buildings and their contents.
No third party liability insurance is carried. This is the general practice in most public enterprises
in Thailand and given the characteristics of the risk for MEA, it is acceptable. Insurance policies
are reviewed and updated once a year. During negotiations, agreement was reached that MEA
would continue to make provisions satisfactory to the Bank to provide insurance against such
risks and in amounts consistent with appropriate practice.
Taxes
2.22  MEA remits a portion of its net income to the Government as determined by the Ministry
of Finance (MOF) on a periodic basis. As advised by the Government's Budget Bureau, MEA
has been remitting taxes each year since September 30, 1991 at a level which rose from 15% of
net income to 24% in FY92 and to the current level of 30% since FY94. To achieve greater
independence from government regulation, MEA has applied for excellent state enterprise status
since May 1993. MEA has not yet complied with some of the criteria.
B. ORGANIZATIONAL RESTRUCTURING PLAN AND PROGRAM
2.23  The Government of Thailand is implementing far ranging structural and corporate reforms
in the power sector. Its objectives in seeking to reform the power sector are aimed at lowering
the burden of incumbent state-owned power utilities on the state-budget, reducing foreign
borrowing  and  increasing  management and  investment efficiency.    A  strategy  of
commercialization and corporatization which would eventually lead to privatization of the
restructured power enterprises has been adopted to achieve these objectives.
2.24  To adequately define a strategy, MEA initiated studies in 1995, producing a preliminary
report in August 1996. Plans for organizational restructuring have been subsequently influenced
by the on-going process of regulatory reform. The National Energy Policy Office has developed



16
draft regulatory standards for the supervision of the different operational functions (i.e.
transmission, generation, bulk supply, distribution and retail supply) in the power sector.
Consequently, the organizational restructuring strategy for MEA will have to conform to the
requirements of the new regulatory system and standards being developed in parallel. A phased
restructuring strategy will be adopted for MEA to ensure that near-term actions can be defined
and implemented with provision for adjusting longer-term strategies.
2.25   The organizational restructuring of MEA is proposed to be undertaken in two phases-
Phase 1 for the period 1998 to 2000 and covered under the proposed project, and Phase 2 for the
period 2001-2005. Milestones have been established in Phase 1 for MEA to measure its progress
in the implementation process. Specific milestones for Phase 2 would be established later.
Phase 1 (period 1998-2000):
2.26 During Phase 1, MEA would continue as a State-owned enterprise. It would focus on
improving the reliability and efficiency of its operations. The objective of this phase would be to
provide a clear cost efficiency focus in the core 'tlistribution" and '1upply" functions, separate
profitable activities into separate subsidiary companies and create an efficient holding company
structure. This cost separation and commercial focus of different operations within MEA would
be crucial to the later introduction of wholesale and retail competition. The introduction of
wholesale competition that would allow MEA, PEA and large consumers to contract directly with
generators is part of the Government's long-term  reform  strategy.  Introduction of retail
competition would follow subsequently.
2.27 By the end of Phase 1, MEA will be reorganized as a state-owned holding company with
2
separate subsidiaries for Design and Manufacturing, Electrical Systems and Services, and Energy
Services. These profit making non-core businesses will be later divested.
2.28 The following key medium-term reorganization actions would pave the way for achieving
the long-term strategic objectives:
(a)    Creation of Business Units: MEA would reorganize activities that are not part of
its core corporate support service functions into profit centers with a view of
complete corporate separation and divestiture of potentially profitable and
competitive businesses. Two broad groups have been identified:
- Business Units for Corporatization and Divestiture: The activities
comprising design and manufacturing and electrical systems services
would be reorganized to form two separate subsidiary companies by
A holding company is a company that owns and supervises a number of subsidiary companies. A holding
company may be either state-owned or privately owned.
2
A subsidiary company is defined as a separate legal entity that is either wholly or majority owned by MEA. If
MEA remains a state-owned enterprise, by definition the subsidiary companies will be state-owned
enterprises.



17
end-1999. As a first step these units will be organized as profit centers
by end-1998. It is planned that these subsidiary companies, which will
initially be owned by the MEA holding company, will be divested in
2000, or soon thereafter. The activities comprising electrical and civil
design, and electrical and civil construction would be reorganized to
form subsidiary companies under the MEA holding company and will
be divested by 2001 or shortly thereafter.
-  Business Units for Corporatization:   The  activities/functions  of
information technology; the hospital; human resources, training and
development; legal; production, repair and maintenance; internal
services; and the testing laboratory will be formed as profit centers by
end- 1998.
(b)    Unbundling of Core Distribution Activities: The core distribution activities would
be separated into '<upply" and 'distribution" These activities would be created
with clear cost-accounting separation (i.e. cost centers) by end-1998 and as profit
centers by end- 1999. The separation of the '<upply" business consisting of retail
commercial activities of customer billing and customer services from 'distribution"
consisting of the wires business is crucial for the subsequent introduction of
wholesale competition and open access . As part of this process MEA would
develop and implement new cost accounting and management information systems
to support this unbundled structure.
(c)    Reorganization of Support Units: MEA will create a corporate center of central
support units. There would be a main support or operating unit for corporate
planning, human resources, board and management affairs, finance and investment,
and business development. The reorganization of the support units would be
completed by end- 1998.
(d)    Creation of an Energy Efficiency Profit Center: A separate profit center would be
created within MEA to provide energy conservation services. This profit center
would operate as an Energy Service Company (ESCO) providing consumers
energy conservation services based on a performance contracting approach. Such
a profit center would be established by end-1997 as a subsidiary company under
the MEA holding company.
3
The supply business will comprise consumer metering, billing, collection and other retail customer service
functions. The distribution business will comprise the distribution network (i.e. the wires) and all system
planning, network construction and maintenance functions. When competition is introduced at the retail
level (for large and/or small consumers), the distribution business will provide open access to its network for
all generators and electricity suppliers to access retail consumers. Clear cost separation of the supply and
distribution businesses, their formation as profit centers and then separate corporate entities is therefore a
critical preparatory step to introduce retail competition. Corporate reorganization as separate entities would
also allow for privatizing them as independent businesses.



18
2.29  Figures 1 and 2 in Annex 5 represent the organizational transformation in Phase 1.
Phase 2 (period 2001 - 2005).
2.30 The precise timeframes for activities in this phase have not been defined in detail as they
are dependent on the outcomes of complementary sectoral reforms and market conditions. The
following would be the guiding principles and objectives:
(a)   During Phase 1, MEA would examine the efficiency and operational benefits of
reorganizing the supply business into multiple franchise areas. Depending on the
outcome of the assessment, MEA would during Phase 2, transform the supply
company into profit center franchise operations.  Options for private sector
involvement in these distribution franchises would be evaluated and preferred
options implemented.  It is envisaged that during this phase, private sector
operators would be brought into the supply business. The privatization of the
supply franchises and the distribution company would be pursued in this phase.
(b)   Based on the phased introduction of open access transmission operations that
would allow generators to contract directly with PEA and MEA, the distribution
company would also allow open access to its network.  It is expected that
wholesale competition for bulk supply to distributors and also to a limited number
of retail consumers would be achieved in Thailand during this period.
2.31   The restructuring of MEA needs to be carefully phased and sequenced with the intention
of building important commercial capabilities in order to achieve a successful transition to the
private sector. Human resource and skills upgrading is seen as crucial to any successful move
towards privatization. Agreement was reached at negotiations that MEA would restructure and
improve its organization according to the Reorganization Plan; any revision of the said Plan shall
be subject to review and acceptance by the Bank. Agreement was also reached with MEA that it
would furnish documentary evidence satisfactory to the Bank in support of the separation of the
'upply" and "distribution" profit centers, including separate statements of accounts and
compliance with performance standards set by NEPO. In addition, it would avail itself of
technical assistance for restructuring and improving its organization according to terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank. Annex 5 provides details of the organizational restructuring
program. A summary of salient activities to be undertaken by MEA is provided below:
Human Resource Management:
*  closely link personnel policies and procedures to the achievement of corporate
objectives and strategic plans;
*  integrate corporate strategies and business units plans;
*  halt recruitment in every category, except engineers and skills not available in MBA;
*  develop a retention plan for engineers;
*   develop a redeployment plan for transferring and retraining employees;
*  create a new career structure for professional specialists;



19
* replace existing performance evaluation scheme with results-oriented appraisal
scheme;
* introduce performance related employment contracts for directors and upwards;
*   revise MEA's overall salary structure; and
* develop business units as a corporate service to managers.
Accounts and Finance:
*  Address the organizational and staff issues by configuring the accounting and finance
functions into two departments;
*   elevate and expand to a more strategic role the function of the finance department and
the office of the financial controller;
* develop an effective management accounting;
* decentralize the planning process and improve planning linkages;
* develop a new customer system over time; and
review internal control procedures to reflect risk and computer system  control
capabilities.
Information Technology:
A develop a new, result-oriented strategic plan for the structure and use of information
technology (IT);
*  upgrade communications infrastructure to an integrated whole, supporting voice, data
and network control;
*  require business units to assume full responsibility, including budgeting,  for IT
applications;
*  relocate IT services to primary points of customer service contacts, i.e. the districts;
and
*  design a comprehensive IT training for MEA staff and senior management.



3. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES, PERFORMANCE MONITORING AND PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.1   Objectives. The main objectives of the proposed project are to: (a) improve the reliability
of the distribution system and contain losses at current levels, while meeting the projected rapid
increase in electricity demand; (b) assist in the organizational restructuring of MEA leading to its
commercialization and corporatization; and (c) introduce demand-side management capabilities in
MEA's organization thus deepening the DSM focus in the country's most rapidly growing area.
3.2   Performance Monitoring.  The achievement of project objectives is proposed to be
monitored during and after project implementation through the following project performance
indicators (see Annex 6 for details): (a) improvements in system reliability and containment of
system losses: (i) reduction in System Average Interruption Frequency Index; (ii) reduction in
Customer Average Interruption Duration Index; and (iii) maintenance of losses at current levels;
(b) organizational restructuring (apart from monitoring of compliance with financial covenants):
(i) separation and divestiture of non-core activities; (ii) unbundling of core distributing activities
into "supply" and "distribution" activities; (iii) increase in Gwh sales per employee; (iv) increase in
customers per employee; (v) achievement of "Good State Enterprise" status; and (vi) time taken
for procurement decisions; and (c) introduction of DSM capabilities: (i) setting up of Appliance
Testing Laboratory and numbers of appliances tested; (ii) establishment of Energy Service
Company (ESCO) and number of energy management projects performed; and (iii) number of
premises covered by Load Research. In addition to the above performance indicators, target
dates would be defined to monitor progress in the implementation of the project components.
3.3   Description. Investment Component - This component would finance a portion of the
expansion and reinforcement of MEA's distribution system over the years 1997-2001 (the Eighth
Plan period) and would comprise of three main investment components: (a) transmission and
distribution substation system-comprising: (i) a new 230/115 kV Onnuj transmission substation;
(ii) additions at four existing 230/115 kV transmission substations (Thanontok, Nongjok,
Jangwatana, Sainoi); (iii) construction of six new 69-115/12-24 kV distribution substations
(Taweewattana, Jangron, Bangkae, Klongmai, Sainoi, Watbamphen); (iv) additions at five
existing 69-115/12-24 kV distribution substations (Bangmod, Wangpetchaboon, Sri-Eiam,
Huaykwang, Sainamtip); and (v) additions at and modification of four existing 69-115/12-24 kV
distribution substations (Mochit, Prakanong, Paknam, Watlieb); (b) transmission line systems-
comprising 47.3 circuit-km of transmission lines in Bangkoknoi and Chidlom areas; and (c)
distribution system-comprising: (i) addition and modification of 1,280 circuit km of primary and
2,100 circuit km of secondary lines; (ii) installation of 1,350 MVA of distribution transformers;
(iii) addition and replacement of 280,000 revenue meters; and (d) addition of 205 MVAR of
capacitors.
3.4   Policy Component - This component provides for a major restructuring of MEA's
organization leading to commercialization and corporatization of the entity (para. 2.28). An
Organizational Restructuring Plan approved by MEA Board and NEPO provides for: (a)
unbundling of MEA's "supply" and "distribution" functions; (b) establishment of a corporate
center for central support functions; (c) creation of business units for non-core functions; and (d)
establishment of subsidiary companies for Electrical Systems Services, Product Design and



21
Manufacturing, and Energy Services. In regard to "supply" and "distribution" functions, these
would be established by 1999 as full-fledged profit centers, which would maintain separate
statements of accounts and which would be governed by the performance criteria that would be
set by the National Energy Policy Office (NEPO), the regulator of the sector. The cost separation
and commercial focus of different operations within MEA would be crucial to the later
introduction of wholesale and retail competition. Institutional Development Component - This
component provides for the introduction of DSM capabilities in MEA's organization, comprising:
(a) setting up of an Appliance Testing Laboratory; (b) introduction of a system-wide Load
Research program to collect load-profile data of MEA consumers; (c) implementation of a load
control program to reduce commercial demand during critical system conditions; (d)
establishment of an Energy Service Company (ESCO) to provide energy management services in
Bangkok; and (e) technical assistance for the four DSM components (see Annex 7 for details).
Agreement was reached at negotiations that MEA would implement the investment and DSM
components according to action plans acceptable to the Bank and avail itself of technical
assistance for the DSM component under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
B. IMPLEMENTATION
3.5   MEA will be fully responsible for implementation of all project components. NEPO will
oversee the implementation of the organizational restructuring of MEA. The project will be
executed with close cooperation between MEA's various departments and offices, as given below
(see Annex 8 for Implementation Schedule). MEA does not need consulting assistance for
expanding its distribution system.  Technical assistance will be availed of for MEA's
organizational restructuring and for implementation of the DSM components.
3.6   The Power System Planning and Development Department will be responsible for overall
coordination, day-to-day implementation of the project and preparation of tender documents. The
Electrical Designs and Civil Engineering Works Department will be responsible for the design for
transmission and distribution substations, transmission lines (115 kV and 69 kV) and major
primary distribution lines (24 kV and 12 kV), review of contract drawings, land acquisition and
request for right-of-way.  The Purchases and Stores Department will be responsible for
procurement (including bid evaluation and contract awards) as well as storage of equipment. The
Finance Department will be responsible for financial planning and analysis.  The Civil
Construction Department will be responsible for construction of buildings and civil works. The
Electrical Construction Department will be responsible for installation and testing of transmission
and distribution substations, sub-transmission line (115 kV and 69 kV), major primary distribution
lines (24 kV and 12 kV) and capacitors. The District Offices will be responsible for the balance of
works associated with distribution lines, distribution transformers and revenue meters. MEA's
DSM Committee will be responsible for implementing the DSM component. MEA's Working
Committee for Implementing the Restructuring Plan will be responsible for implementing the
organizational restructuring.
3.7   All transmission lines under the project will be pole-mounted, and will be routed along
roads where MEA has right-of-way, thus avoiding potential right-of-way problems. Land for all
substations is already available. The project implementation schedule will, therefore, not be
affected by land acquisition problems. MEA has prepared a Project Implementation Plan in line



22
with Bank guidelines (Annex 18, Ref. 1). The bar chart showing the implementing arrangements
for the various project components is given in Chart 2. The project would be implemented over
the 1997-2002 period. The above implementation arrangements are appropriate for timely
execution of the project and are satisfactory to the Bank.
Monitoring and Reporting
3.8   Satisfactory procedures for monitoring the progress of the project in terms of physical
execution and financial reports were agreed with MEA, at negotiations. It was also agreed that
MEA will furnish quarterly progress reports. An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will
be drafted by the Bank not later than six months after closing of the loans and agreement would
be reached at negotiations that MEA would assist in its preparation. MEA will adopt a plan for
the operational phase of the project. MEA will also prepare and make available to the Bank its
own evaluation report, including a summary report which will be attached unedited to the ICR.
The evaluation would assess the project execution and initial operation, its costs and benefits, the
Bank's performance, its own performance of the obligations under the Loan Agreements, and the
extent to which the purposes of the Loan were achieved.
Supervision Plan
3.9   Supervision of this project will extend essentially over a period of six years, 1997-2002.
The key issues that would be focused upon are: (a) periodic reviews of MEA's investment plan in
keeping with changes in the economic scenario; (b) compliance with financial covenants to assure
the financial health of MEA while undertaking a large investment program; (c) progress in the
restructuring of MEA's organization; and (d) technical supervision of physical implementation of
the project components. Bank missions accompanied: (a) with the Energy Sector Management
Assistance Program (ESMAP) staff as necessary, would assist MEA and the Government in
organizational restructuring of MEA; and (b) with the Asia Alternative Energy Unit (ASTAE)
staff as necessary, would assist MEA in implementing the DSM components of the project.
Supervision of the project would require expertise in power engineering, economics, financial
analysis, corporate restructuring and DSM. Three missions annually for a period of six years from
1997 to 2002 (normally coinciding with supervision missions for ongoing Bank-assisted projects)
are foreseen for adequate supervision of this project. The total estimated staff inputs are: (a)
power engineer, economist and financial analyst-36 staff-weeks; (b) corporate restructuring
specialist-9 staff-weeks; (c) DSM specialist-10 staff-weeks; and (d) legal expert-6 staff-
weeks (see Annex 9 for details).
C. ENVIRONMENT
3.10  A detailed Environmental Impact Analysis (including route surveys) of the substations,
transmission lines and the distribution network to be constructed under the project has been
conducted by MEA (Annex 18, Ref. 2). This has concluded that none of these components
(which are all located in the developed metropolitan areas of Bangkok) will encroach on
ecologically sensitive forest areas, or affect any agricultural land. Disposal of poly chlorinated
butyl (PCB) will follow MEA's established practice of shipping it to foreign countries (especially



23
France) for treatment and disposal. The project, as a whole, would, therefore, have no adverse
impact on the environment and has thus been classified under Category B.
3.11   The one new  transmission substation and the six new  distribution substations to be
constructed under the project are located in the premises of EGAT substations or the
industrial/commercial complexes that would be supplied from these substations. This land is
available to MEA on long-term lease and has involved no displacement of persons. Additions and
modifications of existing transmission and distribution substations involve no land procurement.
All transmission lines under the project will be constructed on existing right-of-ways and MEA's
surveys have shown that there are no persons currently residing in these routes. Almost 95% of
the distribution line additions and modifications will be done on existing poles and would involve
no displacement of persons. The remaining 5% of the line construction would be undertaken on
new roads to be constructed by the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration (BMA). The BMA
would provide MEA a clear route for the location of poles. Hence the project would not involve
displacement of any persons. The practice of BMA is to procure land at market rates through
negotiations with persons affected by the new road construction and required to relocate.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that procurement of land, if any, for the construction of
substations or transmission or distribution lines will not involve expropriation, involuntary
resettlement or rehabilitation or compensation.
D. COST ESTIMATES
3.12   The total financing required by MEA  for the proposed project (including capitalized
interest during construction) is estimated at US$373 million, with a foreign exchange component
of US$157 million. Details of the cost estimate are presented in Annex 10. Costs are at
December 1995 price levels and are based on actual price quotations for similar equipment
purchased by MEA. Physical contingencies have been assumed at 5% of the base cost. Price
contingencies are estimated on the basis of escalation factors of-4.9% for 1997; 4.0% for 1998;
3.3% for 1999-for the local cost components and 2.3% for the foreign cost components,
following Bank guidelines. Table 3.1 summarizes the cost estimates for the proposed project.
Table 3.1: Summary of Costs /a
Local  Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign[Ttal    Foreign
Item                        I      j                                     as % of
Baht million /b           U JSS million      Total Cost
Substations                              344      1651    1995   13.48    64.75   78.23    82.8
Transmission Lines                       222      249    471    8.70       9.76   18.46    52.9
Distribution System                      2970     1372   4342  116.47    53.82  170.29     31.6
Demand-Side Management                   280      141    421   11.00       5.50   16.50    30.0
Base Cost                               3816    3413    7229  149.65   133.83  283.48      47.2
Physical Contingencies                    191     173    364    7.48       6.79   14.27    47.6
Price Contingencies                       538     300    838   21.09    11.78   32.87      35.8
Duties and Taxes                         800        0    800   31.38       0.00   31.38     0.0
Total Prosect Cost                      5345     3886   9231  209.60   152.40  362.00      42.0
Interest During Construction              163      117    280    6.40      4.60   11.00    41.8
Total Financine Required             [  5508 |   4003    511 L16.001 0   373.0 
/a December 1995 price levels.
/b Exchange rate US$1 = B25.25



24
E. FINANCING PLAN
3.13  Table 3.2 summarizes the expected financing sources for the project. Bank financing
would account for about 39% of the project cost (including interest during construction) and
about 92 % of its foreign exchange component. The Bank loan would be US$145 million in
single currency, US$ denominated, fixed interest loan, with a 3-6 year disbursement period and a
12-15 years maturity. MEA would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risks for its loan,
which would be guaranteed by the Kingdom of Thailand. Other borrowings would include local
commercial bank loans and bonds for 5-7 year duration, with interest rates of about 10% (para.
4.22)
Table 3.2: Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Local      Foreign        Total        Percentage
IBRD                      0.0         145.0        145.0           39.0
Other B!rowmg            104.0        12.0          116.0          31.0
Intemal Cash Generation  112.0         0.0          112.0          30.0
Total               |   216.0        157.0         373.0          100.0
F. PROCUREMENT
3.14 All contracts financed by the Bank would be awarded on the basis of International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines, published in
January 1995 and revised in January 1996 and August 1996.
3.15  The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost US$10 million equivalent or more
shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under
paragraph 2.8 of the Bank's procurement guidelines. The bid documents would follow the text of
the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents. Bid evaluation would be done in the Bank's Standard
Bid Evaluation Form. In the evaluation of bids for goods procured following ICB procedures, a
domestic price preference margin equal to 15% of the CIF bid price of imported goods or the
actual customs duties and import taxes, whichever is less, will be allowed for domestic
manufactures. Prior Bank review of bid documents and approval of contract awards would be
mandatory for all contracts expected to cost the equivalent of US$2.5 million or more. This
would cover about 85% of total contract value. Selective post review of about 25% of the
awarded contracts below the threshold value would be carried out during supervision missions.
3.16  A Procurement Plan for the project is given at Annex 11. Two transmission substations
and five distribution substations would be implemented through single responsibility supply and
install contracts. Equipment and materials for the remaining substations, transmission lines and
distribution system would be procured through 36 packages. Conductors for transmission lines
would be fabricated locally out of aluminum and copper ingots. The ingots would be procured
through ICB procedures and financed from the Bank loan. Local fabrication of conductors will
not be financed from the Bank loan.



25
G. DISBURSEMENTS
3.17 The Bank loan would be disbursed against: (a) 100% of foreign expenditures for
imported equipment and materials; (b) 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally
manufactured items procured through ICB; and (c) 70% of local expenditures for materials and
equipment procured locally. For all equipment and material contracts, disbursements would be
made against frill documentation. However, MEA will ensure that each withdrawal application
would not be less than US$100,000 equivalent.
3.18 Retroactive financing would be permnitted to the extent of 10% of the loan amount i.e.
US$14.5 million equivalent for payments made prior to the date of loan agreement but after
February 28, 1997, the appraisal date. This is required as MEA has already started procurement
action in view of the urgency for implementing some of the project components.
3.19   Annex 12 gives the disbursement schedule for the proposed Bank loan and the standard
profile of disbursements for power projects in Asia.  Considering the advanced stage of
preparation by MEA, the proposed loan is expected to be disbursed slightly faster than indicated
by the standard profile. The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002 and the closing
date for the loan would be December 31, 2002.
Table 3.3: Summary Of Procurement Arrangements /a
(US$ million)
Project Component                            ICB           N.B.F./b       Total
Cost
Goods
Substations /c                                   91.00                       91.00
(74.60)                     (74.60)
Transmission Lines                                5.40         10.83         16.23
(5.40)       (0.00)         (5.40)
Distribution System                              47.00        125.05        172.05
(47.00)       (0.00)        (47.00)
Conductors                                       18.00         13.00         31.00
(18.00)       (0.00)        (18.00)
Demand-Side Management                                         20.34         20.34
(0.00)        (0.00)
Miscellaneous
Duties and Taxes and IDC                                       42.38         42.38
(0.00)        (0.00)
Total Cost                                      161.40        211.60        373.00
(145.00)       (0.00)       (145.00)
/a Figures in brackets refer to financing from the Bank loan.
/b N.B.F. - Not Bank Financed, but financed by MEA through competitive procedures which are satisfactory
to the Bank.
Ic Procured through goods and single responsibility supply and install contracts.



4. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. PAST PERFORMANCE
4.1    MEA's financial performance for the period FY91-95 is summarized in Table 4.1.
Detailed statements are given in Annex 13.
Table 4.1: Summary of MEA's Financial Operating Statistics, FY91-95
(Baht million)
1991       1992   1  1993         1994      1995  1
Energy Sales (Gwh)                      19,761     21,869     23,743     26,255    29,106
Average Revenue (BJkWh)\a                 1.80       1.75       1.78       1.77       1.88
Operating Revenues                      35,898     38,617     42,992     47,385    55,787
Operating Expenses                      34,421     37,435     41,522     45,413    53,147
Operating Income                         1,573      1,272      1,534      2,100     2,708
Net Income                               1,994      1,619      1,757      2,201     3,026
Rate Base                                9,711     10,757     12,101     14,130    17,729
Long-Term Debt (net)                     5,654      5,781      6,601      8,593      8,340
Primary Ratios:
Rate of Retum (/0)                      15.2       11.0        8.1       10.0       11.4
Debt Service Coverage (times)             5.5        3.5        3.1        3.2       3.8
Operating Ratio (%)                       96         97         97          96        95
Current Ratio (times)                     1.9        1.8        1.8        1.9       1.8
Debt to Total Capitalization (%)         28.0       26.4       26.5       29.1      25.1
Self-Financing Ratio (%/)                99.9      50.1        20.9       78.8      53.9
p (3-year average)
\a Excluding VAT
4.2    During the period FY91-95, MEA's energy sales grew at an annual average of about 11%,
from 19,761 Gwh in FY91 to 29,106 Gwh in FY95. This high growth rate mirrored the
performance of the Thai economy.
4.3    The strong sales performance caused MEA's financial indicators to remain robust and
performance ratios at healthy levels. Except for FY93, the rates of return (ROR) on net revalued
assets in operation were at the 10-15% range and the self-financing ratios (SFR) were at the 50-
100% range. Two noteworthy developments had an impact on MEA's financial operations. First,
in FY92, the introduction of the value added tax (VAT) system caused a slight erosion in MEA's
profitability. Although MEA's energy revenues increased from Baht 35.6 billion in 1991 to Baht
38.3 billion in 1992 (an 8% increase), application of the VAT in January 1992, resulted in a drop
in the average energy price from Baht 1.80 in 1991 to Baht 1.75 in 1992 as MEA had to carry the
burden of additional taxes not covered by the automatic tariff adjustment. The effect was a
reduction in net income by about Baht 375 million or by 19% in 1992.



27
4.4   Second, despite continued satisfactory operating results in FY93, MEA fell short of its
obligation to contribute at least 25% of internally generated funds to investment and recorded its
lowest SFR in its financial history. Operating revenues in FY93 increased by 11% from Baht 38.6
billion in FY92 to Baht 42.2 billion, on the strength of continued increases in electric energy sales
and consumer contributions for construction. Due to the combined effect of improved revenues
and stable operating ratio (97%), net profit increased by 9% from Baht 1.6 billion in FY92 to
Baht 1.8 billion in FY93. However, MEA's funds generated from internal sources amounted to
only 21% of its three-year average capital expenditures. This was caused primarily by an increase
in working capital requirements due to high inventory levels for materials and supplies from Baht
2.8 billion in FY92 to Baht 3.5 billion in FY93. Other factors which contributed to MEA's non-
compliance with the SFR covenant included the increased remittance to the Government from the
previous 15% level to 24% in FY93, the remittance toward automatic tariff adjustment of
marginal revenue amounting to Baht 0.8 billion, MEA's quicker processing of payment to
contractors, and a sizable increase in the three year average investment (from an average of Baht
3.1 billion in FY92 to Baht 4.3 billion in FY93). MIEA, subsequently, resolved its tumover
problems with inventory control and was able to report a satisfactory SFR of 79% the following
year.
B. PRESENT FINANCIAL POSITION
4.5   In FY95, MEA continued to record satisfactory financial performance. Electric energy
sales increased by 12% over FY94 from 26,255 Gwh to 29,106 Gwh. The increase in operating
revenues was attributed to the increase in electricity demand and increase in the average tariff
from Baht 1.77/kWh in FY94 to Baht 1.88/kWh in FY95. Consequently, operating and net
incomes surged in FY95 by 28% and 37%, respectively, despite increases in the cost of purchased
power (16%), government remittances (37%), depreciation (25%) and debt-related expenses
(1 1%).
4.6  In accordance with regulations applicable to state enterprises, MEA is liable to remit a
proportion of its net income to the MOF at a level determined at year's end. The remittance level
of 15% of net income throughout the period FY87-92, was increased to 24% in FY93, was again
raised to 30% in FY94, and has been maintained at that level as MEA seeks to conform to the
Govemment's requirements for excellent state enterprise status.
4.7   MEA's capital structure remained satisfactory, with the debt to total capitalization ratio
remaining at or below a comfortable level of 30% during the FY91-95 period. Debt service
coverage was at or above 3.1 times throughout the period and was above the minimum ratio
required by the Bank loan of 1.5 times. MEA's local and foreign liabilities consist of local bonds
issued in 1991 and 1994 and foreign obligations comprised of loans from the Bank and the ADB,
and foreign bonds. The first MEA local bond in 1991 of Baht 1.3 billion was due for redemption
in July 1996. The balance of the bond was transferred to the current portion of long-term loans in
FY95 which accounts for the substantial increase in current debt obligations from Baht 333
million in FY94 to Baht 1,795 million in FY95. The second local bond in 1994 of Baht 800
million with a term of seven years is due in November 2000. The foreign bond, which was



28
arranged by MOF through Yankee bonds, amounts to Baht 1.5 billion (US$60 million) and has a
term of 10 years.
4.8    MEA's foreign exchange gains and losses on loan repayments arise as a result of
differences in exchange rates between year end and at the date of loan repayments. MEA revalues
foreign currency loans as of September 30 of each year, and spreads the loss over the remaining
terms of the loans to a deferred foreign exchange adjustment account. The losses on foreign
exchange which were charged to its FY95 operations increased from Baht 806 million in FY94 to
Baht 869 million largely due to an increase in deferred losses from loan adjustments of its
multicurrency pooled obligations with the Bank and the ADB. Even with the increase in MEA's
long term debt as a result of the inclusion of the deferred foreign exchange account, its debt to
equity ratio remained well below the covenanted ratio set in previous Bank agreements at 60:40.
4.9   MEA's financial position as of FY95 is healthy, with budgeted amounts showing an SFR
of 54%, an ROR of 11.4%, and a debt service coverage ratio of 3.8 times. The debt to total
capitalization ratio, the debt to equity ratio and the current ratio have all been favorably stable at
0.3 times, 0.4 times and 1.8 times, respectively. The numbers reflect a continuation of MWA's
financial strength experienced from the late 1980s through the first half of the 1990s and are
caused in a large part by the substantial sales increases which were sustained over the years.
C. FINANCIAL OUTLOOK
4.10  MEA's healthy financial performance is projected to continue throughout the 1990s and
well into the 2000s. Projections of MEA's financial performance for the period FY96-2002 and
the assumptions underlying these projections are presented in Annex 14. Key financial indicators
are presented in Table 4.2.
4.11   MEA's energy sales are forecast to increase on average by 7.6% from 31,664 Gwh at the
end of FY96 to 48,684 Gwh at the end of FY2002. The decline in average growth rates from the
previous high levels of 11%, is closely related to the predicted slackening growth in the gross
regional product for the Greater Bangkok area, as forecast by National Economic and Social
Development Board (NESDB). The decline also takes into account the changes in population
density of MEA's distribution area, saturation levels for appliances, efficiency improvements,
successful efforts of the Government's demand-side management program, and electricity
intensity per unit of value added by the industrial sector.
As of FY96, treatment of foreign exchange gains and losses arising out of the revaluation of foreign currency
loans has been changed in accordance with Ministry of Finance guidelines. The guidelines require that
foreign exchange adjustment are to be charged as revenue or expense in the accounting period in which they
occur.



29
Table 4.2: Summary of MEA's Financial Operations, FY96-2002
_Baht million)
1996      1997      1998      1999      2000      2001      2002
nergy Sales (GWh)              31,545     34,071    36,688    39,486    42,408    45,682    48,536
AverageRevenue (B/kWh) /a        1.75       1.77     1.79      1.80      1.81       1.82      1.83
ting Revenues              56,326     61,366    66,824    72,484    78,223    84,725     90,532
Operating Expenses              54,298     59,091    63,643    68,750    73,919    79,961    85,421
Operating Income                 2,156      2,416     3,336     3,904    4,492      4,971     5,338
Netncome                         2,111      1,984     2,345    2,529     2,714      2,522     2,130
Rate Base                       23,491     30,604    38,831    48,266    59,107    71,342    84,437
Long-Term Debt (net)            10,299     17,034    24,447    33,021    41,801    47,366     53,21
Primary Ratios:
Rate of Retun(%)                  5.7        5.0       6.1       6.0       5.7       5.3       4.8
Debt Service Coverage (times)     2.5        2.8       2.0       1.8       1.9       1.5        1.5
Operating Ratio (%)              96.4       96.3      95.2     94.9      94.5       94.4      94.4
Current Ratio (times)             1.5        1.4       1.4       1.4       1.2       1.0        1.0
Debt to Total Capitalization (%)  26.8      34.9      40.3      44.4      47.2      47.3      47.5
Self-Financing Ratio (%)         27.8       25.0      25.0     25.0      25.0       25.0      25.0
(3-year average)
/a Excluding VAT
4.12   Operating revenues in FY96 are expected to increase only slightly from FY95, from Baht
55.8 billion to Baht 56.3 billion. The increase in operating revenues of about Baht 0.5 billion
would not be enough to cushion the increase in operating expenses which is expected to grow by
Baht 1.2 billion and as a result operating income would drop from Baht 2.7 billion in FY95 to
Baht 2.2 billion in FY96. The rate of return is expected to decline from the FY95 level of 11% to
6% largely because of a reduced net operating income, increased interest and commitment
charges, and the substantial expansion of the average rate base from Baht 17.7 billion in FY95 to
Baht 23.5 billion in FY96.
4.13   The challenge for MEA continues to be the ability to finance the expansion in its capital
investment, which is expected to increase by 96% between FY95 and FY96 and to expand on
average by 20% for the projected figure FY96-2001 (the Eighth Plan). At present, the trend of
MEA's actual load growth is in excess of forecasted levels in October 1995 and hence, some
projects needed to be brought forward and some additional reinforcements had to be undertaken
to meet the present load growth. In addition, MEA is still required to meet NEPO's supply
reliability and security service standards. These higher investments are necessary to rehabilitate
and upgrade the existing MEA system, as well as to build into it additional reliability. They also
reflect the escalating prices of land in Bangkok and are indicative of MEA's activities to improve
environmental acceptability, such as undergrounding of overhead systems at very high costs.
MEA's current financial strength and reasonable tariff adjustments mandated by the adjustments
in the new Bulk Supply Tariff (BST) should allow it to absorb and finance this growth.
4.14 At negotiations, agreement was reached that MEA would generate funds from internal
sources equivalent to not less than 25% of the annual average of its capital expenditure incurred,



30
or expected to be incurred, for that fiscal year, the previous fiscal year, and the next following
fiscal year. The Government agreed to undertake a periodic review and adjust MEA's tariffs as
necessary to ensure that MEA earns the 25% SFR. According to current projections which take
into account the new calculation for BST and the uniform tariff compensation payment (UTCP),
MEA's tariff would need to be adjusted each year in order to comply with the financial criteria set
out in the BST formula as follows:
Table 4.3: MEA's Projected Tariff Increases
1996   1997   1998    1999    2000    2001   2002
Average Energy Sales Price
(B/kWh)                     1.87    1.88    1.90    1.92    1.93    1.94   1.95
Price Icrease(%)                    0.53    1.06    1.05   0.52     0.52   0.52
4.15  The 25% SFR covenant reflects the benchmark which the Government itself uses when
setting tariffs for the power sector. In outstanding loans, the Bank has specified that covenant
with EGAT and PEA, and ADB has agreed to the same covenant with EGAT and MEA. The
level of the new BST calculation (para. 4.18) would also be defined by the requirements for
EGAT to meet its financial performance criteria (as expressed in Bank financial covenants) and
the level of retail tariffs will be defined by the additional requirements for MEA and PEA to meet
their financial performance criteria, given the required level of the BST. Together with a debt
service ratio requirement of 1.5 times and a debt/equity ratio ceiling of 1.5:1, which are also
financial requirements of the new BST calculation, the SFR covenant will ensure financial
soundness for MBA. MEA will have an adequate capital structure; it will have adequate liquidity
and it will do so with adequate tariffs increases.
4.16  MEA's projected financial ratios are expected to be satisfactory.  The key liquidity
indicators (debt to total capital, self financing, debt service coverage and current ratios) are
projected to be satisfactory during the near term. The debt service coverage ratio would range
between 1.5 to 2.8 times throughout the projected period.  Agreement was reached at
negotiations that MEA would maintain a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5 times. The
capital structure would also be more than adequate with long term debt at its peak not exceeding
1.0 times equity or a comfortable ratio of 50/50. MEA's current debt control test provides for
Bank review of borrowing when the debt to equity ratio exceeds 1.5 times or 60/40 level. To
ensure that measures are taken to maintain MEA's strong capital structure, during negotiations,
agreement was reached with MEA and the Government that further debt would not be incurred if
such additional debt would raise its total long term indebtedness to more than 1.5 times its total
capitalization.
D. TARIFF LEVELS AND STRUCTURE
Existing Tariff Structure
4.17 Presently MWA and PEA receive power from EGAT at wholesale rates at several of their
grid substations. The existing bulk supply tariff is on the basis of long-run marginal cost pricing



31
but takes into account equity, social and development considerations as well as the financial needs
of the three utilities, EGAT, PEA and MEA. The tariff to MEA and PEA as currently applied,
comprises a flat energy charge. The current tariff for bulk supply for MEA is Baht 1.47/kwh,
whereas the tariff for PEA is Baht 1.03/kwh, although the actual cost of supply to PEA is greater
than the cost of supply to MEA. The difference in the tariff to the two utilities is intentional, so
that the urban consumers subsidize the rural consumers, the retail tariff for all consumers in
Thailand being uniform.
4.18  The current tariff structure, which is given in Annex 15, was revised as of December 31,
1991; before that it had remained essentially without change during the previous five years but for
a small reduction in 1987. With effect from December 1992, the Government put in place an
automatic adjustment clause, by means of which the retail tariff is adjusted monthly as EGAT's
costs change for fuel, taxes, foreign exchange and demand side management. The electricity
tariffs are set by a tariff setting committee composed of EGAT, PEA, MEA, MOF, NEPO and
NIDA. The committee meets monthly to determine the automatic adjustment factor, reviews the
relative rates periodically to ensure that they accomplish the required cross-funding among the
utilities, and prepares recommendations to the NEPC on the proposed tariff increases during the
tariff setting period every three years. As in previous loans, it was agreed during negotiations that
MEA would review by April 30 of every year the adequacy of its tariffs to produce the required
self-financing, debt service coverage and debt/equity ratio obligations.
4.19  The adequacy and appropriateness of the tariff structure in Thailand was reviewed under
the Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project (Loan 3884-TH) in a study: "Rationalization of Bulk
Supply Tariff to MEA and PEA" undertaken by the three electric utilities: EGAT, PEA and
MEA in close coordination with and under the guidance of the NEPO. The study: (a) reviewed
the current and future (under a restructured power sector) financial requirements of the three
utilities and proposed a rational basis for setting tariffs consistent with their financial objectives;
(b) reviewed the existing bulk supply tariff and recommended suitable tariffs for bulk supply to
PEA and MEA that would reflect actual supply costs and future structure of the power sector; (c)
reviewed the need for a uniform national tariff and suggested a retail tariff structure based on
economic principles and equity considerations, including the necessary transparent subsidy
mechanism; (d) recommended a suitable time frame and transition strategy for implementation; (e)
suggested cost-effective metering arrangements for measuring and integrating demand and energy
for bulk supply to PEA and MEA; and (f) drafted a power purchase agreement for bulk supplies.
The study was completed in July 1996 and the recommendations have been approved by the
Cabinet. Details of the new BST and UTCP are in Annex 16.



32
E. FINANCING PLAN
4.20 The financing plan for MEA over the period (FY97-01) is presented in Table 4.4.
Table 4.4: MEA Financing Plan, FY97-01
Baht    I    US$_                l
In millions           % 
Financial Reguirements:
MEA Investments (including IDC)                      69,845         2,766        99
Working Capital Requirements                            211            8           1
Total Requirements                                     70,056        2,774        100
ISources of Funds:
Internal Cash Generation                             37,199         1,473        53
Less: Debt Service                                   21,295          843         30
|Net Internal Cash Generation                          15,904          630         23
Borrowings                                             47,181        1,868         67
Eqwty and Grants                                           0            0           0
Consumer Contribution & Customer Deposits               6,957         276          10
Other Items (net)                                         14            1           0
Total Sources of Funds                                 70,056        2,774        100
4.21   MEA's total investment program (including expenditures for existing projects) during this
period would amount to Baht 69.8 billion (US$2.8 billion). The investment cost of the Eighth
Power Distribution System Improvement and Expansion Plan (1997-2001) is Baht 56.1 billion
(US$2.2 billion) including interest during construction. The Bank loan of US$145 million is
expected to meet about 39% of the investment cost of the proposed project, which is estimated at
about Baht 8.6 billion (US$373 million), but only about 5%  of MEA's total financing
requirements for the period. During the FY97-01 period, MEA expects to meet 23% of its capital
requirements from internally generated funds (net of debt servicing) and 10% from consumer
contributions and customer deposits. In addition to the Bank loans, it will need to borrow funds
totaling 67% of its total cash requirements. It should have no problem borrowing these funds
from the sources which traditionally have supplied it (para 4.7) as it already has commitments for
a large portion of its borrowing needs over the period. Its debt/equity ratio and debt service
coverage ratio suggest that it should have no difficulty absorbing and servicing its anticipated debt
(para. 4.16).
4.22  MEA has in the past relied on financing from the ADB to fund the foreign costs of its
projects. In 1993, it borrowed its first loan from the Bank under the Distribution System and
Energy Efficiency Project (Loan 3598-TH) for US$109 million to finance capital expenditures
under the Seventh Plan. It is expected to receive financing from OECF to finance the foreign cost



33
of projects and it also proposes additional borrowing from the Bank. The OECF loan is for a
term of 25 years including seven years of grace. The proposed Bank loan will have a repayment
term of 12-15 years, including three years of grace. For the local cost of projects, MEA intends
to have local bond floatations and local loans with 5-10 year maturities, amounting to about Baht
3.7 billion (US$148 million). The bonds and the loans will continue to be guaranteed by the MOF
and will carry an interest rate of between 9.5%-10.75%. MEA expects to issue additional bonds
as necessary throughout the project period, and also to borrow from local commercial banks for
any financing gap.



5. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. JUSTIFICATION
5.1   Benefits. The continuing increase in electricity demand in the metropolitan Bangkok area
has made it imperative for MEA to install new substations, construct new feeder outlets and
undertake system improvements to deliver power to consumers while maintaining an acceptable
quality of power supply (i.e. adequate levels of circuit loading, operational reliability and losses).
The project forms an important part of MEA' s least-cost expansion program. Its implementation
would help ensure the country's continued economic growth by facilitating the development of its
principal administrative, commercial and industrial center of Bangkok. Investments by MEA in
improving its system reliability, which has been of concern to the Government in recent times,
would translate into substantial economic benefits, especially to industrial and commercial
consumers. The institutional restructuring of MEA would contribute to the efficiency of its
operations and facilitate its commercialization and corporatization. The building up of DSM
capabilities within MEA would enable it to actively engage in Thailand's DSM program (hitherto
exclusively handled by EGAT), and lead to enhanced energy savings.
5.2   Least-Cost Planning. MEA has developed a master plan for supplying Bangkok, which
establishes the technical characteristics of supply from EGAT and distribution within the city.
Within the framework of this plan, MEA performs detailed least-cost analysis to ensure a cost
effective expansion of its distribution system to meet the demand growth. It uses: (a) the
"Simulation-Based Load Forecasting" computer program for small area load forecast; (b) the
"SUBSITF' computer program for determining the optimum size, location and timing of
substations; and (c) the "Constrained Multi Feeder" computer program for optimizing the sub-
transmission system.   These programs take into  consideration  alternative distribution
developments and assist in establishing the least-cost expansion.
5.3   ERR Evaluation Methodology. The proposed project consists of a number of dispersed
components which form an integral part of MEA's total investment program, covering its entire
franchise area. Most major transmission and distribution investments in the MEA area are
interrelated, and yield joint benefits of loss control, reliability improvement and incremental supply
to consumers. For this reason, the MEA investment program for 1997-2001 was evaluated as a
whole, rather than attempting to isolate individual components artificially.  The following
assumptions support the economic analysis:
(a)   the analysis is done in end- 1995 price levels;
(b)   the cost streams comprise: (i) capital investments in the system during 1997-2001,
exclusive of duties and taxes, interest during construction and capital contributions
from the consumers; and (ii) operation, maintenance and administrative costs of
the system expansion. No allowance is made for shadow exchange rate because
this value is set by the market. Also, it is considered that wages reflect the
opportunity cost of labor; therefore, no shadow values are applied;



35
(c)   the cost of incremental energy purchased from EGAT is evaluated in terms of
long-run marginal cost of supply of Baht 1.45/kWh (as established by consultant's
studies updated by NEPO);
(d)   the incremental operation, maintenance and administrative costs are evaluated at
2.5% of the incremental capital costs, based on MEA's experience;
(e)   for evaluating the economic benefit arising from the incremental sales of electricity,
the appropriate parameter is the consumer's willingness-to-pay (WTP). The WTP
in metropolitan Bangkok area is substantially higher than the electricity tariff
However, for the purpose of this analysis, the average tariff of Baht 2.02/kWh (the
lower bound of WTP) realized in 1995 is used as a proxy for evaluating benefits
from incremental sales. This WTP value is assumed to remain constant in real
terms throughout the project life of 25 years;
(f)   as all incremental sales in the initial years cannot be attributed to the incremental
investments, the incremental electricity sales over the investment period are
conservatively assumed as: (i) 60% of the forecast incremental sales in 1997; (ii)
80% of the forecast incremental sales in 1998; and (iii) 100% of the forecast
incremental sales from 1999 to 2001, remaining constant thereafter;
(g)   the losses are assumed to be maintained at the current level of 4.7% which is
considered to be near optimum for MEA's system; and
(h)   the system reliability is assumed to increase progressively to yield an "unsupplied
energy" saving (as evaluated in detail by MEA) rising from 0.8 Gwh in 1997 to 8.0
Gwh in 2002. The benefit due to savings in "unsupplied energy" is valued at Baht
59/kWh based on a recent study done by consultants.
5.4   On the basis of the above assumptions, the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of MEA's
investment program is computed at 20.4%  (Annex 17).  This value is considered to be
conservative in the absence of quantification of consumer surplus and the environmental/safety
benefits of MEA's program, which includes costly conversion to underground systems in several
areas of Bangkok. The ERR is tested for variations of two types of parameters: (i) those directly
related to specific project risks, such as increase in capital costs, and reduction in sales (caused by
implementation delays or a slow demand growth); and (ii) basic power prices and variables
difficult to quantify, such as the cost of unsupplied energy (see Table 5.1).
5.5   The ERR of MEA's investment program is relatively insensitive to the program's capital
cost and the quantum of electricity sales. The ERR also remains robust at 18.9% when the benefit
due to saving in "unsupplied energy" is not evaluated. The ERR is quite sensitive to the cost of
energy and to the WTP, being dependent on the difference between two parameters that have
close values.



36
Table 5.1: ERR Sensitivity Analysis
Parameter      | Variation in Parameter     ERR%       |Vaniation in Parameter
_ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ |    to drop  ERR  to  10%
Base Case                                         20.4%
Capital Cost                  +10%                 18.0%              +70%
Sales                         -10%                 17.6%               -38%
Unserved Energy               -100%                18.9%
Energy Cost                    +5%                 16.1%              +13%
Willingness to pay             -5%                 14.7%               -10%
B. RisKs
5.6   The project faces the following potential risks:
(a)   Delays in implementation - which could affect progress of industrial and
commercial development in the metropolis-as the detailed planning and design of
the distribution system expansion has been carried out and preparation of bid
documents has been completed for almost all of the procurement packages, and as
land for the new substations and right-of-ways for the transmission lines are
already available, the risk of implementation delays is considered small and
manageable.  However, if delays do occur, the quality of service to some
consumers would decline or, in the worst case, electricity sales would drop. The
impact of the latter case was tested and it was found that the project's economic
viability would not be affected (ERR= 18% for a 10% decline in sales);
(b)    Shortfall or lag in electricity demand - which could lead to wasteful investments-
the risk of demand not materializing as forecast is unlikely, given the development
potential of the area. Adjustments in investments could be readily made should
severe variations in demand projections so dictate. Furthermore, project benefits
would decline only during a short initial period. Therefore, overall the project's
economic performance is not likely to be affected by slow demand growth;
(c)   Cost Overruns - which could make the project economically unviable-this risk is
small as cost estimates are supported by a sound data bank which is continuously
updated by actual costs based on MEA's latest contracts. Further, the ERR is
robust enough to assure economic viability of the program for significant cost
overruns; and
(d)   Delays in implementing policy and institutional development components - (these
include MEA's institutional restructuring and development of DSM capabilities).
A possible risk associated with these components of the project would be waning
of MEA management commitment and actions in deploying resources (human,
financial and technical assistance) to develop and implement the proposed
programs. This could at best delay implementation and at worst result in dropping



37
one or more facets of the programs. Implementation delays would not significantly
affect the physical components of the project. Also, Government commitment to
the organizational restructuring of MEA is assessed to be strong.  The
Government is also concerned with improving the efficiency of electricity use in
Thailand and is highly supportive of Thailand's overall efforts at demand side
management and energy conservation. With continuing Government support and
focused Bank supervision efforts, it is expected that the possible risks to the policy
and institutional development components could be dealt with expeditiously if they
were to emerge.



6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. AGREEMENTS
6.1   During negotiations, agreement was reached with MEA that it would:
(a)   contain its system losses at current optimum levels (not to exceed 5%), and in
consultation with the Bank, take any additional measures that would be called for
meet this requirement (para. 1.10);
(b)   carry out an annual review and update of its five-year investment program, discuss
this with the Bank, and implement the program taking into consideration the Bank's
comments (para. 1.12);
(c)   submit to the Bank audited annual financial statements within six months of the close
of each fiscal year (para. 2.20);
(d)   continue to make provisions satisfactory to the Bank for insurance against such risks
and in amounts consistent with appropriate practice (para. 2.21);
(e)   restructure its organization according to the Reorganization Plan (any revision of the
said Plan shall be subject to review and acceptance by the Bank), furnish documentary
evidence satisfactory to the Bank in support of the separation of "supply" and
"distribution" profit centers, and avail of technical assistance according to terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.31);
(f)   implement the investment and DSM components according to action plans acceptable
to the Bank and avail itself of technical assistance for the DSM component under
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.4);
(g)   carry out satisfactory procedures for monitoring the progress of the project in terms
of execution and financial reports and furnish the Bank quarterly progress reports
(para. 3.8);
(h)   adopt a plan for the operational phase of the project and make available to the Bank
its own evaluation and summary report (para. 3.8);
(i)   generate funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than 25% of the annual
average of its capital expenditure incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that fiscal
year, the previous fiscal year, and the next following fiscal year (para. 4.14);
(j)    maintain a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5 times (para. 4.16);
(k)   not incur further debt if such additional debt would raise its long term indebtedness to
more than 1.5 times its total capitalization (para. 4.16); and,
(1)   review by April 30 of every year the adequacy of its tariffs to produce the required
self-financing ratio, debt service coverage and debt/equity ratio obligations (para.
4.18).



39
6.2   During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that it would undertake a
periodic review and adjust MEA's tariffs as necessary to ensure that MEA earns the 25% self-
financing ratio (para. 4.14).
B. RECOMMENDATION
6.3   The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$145 million to MEA with the
guarantee of the Kingdom of Thailand. The loan would be single currency, US$ denominated, fixed
interest rate loan with standard amortization term and grace period, and interest rate for fixed rate
US$ single currency loans with an expected disbursement period of 3-6 years.



ANNEXES






40
Annex 1
THAILAND
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project
Metropolitan Electricity Authority
Highlights of EGAT, MEA and PEA Operations
FY90          FY91         FY92          FY93          FY94         FY95
EGAT
Peak generation (MW)                  7,094          8,045         8,877         9,730        10,709      12,268
Annual load factor (%)                 69.5           69.8          72.0          72.9          74.2        73.4
Net energy generation (Gwh)          43,189         49,225        56,006        62,180       69,651       78,880
Energy sold (Gwh)                    39,369         44,773        50,771        56,558       63,661       72,779
Network losses (Gwh)                  3,821          4,453         5,235         5,622         5,990       6,101
Network losses (as % of generation)    8.85            9.04         9.35          9.04          8.60         7.7
Number of employees                  33,153         34,990        35,245        34,946        34,100      33,495
Employee per MW generated               4.7            4.3           4.0           3.6           3.2         2.7
MdEA
Peak demand (MW)                      3,124          3,519         3,993         4,265        4,755        5,337
Energy purchased (Gwh)               18,623         20,777        22,946        25,359       27,526       30,603
Energy sold (Gwh)                    17,725         19,761        21,869        24,142       26,255       29,225
Losses (Gwh)                            898            926         1,077         1,218         1,271       1,378
Losses(as%ofpurchases)                  4.8            4.5           4.7           4.8           4.6         4.5
Number of Consumers ('000)            1,273           1,377        1,497         1,551         1,700       1,809
Sales/consumer (kWh)                 13,923         14,416        14,609        16,350       15,444       16,155
Annual load factor (%)                 68.1           67.4          65.6          67.3          66.1        65.5
Number of employees                  12,969         13,887        13,916        14,194        13,430      13,220
Number of consumers/employee             98             99           108           109          127          137
PEA
Peak demand (MW)                      3,763          4,282         4,983         5,780        6,341        7,374
Energy purchased (Gwh)               19,352         22,531        26,178        30,960       34,357       40,253
Energy generated (Gwh)                   18             20            20           20            23           29
Energy available (Gwh)               19,370         22,551        26,198        30,980       34,380       40,282
Energy sold (Gwh)                    17,932         20,954        24,379       28,819        32,296       37,861
Losses (Gwh)                          1,438          1,597         1,819         2,161        2,084        2,421
Losses (as % of available)              7.4            7.1           6.9           7.0          6.1          6.0
Number of Consumers ('000)            6,586          7,082         7,546         8,044        8,460        9,035
Sales/consumer (kWh)                   2,723          2,959        3,230         3,583         3,817       4,190
Annual load factor (%)                 58.8           60.1          60.0          59.9         61.9         62.4
Number of employees                  27,380         28,641        29,814        31,006       31,300       30,961
Number of consumers/employee            241            247           253          259           270          292






41
Annex 2
THAILAND
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project
Metropolitan Electricity Authority
Demand Forecast
Fiscal Year           1995  |  1996  |  1997        1998     1999  | 2000  ] 2001  | 2002         2003
Energy Sales (Gwh)
Residential                    5,594     6,137     6,577    7,038    7,536    8,055    8,594    9,184    9,793
Small General Service          4,073     4,379     4,750    5,148    5,535    5,925    6,371    6,785    7,188
Medium General Service        10,295    11,556    12,729   13,905   15,144   16,435   17,869   19,057   20,244
Large General Service          6,792     6,921     7,317    7,751    8,258    8,804    9,469    9,946   10,378
Hotels                         1,173     1,237     1,330    1,424    1,531    1,644    1,769    1,876    1,974
Govermnent& Utilities          1,179     1,313     1,365     1,418    1,478    1,541    1,607    1,686    1,737
Street Lighting                  119       118       123      128      133       138      142      147      152
Total Sales                   29,225    31,664    34,194   36,816   39,618   42,545   45,825   48,683   51,470
Losses                         1,379     1,561     1,686    1,816    1,954    2,099    2,260    2,400    2,538
Total Electricity Purchased   30,604    33,225    35,880   38,632   41,572   44,644   48,085   51,084   54,009
Note: 1995 Actual






ELECTRICITY SUPPLY INDUSTRY STRUCTURE IN MEDIUM TERM
Other Utilities
in                         EGAT                                     IPPs
Other Countries        PPA         Hydro Power              PPA
PROJECTS                         Plants                              Cogenerators
IN              PPA                                  PPA              &
LAO PDR  J                       EGAT-T                             Other SPPs
PPA      __                          PPA
EGCO                                             New EGAT
EGCO           /                    Transmission                   Generation
System                         Subsidiary
Direct Sales
Oth3 Mr sEA                                                        -      in Neighbourhood
Direct Customers        Distribution
System                      APEA3    PEA4 
| U se rs |    Distribution  Distribution  Distribution  Distribution
System     System     System    System
Users      Users    Users
EGAT-T =EGAT-Transmiss ion






43
Annex 4
THAILAND
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project
Metropolitan Electricity Authority
MEA's Existing Transmission and Distribution Lines
(in Circuit-Kilometers)
Fiscal Year      |   1991    |   1992    |   1993          1994           1995          1996
Transmission Lines
69kV                       574          585         610            652           669          670
115kV                       169          176         192           208            230          246
230kV                         15          15          15             15            15            15
Total                     758         776          817           875            914          931
Primary Lines
12kV                      5,290       5,550        5,746         5,805          5,974        6,251
24kV                      3,193        3,538       3,875         4,395          4,832        5,342
Total                    8,483       9,088        9,621        10,200         10,806       11,593
Secondary Lines
380/220 V                 15,929      16,812      17,598         18,462        19,559        20,824






44                                       Annex 5
MEA - Restructuring Plan                                                                 Pagel of2
Transformation from 1997 to 1999
Status - December 1999
MEAEZ
Corporate Center              Supply                     Distribution             Business Units
(Profit Centers)
- Board & Mgmt. Affairs     (Profit Center)             (Profit Center)       - InoraiT e o
- Corporate Planning        HPoi  etr                   Poi  etr                   nospaioTalnoog
- Human Resources                                                                -  lsl
- Finance & Investment      Customer services          DistributionNetwork    - Human Resources,
Billing                    Technical Support        Training & Development
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-   L e g a l
- Electrical & Civil Design
- Electrical & Civil
Construction
- Production, Repair
& Maintenance
- Internal Services
- Testing Laboratory
- Design & Manufacturing
- Energy Services Co.
- Electrical Sys. Services



Annex 5
MEA - Restructuring Plan                       45                                         Page2of2
Status - December 2000
I MEA Holding Company 1
(State Enterprise)    l
Subsidiary Cos.|
- Product Design & Manfacturing
- Electrical Systems Services
- Energy Services Company (ESCO)
Corporate Center             Supply                    Distribution            Business Units
- Board & Mgmt. Affairs    (Profit Center)            (Profit Center)        -                snoraiot
- Corporate Planning       (rrtCne)(rftCne)-lfraineh
- Human Resources                                                            - Hospital
- Finance & Investment     Customer services          DistributionNetwork    - Human Resources,
- Business Development     Billing                   Technical Support        Training & Development
- Legal
- Electrical & Civil Design
- Electrical & Civil
Construction
- Production, Repair
& Maintenance
- Internal Services
- Testing Laboratory



46
Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
THAILAND
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project
Performance Monitoring Indicators
Project ObjectivePerforncTarget                                                   Means of Verification      Inputs, Assumptions &
ObjectivePerformance Indicatort                          e                                 Risks       &
Improve distribution system    Reduce "System Average        see attached table     Evaluate annually. MEA      Adequate and timely
reliability and contain system   Interruption Frequency                             will compile the necessary    investments in the
losses at current levels.   Index"                                                  data and calculate the      distribution system are
Reduce "Customer Average         see attached table    indices.                     necessary. Without these
Interruption Duration                                                               investments reliability and
Maintain system loss                  < 5%                                          losses would deteriorate.
Enhance operational         Achieve separation of non-        December 1999         Monitor progress bi-annually   Adequate technical assistance
efficiency through          core activities                                                                     from experienced consultants
organizational restructuring    Achieve unbundling of core                                                      and close monitoring by the
in preparation for          distribution activities into      December 1999                                     Government and Bank are
commercialization and       "supply" & "distribution"                                                           necessary. Management and
corporatization             Achieve "Excellent State                                                            staff commitments to change
Enterprise" status                December 1997                                     are also essential. In the
absence of the
Customers/employee              1997  1999  2001                                    aforementioned inputs the
Gwh Sales/ employee             150    160   170                                   program would slip.
2,450  2,700  2,950                                                            l
Introduce demand-side       Set up "Appliance Testing         December 1998         Monitor progress bi-annually   Adequate technical
management capabilities in    Laboratory"                                                                       assistance, training of staff
MEA's organization.         Set up Energy Service             December 1998                                     and funding are necessary.
Company (ESCO)                                                                     Management commitment to
Initiate load research            December 1997                                    DSM and Bank technical
Number of appliances tested     1999 2000 2001                                     assistance are also essential.
Refrigerators                 20   40    100                                    Without these inputs the
Airconditioners               40    80   200                                    program would suffer.
Motors                        20    40    100
Ballasts                      40    80    200
Number of staff in ESCO           10   20      30
Number of ESCO services          10    20    100
rendered
Number of premises covered      400    800   1250
by load research (cumulative)



47
Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
Table 1-1: Target of SAIFI-L Reliability Index of Power System in
MEA's Service Area in the Eighth Power Plan
Interruption/Customer/Year
Area                            Target in Fiscal Year
1996 __           1999            2001
Long Time Interruption            5.4               4.5              3.7
Industrial Area                 5.6               5.0              4.4
City/Business Area              4.7               3.9              3.2
Suburban                        8.4               7.1              5.8
Table 1-2: Target of SAIDI-L Reliability Index of Power System in
MEA's Service Area in the Eighth Power Plan
Min/Customer/Year
Area                            Target in Fiscal Year
1996       l      1999            2001
Long Time Interruption            132               116              99
Industrial Area                 153               134              115
City/Business Area              113                99              85
Suburban                        240               210              180
Note:
SAIFI-L= System Average Interruption Frequency Index (More than 1 min)
=     (Customer x Interruptions)      Interruption/Customer/Year
Total Customer served per year
SAIDI-L= System Average Interruption Duration Index (More Than 1 min)
=    (Customer x Duration)           Min/Customer/Year
Total Customer served per year



48
Annex 7
Page 1 of 15
TEHAILAND
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project
Demand-Side Management Component
Background
1.   In 1992, the Government approved legislation establishing the Energy Conservation Promotion
Act, which increased the commitment and resources necessary to implement a comprehensive energy
efficiency program. The Act: (a) formalized the responsibilities of the Department of Energy
Development and Promotion (DEDP) as the IEVD Government agency for energy conservation; (b)
gave DEDP the authority to issue voluntary building energy codes and appliance efficiency standards;
(c) identified a class of large energy users as '"ontrolled facilities" and required that they hire energy
managers, conduct energy studies and develop energy conservation plans; and (d) established the
Energy Conservation Promotion Fund (ECF), financed largely through taxes on refinery products.
2.   In addition, by the approval of a motion put forward by the National Energy Policy Office
(NEPO), the Thai Cabinet gave EGAT the legal mandate and authority to pursue DSM programs,
targeting appliances in six categories that significantly contribute to Thailand's electricity demand
growth - lighting measures, air conditioners, refrigerators, freezers, ballasts and motors. In December
1992, the Demand-Side Management Office (DSMO) was created within EGAT to take charge in the
design, implementation and evaluation of DSM programs. The distribution utilities, MEA and the
Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA), are also charged to cooperate with EGAT in DSM
implementation in their respective service territories.  The DSM  Sub-Committee (DSMSC) was
established to oversee the progress of DSM implementation.
3.   In recognition of the unique potential of the Thai DSM effort to serve as a model for energy
conservation and greenhouse gas emission reduction efforts in other countries, the World Bank under
the auspices of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) has supported the Promotion of Electricity
Energy Efficiency Project since 1993. The project has two main objectives: (a) to build sufficient
institutional capability in the Thai electric power sector and the energy-related private sector to deliver
cost-effective energy services throughout the economy; and (b) to pursue policies and actions that
would IEVD to the development, manufacture and adoption of energy-efficient equipment and
processes within the country.
4.    The GEF project is substantially serving these objectives. With respect to the first objective of
building institutional capability, the GEF project has spearheaded the creation of the DSMO at EGAT
with 120 trained staff and successfully utilized the Thai Industrial Standard Institute (TISI) for testing
the energy efficiency of various appliances. With respect to the second objective of pursuing policies
and actions, the GEF project has begun implementation of several key DSM programs such as the high-
efficiency fluorescent tube, air conditioner, refrigerator, compact fluorescent lamp, green building and
motor programs. The DSMO estimated that, as of January 1997, these measures have achieved energy
savings of 1,009 gigawatt-hours (GWh) per year, reduced the peak demand by 136 megawatts (MW)
and led to a 753,000 ton reduction in carbon dioxide (C02) emissions per year by avoiding energy
generation.
5.    However, DSM implementation in Thailand has, until now, been shouldered almost exclusively
by the DSMO in EGAT. There has been little involvement to date in DSM development and



49
Annex 7
Page 2 of 15
implementation on the part of distribution utilities, primarily due to lack of technical capabilities,
especially in the areas of customer load research and delivery of energy services using private sector
expertise such as energy service companies (ESCOs). In recognition of this, MEA has identified the
need to take an active role in promoting DSM, and has agreed to include DSM components in this
project in four areas: (a) ESCO development; (b) load research; (c) appliance testing; and (d) load
control.
Energy Service Company (ESCO) Development
6.    MEA has begun a process to restructure its Electrical Systems Services Department (EVD) into
a corporatized business unit. EVD is responsible for conducting electrical system design and wiring
services for customers (mostly public buildings) and electrical equipment maintenance services.
Currently, EVD is composed of about 400 staff, and has an annual revenue of about 400 million Baht
(or US$16 million).
7.    According to a draft restructuring plan prepared by consultants, EVD will be first corporatized
by the end of 1997, and may be privatized as a fully-owned subsidiary of MEA by 1999. Once
corporatized, EVD would have three divisions, namely engineering, financial, marketing groups. MEA
has proposed to study the spin off as a separate private entity when EVD is privatized in 1999. The
ESCO would engage in performance contracting projects.
8.    Performance contracting refers to the implementation of energy-efficient options using a private
sector service provider (generally an energy service company) who is compensated based on
demonstrated performance in reducing the energy use as a direct result of the installation of energy-
efficient equipment and the adoption of energy saving production processes. ESCOs offer complete
energy services, including preliminary feasibility analysis, detailed energy audits, design, installation,
finance and maintenance of energy-efficient technologies. Performance contracts are typically designed
to reduce risks to project facility owners because ESCOs are paid based on their performance; facility
owners pay for ESCO services based on the energy savings actually achieved.
9.    While the total required funding for ESCO projects in Thailand is largely dependent on the
demand for such services, level of investment required for each building and the number of eligible
buildings, it is expected that a minimum of US$10 million would be required to finance the initial ESCO
projects. A feasibility study is expected to identify potential sources of ESCO project financing,
including the ECF.
Load Research Program
10.   The introduction of a system-wide load research program to collect energy consumption data of
MEA customers will be designed to support the load profile needs of MEA, providing useful
information to assist MEA in its load forecasting and planning as well as its operational functions such
as DSM and tariff design and analysis. A detailed analysis was undertaken by a consultant to define the
sample requirements and equipment needs.
11.   To maintain statistical validity of load research sample, it was determined that a total of 1,225
customers (sample) from various customer classes would need to be monitored continuously, as shown
in the following table:



50
Annex 7
Page3of 15
Table 1
Population and Projected Sample Size for MEA
Population
l   Sampling Clas          (May 1996)        Sample Size
Residential <=150 kWh                   407,815              65
Residential >150 kWh                    986,682             150
Small GS                                305,216             200
Medium GS                                17,022             250
Large GS                                   278              278
Specific Classes                          1,088             120
Govt./Non-Profit                          8,405             162
TOTAL                                         1,225
12.   The capital budget required for metering the 1,225 sites, with associated hardware and software,
is projected to be US$2.5 million. Initial training and technical assistance will require an additional
US$330,000. MEA will be requesting funding from the ECF to support this sub-component.
Appliance Testing Laboratory Development
13.   Testing the energy consumption and efficiency of electric appliances is the foundation of
successful implementation of DSM. EGAT has utilized the facilities of TISI to test electric appliances
such as refrigerators, air-conditioners and fluorescent tubes. TISI, however, does not currently have
capabilities for testing ballasts or motors. The preparation mission found that the current staffing and
space shortages prohibit TISI from expanding its capabilities to test motors and ballasts. The shortage
in staffing has also slowed the progress in testing air conditioners and refrigerators, which has delayed
various DSM initiatives under implementation by EGAT.
14.   MEA agreed to establish a laboratory to test the energy consumption and efficiency of motors,
ballasts, air conditioners and refrigerators, and agreed to provide space and staff for the operation of the
laboratory. An approximately 2,000 square meter facility within MEA service territory is currently
being considered for the laboratory site.
15.   It is estimated that approximately US$750,000 will be required to purchase motor testing
equipment. MEA estimates that about an additional US$200,000 will be required to procure ballast
testing equipment. The main equipment would include a humidity chamber test set for moisture
resistance and insulation, a Kelvin bridge for testing limitation of ballast heating and a digital power
analyzer for electronic ballast testing. Testing refrigerators and air conditioners can be simulated.
According to TISI, the investment requirement for air conditioner and refrigerator testing laboratory is
approximately US$1.4 million. NEPO has agreed in principal to finance the laboratory investment costs
from the ECF, estimated to reach about US$2.5 million (for equipment and installation only).
Load Control Program
16.   Direct control by the utility offers the advantage of curtailing demand only when system
conditions require reduction of peak demand, either to avoid capital investments to meet the peak
(either for generation or distribution) or as an operating aid under emergency conditions. The amount



51                                       Annex 7
Page 4 of 15
and duration of the control devices can be determined by the utility to limit lost revenues and reduce
impacts on the customer. Another approach is to have customer owned energy management systems
with a load control feature, that would allow a utility to control the load when necessary.
17.   MEA agreed to create a load control program, involving the installation of control systems in
commercial customer premises, that would allow MEA to reduce the demand at pre-selected end-uses,
primarily air conditioners/chillers, when the generation and/or distribution systems require load relief
The load control systems would be installed primarily in DEDP-designated '"ontrolled facilities," or
buildings with a monthly demand of 1,000 kW or more. About 100 existing facilities and 150 new
buildings would likely participate in such a program.
18.   The total cost for the necessary equipment for this sub-component is estimated at about US$4.0
million. MEA expects to customers to pay for the equipment and installation costs of the control
devices. The GEF Grant will support a study to define the scope of the Load Control Program.
Technical Assistance
19.   A grant fund US$1 million will be allocated from the existing GEF-supported Project -
Promotion of Electricity Energy Efficiency (GEF Grant No. TH-28637) to support technical assistance
(TA) activities for these DSM sub-components. Several TA components are envisioned including the
following:
20.   An ESCO Feasibility Study will be performed by an international consulting firm with a budget
of US$130,000 (see attached Terms of Reference). The feasibility study will:
(a) define the institutional requirements for privatizing the ESCO/performance contracting
group as a part of EVD privatization (or as a separate entity);
(b) provide a detailed business plan for the privatized entity, identifying performance
contracting projects in the commercial sector, required resources needs (e.g., staffing,
working capital);
(c) estimate the funding requirements for commercial sector ESCO projects;
(d) recommend suitable ESCO project funding mechanism; and
(e) recommend training programs for ESCO operation staff.
21.   The scope of the Load Control Program will be defined based on the recommendations of an
international consultant, funded by the Grant. A US$220,000 budget has been allocated to this study,
which will assist MEA in determining the number of interested participants in the Program,
recommending suitable operating arrangements, discuss cost recovery mechanisms and outline a training
program for MEA staff.
22.   Support to develop an Appliance Testing Laboratory in Bangkok will be financed by the GEF
Grant. Such preparatory work would include detailed cost estimates for testing equipment, a market
assessment for appliance testing services in Thailand and neighboring countries, a business plan,
laboratory design, staffing/training requirements and construction management (see attached Terms of
Reference). In addition, the Grant would fund a study tour for select MEA/EGAT staff to visit existing
international testing facilities. It is estimated that such support would require about US$400,000 from
the Grant.



52
Annex 7
Page5 of 15
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project
Energy Service Company (ESCO) Development Feasibility Study
Terms of Reference - Consulting Services
Backeround
1.    Thailand has one of the world's fastest growing industrial economies. Over the last three years,
GDP growth has averaged 10% per annum and the outlook continues to be one of robust economic
expansion. In order to assure an adequate level of electricity supply to sustain growth, about 1,700
MW of generating capacity additions will be required annually to meet the power demand which is
projected to grow from 13,310 MW in 1996 to over 22,000 MW in 2001. To meet this challenge, the
Government's strategy calls for: (a) increasing power sector investments substantially; (b) accelerating
the pace of privatization of the power supply industry; (c) making a strong thrust towards energy
conservation; and (d) placing, increased emphasis on environmentally sound sustainable development.
2.    In 1993, the World Bank, in conjunction with the Global Environment Facility (GEF), approved
the Thailand Promotion of Electricity Energy Efficiency Project. The project has two major objectives:
(a) to build sufficient institutional capability in the Thai electric power sector and the energy-related
private sector to deliver cost-effective energy services throughout the economy; and (b) to pursue
policies and actions that would IEVD to the development, manufacture and adoption of energy efficient
equipment, and processes within the country. The Project, which is being implemented by the Demand-
Side Management Office (DSMO) within the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT),
consists of a five-year DSM Plan, with a budget of US$189.0 million. The Project has a savings target
of 238 MW and 1,427 GWh (per annum) of electricity by the end of 1997.
Proposed Metropolitan Power Distribution Reinforcement Project
3.    The proposed, World Bank-assisted Metropolitan Power Distribution Reinforcement Project is
designed to assist the Metropolitan Electricity Authority (MEA), the utility responsible for electricity
distribution to the Bangkok metropolitan area, to: (i) sustain the efficiency of MEA's operations in the
face of a rapid increase in the scope and complexity of its business (more specifically through assistance
in organizational restructuring in preparation for commercialization and corporatization); (ii) support
improvements and expansions in its distribution system to meet the rapid increase in demand at
enhanced levels of reliability, safety and environmental acceptability; and (iii) enhance the role of MEA
in demand-side management (DSM).
4.    MEA has identified the need to take an active role in promoting DSM which has, until now,
been shouldered almost exclusively by the DSMO in EGAT. As part of the proposed Project, MIEA has
agreed to implement four DSM components in the areas of: (a) load research program; (b) appliance
testing laboratory construction; (c) energy service company (ESCO) development; and (d) DSM
technical assistance/training program. These terms of reference (TOR) is prepared to conduct an ESCO
development within MEA.



53
Annex 7
Page 6 of 15
MEA Restructuring/Prospects for ESCO Development
5.    MEA has begun a process to restructure its Electrical Appliance Services Department (EVD)
into a corporatized business unit. EVD is responsible for conducting electrical system design and wiring
services for its customers (mostly public buildings) and electrical equipment maintenance services.
Currently, EVD consists of about 400 staff, and has an annual revenue of about 400 million Thai Baht
(US$16 million).
6.    According to a draft restructuring plan, EVD will be first corporatized by end 1997, and may be
privatized as a fully-owned subsidiary of MEA by 1999. Once corporatized, EVD would have three
divisions: (i) engineering group; (ii) financial group; and (iii) marketing group. As part of the
restructuring process, MEA is interested in studying the feasibility of adding an ESCO operations group
in the corporatized structure, which could spin off as a separate entity when EVD is privatized. The
ESCO operations group would engage in performance contracting projects.
Objectives
7.    MEA has requested Bank support to conduct a feasibility study to identify a suitable institutional
framework, financing arrangements and a detailed business plan for an ESCO operations group within
MEA. This study will also assist MEA to: (a) define the products and services to be offered by the
ESCO operations group; (b) evaluate the risks associated with performance contracting in MEA
territory; and (c) define the institutional arrangement within MEA to promote private sector
participation in energy conservation in commercial properties in MEA territory.
Scope of Work
8.    An international Consultant, with expertise in the creation and operation of ESCOs, will be
required to assess the feasibility of developing an ESCO operations group within MEA. The assignment
will involve: (i) examining the institutional alternatives for establishing an ESCO operations group and
associated strategic, financial and organizational issues; (ii) assessing the market potential for energy
conservation products and services; (iii) providing a detailed business plan for the proposed ESCO
operations group; (iv) estimating the funding requirements for performance contracting projects; (v)
recommending suitable project funding mechanisms; and (vi) recommending a comprehensive training
program for MEA staff to support ESCO development.  A Report summarizing the business
development plan, along with institutional financing and training recommendations will be submitted to
MEA at the end of this feasibility study.
Task 1: Review Institutional Aspects
9.    The Consultant will examine the institutional issues associated with creating an ESCO
operations group within MEA. To this end, the Consultant will review all viable institutional
alternatives, including: (i) the ESCO operations group as a division of MEA (under EVD); (ii) the
ESCO operations group as a subsidiary of MEA; and (iii) MEA outsourcing all performance contracting
activities through a competitive process to unaffiliated companies. The Consultant will evaluate all
options, taking into account such issues as the market potential for ESCO services (see Task 2), project
financing requirements (see Task 4), tax implications, associated risks, and technical and managerial



54
Annex 7
Page 7 of 15
capabilities of MEA.  The Consultant will discuss these institutional alternatives with MEA and
recommend the optimal organizational arrangement for the proposed ESCO operations group.
Task 2: Evaluate Market Potential
10.   In July 1995, the Government issued the 'Royal Decree Prescribing Controlled Buildings"
promulgating regulations governing the requirements for energy use in '"designated facilities" or
buildings with a peak demand of over 1,000 kW. Owners of 'hew' designated facilities" must meet the
energy consumption requirements in the Code before the buildings become operational, while owners of
'former designated facilities" are given three years in which to comply with the Code. The latter group
of owners represent a potential target customer base for performance contracting activities.
11.   Based on this information along with other available information, the Consultant will assess the
market potential for ESCO/performance contracting services within MEA service territory. This Task
will require an evaluation of the market in Thailand for energy conservation products and services and
may include defining target customer groups, estimating the size and number of potential
ESCO/performance contracting projects, determining which products and services should be supplied
by the ESCO operations group, identifying the risks associated with performance contracting, assessing
the ability and willingness of customers to pay for such products and services, projecting market
growth, identifying future competition and determining the market share of MEA.
Task 3: Design Business Plan
12.   The Consultant will design a detailed business plan for the proposed ESCO: The business plan
must clearly define the objectives of, and products and services offered by, the ESCO operations group.
In addition, the consultant will discuss relevant business aspects of the ESCO operations group, which
may include required resources (e.g., staffing, working capital, technical/managerial expertise,
equipment software, etc.), potential performance contracting projects, marketing strategies, a timetable
for the creation on an ESCO operations group, and monitoring and verification techniques. In addition
to these issues, the business plan may include financial information, such as target rates of return and a
cash flow analysis for the first three years of operation.
Task 4: Determine Funding Requirements
13.   In addition to working capital, the Consultant will estimate the funding requirements for
ESCO/performance contracting projects. Once the market potential has been analyzed, the Consultant
will determine the required investments needed in commercial buildings. For example, if the Consultant
has identified market potential in the commercial building sector, investments in lighting, electrical
appliances and thermal measures may be included. These investments could be used for construction,
equipment procurement, maintenance and reimbursements for working capital used to develop the
project.   The analysis of funding  requirements will also  assist in defining  the scope of
ESCO/performance contracting projects.
l The Code lists requirements for two types of buildings: "former buildings" or buildings that began construction or
submitted construction requests prior to the enactment of the Code; and "new buildings," which began the
construction process after the Code came into effect.



55
Annex 7
Page 8 of 15
Task 5: Recommend Appropriate Funding Mechanisms
14.   The Consultant should recommend optimal funding mechanisms for performance contracting
projects. Once the level of investment for ESCO projects has been defined, the Consultant will
determine suitable funding altematives for such investments, such as debt (customer borrows), leasing
arrangements, ESCO financing (ESCO operations group borrows) and other arrangements. In addition,
the Consultant should examine the opportunity for financing from the Energy Conservation Fund
(managed by the National Energy Policy Office), MEA, commercial banks, and customers.
Task 6: Define Training Requirements
15.  In addition to performing Tasks 1 - 5 above, the Consultant will be required to assess the
capability of MEA ESCO staff and MEA management to establish and operate an ESCO operations
group. Based on this assessment, the Consultant will outline the necessary training program for relevant
ESCO staff to ensure that their individual assignments are performed adequately. The Consultant
should address this component in the proposal, with the ultimate objective of ensuring that at the
conclusion of this assignment: (i) staff of MEA's ESCO operations group are fully capable of operating
an ESCO; and (ii) MEA management has the capacity to establish and manage the ESCO operations
group. Training activities may include workshops, seminars, classes and other educational activities to
improve the local capabilities for ESCO development and operation and ensure the sustainability of
MEA's initiatives.
Schedules and Reporting Requirement
16.   The estimated budget for this assignment is about US$100,000. The Consultant will need to
hire a local M/E company to assist in identifying energy conservation opportunities to be provided by
ESCO, including site visits and data collection/preparation. The Consultant should also meet with the
DSMO of EGAT and the Department of Energy Development and Promotion (DEDP) who have been
responsible for energy conservation activities in the commercial sector. It is anticipated that the
duration of this assignment will be approximately 3 months. The Consultant will report to Mr. Preecha
Praimkit, Deputy Governor, MEA. Any questions on this TOR should be directed to Mr. Kasem
Imkasorn, MEA DSM project coordinator.
17.   One major Report will be required, summarizing the issues surrounding the recommended
institutional structure, business plan and financing arrangement of the proposed ESCO operations
group, along with the training program of relevant MEA staff. This Report will form the basis for
designing the ESCO development component of the Bank-assisted Project and will be submitted to
MBA and the end of this assignment.



56
Annex 7
Page 9 of 15
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project
Appliance Testing Laboratory Feasibility Study
Terms of Reference - Consulting Services
Background
1.    The Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT) is responsible for the generation and
transmission of electricity in Thailand. With an installed capacity of approximately 14,000 MW, EGAT
operates as a bulk supplier of electricity and relies on the Metropolitan Electricity Authority (MEA) and
the Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA) for retail distribution.2 MEA distributes electricity in the
Bangkok metropolitan area while PEA serves the rest of the country.
2.    In 1992, EGAT launched a demand-side management (DSM) program to curtail electricity
demand that is growing at 10% per year. The five year program (1993-1997) has a budget of US$189
million and a savings target of 700 MW and 3,400 GWh (per annum) by 1998.
3.    EGAT has the legal mandate and authority to acquire DSM resources. It has 10 individual
DSM programs under implementation, preparation or consideration. They are:
Under Implementation
* Air-conditioners
* Refrigerators
* Fluorescent Tube Lamps
* Existing Commercial Buildings
Under Preparation
* New Commercial Buildings
* Compact Fluorescent Lamps
* Motors
Under Consideration
* Low-Income Lighting
* Street Lighting
* Low-Loss Magnetic Ballasts
4.    To date, EGAT has used the Thai Industrial Standards Institute (TISI) to test refrigerators, air-
conditioners and fluorescent lamps for its DSM programs. However, staffing shortages at TISI have
been a constraint and delayed DSM implementation. In addition, the TISI laboratory lacks the
necessary equipment to test motors and ballasts which will be included in upcoming DSM programs.
5.    MEA is now in the process of preparing the World Bank-supported Metropolitan Distribution
Reinforcement Project, which is designed to: (i) support organizational restructuring in preparation for
commercialization and corporatization; (ii) support improvements and expansions in its distribution
system; and (iii) enhance the role of MEA in DSM.
2 With the exception of 12 large customers to whom EGAT supplies electricity direct.



57
Annex 7
Page IO of 15
6.    In support of the DSM activities in the above Project, MEA has agreed to build and operate an
appliance testing laboratory to test refrigerators, air-conditioners, motors and ballasts for EGAT's DSM
programs and, possibly, other clients. TISI would continue to test lamps for EGAT's DSM programs.
7.    MEA has identified a site in metropolitan Bangkok for the proposed appliance testing laboratory
with an area of up to 2,000 square meters. It has developed preliminary cost estimates for the testing
equipment, including US$1.4 million for refrigerators and air-conditioners, US$750,000 for motors and
US$200,000 for ballasts. The National Energy Policy Office (NEPO) has agreed to fund this equipment
with a US$2.5 million grant from the Energy Conservation Fund (ECF).
Objectives
8.    The objectives of this assignment are to assess the feasibility of an appliance testing laboratory,
owned and operated by MEA, conduct the electric and mechanical design work and provide technical
and construction supervision support to MEA during the lab construction.
Scope of Work
9.    The consultant is required to perform the following tasks:
Task 1:      Conduct a market assessment for appliance testing services and determine the
laboratory's scope of operations.
Task 2:     Prepare a business plan for the laboratory.
Task 3:      Conduct equipment/instrument specification, lab layout and construction and building
design.
Task 4:     Identify staffing and training requirements.
Task 5:     Provide construction management support.
Task 1.      Conduct a market assessment and determine the laboratory's scope of operations
10.   The consultant shall conduct a market assessment to determine the level and nature of demand
for testing services that could be provided by MEA's appliance testing laboratory. The laboratory must
be financially self-sustaining, using revenues from testing services provided to EGAT and other clients.
11.   The market assessment should begin with EGAT. The consultant shall meet with officials from
EGAT's Demand Side Management Office (DSMO) to determine the level and nature of demand for
testing to support its DSM programs for refrigerators, air-conditioners, motors and ballasts. The
consultant should project revenues from testing these appliances to support DSM implementation.
EGAT will assist the consultant in estimating the testing fees which potential lab customers (e.g.,
EGAT, appliance manufacturers) would be willing to pay.
12.   Using the above information, the consultant shall determine whether EGAT's revenues are
sufficient to enable the laboratory to be financially self-sustaining. The market assessment should
include non-EGAT clients (e.g. government agencies and manufacturers) to estimate the level and
nature of demand for testing services that the laboratory could provide to these clients.



58
Annex 7
Page I Iof 15
13.   The consultant should expand the scope of the market assessment in an incremental fashion.
Initially the market assessment should be restricted to testing the energy efficiency of refrigerators, air-
conditioners, motors and ballasts for EGAT. It can then be expanded to encompass, in incremental
fashion, a) other Thai clients, b) clients in other countries, and c) other services (e.g. other appliances,
safety testing, etc.).
14.   Based on the results from the market assessment, the consultant shall discuss with MEA options
for the laboratory' s scope of operations and related issues and risks. The consultant shall solicit MEA's
approval of a scope of operations for the laboratory that enables it to be financially self-sustaining.
15.   The deliverable from this task will be a statement of the laboratory's scope of operations (agreed
to by MEA), which would allow for full cost recovery and outline testing services to be offered and
clients or types of clients to be served.
Task 2:      Prepare a business plan for the laboratory
16.   The consultant shall prepare a business plan for the laboratory to support its initial operation. At
a minimum, the business plan should include:
*  a set of fees for testing services;
* a five year financial projection for the laboratory; and
*  a marketing plan.
17.   The financial projection should detail the lab revenues and costs. Revenues should be based on
approved fees and the results of the market assessment in Task 1.  Costs should include both
construction and operating costs. For construction costs, the consultant shall determine, at a minimum,
the budget required for equipment testing and installation, building and construction expenses and any
additional consultancies required during and after the construction of the laboratory. The operating
costs should include labor costs, testing equipment maintenance costs, staff training costs, taxes and
other expenses related to operation of the lab. MEA will assist the consultant in identifying these costs,
where appropriate. The marketing plan should outline a strategy and approach for soliciting services to
potential clients.
Task 3:      Conduct equipment/instrument specification, lab layout and construction and
building design
18.   The consultant shall conduct laboratory design activities that encompass the following tasks:
*  Determine and finalize testing protocols in consultation with MEA and EGAT;
* Assess the suitability of appliance testing equipment from local and international vendors for use
in MEA's testing laboratory;
*  Develop detailed equipment and instrumentation descriptions and specifications;
*  Identify calibration requirement;
*  Prepare engineering design prints for testing laboratory;
*  Develop detailed lab layout;
*  Prepare detailed construction budget and schedule; and



59
Annex 7
Page l2of 15
Prepare specifications and bid documents for equipment and construction (motor testing
equipment will be procured separately from the rest of the equipment).
19.   At a minimum, MEA's appliance testing laboratory should be capable of testing appliances with
the following characteristics:
Refrigerators:     Up to 2.5 meters high
Air-conditioners:    5,000 - 60,000 BTU/hr (split type)
Motors:            Up to 200 Hp, 3-phase, 50 Hz, 380 V - 660 V
Ballasts:          Magnetic and electronic:
lx18W   2x18W
1 x36W   2x36W
1 x 32 W
20.   For the testing protocols, the consultant should review and recommend the most appropriate
guidelines/standards. MEA will provide the consultant with translated (English) versions of the Thai
testing protocol. The following standards are under consideration by MEAIEGAT:3
Refrigerators:     TIS 455
TIS 1235
ISO 7371
Air-conditioners:    TIS 1155
TIS 385
ISO/R 859
JIS-B 8615
Motors:            IEEE Std. 112
IEC/JEC4
Magnetic Ballasts:   TIS 23
IEC 82
Electronic Ballasts:  TIS 885
IEC 929
EEC 555-1
21.   The laboratory's layout should support implementation of the laboratory's full scope of
operations in an efficient and cost-effective manner. It should include space for testing, an operator
control room, storage and offices for administration and data analysis. MEA will assist the consultant in
estimating local construction costs.
3 TIS = Thai Industrial Standard; JIS = Japanese Industrial Standard
4 IEC International Electro-technical Commission; JEC = Japanese Electro-technical Committee



60
Anmex 7
Page 13 of 15
22.   The construction of the laboratory will be conducted in an incremental fashion, to the extent
possible, beginning with the construction of motor testing lab, and then the construction of testing
facilities for other appliances. This is due to more urgent need for motor testing facility in Thailand.
The fully operational motor testing laboratory should be established before the end of 1997.
23.   The list of specified equipment should include all mechanical systems for the laboratory building,
testing equipment, a data acquisition and control system, and computer equipment for analysis of test
results and preparation of written reports. The list of specified software should include data acquisition
and control, data storage and analysis, spreadsheet, word processing and presentation software.
24.   In specifying equipment, the consultant should indicate all ratings and features, manufacturers
and country of origin, but should not indicate any preference for any specific manufacturers for
procurement. To the extent possible, the consultant should indicate all potential international and Thai
suppliers. Cost estimates should include transport to the testing laboratory and installation. MEA will
assist the consultant in estimating local costs and identifying suppliers, where appropriate.  The
consultant should identify the laboratory's calibration requirements and firms or organizations that are
capable of performing this calibration. The consultant should also estimate the cost of calibration
services.
25.   The deliverables from this task will include:
3  a complete set of engineering design prints for the testing laboratory;
3  cost estimates for the lab's construction;
*  a complete set of specifications for all equipment and software;
o  a list of potential equipment and software suppliers;
*  cost estimates for equipment and software (installed and configured);
*  calibration requirements;
v  a list of potential calibration providers; and
*  cost estimates for calibration of the laboratory.
Task 4:      Identify staffing and training requirements
26.   Taking into consideration the laboratory's scope of operations, the consultant shall prepare a list
of staff positions and for each position, describe principal tasks and necessary skills and experience for
potential candidates.
27.   The consultant shall develop a plan for staff training programs that will enable laboratory staff to
fulfill the lab's scope of operations in accordance with the relevant standards. The plan should indicate
what types of training should be provided to which staff members over what time period, including the
provision of resident advisors or short-term consultants, as needed. The consultant should also indicate
what firms or organizations are qualified to deliver the training and estimate the training program costs.
28.   The deliverables for this task will include:
*  a list of staff positions, with associated skill and experience requirements for candidates,
*  a plan for a staff training program;
*  a list of potential training providers; and



61
Annex 7
Page 14 of 15
* an estimate of the training program's cost.
Task 5:      Provide construction management support
29.   The consultant shall provide technical and management support during the lab construction.
The activities under this task would include:
*  progress review of construction, based on the schedule developed in Task 3;
*  progress review of equipment manufacture and delivery;
*  supervision of equipment installation and connections;
*  review of operating safety procedures;
*  commissioning of equipment; and
*  testing of installed equipment.
Reporting Requirements
30.   The consultant shall report to, and receive the assistance of, MEA and EGAT in fulfilling the
above tasks. MEA will provide the consultant with office space, local transport, local communications,
secretarial support and counterpart personnel.
31.   The consultant shall prepare and submit a report containing, at a minimum:
(a)    A statement on the laboratory's scope of operations.
(b)    A business plan, including:
* a set of fees for testing services;
* a 5-year financial projection for the laboratory; and
* a marketing plan.
(c)    A fully complete design and specification of the laboratory and its equipment and
calibration, including:
* a complete set of engineering design prints for the testing laboratory;
*  cost estimates for the lab's construction;
* a complete set of specifications for all equipment and software;
* bidding documents for equipment procurement;
* a list of potential equipment and software suppliers;
* cost estimates for equipment and software (installed and configured);
* calibration requirements;
* a list of potential calibration providers; and
* cost estimates for calibration of the laboratory.
(d)    A staffing and training plan, including:
* a list of staff positions, with associated skill and experience requirements for
candidates;
* a plan for a staff training program;
* a list of potential training providers; and
* an estimate of the training program's cost.



62
Annex 7
Page 15 of 15
32.   Four bound copies and one unbound copy of the draft report shall be sent to MEA for
comments. After incorporation of comments, four bound copies and one unbound copy of a final report
shall be prepared and submitted within three weeks of receipt of comments. The Consultant will report
to Mr. Preecha Praimkit, Deputy Governor, MEA. Any questions on these TOR should be directed to
Mr. Kasem Imkasorn, MEA DSM project coordinator.
Schedule/Budget
33.   The duration of this assignment is estimated at about one-and-a-half years, with a level of effort
of about 14 person-months. The consultant shall begin work on or about April 1, 1997. The draft
report will be due at MEA by July 1, 1997. The final report will be due at MEA three weeks after
receipt of comments. The project budget for this assignment is US$350,000, funded by the World
Bank/GEF and it is anticipated that local consulting firms may need to be hired to assist in the market
assessment activities and data collection.






63
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1996              1997              1998              1999              2000              2001
ID   WBS Task Name                                                       Duration Q40Q1    Q3[Q4|01020304010203040102030401 0Q210310410110210310401
1          1 Transmission and Distribution Substations                     1180d  03 May                                                                  27 Jul
2         1.11    Construction of New TtSs                                  989d            0 O                                                         17 Jun
3           1.1.1      Construction of Onnuj TtS                            989d           02 Oct                                                       17 Jun
4     1. I i1               Design and Preparation of Solicitation           24td            02 Oct '             0 AMay
!     1.1.1.2               Bidding                                          122d                       31 Mayc gSep
6     1.1.t 3               Evaluation                                       140d                              30 Se           6 Feb
7     1 1 1.4'              Contract                                           Od
ja8    1.1.1.5              Construction and Installation                   486d                                      17Fe                            17 Jun
9         1       Augmentation of Existi.g TtISs                            992d            01 Nov                                                        20Jut
10      1.2.1[         Augmentation of TtianontokTIs                         811d                     01May                                               20sJu
11    1 2.1.1               Procurement                                      700d.0 May   '.-7 
____                                                         01 May                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31 Mar
12    1 21 21               Civil Design                                      42d                                                  30 Oct       Dec
t  13  1 21.3T              Civil Construction                               11Id                                                    11 Dec83  31 Mar
1i      _~                                                                                            .                                       ..... Ma
14    1 2.1.4               Electrical Design                                 41d                                                       19 Feb f31 Mar
1t    1.21. 5               Installation 5 i                                   ld                                                         0      =1 AF   20 Jut
16           r                                                   __ .. ___  ____
16      1.2.2          Augmentation of Nongjok TIS                           628d            01 Nov                                    21 Jut
17    1 22 1                Procurement                                      544d             01 t      --                        28 Apr
1     t 1222!2              Civil Design                                      42d                                26 Nov      5 Jan
Task                         7               Sumnary                                      Rolled Up Progress
Project Implementation Plan              Progress                     -               Rolled Up Task        [3
Date: 08110196
Milestone             *                      Rolled Up Milestone
Melropolitan Distribution Reinlorcement Project                                                                                                                                               Page I of 8    X
_  _             _ ______ _ __ _    . _    _  __                  _ __    _ _                                                                ___           co~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x



64
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1996      1      1997       I      1998      1      1999       1     2000       1      2001
ID    WBS  Task Name                                                  Duration  04 01  02 03 04 01  Q2 Q3 04 0   0   0                             3 4 1  02 3041 Q02 Q30Q4 01
19    1.2.2.3              Civil Construction                              112d                                  07 Ja nl*c   28 Apr
20    1.2.2.4               Electrical Design                               28d                                      01 Apr      Apr
21    1.2.2.5              Installation                                     84d                                       29 Apr   21 Jul
22      1.2.3          Augmentation of Jangwatana TIS                     153d                                              01 Ocl            02 Ma
23    1 2.3 1              Design                                           42d                                               01 Oct t11 Nov
24    1.2.3.2               Construction and Installation                 11 d                                                 12 Nov        02 Mar
25      1.2.4          Augmentation of Sainoi TIS                         666d            01 Nov \                               .   18 Aug
26    1.2.4.1              Procurement                                    544d             01 Nov                             28 Apr
27    1.2.4.2              Civil Design                                    42d                                26 Nov  D6 Jan
28    1.2.4.3T             Civil Construction                              112d                                  07JanW23 28Apr
29    1.2.4.41             Electrical Design                               42d                                      18Mar rt8Apr
30    1.2.4.5              Installation                                   11 2d                                       29Aprl3 18Aug
31     1-3        Construction of New DISs                               i142d    04 Jun                               221 Jul
32      1.3.1          Construction of Taweewattana D/S                   929d        05 Aug  w  I                                           19 Feb
33    1.3.1.1               Design and Preparation of Solicitation        208d         06 Aug            8 Feb
34    1  3.1.2             Bidding                                        1 19d                  01 Mar         7 Jun
35    1.3913 |             Evaluation                                     154d                         28 JunF     38  Nov
36    1.3.1.4              Contract                                         Od                                          28Nov
Task                                       Summary                                     Rolled Up Progress
Project Implementation Plan             Progress                                    Rolled Up Task
Date: 08110/96
Milestone                                  Rolled Up Milestone                                                                                                 D
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project                                                                                                                                         Page 2 of 8    X
____________________________________________________________________ 



65
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
I      1996             1997              1998             1999              2000             2001
ID    WBS  Task Name                                                  Duration  04 0L   0 a2  Q3 104 01 Q 02   3         4      02 03  Q4 01 102   3 104   1 102 103 104  1 012   3 104  Q1
37    1.31.5               Construction and Installation                  448d                                29 Nov                        19 Feb
38      1.3.2          Construction of Jangron D/S                        990d    04 Jun                                                      19 Feb
39    1 3.2.1              Design and Preparation of Solicitation         269d       04 Jun      i       8  Feb
40    1.3.2 2               Bidding                                        1 19d                  OI Mart       7 Jun
41     1.3.2.31             Evaluation                                     154d                        28 Jun>C    8 Nov
42    1.3.2 4              Contract                                          Od                                         20 Nov
F  1325T                                                                            29~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~ Nov No
43    1.3.2.5               Construction and Installation                 448d                   ,29 No                                     19 Feb
44     1T3.31          Construction of Bangkae D/S                        995d        o1 Aug                                                     22 Apr
45    1.3.31|               Design and Preparation of Solicitation        212d         01 Aug             8 Feb
46    1 3 3.2               Bidding                                       119d                   01             7 Jun
_47     1.3.3.3               Evaluation                                     154d                        28 Ju n     T8 Nov
48    1.3.3.4              Contract                                          Od                                         28 Nov
49    1.3.35               Construction and Installation                  51Od                                29Novi                 -         22Apr
50      1.3.4          Construction of Klongmai D/S                       870d               0 J                               |                  20 May
51    1 3.4.1              Design and Preparation of Solicitation         150d                 1 Jan    -     0 May
52    1.3.4.2               Bidding                                       119d                   . 1 MayE          6 Sep
53    1.3.4.3               Evaluation                                    154d                             27 Sep7  Feb
54    1.3.4.4              Contract                                         Od                                         +        27 Feb
Task                                       Summnary                                    Rolled Up Progress
Project Implementation Plan             ProreszolldIpIas
Date: 08/10/96                          Progress                                    Rotted Up Task
Milestone                                  Rolled Up Milestone K>
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project                                                                                                                                         Page 3 o/S      X
Co



66
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1                                                                       1      1996              1997             1998              1999              2000              2001
ID    WBS |Task Name                                                   Duration  04 01l02 3l0                2l3Q40Q21Q20Q3lQ401Q 0Q2  0                     Q3lQ4001 021031041Q10Q20Q320 04101
55    1.3.4  |              Construction and Installation                   447d                                     28 Fel     )      =           20 May
56      1.3.5 I        Construction of Watbampen (Bangchan 2) D/S           932d               01 Jan                                                   21 Jul
57    1.35.1                Design and Preparation of Solicitation         ISOd                 01jan E      0oMay
58    1.3.5.2               Bidding                                         119d                       31MayK;;;6 Sep
59    1.3.5.3               Evaluation                                      154d                             27 Se            7Feb
60    1 3.5.41              Contract                                                                                          27 Feb
61    1.3551                Construction and Installation                   509d                                     28 Fe                            21 Jul
62      1.3.6          Construction of Sainoi D/S                          668d                     01 May i                               .     17 Feb
63    1.3.6.1               Procurement                                     546d                      01 May                             2r0ct
64   1t3,621                Design                                           56d                                              03 Sep IFt8 Oct
65    1 36.3                Construction and Evaluation                     112d                                                 29           17 Feb
66        1.4 I    Augmentation of Existing D/Ss                           S18d                     01 May __                                           27Jui
_________________________________________________________________________________ _  ._  . .  .                                                                             
67      1.4.1          Augmentation of Bangmod D/S                          693d                    01 May  1                                .  24 Mar
68    1 4 1 1               Procurement                                    610d                      01 May.3lDec
69    14 1 2                Design                                          28d                                                   04 Dec 1J1 Dec
70    1.4.1.3               Construction and Evaluation                     83d                                                    01 Jani3  24 Mar
71      1.4.2          Augmentation of Wangpetchboon D/S                   627d                         01 Jul .-                             . 19 Mar
72    1,4,2 1               Procurement                                    546d                          01 Jul                            28 Dec
Task                                        Summary                          _          Rolled Up Progress
Project Implementation Plan              Prores                                      RoledUp  as
Date 09/10/96                 ~~~~~~Progress                              Rolledi Up Task                                     
Date: 09/10/96                                                                                               >-ll         .
Milestone                                   Rolled Up Milestone s.>)
tMetropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project                                                                                                                                           Page  4 ot 8   c



67
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1996             1997       1      1998             1999              2000             2001
ID   !WBS3   Task Name                                                Duration  04l Q Q203l040102103Q4  l1 l02103Q4Q01  0Q2l03l04Q1  0Q2103Q41Q0   02030401
1.4.2 2              Design                                          28d                                                 01 Dec Ght8 Dec
F74    1.4 2.3                 Construction and Evaluation                     81d                   .                               29 DeFcKz   19 Mar
75      1.4.31         Augmentation of Sri-Eiam D/S                       818d                    01 May                                             27 Jul
76    1 4 3.1                  Procurement                                    546d                     01 May B=; -                 1         Oct
77    1 4.3.2              Design                                          28d                                                        1           May
78    1.4.3.3              Construction and Evaluation                     83d                                                         06 mayi)       27 Jul
79      1.4.4          Augmentation of Huaykwang D/S                      757d                        01 Jut . ;                                     27Jut
80    1.4.4.1               Procurement                                   546d                          01 Jul. 28 Dec
81    1.4.4.2              Design                                          28d                                                        08 Apr D5 May
82                          Construction and Evaluation                     83d                                                        06 Ma j      27 Jut
83      1.4.5          Augmentation of Sainamtip DIS                      757d                        01 Jut                                     . .  27 Jut
84    1 4.5.1              Procurement                                    546d                          O1 Jul                           28Dcc
85    1.4.5.2              Design                                          28d |                                                      08 Apr r05 May
86    14.5.3                Construction and Evaluation                    83d                                                         06 Mak   27 Jut
87        1.5     Augmentation and Modification of D/Ss                  1084d  03 May                                                          22 Apr
B8      1.5.1          Augment. and Mod. of Mochit D/S                    931d  03 May                                                   20 Nov
89    1 5.1.1              Design and Preparation of Solicitation         21 Id    03 May              Nov
90    1.5.1.2|             Bidding                                        11 8d             01               Mar
Task                                       Summary                  _                  Rolled Up Progress
Project Implementation Ptan             Progress                                   Rolled Up Task                                                                                                      > _
Date: 081`10196                            g                                                                       _J__
Milestone                                  Rolled Up Milestone   >                                                                                             (0
x
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project                                                                                                                                         Page 5of 8   .0



68
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
,___-                                                                                _        1996_1 1997                        1998              1999      1      2000             2001
ID     WBS   Task Name                                                Duration  04 01  02  Q3104 01 02 013 I Q4101                  1 0 2 1 03   4 01 02 03   4 01 021 03 1 Q4 I 01 02 0 C3 04  Qi
91    1.5 13               Evaluation                                      154d                    29  M            2 Aug
9|    1.5.t.4j             Contract                                          Od
93    1.5.1.51 |Construction and Installation                             448d                            30 Aug
i  94      1.5.2 |        Augment. and Mod. of Prakanong D/S                  967d       01 Aug 1, 25 Mar
95    1.5.21               Design and Preparation of Solicitation          184d        01 Aug  f     31 Jan
96    1.522                Bidding                                         119d                 0tF1 C   )       OMay
97    1.5.2.3              Evaluation                                      154d                      31 May    r       Oct
98    1524                 Contract                                          Dd
____ j                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31 Oct
99    1.5.2.5              Construction and Installation                  51 Od                              01 No                '' : 5  -  26 Mar
100      <1.]3         Augment. and Mod. of Paknam DIS                     995d       01 Aug                                                 .   22 Apr
101    1.5.3.1              Design and Preparation of Solicitation         212d        01 Aug       8         Feb
102    1.5.3.2              Bidding                                       119d                   D1 MarK     7Jun                                                                          t
103    1 .5.3.3             Evaluation                                     t54d                        28 JunK         8 Nov
104    1534Contract                                                          Od                                         28 Nov
106    1.5.35               Construction and Instatlation                  51 Od29Nv'                                                           2Ap
106      1.5.4         Augment. and Mod. of Watlieb DIS                   905d        01 Aug
01 Aug                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~22 Jan
107    1.5.4.1              Design and Preparation of Solicitation         184d        01 Aug  1t Jan
108    154  2               Bidding                   t                     18d                 0 FeL ')9 May
Task                  3      =             Summary                  _        _         Rolled Up Progress
Project Implemenitation) Plan           Pors                                         otdU   al
Date: 08/10/96                          Progress                                   Rolled Up Task [
Milestone            y                     Rolled Up Milestone   ?                                                                                            x
_______________ x
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project                                                                                                                                         Page 6 of 8    Co



69
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
__ 1l .                                 _               _  _             {      19965      1      199719            1998               1999       I      2000       1      2001
ID     WBS   Task Name                                                   Duration  04-01 -02  03[0401  02 03 0401l 0Q2 0304  01 ?02  034    01  02  03  04  01  02 03  04  01
109    1 5 4 3               Evaluation                                       155d                                          Oct
110  1_5.4.4                 Contract                                           Od                                         31 Oct
111   - 5 45 5                 Construction and Installation                   448d                                at Nov                      -  22 Jan
1 12        2 Transmission Line System                                      1766d            01 Nov                                                                                              01 sep
11!3        2 1      DBangkoknoi T/S Transmission Lines                       1 766d             01 Nov     '                                                                                     01 Sep
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 No_ __                                                                                                                                    Se._p__.__  
114       2.21     Chidlom T/S Transmission Lines                              84d                     01 Apr
115         3 Distribution Systems                                           730d            01 Oct30 Sep
116       3.1       Fiscal Year 1997                                         365d           01 Oct                        30 Sep
117     3 11 1 I        Construction and Modification ot Primary Lines       365d             01 oct    -;    30 Sep
118     3.1.2           Construction and Modification of Secondary Lines     365d             01 Oct                    30 Sep
119     3.1.3           Installation of Distribution Transformers            365d             01 Oct                    30 Sep
120     31.4            Installation and Replacement of Revenue Meters       365d             01 Oct                    30 Sep
121     3.1.5           Installation of Capacitors                           365d             01 Oct                    30 Sep
122       3.2      Fiscal Year 1998                                          365d                             01 Oct                        30 Sep
123     3 2 1           Construction and Modification of Primary Lines       365d
0 1 Oct                   30 Sep
124     3 2 21          Construction and Modification of Secondary Lines     365d                    .                               -    30Sep
125     3 2 3           Installation of Distribution Transformers            365d                               01 Oct                    30 Sep
3 126     2 4           Installation and Replacement of Revenue Meters       365d                               01 oct   E                30 Sep
Task                                 ---:     Summary             .        .              Rolled Up Progress
Protect Implementation Plan
Date: 08/10/96                           Progr.ss                                     Rolled Up Task                     [
Milestone                                   Rolled Up Milestone < >)
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project                                                                                                                                               Page 7 of 8    rr
_                                                            __.    _    _  X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



70
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1996           1997     f     1998            1999           2000           200
ID    WBS  Task Name                                         Duration 04 01       a314                                  X                                a21a3I04I01I02t03   0  0203 M  01  f03104 01,
127    3.2.5        Installation of Capacitors                   365d                                                30 Sep
Task                                 Sunmmary                _              Rolled Up Progress
Project Implementation Plan        Progress                              RIcUpTsk            F       '
Dale: 08t10t96                                                           Rolled Up Ta |-*
Milestone         *                  Rolled Up Milestone                                                                                   >
Metropolitan Distribution Reintorcement Project                                                                                                                  Page 8 of 8
_________________________________________________________ _______________CO_________________________________ 



71
Annex 9
THAILAND
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project
Supervision Plan
Staff-D)ays
Calendar Year                   _         1997         _1998                                      T_ Stf-Dy           1999 _                                  2000
TM_|_FA_|_IR_|_LE_| DSM                       - TM-| FA   | IR  | LE  | DSM  | TM  | FA ]| IR   | LE  | DSM   f TM] |_M FA      |R|L              DSM
Physical Implementation               5                                    10                                     10              -                      10               -
Investment Program                    I                                     3                                      3                                      3
Dialogue on Tariffs                   I            _         -              3                                      3    _              _                  3
Cornpliance with financial covenants          6               -             -      12               -              -     12                                      12
Restructuring of MEA Organization     I       1      6      3         -    3        3     12       7               3      3       8      7                3       3      5       7
Progress of DSM Components            I       -      -               6      3       -       -      -      12       3                      -       12      3            =       =       _
Total Staff-Days                      9      7       6      3        6    22       15     12       7      12      22     15      8       7        12    22       15      5       7         8
Number of fields visits /a            I       I      I       I       I1    2        2      2   1           2       2      2       1      I         2      2       2       I      I         2
Staff-DaYs
Calendar Year           1                2001                 1                2002
TM_|_FA  | IR  | LE] DSM  |TM   |FA   |IR|                        |DSM
Physical Implementation              10              -        I      .       - 0            - I
Investment Program                    I       -      -I -            -      1       -        r     - 
Dialogue on Tariffs                              1       - -                       -T      -      -       -
Coliancewithfinancialcovenants   ___        12 r-                           -      10       -      - I
Restructuring ofMEAOr anization       I      3       8  S  |                1       2      7       5 |
Progress ofDSM Components             I       -      -       -       8      1       -       -      -       7
Total Staff-Days                     14     15       8      3        6    14       12      7      3        6
Numberof fields visits/a              2      2       1      1        2     2        2      1       1       2
Expertise:      TM:   Task Manager (Power Sector Issues, Economics)
FA:   Financial Analyst
IR:    Institutional Restnicturing Expert
DSM: DSM Expert
LE:    Legal Expert                                                              /a The costs of field visits would be shared with other power projects in Thailand.






72
Annex 10
Page 1 of 3
THAILAND
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project
Project Cost Estimate
(US$ million)
Local        Foreien         Total
A.  Substations
Construction of New T/S
Onnuj T/S                                      1.37          5.26           6.63
Augmentation of Existing T/S
Thanontok T/S                                  0.28          8.36           8.64
Nongjok T/S                                    0.19          0.66           0.85
Jangwatana T/S                                 0.08          0.38           0.46
Sainoi T/S                                     0.20          0.68           0.88
Construction of New D/S
Taweewattana D/S                               1.21          5.09           6.30
Jangron D/S                                    1.22          4.48           5.70
Bangkae D/S                                    1.22          5.15           6.37
Klongmai D/S                                   1.23          4.53           5.76
Sainoi D/S                                     0.24          5.27           5.51
Watbamphen (Bangchan 2) D/S                    1.23          5.21           6.44
Augmentation of Existing DIS
Bangmod D/S                                    0.03          1.02            1.05
Wangpetchboon D/S                              0.03          0.61           0.64
Sri-Eriam D/S                                  0.03          0.65           0.68
Huaykwan D/S                                   0.03          0.62           0.65
Sainamtip D/S                                  0.03          0.62           0.65
Augmentation and Modification of Existing D/S
Mochit DIS                                     1.21          3.82           5.03
Prakanong D/S                                  1.21          3.87           5.08
Paknam DIS                                     1.22          4.55           5.77
Watlieb D/S                                    1.22          3.92           5.14
Base Cost                                          13.48         64.75          78.23
Physical Contingency                                0.67          3.34           4.01
Price Contingency                                   2.25          6.51           8.76
Duties and Taxes                                    7.00          -              7.00
Sub-Total                                               23.40        74.60           98.00



73
Annex 10
Page 2 of 3
Local        Foreign         Total
B. Transmission Lines
Construction of 47.3 cct-km of T/L
Bnagkoknoi T/S Line                            8.68          9.73          18.41
Chidlom T/S Line                               0.02          0.03           0.05
Base Cost                                           8.70          9.76          18.46
Physical Contingency                                0.44          0.49           0.93
Price Contingency                                   1.69          1.15           2.84
Duties and Taxes                                    3.77          -              3.77
Sub-Total                                               14.60         11.40          26.00
C. Distribution System
Construction and Modification of Primary Lines     61.08         11.99          73.07
Construction and Modification of Secondary Lines    8.76          4.53          13.29
Installation of Distribution Transformers          34.17         28.04          62.21
Installation and Replacement of Revenue Meters     12.07          7.67          19.74
Installation of Capacitors                          0.39          1.59           1.98
Base Cost                                         116.47         53.82         170.29
Physical Contingency                                5.82          2.69           9.51
Price Coantingency                                 14.96          3.29          18.25
Duties and Taxes                                   19.95          -             19.95
Sub-Total                                              157.20         59.80         217.00
D. Demand-Side Mana2ement
Appliance Testing Laboratory                        0.50          2.50           3.00
Load Research Equipment                             0.50          3.00           3.50
Development of ESCO                                10.00          0.00          10.00
Base Cost                                          11.00          5.50          16.50
Physical Contingency                                0.55          0.27           0.82
Price Contingency                                   2.19          0.83           3.02
Duties and Taxes                                    0.66          0.00           0.66
Sub-Total                                               14.40         6.60           21.00



74
Annex 10
Page 3 of 3
Local         Foreian        Total
E. Total Proiect Cost
Substations                                         13.48         64.75           78.23
Transmission Lines                                   8.70           9.76          18.46
Distribution System                                 116.47         53.82          170.29
Demand-Side Management                               11.00          5.50           16.50
Base Cost                                           149.65        133.83         283.48
Physical Contingencies                                7.48          6.79           14.27
Price Contingencies                                 21.09          11.78          32.87
Total Installation cost                             178.22        152.40         330.62
Duties and Taxes                                    31.38           0.00          31.38
TOTAL PROJECT COST                            209.60         152.40         362.00
T/S  =   Transmission Sub-station
D/S =    Distribution Sub-station
T/L  =    Transmission Line






75
Annex 11
Page 1 of 13
THAILAND
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project
Procurement Plan
General
The procurement plan showing the key dates in Gantt-chart format is attached The following
table shows the key dates of 43 procurement packages; 2 transmission substation turnkey
projects, 5 distribution substation turnkey projects and 36 contracts for supply of substation,
transmission line and distribution system equipment and materials.
Procurement Schedulefor Turnkey Contracts
The key dates of procurement under the turnkey contracts are given in the following table:
No.                  Activity                     Duration        Start          Finish
_ _____________________________________       (days)
1 Onnuj T/S                                        699         01/06/1997     30/04/1999
2 Thanonthok T/S                                   700         01/05/1997     31/03/1999
3 Mochit D/S                                       700         01/12/1996     31/10/1998
4 Taweewattana and Parknam D/Ss                    761         01/03/1997     31/03/1999
5 Watlieb and Prakanong D/Ss                       758         01/02/1997     28/02/1999
6 Jangron and Bangkai D/Ss                         761         01/03/1997     31/03/1999
7 Klonhmai & Watbampen (Bangchan 2) D/Ss           760         01/06/1997     30/06/1999
Procurement Schedule for Supply of Equipment and Materials
The key dates for supply of equipment and materials for substations, transmission lines and
distribution systems are given in the following table:
No.                         Activity                          Duratioy       Start     Finish
8 Equipment Contract for Sainoi & Nongjok T/S                   485      01/11/1996 28/02/1998
9 Power Transformers for Bangmod, Wangpetchboon, Huaykwang &    488      01/07/1997 31/10/1998
Sainamtip D/Ss                                                                             l
10 Power Transformers for Sainoi and Sri-Eiam D/Ss              488      01/05/1997 31/08/1998
11 24 kV SF6 GIS for Sainoi and Bangmod D/Ss                    488      01/05/1997 31/08/1998
12 Distribution Substation Equipment for Sainoi D/S             488      01/05/1997 31/08/1998
13 69 & 115 kV Cu XLPE Power Cable Accessories                  396      01/12/1997 31/12/1998



76
Annex 11
Page 2 ofl3
, No: :   :  j i . I        Activ f E g E f: E ) i ) E    E E g E E;;  :   :::  ;;;;  E F ity  I :I    Start  }  Fi:is
14 Aluminium Ingot or Finsh Conductor                           273      01/11/1996 3 1/07/1997
15 Aluminium Ingot or Finish Conductor                          276      01/05/1997 31/01/1998
16 Aluminium Ingot or Finish Conductor                          273      01/01/1998 30/09/1998
17  lectrolytic Cathode Copper or Finish Conductor              273      01/11/1996 31/07/1997
18 Electrolytic Cathode Copper or Finish Conductor              273      01/10/1997 30/06/1998
19  WH&KVARHDemandMeter,TOUMeter &NM                            365      01/11/1996 31/10/1997
20 KWH & KVARH Demand Meter, TOU Meter & MRI                    396       01/10/1997 31/10/1998
21 Instrument Transformers                                      395       01/11/1996 30/11/1997
22 Instrument Transformers                                      396       01/10/1997 31/10/1998
23 Distribution Transformers                                    395       01/06/1997 30/06/1998
24 12 and 24 Fixed and Switching Capacitors                     396       01/01/1997 31/01/1998
25 12 and 24 Fixed and Switching Capacitors                     396       01/01/1998 31/01/1999
26 Network Protector                                            396       01/01/1997 31/01/1998
27 Network Protector                                            396       01/01/1998 31/01/1999
28 Connecto                                                     395       01/11/1996 30/11/1997
29 Connector                                                    396       01/10/1997 31/10/1998
30 Pole Line Hardware                                           395       01/11/1996 30/11/1997
31 Pole Line Hardware                                           396       01/10/1997 31/10/1998
32 Pre-formed Products                                          395       01/11/1996 30/11/1997
33 Pre-formed Products                                          396       01/10/1997 31/10/1998
34 Insulators                                                   395       01/11/1996 30/11/1997
35 Insulators                                                   396       01/10/1997 31/10/1998
36  inc Coated Steel Wire Strand                                395       01/11/1996 30/11/1997
37 Zinc Coated Steel Wire Strand                                396       01/10/1997 31/10/1998
38 Fuse and Switches                                            395       01/11/1996 30/11/1997
39 Fuse and Switches                                            396      01/10/1997 31/10/1998
40 Lightning Arrestor                                           395       01/11/1996 30/11/1997
41 Lightning Arrestor                                           396       01/10/1997 31/10/1998
42 Cable Accessories                                            395       01/11/1996 30/11/1997
43 Cable Accessories                                            396       01/10/1997 31/10/1998



77
PROCUREMENTSCHEDULE
96                         1997                          1998                          1999
ID   WB   Task Name                                                      Quantity  Duration  JAISIOINIDIJ|F|M|AIMIJ IJ|AS|O|N|D|JFM|AIMIJ|J|A|S|O|N|D|JIFIMIAIMIJJIAS NDJ
F 1    __1 Onnuj T/S Turnkey Contract                                          1 S/S      699d                    01 Jun                             -                                  30 Apr
2     11|    Bid Invitation                                                             122d                     01 Jun                Sep
| 3    1<    Contract Avard                                                             151d                                01 o28}Feb
4     1 3      Delivery                                                                 365d                                            01 Ma                         01 -          0 Apr
j __ _    1.4 1    Cormpletion                                                           61d
6       2 Thanontok T/S Turnkey Contract                                    1 S/S      700d                  0t May  v                                                            31 Ma;
1 7   2 1      Bid Invitation                                                           123d                  0AuD
I                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01 MAay
8      2 2      Contract Award                                          _               153d                             0Jan
Il       231      Delivery                                                                365d                                          01FeLF?               -   --      -  '3tJan
10    24  j   Compleon                                                                   59d                                                                        01 F         31 Mar
I1      3| Mochit D/S Turnkey Contract                                       I S/S      700d    01 Dec                                                                31 Oct
12    31 1      Bid Invitation                                                          121d       01 Dec    .     1    Mar
1 13    32        Contract Award                                                          153d                 0
14    3 3       Delivery                                                                365d                             01 se6.r   ...   - -  -- E          1     Aug
15    3 4       Complelion                                                              561d                                                           0
.  _t _.p~~J .1 Oc Oct
16      4 Taweewattana & Parknam D/Ss Turnkey Contract                      2 S/S       761d             01 Mar                                                                   31 Mae
1 7    4.1      Bid Invitation                                                          1 22d
01 Miar          -  Jun
18    42        Contract Award                                           _              153d
01 Julr------    jl.O Nov
Task                     .==                Surnmary                       _              Rolted Up Progress
Project Implementation Plan               P
Oate 0B110196 ~~~~~~~Progress                                               Rolled Up Task        C.-77        =      tD3
Date: 08/10/96                                                                                                                                                                                                >
Milestone            *                      Rolled Up Milestone <                                                                                            W
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project                                                                                                                                                         h
._  -                                 -------                                                                                                          W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-------



78
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE
96            1            1997                          1 1998                        1999
ID   WB   Task Name                                                     Quantity  Duration  J|A|S|O|NIIJ IFM|A|M|J J|AISONDJFMAMJ IJASONDJFMAMJ  JASONDJ
19    4.3       Deliveiy                                                                365d                                     0 1Nov
01 De__c__  ___   __   _  __  _   _  ___ __ _N.v
20    4.4f      Completion Set 1                                                         62d                                                                   01 De  1    1  Jan
21    451       Completion Set 2                                                         59d                                                                        01 Fe        31 Mar
22      5 Watlieb & Prakanong DiSs Turnkey Contract                          2 S/S      758d          01 Feb .                                                                  28 Feb
23    5 1       Bid Invitation                                                          120d            01 Feb
24    52        Contract Award                                                          153d                      0t
25    53       Delivery                                                                365d                                  01 N                                     Oct
26    5 4       Completion Set 1                                                         61d                                                                01 Nov         1 Dec
27    5.5       Completion Set 2                                                         59d                                                                      01 Ja        28 Feb
28      6 Jangron & Bangkai D/Ss Turnkey Contract                           2 SIS       761d            01 Mar                                                                    31 Mar
29    6.1       Bid Invitation                                                          122d              01 Mal:t= j:3o Jun
30    6 21      Contract Award                                                          153d                         01 Jut1          0    Nov
31    6.31      Delivery                                                                365d01Dc-                                                                        No
_~ ___ ___ ___ ______--_.___ __ -______ _. _.- _    _.                                ._                                                                          . 
32    6.4       Completion Set 1                                                         62d
01 Dec _          Jan
33    6.5       Completion Set 2                                                         59d                                                                        01 Fe        31 Mar
34      7 Klongrnai & Watbampen(Bangclian 2)DIS Turnkey Contract            2 S/S       760d                    01Jun                                                                     30 Jun
35    7 1       Bid Invitation                                                          122d                     01 Jun
36    7.21      Contract Award                                                    |     15td                                01 O't
Task                     =                   Summary                          Ey          Rolled Up Progress
Project Imptementation Plan               Pors                                          oldU   ak ~ ~ -*-*--
Date: 09/10/96                            Progress                                     Rolled Up Task
Milestone                                    Rolled Up Milestone
| Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project                                                                      -                                                                           -
_ _ . _ _ _ _ _ _ ___._ _ _ _.__ _ . _ _ __ __ __ _ . __ .I-. 



79
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE
96                         1997             1           1998         -                1999             _
tO WB Task Name                                                        Quantitv Duration JASODJFMAMJ JA|SONDJFMAMJ JASONDJFMAMJJASNDJ
37    7.3      Delivery                                                                365d                                           01Mar                                 8Feb
38    741      Completion Set 1                                                         6td
O0 Maio  ~ 0 Apt
39    7 5      Completion Set 2                                                         61d                                                                             01 May J 30 Jun
40      8 Equipment Contract for Sainoi & Nonqiok T/S                      2 S/S      485d  01 Nov                                              28 Feb
41    8.1      Bid Invitation                                                           92d   01 Nov ;'       1 Jan
42    8 2      Contract Award                                                          120d         .                      May
43    8.3      Delivery                                                                273d                     0-                            28 Feb
44      9 Power Transformer 69-12V24 kV 36148/60 MVA for                               639d
45         Bangmod, Wangpetchboon, Huaykwang & Sainamtip D/Ss               4 set     488d                      0o Jul                                             31 oct
46    9 1       Bid Invitation                                                          92d
01 Jul ~~-7LI  e
47    9 2  -Contract Award                                                             123d         .l010
48    93 31    Delivery                                              - _ _             273d         *                                                             31 Oct
49     10 Power Transformer 115.24 kV, 36148/60 MVA for                               300d
50         Sainoi and Sri-Eiam D/Ss                                         3 set     488d                 01 May   r                                         31 Aug
51   10 I      Bid Invitation                                                          92d                   01 May      ;     Jut
52   10 2 |    Contracl Award                                                         122d                          0N
5    10 3      Delivery                                                               274d                                               Nov
54      11 | 24 kV SF6 Gas Insulated Switchgear for                                   639d
Task                                        SurTnary                                    Rolled Up Progress
Project Imptementation Plan              Progress                                    Rolled Up Task   C==3 
Date: 08/10/96                                                                                                                                                                                     0
Milestone                                   Rolled Up Milestone   *
MD__                                                                                                            U, D  rn o
|Metropolitan Di stribut ion Reinf/orcement Project                                                                                                                                                 0     X
w                                    __ _. __ __  __  ___                                                                                           te, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



80
?ROCUREMENT SCHEDULE
96                         1997                          1998             |,T1999
ID   WB   Task Name                                                      Quantity  Duration  JIAISIONDIJ FMIAIM   1JA1SON1D1JF1M1AM.J   JA O D F A JO                                              D+J
55         Sainoi and Bangmod DISs                                           2 set      488d                 01 May                       .31 Aug
56   11.1       Bid Invitation                                                           92d                   01 May
57    112       Contract Award                                                          122d             01 JuN
58   11 3       Delivery                                                                274d                                     01 Dec                        31 Aug
59     12 Distribution Substation Equipment for Sainoi D/S                   1 S/S      488d                 01 May  v                    -                      31 Aug
60   121        Bid Invitalion                                                           92d                   01 May L- :,iJu
61   12.2       Contract Award                                                          122d                          01Aug          30Nov
62   12.3       Delivery                                                                274d                                     01 Dec  ':         :          31 Aug
63     13 69 & 115 kV Cu XLPE Power Cable and Accessories                       ts      396d                                   01 Dec  v *                                 31 Dec
64   13 1       Bid Invitation                                                           9d                                      01 Dec          8 Feb
Fis    13.2       Contract Award                                                          122d         .                                         
2d   .                            01   M      a    0~~~~~~~~o  Jun
66   13.3       Delivery                                                                                                                           0 J 184d              3 . ec
_ _ _ _   _ .____   __  |                .      -                                    ~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01 J    1 F g31 Dec
67     14 Aluminium Ingot or Finish Conductor                            1,000 ton      273d  01 Nov ':                         31 Jul
68   14.1       Bid Invitation                                                           92d   01 Nov         1   Jan
69   14.2       Contract Award                                                           59d1 FeL E31 Mar
70   14.3       Delivery                                                                122d                 01 Apf         :]) 31 Jul
71     15 Aluminiurn Ingot or Finish Conductor                           1,500 ton      276d                 01 May                             31 Jan
72   15.1       Bid Invilalion                                                           92d                   01 May -31  Jul
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Ma                                                       I Ju
Task                   -    -       -        Summary                                      Rolled Up Progress
Project tir1plenieiitation Plan                                                                                     _
Prolect Impten lalion Plan0/96 Progress                                                Rolled Up Task                                                = 
Date: 08110/96                                                                                                                                                                                        0
Milestone                                    Rolled Up Milestone    :                                                                                               >
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project                                                                                                                                                        0      x
--    _________________ __                                                   ___          _       _     _     _._____            _____         __                                                      1h 



81
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE
1                                                                                 96                          1997            I            1998                          1999
ID   Wa   Task Name                                                  --Quantity_ Duration  J|AIS|OINIDIJIFIMIAIM J J ASONDJFMAM J JASONDJFMAMJJINIDN                                               J
73   152       Contracl Award                                                          61d          .i Aug}0 Sep
74   15.3      Delivery                                                               123d                                0                 31 Jan
75     1Aiuminium Ingot or Finish Conductor                            15S00 ton      273d
~ ~~~1~~~~~~~r~~~~~~~inium ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01 Jan                                                                         30 Sep
76   16 1      Bid Invitation                                                           9Dd                                      01 Jan           I Mar
77   162       Contract Award                                                          61d          .1AprJ1  May
78   1631      Delivery                                                               122d                                                   OtJu >t .  30Scp
79     17 Electrolytic Cathode Copper or Finish Conductor              1,500 ton      273d  01 Nov                            31 Jut
SO   17 1      Bid Invitation                                                          92d   01 Nol              Jan
81   17.2      Contract Award                                                          S9d                            Ma
82   17.3      Delivery                                                               122d                 01 AprH'          31 Jul
83     18 Electrolytic Cathode Copper or Finish Conductor              15600 ton      273d                              01 Oct                           30 Jun
84   18.1      Bid Invitation                                                          92d                                01 Oct         1 Dee
I                                                                                               t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 c    e
85   182       Contract Award                                                          59d                                       01 Jan*     B Feb
86   183       Delivery                                                               122d                                           01M4 r             30Jun
87     19 KWHKVARH Demand Meter, TOU Meter & MRI                              Is      365d  01 Nov                                   31 Oct
19_    _ _ __                                                                                          _____._____________:
88   19.1      Bid Invitation                                                          92d
-   IT                                                          ~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~01 Nov/ ~lJan
89   1921      Contract Award                                                    |       20d         0Fc.rZ.=--}llMay
90   193i    Delivery                                                                 153d                     0 J                 3
__    .                                              .L                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01 Ju irt    31 Oct
Task                                           == Summary                               Rolled Up Progress
Project Implernentation Plan             P                                           R
Date: 08/10/96                           Progress                                    Rolled UpTask
Milestone            *                      Rolled Up Milestone                                                                                          0       D
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project                                                                                                                                                           '



82
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE
96            |            1997                          1998             |            1999
ID   WB   Task Name                                                     Quantity  Duration  JASONDJ  FMAMJ  JASONDJFIMIAIMIJ| JIAISIMNDJ
91     20 KWH & KVARH Demand Meter, TOU Meter & MRI                             Is      396d                              01 Oct                                      31 Oct
92   20         Bid Invitation                                                           92df                               01 Oct            Dec
93   202        Contract Award                                                          120d
_ __ _  __ __  ____01 _                                                                                                     Apr
94   20 3       Delivery                                                                184d                                                 01 Maygi=               31 Oct
95     21 Instruement Transformers                                              Is      395d  01 NOvAW                                     30 Nov
96   21.1       Bid Invitation                                                           92d   01 NOV
91   21.2       Contract Award                                                          t20d
97                                                                       01 Fe              I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~May
98   21.3       Detivery                                                                183d                      01 JunKt::     :       30 Nov
99     22 Instruement Transformers                                              Is      396d                              01 Oct _                                    31 Oct
100   22.1      Bid Invitation                                                            92d                               01 oct             Dec
101   22 2      Contract Award                                                            20d01 Ja                                                       Apr
102   22 3      Delivery                                                                 184d                                                01 May'' ':::  31 Oct
103     23 Distribution Transformers                                            ts      395d          .1 Jun                                                30 Jun
104   23.1      Bid Invitation                                                           92d                      01 Jun            Aug
105   232       Contract Award                                  .-122d                                .                              - S e 1 1  Dec
106   23.3      Delivery                                                                181d                             01           Jn ' '  2   1        30 Jun
107    24 12 & 24 Fixed and Switching Capacitors                                Is      396d        01 Jan                                      31 Jan
108   24 1      Bid Invitation                                                           90d         01 Jan E      31 Mar
Task                             -           Surnmary                                     Rolled Up Progress
Project Implementation Plan              Progress                                      Rolled Up Task
Date: 08/10/96
Milestone                                   Rolled Up Milestone
Metropolitan Distribuiion Reinforcement Project                                                                                                                                                              ::5
>r
- 



PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE
16                         1997                          1990                          99
ID   WB   Task Name                                                      Quantity  Duration  J AS|O|N|D|J F IMIAIMIJ J IAIS   NO|J f MA M J                           IJA     J F MIAM J JAS  ON DJ
109   24 2      Contract Award                                                           122d                01 AprW           1  Jul
110   243       DeItvery                                                                 184d                          01Aug                   31 3IJan
111    25  12 & 24 Fixed and Switching Capacitors                               Is      396d                                      01 .                -                       31 Jan
112  251         id Invitation                                                            90d                                       01 Jan   E     1  Mar
11   t        i - niato _______ _122d :.  
113  25-2|    Contract Award                                                             1201 A                                                     p2          Jut
114   253i      Delivery                                                                 184d                                                        01 ug'                  31Jan
115    2  Network Protector                                                     Is      396d        oa Jan                                    . 31 Jan
116   261       Bid Invitation                                                            90d         DI Jan           I Mal
117   2621      Contract Award                                                          t22d 
Delive_ y                                             . ______ - -                           01 Apr_ __--        Jul
11t   263       Delivery                                                                 184d                          01Aug      E       Zi .31Jan
119    27 |Network Protector                                                    Is      396d                                      01 Jan                                      31 Jan
1120   27 1      Bid Invitation                                                           9                                          1 anMa
l 121   27 2      Contract Award                                                          122d                                               01 Apr*           31 Jut
122  273        Delivery                                                                184d                                                         0        ' :'*:--:*::2:^:* 31Jan
123    28| Connector                                                            Is      395d  GiN v. 30 Nov
124   2811      Bid Invitation                                                           92d   01 Ntov     "1    Jan
125   282 |     Contract Award                                            -             120d            olF      t2     1   May
126   28i3.i    Delivery                                                                183d                      01 JunW      ---;  30 Nov
Task       =      =     =      .     .       Summary                                      Rolled Up Progress
Project Implementation Plan              Progress                                     Rolled Up Task
Date: 08/10/96
Milestone                                   Rolled Up Milestone                                                                                              r
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project
o    1e
0i. >



84
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE
_  _  96                              ~ 1    _  1997                                  1999
ID   WB   Tas    me                                                     Quantity  Duration  Ja1mmA1j1  S                                                                   flM11   J       I J L S1 1| J
127    29 Conneclor                                                             Is      196d         .0oct                                                                                   
128   29 1      Bid Invitat                                                              92d                                0                 Dec
129   29.2   Contrac Award                                                              120d                                        01Jan
130   29.3      Delivery_                              1B4d
184d                                   DI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1Ms     31 Oct
131    30 Pole Line Hardware                                                    Is      395d  01 Nov   I                                   30 Nov
132   30.1                                           = B_ 9d onNoVio                      2d                       Janov
133   30.2;    Contract Award                                                           120d            0                  IMay
-  r--- ~~~                         _____   _____ ___.__                                        .I
134   30.31     Delivery                                                                183d         .oJun    :    *-l 30 Nov
135    31 Pole Line Hardware                                                    Is      396d                              01 Oct                                      31 oct
136   31.       Bid Invitation                                                           92d                                01 oct            Dec
137     12      Contract Award                                                          120d                                       01                Apr
-T                    -_                                     __3I                         .        .        
38    3         Delivery                                                                184d                                                   M                    31 Oct
139    32 Preformed Products                                                    Is _  _oNov .                -                            30 Nov
140   32 t      Bid Invitation                                                           92d   0t Nov E       3lJarl
141   32        Contract Award                                                          12rd                               I may
142   323F r Delivery                                                                   183d                      1 Jun*'li:s;2   30Nov
143    33 Preformed Products                                                   Is       396d         .1 Oct                                                          31 oct
144  33 1       Bid Invitation                                                           92d         .01ot{                                    e
92d                      ~~~~~~~~~01 Oct  IDec
Task_Summary                                                                             Rotled Up Progress
Date: 00110196                           Progress                                     Rolled Up Task                    = .
Milestone             *                     Rolled Up Milestone                                                                                             00
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project
1,  .          ---------                                  -           -       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   O    X~~~~



85
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE
1                                                                                  96                          1997                          1998                          1999 _
I ID  WB_Task Name                                                      QuantitV  Duration JIAIS  ONDJ IFIMIAMIJ|J SA|SONDJIFIMIAMJJASONDJFMAIMJ JASONDJ
145   33.2      Contract Award                                                          120d                                       01 Jantt c- i o Apr
146   3         Delivery                                                                18 d                                                 01 MaL.       , r__     31 Oct
`147    34 Insulators                                                           Is      395d  01 Nov . ,                                   30 Nov
148   34 1      Did  vitation01 Nov                                                                                Ja
149   34 2      Contract Award                                                          1 20d
01 Fe                May
150   343       Delivery                                                                183d                      01Ju ;             i .0Nov
151    3S tnsutators                                                            ts      396d          .                     Oct .                                 _  31 ont
152   35 1      Bid tnvitation                                                           92d                                0 Oct t7Z_t1  Dec
153   352       Contract Award                                                          120d                                       01 JaoS   '0Apr
154   35.3      Delivery                               184d                                                                                 01 Mayb- :.:  -  ' 31 Oct
155    36 Zinc Coated Steel Wire Strand                                         Is      395d  01 Nov':                                     30 Nov
1 5 6   36.1I t    Bid Invitation                                                        92d   01 Nov  =;} t 1 J. n
157   36.2      Contract Award                                                          120d            01 Fe   = =_- 311 May
158   36 3      Delivery                                                                183d                     01Ju            .       30 Nov
159    37i Zinc Coated Steel Wire Strand                                        Is      396d                              01 Oct                                      31 Oct
160   37 1t     Bid Invitation                                                           92d
01 Oct iS:,t   e
161  37 2       Contract Award                                                          120d .
01 Jan)              p
162  37.31      Delivery                                                                184d                                                01 May         --:   31 Oct
Task                     L      .            Summary                                      Rolled Up Progress
Project Implementation Plan              Progress
Date: 08/10/96                                                                                           PrRolledUpTask
Milestone                                    Rotled Up Milestore 
Metropolitan Distribution Reinlorcement Project                                                                                                                                                              X
_____  ________  ____ _                                                                           o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i-i



86
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE
.  9-6       1            1997                           1998                          1999
ID WB Task Name                                                           Quantity Duration JASONDJFMAMJjA|S|O|NDJFMAMJJFMAMJ J ASON|D|J
163    38 Fuse and Switches                                                      Is       39Sd  01 Nov .                                 v30 Nov
164   3811      Bid Invitation                                                             92d   01 Nov          I   Jan
165   38.2      Contract Award                                                            120d            01 FeL,[>          I May
166   38.3      Delivery                                                                  183d                      01   *.30Nov
167     39 Fuse and Switches                                                     Is       396d                               01 Oct                 ~. 31 Oct
168   391|    Bid tnvitation                                                               92d                                01 Oct E        .Dec
169   392       Contract Award                                                            120d                                        O Ja           0         Apr
170   39.3      Delivery                                                                 It4d          *OMa                                                   i        3 Oct
171      0ightning Arrester                                                       Is      395d  o1 No. I                                     30 Nov
172   40.1      Bid Invitation                                                             92d   01 Nov'             Jan
,__ __ _._  _ ____. __                                                      ___  
173   40.2      Contract Award                                                            t20d
01 Ft      ~       IMay
174   40.3      Delivery                                                                  183d |                                           30 Nov
175    41 Lightning Arrester                                                      Is      396d                              01 Oct v                                     31 Oct
176   41.1      Bid Invitation                                                             92d
01 Oct           IDec
177  41 2       Contract Award                                                            120d                                       O    bC'V-..
17_01 Jan__._ ____.___O Apr
j 178   4T        Delivery                                                                  184d                                                 o1 Ma  .vl::si 31 Oct
179    42 Cable Accessories                                                      Is      395d  01 Nov                                       30 Nov
180   42.2      Bid Invitation                                                             92d   01 Nov            I Jan
Task                                 .       Summary                            _          Rolled Up Progress
Project Implementation Plan               Progress                                      Rolled Up Task        F
Date: 08/10/96
Milestone             *                      Rolled Up Milestone -                                                                                                   >
Metropolitan Distribution Reintorcement Project                                                                                                                                                           rv 
I _ _        __             .      __________ ______  -       -- ---   ------ --------- -- -_______________________ -- ---.---------  -~ O
U-,



87
F                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE
10   WB    Task Name                                                  is           1~          ~ ~~~~~~~ 1997                  1998                         ~1899
ID   WB  tTas~~~~~~~Name  ~~Quantity  Duration  JIAISDNIDIJFIMAMTJJIAISIONDJIFIMAMIJ JAISIONIDJ FIMAIMIJJAISIOND0J
191  4.j        Contract Award                                                          1 20d           01 FeL-            I May
182   42.31    Delivery                                                                 1 83d01.                                            NO
183    43124 kV Cable Accessories                                               Is      396d01Ot3Oc
184   43 . ~Bid Invttin92d                                                                                              01 Oclt     f     Dec
195   43 2      Conitract Award                                                         1 Od                                       0  a~~'J    p
16 43.3      Detivery                                                                1 84d01                                                                      1Oc
Task                       -Summwary                              'W                     Rolled Up Progress
Project Implementation Plan              ProgressRoldUTak                                                                                                                                             g
Date: 09i110Role  U  Tskl
Milestone                                   Rotted Up Milcstonie
.-. _ _ _ _ _  - - . -  - - - - - - - - - - -  -- _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   - -   - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - -   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  (
M tetropolitan Distributioni Reinforcement Project 






88
Annex 12
THAILAND
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project
Disbursement Schedule
IBRD             Estimated Disbursement               Disbursement Profile
Fiscal Year       Annual          Cumulative        Project     Country Standard /a
(US$ million)                           (%)
1998             5.0               5.0             3.0               1.0
1999            40.0              45.0            31.0               6.0
2000            40.0              85.0             59.0              22.0
2001            40.0             125.0             86.0              52.0
2002             15.0            140.0             96.0              74.0
2003             5.0              145.0           100.0              90.0
2004                                                                100.0
/a Standard Profile for Power Projects in Asia.






89
Annex 13
Page 1 of3
THAILAND
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project
MEA's Past Financial Performance
Income Statement
(Baht million)
Years Ending September 30               1990         1991         1992          1993            1994           1995
ENERGY SOLD (GWh)                                     17,641       19,761      21,869          23,743          26,255        29,106
AVERAGE REVENUE                                         179          1.80         1.75           1.78            1.77          1.88
Operating Revenue
Energy Revenue                                       31,586       35,646       38,293         42,183          46,524        54,814
Other Operating Revenue                                 216          252          324            809             861           973
Total Operating Revenue                               31,802       35,898      38,617          42,992          47,385        55,787
Operating Expenses
Purchased Power                                      27,518       30,702       33,102         36,405          39,801        46,030
Distribution Salaries                                   402          454          540            633             688           872
Distribution Expenses                                   420          534         600             666             748           648
Collection Salaries and Expanses                        539          571         673             769             786           968
Administration Salaries                                 291          319          357            405             406           549
General Expenses                                       490          542          632             679            708          1,231
Conversion                                               2            0           12              11             86              6
Depreciation                                            761          914          979           1,131          1,202          1,486
Remiittance to Government                               247          381          540            820             986          1,356
Bonus to Directors                                        I            I            I              1               1             1
Total Operating Expenses                              30,671       34,421      37,435          41,522          45,413        53,147
Income from Electricity Sales                        1,132        1,477        1,181          1,470           1,972         2,641
Other Operating Income                                   56           96           90             63             128            67
Total Operating Income                                1,187        1,573        1,272           1,534          2,100         2,708
Non-operating Income                                    561          868          915             772            785          1,080
Non-operating Expenses
Interest charged to Operations                        (334)        (335)        (438)           (422)          (528)          (556)
Foreign Exchange Loss                                 (130)        (113)        (130)           (127)          (156)         (206)
Total Non-Operating Expenses                          (464)       (467)        (568)           (548)           (684)         (762)
Net Income                                             1,285        1,994        1,619          1,757           2,201         3,026
AVERAGE RATE BASE                                      8,480        9,711      10,757          12,101          14,130        17,729
RATE OF RETURN                                          13.3         15.2         11.0            8.1            10.0          11.4 
OPERATING RATIO (%/6)                                    96           96           97              97             96            9



90
Annex 13
Page 2 of 3
THAILAND
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project
MEA's Past Financial Performance
Funds Flow Statement
(Baht million)
Years Ending September30                  1990          1991           1992          1993         1994         1995
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Intemal Sources
Operating and Other Income                              1,756         2,576          2,341         2,739       3,318         4,633
Add: Depreciation                                        761            914            979         1,131       1,202         1,486
Other Non-Cash Items (Net)                                  0             0              0         (489)       (556)         (627)
Intenal Funds Generation                              2,516         3,490          3,319         3,381       3,964         5,492
Customer Contributions                                    705          1,067          1,278         1,283       1,342        1,434
Bonrowings                                                803          3,246          1,658          841        2,027        1,432
Customer Guarantee Deposits                               299            392            453          539         612           658
Other Sources (Net)                                       181            (0)           (17)           (4)        (72)       (1,268)
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                               4,505          8196           6,691        6,040        7,874        7,752
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital Investment                                      2,961          3,996          4,624        4,347        5,324        5,549
Debt Service
Principals (*)                                           310          1,818          2,032          664         698           888
Interest                                                 333            334           422           421         528           556
Total Debt Service                                     643          2,152          2,454        1,085        1,226        1,444
Increase in Non-cash Working Capital                    (296)             19           818          1,400       (814)          875
Increase in Cash                                        1,196          2,028        (1,205)         (792)       2,139        (115)
Increase (Decrease) in Working Capital                  901          2,047          (387)          608        1,324          759
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                           4,505          8,196          6,691        6,040        7,874        7,752
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE                                      3.9           5.5            3.5           3.1         3.2          3.8
3 YEARS AVERAGE INVESTMENT                              2,100          2,844          3,113        4,281        4,510        5,892
SELF-FINANCING RATIO (3 YRS., AVE.) (%)                 103.3           99.9           50.1         20.9         78.8         53.9



91
Annex 13
Page 3 of 3
THAILAND
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project
MEA's Past Financial Performance
Balance Sheet
(Baht miNlion)
Years Ending September30                   1990        1i9         1992       193    [       4        1995
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Plant in Service                                          28,996       33,465    36,710       41,059    46,185        54,626
Las: Accumulated Depreciation                            (13,938)     (16,189)  (17,680)     (19,776)  (22,213)     (25,252)
Net Operating Plant                                       15,058       17,276     19,030      21,282    23,972        29,375
Work in Progress                                           2,514        3,884      5,383       6,358      7706         6,434
Total Fixed Assets                                      17,571       21,161    24,413       27,641    31,679       35,809
Current Assets
Cash                                                       5,933        7,961      6,756        5,964     8,103        7,987
Trade Accounts Receivable (Net)                            3,962        4,208      4,799       4,630      5,048        5,955
Contract work in progress                                    260          315       441          571        734        1,241
Inventories                                                1,666        2,289      2,770       3,533      2,929        3,146
Other Accoaunts Receivable                                   545          504       410         1,055     1,245        1,543
Total Current Assets                                    12,366       15,278    15,176       15,753     18,058       19,872
Defeffed Charges                                              91          119       523          173       222         1,104
Sinking Funds                                                  0            0       268          689      1,111        1,647
TOTAL ASSETS                                           30,028       36,558    40,380        44,255    51,070       58,432
lEOUITY AND LIABILITIES
lEaui                                                      11,664       14,509    16,131       18,271     20,911      24,598
i Paid-in Capital                                            362          362       362          362        362         362
Retained Earnings                                          6,057        8,049      9,669      11,426     13,627       16,653
Revaluation Surplus                                        5,898        6,503      6,586       7,014      7,474        8,154
Surplus from Self-Insurance                                    9           11        12           12         13           13
Surplus from Donation                                        190          190       189          204       241          285
Deferred Foreign Exchange Loss                             (851)        (606)      (688)       (747)      (806)        (869)
Total Equity                                           11,664       14,509    16,131       18,271    20,911       24,598
Long-Term Debt
Long-term Debt                                             4,282        5,654      5,781       6,601      8,593        8,340
Other Long-term liability                                      0        1,540      1,980       2,523      3,135        3,794
Long-term Liabilities (Net)                            4,282        7,193      7,762        9,124    11,728        12,134
Current Liabilities
Current Portion of Long-term Loan                            333          248       290          307       333         1,795
Gratuity Loan                                                100          325         0            0          0            0
Trade Accounts Payable                                     4,933        5,402      5,513       4,857      5,356        5,523
Remittance Payable to Government                             247          381       540          820       986         1,356
Customer's Guarantee Deposits                              1,147            0         0            0          0            0
Customer's Advance for Contract                              478          615       799         1,008     1,180        1,482
Other Accounts Payable                                       910          908      1,529        1,572     1,877        2,354
Total Current Liabilities                                8,146        7,878      8,672       8,565      9,731       12,510
Aid for Construction                                       5,935        6,977      7,815       8,296      8,699        9,191
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILMES                                 30,028      36,558    40,380        44,255    51,070       58,432
DEBT AS % OF TOTAL CAPITALIZATION                             0.3          0.3       0.3          0.3       0.3          0.3
LONG-TERM DEBT AS % OF TOTAL CAPITALIZATION                   0.4          0.4       0.4          0.4       0.4          0.4
CURRENT RATIO                                                 1.5          1.9       1.8          1.8        .9 






92
Annex 14
Page 1 of 6
THAILAND
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project
MEA's Financial Projections (Assumptions)
Revenue
1.    Energy Sales Forecast are based on load forecast 1993 prepared by the Load forecast Working
Group. The average selling price per kWh has been projected to be Baht 1.8665 in FY1996 and then to
increase as shown in table below. Overall system loss is expected to be 4.7% p.a.
1996  1997  1998  1999   2000   2001  2002  2003  2004  2005
Average Energy Sales Price
(B/KWhXincluding VAT)    1.87  1.88  1.90  1.92   1.93    1.94   1.95   1.98   1.99  2.03
Price Icrease (%)              0.53  1.06  1.05   0.52    0.52   0.52   1.54   0.50  2.01
2.    Other Operating Revenue includes: (i) power factor charges; (ii) revenues from connection fees;
and (iii) revenues from rental of equipment and transformers.  Except power factor charges, other
revenues related to electricity operations are estimated to increase 10% each year through the projected
period.
3.    Other Operating Income is net income from trade and contract works (including fees for inside
wiring). It is projected to increase at the rate of 10% p.a.
4.    Non-Operating Income consists of interest income, gains from  disposal of properties, and
miscellaneous income.
Expenses
5.    Purchased Power includes that power purchased by MEA in bulk from EGAT. The volume of
energy purchased is related to the volume of sales after making allowance for system losses. The
purchase price pwer Kwh is projected to be constant during the forecast period at Baht 1.4865.
6.    Operating Expenses
6.1.   Salaries and Benefits mean salaries and wages, overtime and allowance, bonus and fringe
benefits which consists of 3 categories:
6.1.1. Distribution Salary
6.1.2. Collection Salary
6.1.3. Administration Salary
They are projected to increase 7.5% in 1996, 13% in 1997 and 8.5% from 1998 through
the forecast period.
6.2.   Expenses mean office supplies and expenses, tab water expenses, communiation expenses,
fuel expenses, office lightings, travelling expenses, electric plant repair, which consist of 3
categories:
6.2.1. Distribution expenses are projected to correlate with unit sales at the rate of 2.90
stang per Kwh.



93
Annex 14
Page 2 of 6
6.2.2. Collection expenses consist of meter reading expenses, supervision expenses,
customer accounts expenses, customer collection and service expenses which are
projected to increase at the rate of 9% p.a.
6.2.3. General expenses consist of office supplies and expenses, MEA hospital expenses,
pension fund, maintenance of general properties, rniscellaneous general expenses
which are projected to increase at the rate of 9% through the forecast period.
7.    Inflation Factors are projected at the rate of 5% for benefits, salaries, distribution, collection and
general expenses.
8.    Depreciation is calculated by using the straight line method. The depreciation rates are projected
to be 4% of average electrical properities.
9.    Foreign Exchange Losses are an amortization of the balance of the deferred losses from
devaluation of the Baht against foreign currencies and the balance of deferred losses on exchange from
conversion of outstanding foreign loans as of September 30, 1995 amounted to Baht 869.10 million.
Existing deferred foreign exchange losses write off the present balance over 4 years (1996-1999).
10.   The rate of remittance to the Government of Thailand is assumed to be 30% through the forecast
period.
Fixed Assets
11.   Fixed Assets are calculated as the operning balance plus 60% of the change in work in progress.
Asset disposal is assumed to be 0.80% of property.
Accounts Receivable
12.   Accounts Receivable are expected to be 40 days' sales.
13.   Other Accounts Receivable consist of receivables from accrued income and other deposits. It is
projected to increase by Baht 10 million p.a.
14.   Accounts Receivable for VAT and deferred credit are expected to be 40 days' sales.
Inventories
15.   It is assumed that inventories and equipment are stocked by using the sum of the following: 40%
for transmission equipment, distribution equipment, 20% for others and 50% for supplies from the non-
project budget, and 25% for operation and maintenance expenses.
Sinking Funds
16.   MEA has sinking funds for redemption of the following: MEA bonds-I due in FY1996 (with an
interest rate of 10%), and Yankee Bond due in FY2002 (with an interest rate of 8.25%) and MBA bond-2
due i FY2001 (with an interest rate of 5.725%) and MEA bond-3 due in FY2003 (with an interest rate of
10.00%).



94
Annex 14
Page 3 of 6
Other Assets
17.    This account includes deferred charges and clearing accounts which are assumed to increase by
Baht 20 million p.a.
Capital Contribution
18.    Government Contribution is assumed to be constant over the projected period.  It is valued at
Baht 362.20 million.
Contribution in Aid of Construction
19.    Consumer contributions in Aide of Construction are dependent on the increase of MEA power
consumption, and are projected accordingly.
20.    Accrued interest and commitment charges are estimated to be equal to 2 months.
Accounts Payable
21.    Trade Accounts Payable are projected at 43 days of purchased power. Other Accouants Payable
consist of accrued expenses and accounts and are estimated to be equal to 3 months.
22.    Accounts Payable for VAT and deferred debit are projected at 43 days of purchased power.
23.    Accounts Payable the Revenue Department consist of total VAT sales minus total VAT Purchased
and are estimated to be equal to 15 days.
Borrowings
24.    MEA's loans are projected as follows:
Source                       |  Interest Rate   |  Grace Period      Terms of Loans
a) Foreign loans
The Plan No. 6                                          5.97%                4                 20
903-THA (ADB Loan)
The Plan No. 7
1151-THA(ADBUS$109m)                                 5.97%                4                  20
3598-T (IBRD US$109m)                                 6.98 %               4                 17
1246-THA (ADB US$134m)                               6.89 %               4                  20
The Future foreign loans
The Plan No. 8 (I st Ph-IBRD - US$145M)                6.98 %               4                  17
The Plan No. 8 (ist Ph-OECF - US$116M)                 7.00 %               7                  25
The Plan No. 9                                         7.00 %               4                  20
b) Local Borrowings
MEA Bonds-2 (Baht 800; US$3 IM - existing)             5.725 %                                  7
MEA Bonds-3 (Bahtl ,600M - projected)                   10.00%                                  7
Yankee Bonds (Baht 1,504.49M - existing)                8.25 %                                  10
Short tenn Bonds                                        9.50 %                                  5
Long term Bons                                          10.00 %                                 7
Local loan         _           _                _       10.75 %              2                  10



95
Annex 14
Page 4 of 6
THAILAND
Metropolitan Power Distribution Reinforcement Project
Metropolitan Electricity Authority
Financial Projections
Income Statement
(Baht million)
YearsEndingSeptember30                1996       1997       1998       1999  [  2000   |   2001   |   2002
OPerating Revenue
Electric Energy Sales                          55,269     60,221     65,584    71,145      76,780      83,173       88,871
Revenue from Customer Contribution                692        744        800       857         915         974        1,031
Other Electric Revenue                            365        401        440       482         528         578         630
Total Operating Revenue                   56,326      61,366     66,824    72,484      78,223      84,725      90,532
Operating Expenses
Power Purchased                                46,159     49,847     53,670    57,755      62,022      66,802      70,969
Distribution Salaries                             930      1,054       1,062     1,109      1,200        1,299       1,407
Distribution Expenses                             872        999       1,114     1,195      1,280        1,375       1,457
Collection Salaries and Expenses                1,008      1,126       1,193     1,257      1,361        1,474       1,597
Administration Salaries                           550        629        644       670         724         784         848 I
General Expenses                                1,608      1,634       1,662     1,747      1,493        1,617       1,752
Depreciation                                    2,058      2,489      2,985      3,560      4,222        4,980       5,815
Remittance to MOF                               1,111      1,312       1,311     1,456       1,615       1,628       1,574
Total Operating Expenses                  54,298      59,091     63,643    68,750      73,919      79,961      85,421
Electricity Income                              2,027      2,275      3,181      3,734      4,304       4,764        5,111
Other Operating Income                            128        141        155        170        187         206         227
Total Operating Income                          2,156      2,416      3,336      3,904      4,492        4,971       5,338
Non-Operating Income                              855        515        558       699         862         982         917
Non-Operatinm Expenses
Interest and Comrnitment                        (659)      (713)    (1313)    (1916)       (2640)      (3431)      (4125)
Foreign Exchange Loss                          (241)       (235)      (235)     (158)           0           0           0
Net Profit                                      2,111      1,984      2,5        2,529      2,714       2,522        2,130
AVERAGE RATE BASE                              23,491      30,603     38,831    48,266      59,107      71,341      84,437
RATE OF RETURN                                     5.7        5.0        6.1       6.0         5.7         5.3         4.8
OPERATING RATIO                                   96.4       96.3       95.2      94.9        94.5        94.4        94.4



96
Annex 14
Page 5 of 6
Funds Flow Statement
(Baht million)
Years Ending September 30             1996   |  1997   |  1998   |  1999   [   2000           2001   f   2002
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Operating and Other Income                      4,123     4,245      5,206      6,061       6,970       7,583        7,831
Add: Depreciation                              2,059      2,489      2,986      3,560       4,222       4,980       5,815
Less: Rev from Customer Contribution           (692)      (744)      (800)      (857)       (915)       (974)      (1,031)
Pay Remittance                          (1,356)    (1,260)    (1,164)    (1,311)     (1,456)     (1,615)     (1,628)
Internal Funds Generation                     4,133      4,729      6,227      7,452       8,819       9,972      10,985
Contribution                                    1,293      1,046      1,113      1,141       1,168       1,172       1,144
Foreign Loan Proceed                            2,303      3,035      4,669      5,780       8,344       5,953       7,618
Local Loan Proceed                                  0          0          0      3,300       2,700       5,000       3,200
MEA Bonds                                           0      4,300      3,300          0           0           0           0
Redemption of Bonds                             1,342          0          0          0           0         800       3,497
Customer Deposit - Long-term Liab.                604        244       260        266          273         274         267
Other Sources                                    (65)        150        150        150       (218)       (218)       (218)
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                       9,609     13,505     15,720     18,089      21,086      22,953      26,493
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital Investment                             10,869     11,447     12,323     13,560      15,950      16,565      16,361
Sinking Fund for Redemption of Bonds              535       626       1,283      1,576       1,576       1,576       1,262
Repayment of Foreign Loan                         453        344       601         556         505       1,051       1,141
Repayment of Local Loan                             0          0          0          0           0         413         750
Repayment of Public Utility Fund                    0        375          0          0           0           0           0
MEA Bonds Repayment                             1,342          0          0          0           0         800       3,497
Exchange Repayment                                  0          0          0          0           0           0           0
Interest & Commitment                             659        713      1,313      1,916       2,640       3,431       4,125
Increase (Decrease) in Working Capital         (4,250)         0       200        480          415       (884)       (643)
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                      9,609     13,505    15,720     18,089      21,086      22,953       26,493
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE RATIO (times)               2.5        2.8        2.0        2.0         2.0         2.0         2.0
CAPITAL INVESTMENT EXCL CONTRI
BUTION 3 YR MOVING AVE.                         8,031     10,395     11,343     12,804      14,198      15,131      15,673
SELF-FINANCING RATIO (%)                        27.78      25.00      25.00      25.00       25.00       25.00       25.00



97
Annex 14
Page 6 of 6
Balance Sheet
(Baht million)
Years Ending September 30              1996      1997   l  1998   l  1999          2000       2001        2002
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Plant in Service                                  64,785     76,112     89,219    104,091     121,279     140,371    160,854
Less: Accumulated Depreciation                  (28,441)   (32,122)   (36,364)   (41,249)    (46,871)    (53,329)    (60,709)
Net Operating Plant                               36,344     43,990     52,855     62,842      74,407      87,042     100,145
Work in Progress                                   9,182     11,708     13,743     15,728      18,331      20,273     21,319
Total Fixed Assets                            45,526      55,698     66,598     78,570      92,738    107,315     121,465
Current Assets
Cash and Deposits                                  3,416      2,967      2,977      3,256       3,118       2,522      2,095
Trade Accounts Receivables (Net)                   6,105      6,642      7,223      7,827       8,438       9,133      9,751
Contract Work in Progress                          1,260      1,270      1,280      1,290       1,300       1,310       1,320
Inventories                                        3,003      3,684      3,985      4,371       5,167       5,128      5,138
Other Accounts Receivable                           760         770        780        790         800        810         820
Account Receivable for VAT                          424         462        503        546         589        638         682
Deferred Debit                                      381         411        443        476         511        551         585
Total Current Assets                           15,348     16,206     17,191     18,555      19,924     20,092      20,392
Sinking Funds                                        841       1,467      2,750      4326       5,902       6,678       4,443
Public Utility Fund                                   0         375        375        375        375         375         375
Deferred Charges                                   1,185        836        488        140         160        180         200
TOTAL ASSETS                                  62,900      74,583     87,402    101,967     119,099    134,639     146,874
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equitvl
Government Investment                               362         362        362        362        362         362         362
Retained Earnings                                 18,764     20,748     23,093     25,623      28,337      30,859     32,989
Revaluation                                        9,306     10,787     12,643     14,935      17,721      21,084     25,082
Surplus from Self-Insurance                           14         16         18         20         22          24          26
Surplus from Donation                               300         320        340        360        380         400         420
Deferred Foreign Exchange Loss                     (628)      (393)      (158)          0           0          0           0
Total Equity                                  28,118      31,840     36,298     41,300     46,822      52,729      58,879
Long Term Debt
Long-term Debt                                    10,299     17,034     24,447     33,021      41,801     47,366      53,214
Customer Deposits                                  4,398      4,422      4,462      4,508       4,561       4,615      4,662
Long Term Liabilities (Net)
Long Term Debt (current)                            344         601        556        505       2,264       5,388      4,970
Accrued Interest & Commt Charges                     130        234        273        383        513         651         761
Trade Accounts Payable                             5,438      5,872        623      6,804       7,307       7,870      8,361
Remittance Payable to MOF                         1,111       1,164      1,311      1,456      1,615       1,628       1,574
Customers' Advance for Contract Work              1,550       1,700      1,850      2,000      2,150       2,300       2,450
Other Accounts Payable                             1,162      1,262      1,336      1,402       1,496       1,607      1,721
Accounts Payable for VAT                            381         411       443         476        511         551         585
Deferred Credit                                     424         462        503        546        589         638         682
Total Current Liabilities                         10,540      11,707     12,594     13,573      16,444     20,633      21,103
Aid of Construction                                9,546       9,581     9,601       9,565      9,471       9,297       9,016
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES                  62,900      74,583     87,402    101,967     119,099    134,639     146,874
DEBT TO EQUITY RATIO                                 0.4         0.6        0.7        0.8        0.9         1.0         1.0
DEBT TO TOTAL CAPITAL RATIO                         26.8        34.9      40.3        44.4       47.2        47.3        47.5
CURRENT RATIO                                        1.5         1.4        1.4        1.4        1.2         1.0         1.0



98
Annex i 15
Electricity Tariffs                                                  Page Iof 4
Schedule 1 Residential
Application
Applicable to the electricity used in dwelling place, monasteries and churches of any religions including its
compound through a single watt-hour meter.
Monthly Rate
1.1 Consumption not exceed 150 kWh. per month.
Energy charge:
First  5    kWh.  or less                       5.00         Baht
Next  10   kWh. (6th        15th)               0.70         BahtlkWh.
Next  10   kWh.  (16th - 25th)                  0.90         BahtlkWh.
Next  10   kWh. (26th - 35th)                   1.17         BahtlkWh.
Next 65    kWh.  (36th -  100th)                1.58         Baht/kWh.
Next 50    kWh.  (101st -  150th)               1.68         BahtlkWh.
Next 250   kWh.  (151st - 400th)                2.22         BahttkWh.
Over 400   kWh.  (401st-  up)                   2.53         BahtlkWh.
Minimum Charge: 5.00 Bahtmonth
Notes
If a customer's monthly energy consumption exceeds 150 kWh. for 3 consecutively months, the customer will be
classified under 1.2 ot schedule 1 in the next month.
1_2 CornumptIon more than 150 kWh. per month.
Energy charge:
First  35   kWh.  or less                       89.00         Baht
Next 115  kWh.  (36th    150th)                  1.14        Baht/kWh.
Next 250  kWh.  (151st-  400th)                  2.22        1aht/kWh.
Over 400   kWh.  (401st-  up)                    2.53        Baht/kWh.
Minimum Charge : 89.00 Bahtfmonth
No4.s:
1. For customers who installed meter less than 5 Amp.220 V. 1 Phese 2 Wires, it monthly energy consumption
is not more than 150 kWh. for 3 consecutively months, the customer will be reclassified under 1.1 of schedule 1 in the
next month.
2. Residential customers who installed meter over 5 Amp. 220 V. 1 Phase 2 Wires will be classified under
1.2 of schedule 1.
Schedule 2 Small General Service
Appkston
licable to the selctricity used for business or state enterprise, industrial or others including tts compound
with a maximum 15-minute integrated demand of less than 30 kW. through a single wan hour meter.
Monthty Rate
Energy charge
First  35    kWh.  or less                      94.00        Baht
Next 115   kWh.  (36th -  150th)                 1.14        BahtjkWh.
Next 250  kWh.  (151st-  400th)                  2.22         BahktWh.
Over 400   kWh.  (401st-  up)                    2.53         BahtfkWh.
Minimum Charge : 94.00 Bahtimonth
Notes
In any month it a maximum 15 - minute integrated demand is equal to or more than 30 kW., the customer
will be classified under schedule 3-5 depend on the case.
Schedule 3 Medium General Service
Application
Applicable to the electricity used for business or state enterprise, industrial or others including its compound
with a maximum 15-minute integrated demand of 30 kW. and less than 2,000 kW. through a single demand meter.
3.1 Average consumption of the lest 3 consecutively months not exceed 355,000 kWh. per month
Monthly Rate
3.1.1  At Voltage of 69 KV. and above
Demand charge                                  : 188.00        eaht/kW.
Energy charge                                  :   1.03        Baht/kWh.
3.1.2  At Voltage of 11-33 KV.
Demand charge                                  : 210.00        BahVkW.
EneTgy charge                                  :   1.07        BahtlkWh.
3.1.3  At Voltage of iess than 11 KV.
Demand charge                                  : 237.00        BahtVkW.
Energy charge                                      1.10        Baht/kWh.
Minimum charge- : The minimum charge will be computed as 70% of the total amount of
maximum demand charge of the last 12-month period ending with the
current month.



99
Annex 15
Page 2 of 4
Notes:
1. Government office which is industrial, if energy consumption of 30 kW. and less than 2.000 kW. will be apply
this rate.
2. If meter is installed on the load side of transformer that belongs to the customer, another 2% must be added
to both total demand and energy consumption in order to cover the unmeasured transformer loss.
3. In any month maximum demand is less than 30 kW, this rate will be apply, but not less than the minimum
charge. For the case such demand has been dropped below 30 kW. for 12 conseculively months and the next month
demand is still below 30 kW. the rate will automatically change to schedule 2.
4. If average consumption of the last 3 consecutively months exceed 355,000 kWh. per month and has not
installed TOO meter, this rate will be apply.
3.2 Time of Day Rate
Monthly Rate
3.2.1 At Voltage of 69 KV. and above
Demand charge
18.30 p.m.-21.30 p.m.    (On Peak)            240.00        Baht/kW.
08.00 a.m.-18.30 p.m.    (Partial Peak)        32.00        BahtVkW.
(only the excess on Peak)
21.30 p.m.-08.00 a.m.    (Off Peak)           No demand charge
Energy charge                                       1 1.03      BahtVkWh.
3.2.2 At Voltage of 11-33 KV.
Demand charge
18.30 p.m.-21.30 p.m.    (On Peak)            305.00        BahtUkW.
08.00 a.m.-18.30 p.m.    (Partial Peak)        63.00        BahVkW.
(only the excess on Peak)
21.30 p.m.-08.00 a.m.    (Off peak)           No demand charge
Energy charge                                 :    1.07         Baht/kWh.
3.2.3  At Voltage of less than 11 KV.
Demand charge
1B.30 p.m.-21.30 p.m.    (On Peak)            356:00        BahtikW.
08.00 a.m.-18.30 p.m.    (Partial Peak)    :  73.00         Baht/kW.
(only the excess on Peak)
21.30 p.m.-08.00 a.m.    (Ott Peak)        : No demand charge
Energy charge                                 :    1.10        BahtVkWh.
Minimum charge: The minimum charge will be computed as 70% of the total amount of maximum
demand charge of the last 12-month period ending with the current month.
Notes:
1. Govemment office which is industrial, it energy consumption of 30 kW. and less than 2.000 kW. will be
apply this rate.
2. In any last 3 consecutively months, average consumption is less than 355,000 kWh. per month, this rate will
be apply but not less than the minimum charge. For the case such demand dropped below 30 kW. for 12 consecutively
months and the next month demand is still below 30 kW. the rate will automatically change to schudule 2.
3. In case of customer's characteristic has been changed too much decreasing for consecutively period. the
customer may be considered on a special permission to apply any appropriated rate by PEA.
4. This rate will be billed to customer who already installed TOO meter. For the others who has not installed
yet, PEA. will be finished it within December 31, 1992,
Schedule 4 Large General Service
Application
Applicable to the electricity used for business or state enterprise. industrial or others including its compound
with a maximum 1 5-minute integrated demand of 2.000 kW. and over through a single demand meter.
Monthly Rate Time ot Day Rate
4.1 At Voltage of 69 KV. and above
Demand charge
18.30 p.m.-21.30 p.m.  (On Peak)                    240.00         BahtUkW
08.00 a.m.-18.30 p.m,  (Partial Peak)             :  32.00         Baht/kW.
(only the excess on Peak)
21.30 p.m.-08.00 a.m.  (Off Peak)                  No demand charge
Energy charge                                        :    1.03        BahVkWh.
4.2 At Voltage of 11-33 KV.
Demand Charge
.18.30 p.m.-21.30 p.m.  (On Peak)                    305.00        BahtVkW.
08.00 a.m.-18.30 p.m.  (Partial Peak)                63.00        Baht/kW.
(only the excess on Peak)
21.30 p.m.-08.00 a.m.  (Off Peak)                :  No demand charge
Energy charge                                        :    1.07        aahtfkWh.
Minimum charge: Therninimum charge will be computed as 70% of the total amount of maximum
demand zharge of the last 12 - month period ending with the current month.



100                                                   Aanex 15
Page 3 of 4
Notes:
1. Government office which is industrial, if energy consumption of 2.000 kW. and over will be apply this rate.
2. In any month it maximum demand is less than 2.000 kW.. this rate will be apply but not less than the
minimum charge. For the case such demand has been dropped below 30 kW. tor 12 consecutively months and the next
month demand is still below 30 kW. the rate will automatically change to schedule 2.
3. In case of customer's characteristic has been changed too much decreasing for consecutively period,
the customer may be considered on a special permission to apply any appropriated rate by PEA.
Schedule 5 Specific Business Setvice
Application
Applicable to electricity used for any hotel or guest house or other facility offerring lodging to customers
including its compound with a maximum 15-minute integrated demand of 30 kW. and over through a single demand
meter.
Monthly Rate
5.1 Normal Rate
5.1.1  At Voltage of 69 KV. and above
Demand charge                                     236.00        BahtlkW.
Energy charge                                  :    1.03        Baht/kWh.
5.1.2  At Voltage ot 11-33 KV.
Demand charge                                  : 274.00         BahtlkW.
Energy charge                                       1.07        Baht/kWh.
5.1.3  At Voltage of less than 11 KV.
Demand charge                                  : 296.00         BahtVkW.
Energy charge                                       1.10        BahtlkWh.
Minimum charge : The minimum charge will be computed as 70% of the total amount of maximum
demand charge of the last 12-month period ending with the current month.
Notes:
1. If meter is installed on the load side of transformer that belongs to the customer. another 2% must be added
to both total demand and energy consumption in order to cover the unmeasured transformer loss.
2. In any month maximum demand is less than 30 kW., this rate will be apply but not less than the minimum
charge. For the case such demand has been dropped below 30 kW. for 12 consecutively months and the next month
demand is still below 30 kW. the rate will automatically change lo schedule 2.
3. If average consumption of the last 3 consecutively months exceed 355.000 kWh. per month, the customer
will be classified under 5.2 of schedule 5.
5.2 Optional Rate: Only for average consumptIon of the last 3 consecutively months exceed 355,000 kWh.
per month.
Monthly Rate Time of Day Rate
5.2.1  At Voltage of 69 KV. and above
Demand charge
18.30 p,m.-21.30 p.m.  (On Peak)              240.00        BahtlkW.
08.00 a.m.-18.30 p.m.  (Partial Peak)      :  32.00         Baht/kW.
(only the excess on Peak)
21.30 p.m.-08.00 a.m.  (Ott Peak)           : No demand charge
Energy charge:                                 :    1.03        BahttkWh.
5.2.2  At Voltage of 11-33 KV.
Demand charge
18.30 p.m.-21.30 p.m.  (On Peak)              305.00         BahtUkW.
08.00 a.m.-18.30 p.m.  (Partial Peak)       :  63.00         BahtVkW.
(only the excess on Peak)
21.30 p.m.-08.00 a.m.  (Off Peak)           : No demand charge
Energy charge                                       1.07        BahtlkWh.
5.2.3  At Voltage of less than 11 KV.
Demand charge
18.30 p.m.-21.30 p.m.  (On Peak)            : 356.00         BahttkW.
08.00 a.m.-18.30 p.m.  (Partial Peak)       :  73.00         Baht/kW.
(only the excess on Peak)
21.30 p.m.-08.00 a.m.  (Off Peak)              No demand charge
Energy charge                                  :    1.10        Baht/kWh.
Minimum charge : The minimum charge will be computed as 70% ot the total amount of maximum
demand charge of the last 12-month period ending with the currenl month.
Notes:
1. In any last 3 consecutively months, average consumption is less than 355,000 kWh. per month, this rate
will be apply but not less than the minimum charge. For the case such consumption has been dropped below 355.000
kWh. per month for 12 consecutively months and the next month the consumption is still below 355,000 kWh., the
customer wilt be rectassified under S.1 of schedule 5 or schedule 2 depertd on the case.
2. In case of reducina the size of transformer less than 500 KVA., the customer is considered to apply 5.1 of
schedule S or schedule 2 depend on the case.



101                                                    Annex L5
Page 4 of 4
Schedule 6 Government Institutions and Non-profit Organizations
Application
Applicable to govemment institutions and those established by the local Administration Act and to non-
government organization offering fTree of charge service, places holding religions crremones including its compound through
a single watt-hour meter. Not applicable to state enterprises, embassies, office buildings of international organization.
Monthly Rate
Energy charge:
6.1  At Voltage of 69 KV. and above
First 19,000 kWh. or less                          14,800.00         Baht
Over fo,ooo kWh. (10,001 st-up)                         1.48         BahtVkWh.
Minimum charge: 14,800.00 Baht/month
6.2  At Voltage of 11-33 KV.
First 300 kWh. or less                                495.00        Baht
Over 300 kWh. (301st-up)                                1.65         Bah*lkWh.
Minimum charge : 495.00 Bahtlmonth
6.3  At Voltage of less than 1 1 KV.
First 10 kWh. or less                                  18.70        Baht
Over 10 kWh. (list-up)                                  1.87        Baht/kWh.
Minimum charge : 18.70 Baht/month
Notes:
1. The places holding religions ceremories and its compound under residential rate are allowed to be changed
to apply this rate.
2. If meter is installed on the load side of transformer that belongs to the customer, another 2% must be added
to both total demand and energy oonsumption in order to cover the unmeasured transformer loss.
Scheduie 7 Agricultural Pumping Service
Appliaton
Applicable to govemment agricultural agencies, otficially recognized farmer groups, agricultural cooperative or
fa1mer operating water pumps for agricuttural pumping through a single watt-hour meter.
menthy Rate
Energy charge:
First 100 kWh. or less                                     117.00         Baht
Over 100 kWh. (101st-up)                                     1.17         BahtVkWh.
MiniTnum charge: 117.00 1aThimonth
Notes:
1. If meter Is installed on the load side of transformer that belongs to the customer or belongs to PEA.(only
In case of tte Inallaton of a low voltage meter to CI), another 2% must be added to both total demand and energy
consumption In order to cover the unmeasured transformer loss.
2. In case ot using power during 18.30 p.m. - 21.30 p.m., the bill will be automatically charged under schedule
2 or 3 deend on the case.
Automatic Adjustment Clause
Sttould there be any change in expenses beyond control by the utility 2 stang per unit, an adjustment will be
made accordingly at a flat rate applied to each kilowanthour sold. The customers would be notified by PEA. in the
electric bill.
EFFECTIVE DATE: DECEMBER 1. 1991.
PROVINCIAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY.



102
Annex 16
Page 1 of 2
THAILAND
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project
New Bulk's Supply Tariff
Proposed Mechanism for New Bulk Supply Tariff
The current approach to setting the BST has been determined to have three significant
drawbacks. Firstly, by mixing the BST and the cross subsidy mechanism, neither MIEA nor PEA
face, at the margin, an accurate signal of the true cost of generation and transmission in their
respective regions. Secondly, this condition makes it very difficult to identify the scale of the
current financial transfer from MEA to PEA and hence, to identify either the underlying financial
position of either utility, or the true cost to MEA consumers of the uniform national tariff policy.
Lastly, the current approach risks weakening the efficiency incentives on PEA and MEA, the risk
being that both MEA and PEA may come to believe that additional costs which it incurs will be
compensated by a futher reduction in its BST and corresponding increase in the BST paid by the
other.
Clearly, a new mechanism is needed to deal with these drawbacks that would: (a) be
consistent with the overall approach to the Government's policy on tariff determination; (b)
enable the costs of the cross subsidy to be clearly transparent, identifiable and separable from the
BST; (c) leave all utilities with strong incentives to improve efficiency and reduce costs; and (d)
enable the BST to give both MEA and PEA an accurate signal of the true costs of generation and
transmission in their respective regions. A new mechanism, prepared by consultants of the BST
study, proposed the following changes: (a) EGAT would charge a common BST to PEA and
MEA which would reflect accurately the bulk cost of energy and capacity to both utilities; (b) the
cross subsidy would occur through separate financial transfer from MBA and EGAT to PEA
called the Uniform Tariff Compensation Payment (UTCP); (c) the UTCPs would not be a fund,
would always have a zero balance, and would be paid into and received from a single bank
account; and (d) the size of the UTCP will be determined by the regulator as part of the periodic
tariff review for each of the subsequent five years before the next review.
Proposed New Tariff Determination and Setting Process
Under the proposed system, BST and tariff levels would be determined using the allowed
revenue approach arrived at through six consecutive steps. Step 1 would determine the base
value of allowed revenue (Base Allowed Revenue) for generation, transmission, distribution and
retail activities in each year during the review period, based on forecast values for demand,
controllable and uncontrollable costs carried out by EGAT, MBA and PEA. Step 2, which would
also be carried out during tariff review, would derive the level of tariffs (Base Tariffs) for both
BST and final retail customers, required to recover the Base Allowed Revenue determined in Step
1, assuming forecast demand in each year. Step 3, carried out at the end of the first year
following the tariff review, would determine the Average Tariff Revenue recovered in the first
year, by multiplying the Base Tariffs determined in Step 2, by total actual demand for that year.
Step 4, also undertaken at the end of the first year, would calculate the value of revenue (Revised
Allowed Revenue) which would have been allowed in the first year if the uncontrollable costs and
demand had been correctly forecast when Base Allowed Revenue was determined in Step 1. Step



103
Annex 16
Page 2 of 2
5 would determine the difference (Revenue Correction) between the Average Tariff Revenue
calculated in Step 3 and the Revised Allowed Revenue calculated in Step 4. Finally, Step 6 would
adjust the Base Tariffs for Year 2 of the review period taking into account the Revenue
Correction required in respect of Year 1, expressed as a constant percentage increase to the Base
Tariff Level. An illustration of the proposed process in given in page 3 of this annex.
The Base Allowed Revenue for generation, transmission, distribution and retail acitivities
would be determined by reviewing operating and investment costs of each utility, comparing them
against regional benchmarks, and adjusting these costs by a 4% efficiency improvement factor to
ensure that costs are aligned with acceptable regional standards. Then using EGAT, MEA and
PEA financial models, the total revenue would be calculated to meet the required financial
criteria. The financial performance criteria is critical in determining the revenue which each utility
would be allowed and takes into consideration the sufficiency of revenues to guarantee the
utilities' financial health, efficiency incentives, and simplicity of administration. Hence, the
following financial criteria would be used in the calculation: (a) a minimum SFR of 25%; (b) a
15% maximum ratio of short and medium term debt to total debt; (c) a 1.5x minimum debt
coverage ratio; (d) a 1.5x maximum debt to equity ratio; and (e) a 2.Ox minimum interest cover
ratio. On the basis of initial calculations, the utilities should be able to meet on average all
investment and operating costs over the period between reviews, however, it may not meet these
performance criteria in each year of the review period since the annual revenue requirements in
each year are smoothed to give a Base Allowed Revenue profile for each utility. While the
specific financial criteria are consistent with the Bank covenants under the respective Loan
Agreements, Bank covenants, however, are drafted on the basis of results of annual performance.
It is therefore likely that the utilities would either re-negotiate the relevant loan covenants to
recognize that criteria may not be met on an annual basis or adjust the values for the performance
criteria used to define annual revenue requirements to ensure that the smoothed profile for Base
Allowed Revenue allows the utilities to meet or exceed the covenanted criteria in each year of the
review period.
Uniform Tariff Compensation Payment
The UTCP under the new BST is the proposed mechanism designed to preserve the
national uniform tariff while providing comparable financial criteria for MEA and PEA and be
cost reflective signals to each utility through the BST. For each utility, the Base UTCP is the
difference between the Base Allowed Revenue for that utility and the revenue received from
national uniform cross-subsidized tariffs.  After deriving the actual UTCP for each utility,
payments or receipts are made through a UTCP account. The UTCP mechanism is expected to
be operated without further intervention from NEPO apart for its role in setting the Base UTCP
and monitoring the application of adjustment formulae.



104
THAILAND
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
Money Values are in Million Bahts
Yer::               Inmmenbl            .            Losses   :ne.E y                       flovonna             Er-. lBene i    .                      Investm            0   O M          TetsN           - l-
.P:  Pue     .        Sale       -         J                    :. .. Cost4.:.:. D d d          .       d       :         .Imnpsved          Cs                C.        :     Cot    . : B:(:en.:: reS .  .g-  ffit 
1996            0 00             0.00           0 00          0.00           0 00              0 00                   0.00               0.00                0.00            0 00             0 00                0.
1997         1862.16         1774 64           87.52          4 70        2700 13           3584 77                   0 80              44 80             5033 19          125.83         7859.16            -4229 5
1998         5042.78         4805.78          237.01          4 70        7312 04           9707.67                   2 40             134 40             7368 74          310 05        14990.83             -5148.7
1999         9692 64         9237.08          455 56          4.70       14054.33          18658.90                  4 00              224.00            10254 87          566 42        24875.62             -5992.
2000        13212 31         12591 33         62098           4.70       19157.85          2543449                    5 60             313 60            12083.26          868 50        32109.61             -6361 53
2001        17101.83         16298.04         803.79          4 70       24797.65          32922 04                   7 20             403 20             9118 29         1096.46        35012 40             -1687.1
2002        17101.83         16298 04         803.79          4 70       24797 65          32922 04                   8 00             448 00                0 00         1096 46        25894.11             7475.93
2003        17101 83         16298.04         803 79          4.70       24797 65          32922.04                   8.00             448.00                0.00         1096 46        25894 11             7475.93
2004        17101.83         16298 04         803.79          470        24797.65          32922 04                   8 00             448.00                0 00         1096.46        25894.11             7475 93
2005        17101 83         16298.04         803 79          4.70       24797 65          32922 04                   8.00             448.00                0 00         1096 46        25894.11             7475 93
2006        17101.83        16298.04          803 79          4 70       24797 65          32922 04                   8 00             448 00                0 00         1096 46        25894.11             7475 93
2007        17101 83         16298 04         803 79          4 70       24797 65          32922 04                  8 00              448 00                0.00         1096 46        25894 11             7475.93
2008        17101.83         16298 04         803.79          4 70       24797 65          32922 04                  8 00              448 00                0 00         1096.46        25894 11             7475 93
2009        17101.83         16298 04         803.79          470        24797 65          32922.04                  8.00              448 00                0 00         109646         25894.11             7475 93
2010        17101.83         16298.04         803 79          4 70       24797 65          32922 04                  8.00              448 00                0 00         1096 46        25894 11             7475 93   It
93' 
00 1
2011        17101 83         16298 04         803.79          4 70       24797.65          32922 04                  8 00              448.00                0 00         1096.46        25894.11             7475 93    Mt
.O
2012        17101 83         16298 04         803.79          4 70       24797.65          32922 04                  800N              448 00                0 00         1096.46        25894.11             7475 931 



105
THAILAND
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
Money Values are in Million Bahts
il                                          !                          I                                                         -                                              _          -   :                  |
e-r      _____________ Ieres5l        '           1;se                  wrzI i-eu                          xra          ikHr.d.:'reni   |    Im..m.eI           'Js4      ,      ;r;i           
.f-t   f.5brt    s    :;au   ,              .                !    ErKr erKt            9H st::|!DA-.-c                       -e,.B mr
1996           0700            OM            000          0.00           0.00             000                  000               0.00               0.00           OM             0.00               00(
1997        1862 1          177464           87.52        4.70        2700.13          358477                  0.80             44.80            5033,19         125.83        7859.16            4229.59
199S        5042.7S         4805.78        237.01         470         711104           9707.67                 2.40            134.40            736S.74         310.05       14990.83            -514S7
1999        9692.64         9237.08        455.56         4.70       14054.33         18658.90                4.00             224.00           10254.87         566.42       24875.62           -5992.
2000        13212.31       12591.33         620.98        4.70       19157.85         2543449                  5.60            313.60           12083.26         868.50       32109.61            -6361.5
2001        17101.83       16298.04         803.79        4.70       24797.65         32922.04                 7.20            403.20            9118.29        1096.46       35012.40            -1687.1
2002        17101.83       16298.04         803 79        4.70       24797.65         32922.04                 800             448.00               0.00        1096.46       25894.11            7475.93
2003        17101.83       16298.04         803.79        4.70       24797.65         32922.04                 8 00            448.00               0.00        1096.44       25894.11            7475.93
2004        17101.83       16298.04         803.79        4.70       24797.65         32922.04                 8.00            448 00               0.00        1096.46       25894.11            7475.9
2005        17101.83       16298 04         803.79        4.70       24797.65         32922.04                 8 00            448.00               000         1096.46       25894.1 1           7475.93
2006        17101 S3       1629S.04         803.79        4.70       24797.65         32922.04                 8.00            448 00               0.00        \096.46       25894.11            7475.9
2007        17101.83       16298.04         803.79        4.70       24797.65         32922.04                 8 00            448.00               000         1096.44       25894.11            7475.93
2008        17101.83       16298.04         803.79        4.70       24797.65         32922.04                 8.00            448 00               0 00        1096.46       25894.11            7475.93
2009        17101.83       16298.04         803.79        4.70       24797.65         32922.04                800              448.00               0.00        1096.46       25894.11            7475.93
2010       117101.83       16298 04         803.79        4.70       24797.65         32922.04                 8.00            448.00               000         1096,46       25894.11            7475.93
2011        17101 83       16298.04         803.79        4.70       24797.65         32922.04                 8 00            448.00               000         1096.45       25894.11            7475.93 1
2012        17101.83       16298.04         80379         4.70       24797.65         3292204                 800             44800                000         109646        25894.11            7475.93    (q   X
I-h
o @_



106
Annex 18
THAILAND
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project
Documents in Project File
1.  Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project - Project Implementation Plan,
October 1996.
2.  Environmental Impact Analysis
3.  Consulting Services for Master Plan of MEA's Institutional Development Final
Report, May 1995 (ESBI Intemational).
4.  MEA Annual Reports 1994 and 1995.






CHARTS






'I IIAILANI)
MNetropolif:ii I)istribuliont Rcinurorccuicim ( Projecd
MsEA's Org:antizatiomi Clhart
I   GOVIERNOR    I
|Ge.erel Afflmir DePonarmnt                                                                             esl,
tGADI                                                                                 PAI
|  Deputy Cbvernor  |     |  Depulv Go          |Deputy  n                                DeputV Gooe,no |                                           Deputy Governor                Deputy Go.e,nor               Deputy Go.e-no      |
|        ITecholct b Ptienrnt  |    OPer.ionI t     |  |Ad,nlnlotretlonl                                                                                                                  IFIance|l
r   bstt tant  |   <   A..Its nt  I  _t   Adswant  |F| Asdstan;                  |       AAe ient                      AnnWent        | __           A.n            | ant
n   Goerno  Govrnor l  | Gove  | Governor                  Go-enor                       Governor                      Governo
P Depcyand Corpotete|        Etectrtm  Cl  uc iDA                        Ott                                                                          llrret -  ADrDrrrrc Allewoment org                            ElectricaS Syv otem
|PPD)                             ICTD                          t l l                                                                                     I tHRDI                       (A tCDt)                      IEVD) 
CNN CDtDartment L   D let                                            D                                                        R_      , tgt  NWistrict  __|n                      Metr  p |t D1get  I  nl|  Plan Eloctriiy
P,  torme lt Don                                                                                                                                       r |Eeng                      DeAutphoritly Ho triial
Dntrortnrerrt 111001~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~                                   1
Clvi Engtnewlrr  Des...  i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  850p1                                                                              -                              O"
Wees Depertonr                      IOCOI                                                -       IT1- |                                                                                  I P S tM I   0
Powue Eftnoenty                                                                                                                                          bNc eW Syn em  I - ]-
D"wt-sm ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SDDesp.ln
C)i
AP
nt






TIIAILAND
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project
Implementing Arrangements
GOVERNOR
DEPUTY GOVERNOR               i    DePUTY GOVERNOR                                  I    DEPUTY GOVERNOR                                      DEPUTY GOVERNOR                       DEPUTY GOVERNOR
JAdinJn..tio.)                  (TechncSal and pin..ng 1.2)                                 (S.n4Ope nUon) t                                                                          (Fin-nCe)
PURCHASES ASO STOREs
OP*IRCHAES! NoIR                                                                           SSRJCS 055015                                                                          fINANCED OPAA,UENS
E.aAas Al~ ~ ~      ~ P,s.a                                        O*AN= C           I                                                                        nlPa  
t. eAl E..PO                                      ro*e  U......                                                                                                                                                          ( no^I^) P^
| tAd                                                              [>sti, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M1w, 01f.1
1-  S d Eo -,R    .   s   Hi 
$-P 0 E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                                                                        (TQ~~~~~~~~~0 N
NJ
. .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
E rr.wE ..T*IStNScSANo |O ItLECTECAL 013E  ..O CML                                                 CML CONSIRnOCO OCPART.ES.
| EOSLOPSAENT OETAASES            E...........fIttROINEWO WORKDS OEPRTMEKT                                                                           Of - Cd ha_I M*e 
* 0..Sc...,.                                                                                      CY.tUtn A S.6'.                    LbaS.,am  ..C-A
'n.rd 1                                                                                                  - PaC- S-
.~~~~~~~~~~~~S . SH5



POWER SYSTEM PLANNING AND
DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
CONIULTAN C..C IUPERV1510N                                W      GDROUP PRFM PURCKtASEN ^D                             RID EVALUATION COMMinEE EURNKEYSUBT N CONTRACT
COMMItTEE                                               STORES DEPARTMENT                                                                                                 SUPERVISION COMMInTEE
AM.& .1 Sk501-                                                   .1                                                  AplssunR.flocn,t  -  0o .I.BUE .bNaI.dR..A.                C_..oo.. UIPWD
-  Coo,In l wdI nVO                                          E..    d C-.- P.sflM                                                                                                 S."p,-In on Coo,.-ngWoqk-
CRRI.,d A..d"A
CI=- SrI P, O*.
03 
COORDINATOR WORKINO GROUP FROMFIN D                        |      MEAN COUNTERPARS lIMP                                         CONSIULTANIT                                                CONTRACTOR
|. Pe-p.   R fdR CINpRT dOdDT  A                                                                                                                                                             C
EoNOIn ol CDnD i,d P,opoI.l                                                                                        - P,*ptRI Vi S M.""                                          Typ '     Ty"  ay CovoG
-   I.ooI Rd Pop_...                                       Typo C WN Oo. Ty MEA
IWre RI CI.t         IWI,"
CoRRI. C,n CDA..Y



MAP






IBRD 284:
100-15                                                                                   0030'                                                                                 1
K.,  ._.                                                                                                                                          THAILAND
Q                      -S-i.                                                      ,                                 METROPOLITAN DISTRIBUTION REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
z   \                    s                9,/_    j          .      ,    _ ,.                                   EXI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SSTING PLANNED PROJECT
K L0NGMAN A-                                                                    220. I5,6  M N0SWVSSICN UNES O0ERIEA00I
/Q ~~~~~~on Boo  =           '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~            -    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~I00~~---  ----  ---   M . I    L,M V TRANSV.SSICN UNES IUNDERGRCOND COBOLE
FP kkre                                                                              C       CQ     Q     TERMINAL STATIONS
/0 Ban Sua                  0         X        l/                   )                                                          *     SE)AKN
\  /    Thong            //gOGWAr,AElAi {              /      /                                            *       *            CUSrCMER SUBSTATONS
:  |  -A        \ l            /       /                                             (7                   SWTCHING STATION
N O N T HIA B U R If                                           \           /RX
\  1 A EANGKRAKYA              B\\gkhen | /                        ,                                                         _,,_ ETRCPLITAN ELECTRCSTY AUTORLITY BOUNDARY
- - -  CHANGWWAT I(STRICTI BOUNDARIES
I                                                                                                                                                -.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       
'\ I                                                                                                                                                                                  // I
/                               0/aga                                  ,                                                                                                                  21
. i4 \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Minburi                                                                  t          3LOMETERS
~~ C Nong ~        ~          anga
IOEORXRATlC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VAI-P
0~~~~~~~~~
Z \    I    z ! tfS   r  ~~~~~~~~~P H R A 
\AAIAYSI                                                                                                                                                                V C               O H     O     N     B    U    R    IN    A    K    H    O N  LoKrbang 
TAVVEEwarrA \2                                    W        \1 A>ll                 A                              O NNUJ     _     __  _
iB A     N G                                                                                   - -     - - - - ----, ----  .
\ 0                  NangEl- h                                                                                  r      a             9      J              N             /             7             t
_ i \ 'v. ~CHINA _ '[sz Padan 5iv1 
MYANMAR ,         . r  LTHpES\[* ,/11NEUK                                                            S             
I R' EPUS3UC                                                                          A ,  <D\ 
T HAt ANO    \                               }\                                                    >               \  PAKNAM                 /         OBnpl,
; \ . VIEM \ / @ \ / 9 /?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~amut Prokan                                                                                                       Bangbo
, I                 ~~~~~~~~S A M U T\PRA/KAN
MALAYSIAj                                                       \\                                                                           I
NOC3NE~~~SIxAPoJ RaE                                                                          to    3 0133 D'3=Bd/sc t-t~
~~~~~~~~~ I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~DKEC3EVE









IMAGING
Report No.:            16111   TH
Type:       SAR



