Report No. PIC4702
Project Name                   Thailand-Metropolitan Power ...
Distribution Reinf.
Region                         East Asia and Pacific (EAP)
Sector                         Electric Power & Other Energy
Project ID                     THPA37086
Borrower                       Metropolitan Electricity Authority (MEA)
Implementing Agency            Metropolitan Electricity Authority (MEA)
Contact: Governor
Telephone:      (662) 2-5562
Fax: (662) 2-9990
Date this PID prepared         November 1996
Projected Appraisal date       February 1997
Projected Board Date           June 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.   Thailand's development record over the past three decades is
impressive. Real per capita income growth has been positive every year
and has averaged aost 4% over the period. Significant progress has also
been made in a variety of other social areas with absolute poverty
reducing from over 57% in the late-1960s to about 20%.    The economy has
been transformed over this period from being primarily agrarian into a
major exporter of manufactured products. Moreover, inflation and
external debt have been kept within manageable limits. Despite these
achievements, Thailand is still a lower-middle income country that faces
challenges in deepening its development. The key areas of concern
include inadequacies in physical infrastructure and labor skills, the
alleviation of poverty, and protection of the environment.
2.   Following a period of rapid demand growth - 14% p.a. in the late
eighties and 11% p.a. in the nineties - Thailand expects the demand to
grow at a robust 9% p.a. over the next five years (1996-2000). Through
massive and timely investments in generation, transmission and
distribution, the Electricity Generating Authority (EGAT, responsible
for generation and transmission), the Metropolitan Electricity Authority
(MEA, responsible for distribution in metropolitan Bangkok) and
Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA, responsible for distribution in
the rest of Thailand), have been able to meet this continued heavy
growth in demand, without unduly sacrificing the quality and reliability
of service. But strains are beginning to be felt. Over the 1996-2000
period the capital investments of EGAT, MEA and PEA are forecast at
around US$14, US$2 and US$4 billion, respectively. MEA is beginning to
face problems in meeting the service quality and reliability. The
Government is acutely aware of this situation and has directed MEA to
give paramount importance to improving supply reliability in its Eighth
5-year plan (1997-2000). The proposed project addresses the issue of
supply reliability in face of rapidly increasing demand.



Project Objectives
3.   The main objectives of the proposed project are to: (a) enhance
MEA's operational efficiency through assistance in organizational
restructuring in preparation for commercialization and corporatization;
(b) improve reliability of the distribution system and contain losses at
current optimum levels, while meeting the projected rapid increase in
electricity demand; and (c) introduce demand-side management
capabilities in MEA's organization thus enhancing MEA's role in the
country's DSM effort.
Project Description
4.   The proposed project would finance a portion of the expansion and
reinforcement of MEA's distribution system over the years 1997-2001 (the
Eighth Plan period) and would comprise of three main investment
components: (a) transmission and distribution substation system -
comprising: (i) a new 230/115 kV Onnuj transmission substation; (ii)
additions at four existing 230/115 kV transmission substations; (iii)
construction of six new 115/24-12 kV distribution substations; (iv)
additions at five existing 115-69/24 kV distribution substations; and
(v) additions at and modification of four existing 69-115/12-24 kV
distribution substations; (b) transmission line systems - comprising
47.3 circuit-km of transmission lines; and (c) distribution system -
comprising: (i) addition and modification of 640 km of primary and
1,050 km of secondary lines; (ii) installation of 1,350 MVA of
distribution transformers; (iii) addition and replacement of 280,000
revenue meters; and (d) addition of 205 MVAR of capacitors.
5.   The project would also include: (a) organizational restructuring of
MEA including associated technical assistance; and (b) a demand-side
management component (DSM) - comprising: (a) setting up of an Appliance
Testing Laboratory (equipment funded from the Energy Conservation Fund
of Thailand); (b) introduction of a system-wide Load Research program to
collect load-profile data of MEA consumers (funded from MEA's own
resources); (c) establishment of an Energy Service Company (ESCO) to
provide energy management services in Bangkok (funded from MEA's own
resources); and (d) technical assistance for the three DSM components
(funded from the GEF Grant associated with MEA's Loan 3598-TH).
Project Financing
6.   Total financing required for the project is US$373 million
equivalent (including interest during construction), with a foreign
exchange cost of US$157 million. The proposed loan of US$145 million
would finance about 39t of the project cost. The balance of project
cost would be financed through borrowings and MEA's internal cash
generation. All contracts financed by the Bank would be awarded on the
basis of International Competitive Bidding.
Project Implementation
7.   MEA will be fully responsible for implementation of all the
physical components of the project. The project will be executed with
close cooperation between MEA's various departments and offices. MEA
-2 -



does not need consulting assistance for expanding its distribution
system. Technical asistance will be availed of for the implementation of
the project's DSM components Right-of-way for lines and land for all
substations is already available. The project implementation schedule
will, therefore, not be affected by land acquisition problems. MEA has
prepared a Project Implementation Plan in line with Bank guidelines.
Project Sustainability
8.   The technologies for all project componets are well proven.    MEA is
a capable utility which will operate and maintain the project in a sound
manner. The project's technical and physical sustainability would be
thus assured. Having substantial economic benefits, the project would
be economically sustainable under adverse scenarios. MEA's financial
performance is robust and its efficiency would improve following
organizational restructuring; this would contribute to the project's
financial and institutional sustainability.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations
9.   The Bank has made   loans to Thailand for power, of which eighteen
have been made to EGAT, six to PEA and one to MEA. Of the 18 loans to
EGAT, 17 have been fully disbursed and the only on-going project is the
Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project (Loan 3884-TH, signed on September 8,
1995). Three of the loans to PEA have been fully disbursed; while the
rest are under supervision. The overall progress in the implementation
of MEA's Distribution System and Energy Efficiency Project (Loan 3598-
TH) is satisfactory and about 75t of the work is now completed. Under
this loan, two studies were completed: (a) MEA's Institutional
Development - which resulted in recommendations related to
organizational structure and staffing, which will be implemented during
the course of the proposed project; and (b) Safety and Environmental
Considerations in System Design - whose recommendations are already
under implementation by MEA.
Poverty Category    (Not applicable)
Environmental Aspects
10. A detailed Environmental Impact Analysis (including route surveys)
of the substations, transmission lines and the distribution network to
be constructed under the project has been conducted by MEA. This has
concluded that none of these components (which are essentially located
in the developed metropolitan areas of Bangkok) will encroach on
ecologically sensitive forest areas, or affect any agricultural land.
Disposal of poly chlorinated butyl (PCB) will follow MEA's established
practice of shipping it to foreign countries (especially France) for
treatment and disposal. The project, as a whole, would, therefore, have
no adverse impact on the environment and has thus been classified under
Category B.
11. The one new transmission substation and the six new distribution
substations to be constructed under the project are located in the
premises of EGAT substations or the industrial/commercial complexes
that would be supplied from these substations. This land is available
-3 -



to MEA and has involved no displacement of persons. Additions and
modifications of existing transmission and distribution substations
involve no land procurement. All transmission lines under the project
would be constructed on existing right-of-ways and MEA's surveys have
shown that there are no persons currently residing in these routes.
Aost 95t of the distribution line additions and modifications would be
done on existing poles and would involve no displacement of persons.
The remaining 5t of the line construction would be undertaken on new
roads to be constructed by the Bangkok Municipal Authoprity (BMA). The
BMA would provide MEA a clear route for the location of poles. Hence
the project would not involve displacement of any persons. The
practice of BMA is to procure land at market rates through negotiations
with persons affected by the new road construction and required to
relocate.0
Program Objective Categories
Major Sector:             Power 100t
Poverty (0%)
Human Resources Development (10%)
Economic Management (10%)
Environment (0%)
Financial Institute (0%)
Infrastructure (70%)
Women in Development (0%)
Debt Adjustment (0%)
Natural Resources (0%)
Sector Reform (10%)
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending February 14, 1997.
- 4 -



