Page  1
CONFORMED COPY  
LOAN NUMBER 4199 TH
Guarantee Agreement
(Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project)
between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND 
and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 10, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4199 TH 
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 10, 1997 between KINGDOM OF THAILAND (the Guarantor) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Guarantor and Metropolitan Electricity Authority (the 
Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in 
the financing of the Project; and
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in an amount of one 
hundred forty five million dollars ($145,000,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to 
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter\1fing into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement and Section 1.02 of 
the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Page  2
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally 
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment 
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if 
any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of all the other 
obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is 
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be 
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the 
Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the 
Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet 
such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01.  Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Article 
II of this Agreement, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor 
shall carry out a periodic review of the Borrower’s electricity tariffs and take such 
measures (including, but without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of 
electricity tariffs of the Borrower) as shall be necessary to produce for the Borrower 
sufficient revenues to ensure that the Borrower shall comply with its cash generation, 
debt service coverage and debt/equity ratio obligations pursuant to Sections 5.02, 
5.03 and 5.04 of the Loan Agreement, respectively.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Finance of the 
Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Finance
Rama VI Road
Bangkok 10400
Thailand
Cable address:
Telex:
MINANCE 
82823 FISPOLO TH
Bangkok
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
   and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI), or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
Page  3
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By /s/ Nitya Pibulsonggram 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
