Page  1
January 17, 2000
Mr. Suphachai Phisitvanich 
Permanent Secretary 
Ministry of Finance 
Rama VI Road 
Bangkok 10400 Thailand
Mr. Kasem Chaihongsa 
Governor 
Metropolitan Electricity Authority 
30 Ploenchit Road, Pathumwan 
Bangkok 10330 Thailand
RE:
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project (LN 4199-TH)
Amendment to Loan Agreement
Gentlemen:
We refer to the Loan Agreement dated September 10, 1997 between International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Metropolitan Electricity 
Authority (the Borrower) for the above Project (the Loan Agreement), and to the 
Guarantee Agreement of even date between Kingdom of Thailand (the Guarantor) and the 
Bank in respect of the Project (the Guarantee Agreement).  We further refer to a 
letter dated October 7, 1999 from the Borrower requesting modification of certain 
components of the Project and inclusion of additional components.
We are pleased to inform that the Board of Executive Directors of the Bank 
concur with the Borrower’s request.  To give effect to the requested modifications of 
the Project, the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as set forth below:
Part A of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is amended to read as follows:
“Part A:   Distribution Expansion and Reinforcement
Expansion and reinforcement of the Borrower’s  distribution system 
through: 1.
Transmission and Distribution Substation System
Construction of:
(a)
addition at the existing 230/115 kilovolts Nongjok transmission 
substation ;  
(b)
modification of the existing 230/115 kilovolts Sainoi transmission 
substation; 
(c)
seven 69-115/12-24 kilovolts distribution substations; and  
(d)
addition at one existing 69-115/12-24 kilovolts distribution 
substation and 
modification of four such substations.
2.
Transmission Line System
Carrying out of a program to construct new transmission lines and to reconductor 
and uprate existing transmission lines, in an aggregate length of about 284 
circuit-kilometers (cct-km)
3.
Distribution System
(a)
Construction and modification of about 1,680 cct-km of primary lines and 
about 3,150 cct-km of secondary lines;
(b)
Installation of about 240 mega-volt-ampere of distribution transformers;
Page  2
(c)
Installation and replacement of about 280,000 revenue meters; 
(d)
Installation of about 550 mega-volt-ampere-reactive capacitors;
(e)
Installation of about 65 cct-km of underground power supply cable; and 
(f)
Installation of a computerized system to collect operational and 
statistical data on the distribution network to improve distribution efficiency and 
lower operating costs.
Part B […]
Part C […]”
Except as specifically amended hereby, all other provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement remain in full force and effect.  The above 
amendments shall enter into effect on the date upon which the Bank receives the copy 
of this letter duly countersigned by the representatives of the Borrower and of the 
Guarantor, respectively.
Please confirm the agreement of the Borrower and of the Guarantor to the 
amendments set forth above, by countersigning and duly dating the corresponding form 
of confirmation set forth herein below, and returning one fully signed original to us 
for our files.  One fully signed original should be retained by each of the Borrower 
and the Guarantor.
Yours sincerely,
By /s/ Jayasankar Shivakumar  
Country Director, 
Thailand 
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED:
KINGDOM OF THAILAND As Guarantor
By /s/ Suphachai Phisitvanich
Authorized Representative 
Permanent Secretary, 
Ministry of Finance
Date:  March 10, 2000
CONFIRMED:
METROPOLITAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
By /s/ Kasem Chaihongsa
       Authorized Representative 
Permanent Secretary, 
Ministry of Finance
Date: January 31, 2000
