Page  1
METROPOLITAN DISTRIBUTION REINFORCEMENT AUTHORITY
September 10, 1997
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America
Dear Sirs:
Re: Loan No. 4199 TH
Metropolitan Distribution Reinforcement Project
Representations               
In connection with the Loan Agreement to be entered into today between the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the "Bank") and Metropolitan 
Electricity Authority (MEA), MEA hereby undertakes and warrants to the Bank that:
1.
The financial statements dated, September 30, 1995, copies of which have been 
furnished to the Bank, correctly set forth the financial and operating condition of 
MEA as of such date, and that since such date there have been no material adverse 
changes in the financial and operating conditions of MEA.
2.
MEA is not engaged in litigation as plaintiff or defendant, the outcome of which 
might materially and adversely affect its financial condition.
3.
MEA has no outstanding agreements or liabilities, contingent or otherwise 
(including taxes) which might materially and adversely affect its financial condition.
4.
No debt of MEA is secured by any mortgage, pledge, charge, priority or other 
lien, and no contract or arrangement exists for the creation of any such mortgage, 
pledge, charge, priority or other lien.
5.
There are no existing defaults in the payment of principal of, or interest or 
other charges on, any of MEA's debts.
6.
MEA is not in violation of, and execution and delivery of the Loan Agreement and 
the compliance with all its terms do not and will not result in any violation of, any 
provisions of any existing agreement, franchise, concession, license or permit, or of 
any statute, law, decree, regulation or any other legal rule of a similar nature 
presently in effect and applicable to MEA.
7.
MEA is a duly existing company under the laws of the Kingdom of Thailand with 
full authority to carry out its present business, to carry out the Project and to 
execute and deliver the Loan Agreement, and has furnished to the Bank true copies of 
its Charter and Statement of Policy, and of all other regulations presently in force 
and effect and governing or applicable to the operations of MEA, as well as of its 
articles as presently in effect and governing MEA.
It is our mutual understanding that, in making the Loans and entering into the 
Loan Agreement with MEA, the Bank may rely on the representations contained herein.
Very truly yours,
METROPOLITAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
Page  2
By ____________________
   Authorized Representative
