c -/79:
THE FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
-       MINISTRY OF MINES AND ENERGY
ETHIOPIAN ELECTRICAL LIGHT AND POWER AUTHORITY
I
GILGEL GIBE HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
VoI.I                        ADDIS ABABA
ETHIOPIA
May 1997



I
I



Contents
1. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
2. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3. LEGAL FRAMEWORK
4. METHODOLOGY
5. DESCRIPTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT
6. PROJECT BENEFITS
7. PROJECT IMPACTS
8. RESETTLEMENT IMACTS
9. MANAGEMENT PLANS
10. RESIDUAL IMPACTS



I
I



1. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUNND
1.1 Purpose
The purpose of the environmental impact assessment (ELA) is to predict the negative impacts that
are likely to occur as a result of the preparation, construction and operation of the Gilgel Gibe
Hydroelectric Project. The assessment also identifies the mitigative measures required to
minimize the impacts identified. The scope of the EIA also includes the preparation of an
environmental management plan. A comprehensive resettlement plan has also been prepared
under a separate document.
1.2 Project Background
Ethiopia has an abundance of highland rivers providing the basis for a large potential sustainable
energy resource in the form of hydroelectric power. Recent power planning studies have
estimated that Ethiopia's hydroelectric potential is in the order of 30,000 mW, a potential that
is greatly in excess of foreseeable domestic energy demand. Currently about one percent of this
potential is being exploited. Preliminary investigations indicate that the most promising
hydroelectric sites could be developed at relatively low cost.
The Gilgel Gibe project is one of the most economically attractive potential hydroelectric
developments. Studies of the potential project were initiated in 1963 and ENEL (Ente Nazionale
per L'Energia Elettrica, Italy) carried out a feasibility study of the project in 1984. Initial
construction activities were carried out in 1988 through a co-operative programme between the
Governments of Ethiopia and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Subsequent assistance
has been provided by the Governments of Italy and Austria.
As a result of initial construction difficulties, changing power demand and finances, a number
of major design modifications were made. Due to a lack of progress, the agreement between the
Governments of Ethiopia and Korea was interrupted in 1994 and western project management
and tendering practices were subsequently adopted.
The ENEL/ELC consortium was reaied in June 1995 and given the responsibility of upgrading
and completing the project design, the preparation of tender documents, the development of
detailed design, and the supervision of construction.
2. PROJECT DESCRIPMON
2.1 Project Location
The project is located in Sekoru Wereda, Jimma Zone of the Oromia Region about 260km south
west of Addis Ababa and about 70 km north-east of Jimm. The project area is indicated in
Figure 1.
1



The project area is situated on a plateau approximately 1650m asl and consists of a series of
gentle sloping low hills and broad plains surrounded by hills and mountains. The Gilgel Gibe
(Little Gibe) River, crossing the Sekoru Wereda from the south-west to the north-east. is a
tributary of the Great Gibe River (known downstream as the Omo River). The river is extremely
variable in course and gradient.
In the project area proper, the first stretch of the river between Asendabo and the Deneba
waterfall is winding and follows a relatively flat course. The right bank is more or less flat while
the left bank has steeper gradients. Approaching the Deneba waterfalls the river banks become
much steeper and provide a suitable dam site. A dam located here would provide a reservoir
capacity sufficient to regulate most of the river flows and minimise unusable spills.
Downstream of the 20m high Deneba waterfall the river narrows and the gradient increases to
about 1.4-1.5 per cent. Straight stretches of the river are interspersed with meandering sections.
Within a few kilometres of the dam site the river drops considerably and provides a significant
and economic hydroelectric potential.
The project area is well connected by road (Highway 7) and is accessible from Addis Ababa in
about five hours.
2.2 Project Scheme
The project is characterized by a rockfill dam with asphalt concrete facing. The resulting
reservoir will serve a single underground power plant consisting of three turbines and
generators. Water will reach the power plant via a 8.9km concrete lined tunnel. The power plant
will generate 180mW of electrical capacity. The main technical and physical features of the
scheme are provided in Table 1.1. A complete description of all engineering features is provided
in the main report.
During the period from 1986 to 1993 the following various works of the project were
undertaken.
. most of the internal access roads inchludig a 40 ton capacity Bailey Bridge across the Gilgel
Gibe River near the dam site;
. diversion works including excravation, concrete pouring, and protection embankment
construction;
power waterways including outdoor stipping and excavatons, constuction adits for the tnnel,
and short stretches of the tunnel;
. excavation for the powerhouse platform;
. 230kV transmission line from the old powerhouse to Addis Ababa;
. ECAFCO camp construction;
. main temporary camp;
offices and warehouses;
. quany development;
2



. crushing and batching plant;
. power supply feeding camps and work site.
Table 1.1: Summary Descriptions of Main Features
Feature                                Data,Specifications
Reservoir
.maximum normal water level      1,671m asl
.average water level             1,665m asl
.95% water level                 1,656m asl
.minimum normal water level      1,651m asl
.total storage                   839 million m3l
.live storage                    711 million ml
Dam
.type                           rockfill with bituminous upstream facing
.crest elevation                 1,675m asl
.maximnum height                 40m
.crest length                    1,600m
.embankmnent volume              2.5 million m3
Tunnel
.type                            concrete lined
.construction method             drill and blast
.length                          8,950m
.diameter                        5.5m
.nvert elevations
.at intake                 1,638m asl
.at surge tank             1,605m asl
.slope                           0.36%
3. LEGAL FRAMEWORK
Since the 1940s Ethiopia has shown a growing concern for the country's environment. This is
reflected in a large number of proclamations and regulations relating to a wide range of
environmental components that fall within the responsibility of different government agencies.
The country's constitution contains the basic and comprehensive principles and guidelines for
the protection and management of the environment. Two articles of the constiution specifically
hold the people of Ethiopia responsible for the preservation of natuial resources and maintenance
of ecological balance.
3



In 1995 the Environmental Protection Authority was established by proclamation to prepare
environmental - protection policy and laws. As well, the authority has been given the
responsibility for preparing directives and systems necessary for evaluating the environmental
impact of development projects.
The World Bank requires that a comprehensive environmental assessment be conducted as a
basis for project loan appraisal.
4. METHODOLOGY
. EIA Responsibility
The ENEL/ELC Consortium was charged with the responsibility of preparing the EIA and to
"predict the likely environmental consequences of implementing project activities". World Bank
guidelines for preparing environmental assessments have been followed. The EIA has also been
based on the previous environmental studies including the "Gilgel Gibe Hydroelectric Scheme-
Feasibility Study (January 1984)" and "Gilgel Gibe Hydroelectric Project - Public and
Environmental Health Implications' by UNDPH/WHO (April 1986).
Assessment Team
A team consisting of the consulting consortium, members of EELPA, and seconded individuals
from various relevant government ministries and agencies were assembled and given the
responsibility for conducting the EIA and preparing the draft and final reports.
. Bounding and Scoping
The bounds of the environmental assessment follow the general project area as indicated in
Figure 1. In addition, the assessment considers the effects that the project might have further
downstream as far as the point where the Omo River enters Lake Turkana.
Scoping has included the most important and major environmental components, in particular,
water quantity and quality of the Gilgel Gebe River, riverine vegetation and other vegetation that
might be affected by construction activities, terrestial and aquatic fauna, aquatic ecosystems,
the people of the area, particularly those who will have to be involuntarily resettled, and the
health aspects of the project.
Assessment
Potential impacts-in the three stages of the project: preparation, construction and operation, were
considered. Impacts were given a subjective value ratng determined by members of the
assessment team.
4



.Data
Most of the data used as a basis for the assessment were made available from previous srudies
carried out in the 1980s. These were supplemented with additional data collected by the
assessment team in July and December 1995. These data included:
. detailed evaluation of natural vegetation biomass;
. collection of farming and agricultural land data;
. water quality, including measurements of chemical, physical and biological parameters;
review of diseases amongst workers on site;
. water level evaluations;
. photographic survey;
. highway #7 survey;
. fisheries data;
. public input regarding wildlife presence;
. public participation regarding farming difficulties in new settlement areas;
. sanitary conditions.
. Public Participation
Throughout the process of the assessment meetings were held with a number of agencies,
including the area health clinics, and with area householders.
A comprehensive public participation programme was carried out during the preparation of the
resettlement plan. The people to be resettled have been continually represented by their
respective Kebele farmers' associations throughout the planing process. Initially, during
registration of all families and properties, people were informed that they would be required to
move as a result of the project. Through a series of meetings with each of the 18 Kebele
farmers' associations local people were able to express their opinions on a number of concerns
including area to be resettled, forms of compensation, structures and facilities required, and
administration of the compensation programme. Initially four candidate areas for resettlement
were identified by a technical committee. The committee selected one particular area and
presented it to the people through their farmers' association representatives. All agreed that the
area selected was the most suitable. The associations indicated a number of concerns (some of
which are reflected in the identified imPaCts presented in Table 8.1). The host society was also
given the opportunity to provide input, the most important concern being the acceptability of the
settlers to the area. The host community accept the newcomers willingly.
Mitigation and Managat Plan
In addition to identifyi  thc important impacts that could be expeced as a result of the project,
the team has suggested possible mitigative measures that should be consider. Finally, the team
prepared an environmental management plan detailing the mitigation actions that would be
required to address the identified impacts.
5



S. DESCRIPTION OF THE ENVIRONMEET
5.1 Physical Environment
Geology and Seismology
The project area is situated on the south-western Ethiopian plateau. The area is characterized by
a series of basic and subsilicic effusive volcanic rocks that are frequently interlavered with
reddish paleosols of Tertiary age. In some locations these are topped with fluvio-lacustrine
sediments, particularly in the area of the upper end of the proposed reservoir. The volcanic
layers generally dip a few degrees towards the south-west and are crossed by minor faults and
fractures.
Most of the epicenters of observed earthquakes in Ethiopia are related to major rift structures.
The dam site is at least 96km from the most active seismic centres and any earthquakes
originating in these centres would be considerably attenuated at the dam site. Current seismic
data available is preliminary in nature, and as such, the value of the horizontal ground
acceleration to be considered will necessarily have to be greater than 0. lg. Since there is a high
possibility of relevant earthquakes to be released along the nearest border to the site of the
Ethiopia rift active tectonic structure, or one of the faults related to it, the adoption of a design
earthquake of 0.1g and a maximum credible earthquake of 0.2g has been considered.
soils
Soils of the general area are alfisol-type that have been developed under humid and deciduous
forest conditions. Soil texture ranges from clay to lime-clay or sandy clay and the soils are
generally acidic. The project site is characterized by black soils in the valley bottom, grey brown
in the hilly strip and red at higher levels. Organic and total nitrogen content of the valley bottom
soils are typical of permanent meadow land. Middle and high altitude soils have lower nutrient
levels due to exploitation and intensive erosion.
. Climate
The climate is semi-arid with average ePature and rainfall of 19.20C and 1535mm
respectively. Sixty per cent of the total rainfall occurs within the June to September period, 30
per cent in the February to May period, and 10 per cent in the October to January period. The
total loss due to evapotranspition without the reservoir is estimated at 1150mm per year.
. Hydrology
The mean annul discharge of the Gilgel Gibe River for the period between 1967 and 1992 is
50.4m3/s which corresponds to an annnal runoff of 1,578 million m3 and a total rainfall volume
over the correwonding catchment area of 6,485 million n3. The flow of the Gilgel Gibe River
at the confluence of the Great Gibe River is 53. 1m3/s. At this point the flow of the Great Gibe
6



River is 177.7m3/s. 28.36 per cent of the Great Gibe River flow is contributed by the Gilgel
Gibe River. The Great Gibe River joins the Gojeb River with a flow of 86.2m3/s to form the
Omo River with a flow of 531.7m3/s where it enters Lake Turkana. The Great Gibe contributes
32.1 per cent of the flow of the Omo River and the contribution of the Gilgel Gibe River to the
Omo River is 9.48 per cent.
. Water Quality
Daily water temperature of the Gilgel Gibe River ranges from 210C to 24°C. A low oxygen
content ranging from 5.2 to 6.8ppm is caused by the high suspended solid content. Low levels
of orthophosphates are indicative of low use intensity by man. The low nitrogen levels are
typical of natural situations or those that are only slightly altered by minimum organic additions.
Salinity levels are low (46.52mg/1) and considerably lower than salinity levels of many of the
country's rivers at similar altitude.
The river's water is classified as earthy-brackish, alkaline, bicarbonate and slightly mineral. The
river has high levels of turbidity and bacteria, particularly faecal coliform type. As a result, the
river is categorized by WHO as "non-mains water supply" and requires treatment to render it
potable.
5.2 Natural Environment
* Vegetation
The natural vegetation of the Oromia Region is characterized by moist evergreen forest which
is found at an altitude between 1,200m and 2,300m and where the annual rainfall is in the range
of 1,200mm and 2,000mm. The remaining natural vegetation cover of the project area includes
remnants of this evergreen forest in the form of thickets and larger isolated patches. This is
particularly true along the river itself. The project area contains three main types of natural
vegetion cover including riverine, reed savannah and a transitional vegetation zone between
these two types.
A well defined riverine forest system, defned by moistre availability, is present along the
Gilgel Gibe River. This includes the section to be imndated and the 16km section downstream
that will be devoid of most of its amnnal water flow as a result of the dam and reservoir. The
total extent of the riverine forest to be inundated is estimated to be in the order of 300ha. In
places the forest shows signs of degradation, probably as a result of areas of easy access by
residents of the project area seekdng constuction materials and fuelwood. However, its overall
condition has not been fully assessed. The riverine forest is comprised of five plant associations
and the relative abundance of their constitutents has been identified on the basis of moisture
regimes.
7



The transitional strip between the riverine system and the savannah system includes three main
tree species including Acacia cfr. abyssinica, and a number of grasses. The treed savannah is
characterised by xerophilous species with Acacia abyssinica and Acacia sp. being the most
common.
Fauna
Wildlife abundance and diversity in the project area is low, probably as a result of past and
present intensive farming and grazing activities, and the extensive reduction in suitable habitat.
Three species of amphibians and reptiles, ten bird species, and 21 species of mammals are
thought to be present in the project area as a result of earlier surveys. Input from local people
has indicated the presence of large carnivores but to date this has not been verified. The
relatively inaccessible gorge between the proposed dam and tailrace probably contairLs suitable
habitat and food supply (e.g. baboons) for leopard.
The macro-benthic population consists mainly of oligoketos, and the abundance of caddis flies
confirms high water quality from a biological perspective. The river conditions are ideal for fish
species requiring little oxygen and a diet from the lower end of the food chain. Three major fish
species were sampled from the river, including Barbus intermedius (the dominant species),
Tilapia nilotica and Labeo cylindricus. The dominant Barbus intermedius has a population of
normal composition. Various other factors suggest that this species is a permanent and well
adjusted member of the river ecosystem.
5.3 Socio-economic Environment
Population and Livelihood
The population of the project area is found in villages and small scattered settlements with
groups of tukuls and single tuklls. There are no towns in the project area. Sekoru is 171km
distant, Denabe Skmn distant and Asendabo 14km distant. Jimma is the nearest city situated 70kmn
away.
The area to be affected by the project includes 18 kebele farmer associations located within four
Wereda administrations. At the time of registration, for purposes of resettlement, the total
number of households was 2,476 representing a total population of 15,351. This population is
expected to grow by 2.5 per cent to yield a total population of 16,886 by the year 2000.
The project area is chaactised by an agrarian economy, primarily subsistence in nature. Cereal
production, particularly teff, sorghum and maie, provides the basis of agriculture although
tubers, vegetables and fruit (primarily bananas) are also grown. Coffee is cultivated along with
other cash crops including citrus. A variety of other food and non-food trees are also cultivated.
Agricultual practices are primitive.
8



. Culture
The dominant religion in the project area is Moslem and is the exclusive religion in Sekoru and
Omo-nada Weredas. Christians comprise 35 per cent and 15 per cent of the population in Tiro-
afeta and Kersa Weredas, respectively. Oromita is spoken exclusively in all Weredas except
Kersa where it represents 80 per cent of the spoken language (18 per cent Amharic and 2 per
cent others). Ethnic affiliation is exclusively Oromo in all but Kersa Wereda where it is 80 per
cent Oromo, 18 per cent Amhara and 2 per cent others.
. Resource Use
The land resources of the project area are used primarily for grazing and agriculture. Forest
cover, both dry land and along the river, is accessed for local products including timber for
house construction, fuelwood, and probably for charcoal making and the provision of a variety
of plants for medicinal and food purposes. Some wildlife including warthog, wild pig and birds
are reportedly captured, but generally hunting is minimal.
Fishing is carried out but there are no full time fishers. Only hooks are used to catch the larger
specimens of Barbus intermedius. Fish consumption in Ethiopia is generally low.
I infrastructure
The project area is serviced by the main centers of Deneba, Sekoru, Asendabo and Jinima (70km
distant) and national highway #7 connects Addis Ababa to these centers. Connection between
various settlements within the project area is by footpath. A number of Gilgel Gibe River
crossings by canoe are made by local farmers for access to markets.
. Public Health
Malaria, onchocerciasis and helminthic infections are the major diseases found in the project
area. Malaria is endemic with the main transmission season between September and November.
Within the project area ten of 32 habitats surveyed contained the immediate snail host for
intestinal bilharzia. These ten habitats also showed the presence of the host for the urinary tract
form of the disease. Although tse-tse fly is present in the area, no cases of human
trypanosomiasis has been reported. Lower tract infections and diarrhoeal diseases are found in
11 per cent and 7 per cent of the population respectively.
Pulmonary TBC has been steadily increasing in the area since 1989 with 1,538 cases being
reported in 1994-95 thmough the Asendabo Health Centr and the Jimma Zone Health Office.
Hepatitis has been mported in 116 cases over the past six years and, to date, 36 cases of AIDS
have been reported. Other STDs, typhoid fever, relapsing fever and meningitis are on the
increase.
9



There is one health centre within the project area. Other health units are located at Deneba.
Sekoru and Dimtu towns but these are managed only by health assistants. The Asendabo health
centre offers the best facilities including the services of a doctor, nurse, sanitarian and a
laboratory technician. The nearest hospital is located in Jimma, 70hn distant.
With the exception of well water supplies for the major towns in the area, and the wells located
at the construction camp and near the dam site, all domestic water is obtained from surface
water and springs. The only source of contamination in these supplies is faecal contamination
which occurs mainly in water supplies in proximity to densely populated areas.
Apart from a few pit latrines located in the older towns (Asendabo, Deneba and Sokoru), there
are no basic toilet facilities. Generally, people of the area use the open space adjacent to their
dwellings and villages for defecation.
6. PROJECT BENEFITS
The Gilgel Gibe project will provide a number of benefits at the national, regional and local
levels. These benefits are briefly described in the following.
.A total of 5,000 person years of jobs will be created with many being made available to local
people. It is estimated that the total increased input into the local economy of the area as a result
of these jobs will be approximately 18.6M birr. Additional money will enter the economy as a
result of direct project spending for local goods and services. This increased spending will have
spin-off effects including entrepreneurial development and the support of a number of secondary
and tertiary activities. Local people will also be given the opportunity for training and learning
new on-the-job skills which can be ransferred elsewhere upon termination of the project.
-Project jobs made available to women will allow them to gain a degree of economic
independence and as a result, the family socio-economic position will improve.
.In the area to be resettled, infrastucure and social conditions will improve. Health centres will
be expanded and better supplied, new schools will be built and existing ones expanded. Water
supplies, sanitation, roads and general access will be improved.
.A fishery developed in the reservoir will benefit local entrepreneun, earning money to be
further invested in the community. The fishery would create permaent jobs.
.Providing the buffer zone around the reservoir will reduce erosion in the watershed, a multi-
faceted benefit for enegy managers and downstream users and ecosystems.
.Regionally, the project will provide the source for developing the rural electrification
programme which will contribute to improved socio-economic conditions.
10



.At the national level, the project contributes to the national grid and helps the countr to meet
its electrical energy demands. Economic expansion will occur as a result of increased electricirv
supply. Harnessing hydropower will allow the country to reduce its dependence on diesel
generation for energy and thus allow it to shift its foreign exchange expendirures to other
important development needs. The foreign exchange savings would be in the order of USS 8M
per year.
.The project provides a contribution to the national grid, which will eventually produce a surplus
that can be exported to neighbouring countries such as Sudan, Egypt, Djibouti and Somalia, thus
earning foreign exchange for Ethiopia.
7. PROJECT IMPACTS
7.1 Major Impacts
Six major environmental impacts have been identified and assessed. These have been identified
on the basis of their intensity, area covered and/or the size of human population affected. They
are described briefly here in terms of their nature and mitigative considerations. Residual
imnpacts are described in Section 10.
. Dislocation of People
The proposed reservoir will occupy an area of approximately 60km2. This will necessitate the
removal of 2,476 households representing a total population of 15,351. The stress on people who
know that they will have to move from the area, in many cases abandoning ancestral homes,
familiar surroundings, social relationships, and knowing that they will be moving to a new and
relatively unfamiliar environment, can be severe. Two distinct groups of people will be required
to move from the area. The first group of 361 households resides and farms within the reservoir
boundary. This group will be losing homes, 3,169ha of agricultural land, and 295ha of grazing
land. The second group includes those who live outside of the area to be flooded and who rely
on lands within and outside of the reservoir area. The second group, represents 2,115 households
and will lose 7,483ha of agricultural land and 49ha of grazing land.
The loss of homes, land and livelihood can be fully mitigated through the preparation and
imnplementation of a comprehensive resetlement plan.
. Health
The reservoir will cover an area of 60kcm2 and will create an environent suitable for the
diffusion of tbree-main types of infections, all three of the parasitic type: malaria, onchocerciasis
and schistosomiasis. The twansmission vectors of these infections involve a stage linked to the
presence of water. The major factor for the spread of malaria and during constuction will be
the thousand labourers who will be deployed on the project. People coming into the area from
other water related vector-borne disease endemic areas will establish transmission foci and
11



intensify disease dissemination. It is possible that the density of S. ethiopense, one of the vectors
of onchocerciasis, will be enhanced as a result of the creation of the reservoir.
Although it is expected that many of the labourers will be recruited locally, a number of single
men from distant areas will be hired as well. Experience has shown that construction camps
attract women who are willing to deal in commercial sex. There is no reason to believe that the
situation at the project site will be different. It can be expected that the incidence of STDs will
increase and of particular concem will be an increase in the number of HIV positive cases.
A buffer area around the reservoir would mitigate the impact of water borne related infectious
diseases. As well, the margins of the reservoir should be deepened to remove favourable habitat
for mosquitoes and snails. Health education, the prevention of shanty town development near
the construction camps, the provision of separate dwelling sites within the camp for men and
women, health education, and the free distribution of condoms would all contribute to the
prevention of STDs.
. Gender Issues
Often a development project that affects people, particularly if relocation is required, places an
extra burden on women. Issues relating to women and resettlement are presented in Table 8.1.
Women can be affected in several ways as a result of the project. They are often used on
construction sites as unskilled labour in strenuous jobs. Although this provides them with some
economic independence, they still often have to return home daily to attend to many of their
usual chores including water collection, wood gathering, meal preparation and child rearing.
Overwork can lead to stress and physical illnesses. Although in many countries women are often
paid a lower wage than men for carrying out similar tasks on the constuction site, this will not
be the case on the Gilgel Gibe project. By taking on work at the construction site, a lifestyle is
lost, community social interactions change and a culture is affected.
Alcohol abuse by men, as a result of extra money available from construction jobs, can affect
women and children at home through the loss of fmances for household maintenance and through
physical abuse.
The effects on women can be minimized through careful plannig and consideration for their
welfare. Womcn should have full access to all project jobs for which they are qualified,
including supervisory positions. They should also be eligible for any training opportunities
provided through the project.
. Loss of Food Production
The reservoir and buffer area will eliminate a total of 10,652ha of agricultural land, thus
permanently removing futre agricultural production represented by this land. As well, 344ha
12



of grazing land will be permnanently lost, an area that represents a specific mnmber of animal
production units.
There is no mitigation for the permanent loss of land that has the capacity to produce crops or
to rear livestock. More intensive agriculture and improved livestock management may
compensate for overall lost food production for the area and maintain area levels of food
security. As well, bringing fallow land into production as will be the case in the resettlement
area, will compensate for lost food production.
In terms of lost food production potential, the reservoir, which will represent 3,169ha of
agricultural land, will provide an area of 6,000ha that can be managed for fisheries production.
This would offset lost agricultural capacity and production.
. Loss of Area Biodiversity
The reservoir will elimninate approximately 300ha of riverine forest and along with it the habitat
for a variety of fauna. These represent a significant and important component of the area's
overall biodiversity. As well, the loss of normal river flows downstream of the dam for a
distance of 16km may have some effect on the riverine forest in-this stretch of river, and on the
fauna that rely on.the forest and water flows for at least part of its habitt. The plant community
below and within the vicinity of the falls immediately downstream of the dam will be modified
as a result of lower river flows.
There is no mitigation for the loss of biodiversity, for either the loss of riverine forest or the
faunal communities that rely on the forest. Although establishing forest elsewhere such as in the
dryer buffer zone above the edge of the reservoir will replace total biomass loss, it will not
replicate the plant and animal communities of the current riverine forest. It can be assumed that
the reservoir will develop its own ecological system over time and this will offset some of the
biodiversity loss.
Formal protection of the forested valley between the dam and the tailrace will ensure that the
riverine forest in this area is protected. Such protection could be extended further downstream
below the tailrace where the topographic conditions and other naural features are similar and
warrant protection..
Loss of Downsrem  Aquatic Habitat
The Gilgel Gibe River downstream of the dam for a distance of 16km will have its water flows
altered permanenly as a rsut of the reservoir and the operating regimes for the reservoir. The
loss of normal water flows will affect the aquatic communities in this stretch of river. Without
compensation flows, the loss will be complete and permanent.
3.3



Partial mitigation can be accomplished through the provision of a compensation flow. However.
the cost of such a flow in terms of lost hydropower should be carefully weighed against the
value of riverine and aquatic habitats that will be lost.
The downstream effect will not extend much beyond the confluence with the fist major inflow
below the tailrace. Total loss of water to Lake Turkana will only be 0.17 per cent as a result of
evaporation from the reservoir. This loss will have a negligible effect on the aquatic communities
in the Omo River and on the total flow into Lake Turkana. However, regulated flows from the
reservoir could affect downstream aquatic communities, at least to the confluence of the first
major inflow.
7.2 Exsting Environmental Impacts from Earlier Activities
The Gilgel Gibe Project was initiated in the early 1980s but subsequently halted. Prior to
abandonment much of the construction work had been initiated. Impacts of these past
construction activities are much in evidence. Road building at the powerhouse site has left heavy
scarring on the valley walls and has probably led to some degree of soil erosion. The 230kV
transmission line in place did not take into account aesthetics or social impacts and in several
places the line passes close to and overhead of individual houses.
The construction compound contains a large quantity of physical plant, much of which will never
be used again. One particular potential hazard is the stacking of old vehicle batteries alongside
one of the camp buildings. These should have been properly disposed of a long time ago to
ensure that battery acids do not leach into the ground. It is likely that a number of situations at
the compound have led to the leaching away of petrochemicals. It is the intention to have the
campsite cleared of unnecessary materials at the beginning of the construction phase of the
current project.
7.3 Other Impacts
A large number of other potential and less disruptive impacts are envisioned. These are
presented in Table 7.1. The table indicates the impacts to be expected, the causes of the impacts
and their effects, and the mitigative measures to be considered.
14



Table 7.1: Other Impacts
IMPACT                    CAUSE                     EFFECT                    POSSIBLE MITGATION         REMARKS
MEASURES
Physical Environment
.humidity rise           .creation of reservoir    .moderation of shoreline   .none                      .likely not to be
and other nearby                                     significant
vegetation
.discomfort
.water quality In reservoir   .water Irnpoundment   .could affect potential    .water management         .reservoir ecosystem
biological production in  through release            will be developed
reservoir                 programme                  within parameter of
existing water qualily
.water quality downstream   .water Impoundment      .negative effect on aquatic  .operating schedule to take  .poor quality water will
ecosystem of 16km stretch   quality of released  water   be released; effect
Immediately downstream of  into account              downstream on aquatic
dam                                                  communities is
.negative effect on aquatic                          unknown
ecosystem short distance
downstream of tailrace
.construction runoff of   damage to aquatic         .containment of pollutants
pollutants                communities                including petrochemicals
and camp wastes
.shoreline slumping       .reservoir wave action    .loss of shoreline and    .stabilization with suitable   .vegetation can only be
vegetation                species                    established at edge ol
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __f lull  supply    level
15



.reservoir               .soil erosion              Irregular heavy           .reduce soil erosion with    .pattern of
sedimentation and flushing                          sedimentation deposition   watershed management       sedimentation
downstream                practices upstream         deposition unknown
without modelling
.eutrophication           .nutrient overloading     .loss of dissolved oxygen    .removal of large
and low fish productivity  vegetation before reservoir
Ifilling
Natural Environment
.vegetatlive cover       .construction aclivilies  .Joss of Important         .avoid important vegetated   .environmental
vegetation, habitat and   areas                      guidelines should be
.dump sites               promotion of erosion       .strip topsoil and         incorporated into
rehabilitate site          contracts
.oss of fauna            .Joss of habitat on        .loss of blodiversity     .avoid Important habitats   environmental
construction sites                                                              guidelines should be
.human pressure on wildlife  .Joss of blodiversity  .educatlion, penalties      incorporated into
contracts
SocIo-economIc Environment                                  .
.access                  .highway 7 rerouted and    .reservoir                  reroute highway through    currently under
communities cut off                                  Asendabo                   consideration
.rAver crossings required for  .reservoir           .provision of ferry service
access to markets could be                           or access road
lost
dust                      traffic movement          .respiratory problems;     .watering of roads;        Aimpacts only during
blasting and drilling    .aesthetics                 .blasting techniques used    construction phase
that will minimize dust
.nolse                   .trafflic movement         .stress                    .proper handling of         impact only during
vehicles                   construction phase
.blasting and drilling    .hearing damage            vehicls_consructio_p__as
16



.aesthetics               .road and quarry scars    .unsightily               .sides of disused quarries
alIer construction                                  should be graded, where
completion                                          feasible, and vegetated
.revegetate abandoned
access roads
.equipment and camp                                  dismantle, breakup and
remains                                             rehabilitate sites
.waterfall below dam     .Aoss of local attraction  .compensation releases
virtually eliminated due to
low water releasesr
.safety                  .traffic                  .Anjuries and deaths       .public awareness and
.blasting                .lnjurles and deaths       safety operational
.unsafe quarry faces      .injuries and deaths      procedures enforced
.deep water              .drowning                  .public awareness
.social conflict          .inigrant workers mingling   .cultural values eroded  .worker education
with local population                                .control of camp
movements
.settlers placing pressure    .stress between the two  .additional services
on existing services of   groups                     provided and upgrading of
Asendabo                                             existing services
.drug abuse               .high wages, free time and   .fights, Injuries;     .worker education
access to drugs,          .spousal abuse
particularly alcohol
17



8. RESETTLEMENlT IMPACTS
Dislocation of a population in excess of 15.000 people is the most significant impact of the
Gilgel Gibe project. To address the impact a comprehensive resettlement plan. a brief summary
of which is presented in Section 9.2, has been prepared. However, a resenlement programme
itself presents a number of potential impacts and these are presented in Table 8.1. along with
mitigative actions that will be taken to ensure that the impacts are effectively addressed. For
further details of the resettlement plan the reader is referred to the full resettlement plan and its
implementation plan.
9. MANAGEMENT PLANS
9.1 Environmental Management Plan
An environmental management plan has been prepared and outlines the mitigation that will be
taken for each of the impacts that have been identified in the impact assessment. Some costs
(e.g. reforestation and fishery programmes) have been detailed. The management plan also
provides a summary of the resettlement plan.
9.2 Resettlement Plan
The project will displace a population of 15,351 people in 2,476 subsistence fanning households.
The purpose of the resettlement plan, along with its accompanying implementtion plan, is to
ensure that those being displaced are resettled to a suitable area, that they are fully compensated
for their losses in terms of immovable property, and that their income generating opportunities
are fully restored.
A full inventory of private and public property has been conducted and compensation values
have been determined. A resettlement site has been chosen from an original selection of four
candidate areas. The site selected has been based on its suitability for meeting the social and
agricultural needs of those being resettled.
The site includes an adequate ama of 8,109ha of potential agricultural land, similar to the area
being left by the resettlers, and it will meet all of the needs of the resettlers.
The host population has the same socioeconic, ethnic, linguistic and religious profile of the
resettler group.
The resettlement plan describes resettlement procedures to be followed, compensation methods,
candidate qualifications, in     to be developed, and total costs of the programme which
has been calculated at $US 10,060,906.00. A separate resettlement implementation project office
has been organised under the regional govermment of Oromia and will be supervised by the head
of the agricultural bureau. The office will be responsible for implementing the plan which
identifies anticipated impacts, mitigative measures to be taken, and the costs for carrying out
these measures. The plan also has provision for feeder roads, public facilities including health
18



Table 8.1: Potential Impacts of Resettlement Programme
POTENTIAL IMPACT                      MITIGATIVE MEASURES                    RESPONSIBILITY
CONSIDERED
Loss of livelihood                    Settlers will be provided with equivalent   Oromia Regional Government
farmland with necessary machinery and
fertilizers
Loss of houses, cemetaries and other  New houses will be constructed and full   Oromia Regional Government
immovable property                    financial compensation for loss of other
immovables will be provided; cemetaries
will be preserved
Loss of social structure              Settlers will be resettled all together in  Oromia Regional Government
one area
Loss of social services and infrastructure   Health unit and veterinary post will be  Oromia Regional Government
established in new area; school and
peasant association office will be
established; flour mill will be built;
mosque and church will be built
Lack of potable water                 Wells will be established at the new site    Oromia Regional Government
Lack of access to nearby towns and    Access roads and bridges will be        Oromia Regional Government
market places                         established
Poor drainage at new site             Land with poor drainage will be drained    Oromia Regional Government
Applications for resettlement from non-    Strict registration procedures will be  Oromia Regional Government
legitimate candidates                 undertaken
19



Inability of some resettlers to adapt  Monitoring, councilling and training  Oromia Regional Government
facilties will be provided
Erosion of settlement areas          Soil conservation including soil
management practices will be introduced
Pressure on existing forest and other  A public awareness programme will be    EELPA and Oromia Regional
natural areas                        planned and initiated                Government
Disadvantages to women
.relocation often leads to men  .no mitigation                       Government of Ethiopia
migrating and women taking on a
double burden
.cash compensation often goes to  .educational and skills training programs    Government of Ethiopia
the male household head and   will be provided for women;
women have no control         .entrepreneurial training for women will
.possible loss of existing jobs  be provided
20



centres, a veterinary centre, mosques and churches. It also outlines activities for land use
planning, foresI protection, erosion control, health problem solving and other actions that will
be undertaken.
10. RESIDUAL IMPACTS
Not all environmental impacts will be mitigated and as is always the case in a development
project such as the Gilgel Gibe project, permanent impacts will remain. These represent the
sacrifices and costs of gaining the benefits to be derived from the project. The major residual
impacts include:
. Loss of Food Production Capacity
The loss of 10,652ha of agricultural land and 427ha of grazing land will be permanent. This will
be offset partially by a managed fishery in the reservoir, similar to other natural and created
fisheries in the country.
. Health
With restricted access as result of the buffer zone around the reservoir, transmission of water
related diseases from the reservoir winl be minimal.
:nspite of efforts to prevent the spread of STDs, STD incidence will increase. As well, some
drug (e.g. alcohol) abuse is expected.
D Dust and Noise
Dust and noise will be controlled but will still be present. It will occur only during the
construction phase and thus will represent a temporary residual impact.
, Riverine Forest Loss and Weakening of Area Biodiversity
The loss of riverine forest as a reslt of the reservoir will be a permanent loss and can not be
mitigated. Biodiversity of the area is weakened and inspite of reforestation of the buffer area,
and the development of a reservoir aquatic ecosystem, biodiversity of the area will be
weakened..
. Loss of Aquatic Habitat
River aquatic habitat will be permanently lost upstream of the dam for a distance of the length
of the reservoir. Downstream for a distance of 16km between the dam and the tailrace the
aquatic habitat will likely be permanently altered as a result of a compensation flow equivalent
only to low season flows. Below the tailrace the aquatic habitat is likely to be permanently
21



altered, at least to the point of confluence with the first major inflow, as a result of regulated
flows and altered water quality.
. Loss of Fauna
Inspite of all mitigative actions, some loss of fauna and its habitat is inevitable during the
construction phase of the project. The greatest permanent loss of fauna and habitat will result
in the removal of vegetation from the proposed reservoir.
22



