                                               Document of
                                            The World Bank

                                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                         Report No: 35573


                              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (IDA-30190 PPFI-P9880)

                                                   ON A

                                                  CREDIT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$200 MILLION

                                                  TO THE

                          FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA

                                                  FOR AN

                                          ENERGY II PROJECT




                                               June 29, 2006




Africa Energy Team
Infrastructure Family
Africa Region



 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
 official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective )

          Currency Unit = Ethiopian Birr
                  Birr 1 = US$ 0.11289
                  US$ 1 = Birr 8.89585

                FISCAL YEAR
                July 8 -   July 7

       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
DCA         Development Credit Agreement
DC          Direct Contracting
EA          Environmental Assessment
EEA         Ethiopian Electricity Agency
EIB         European Investment Bank
EIRR        Economic Internal Rate of Return
EEPCo       Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation
EELPA       Ethiopian Electric Light and Power Authority
EMP         Environmental Management Plan
EMU         Environmental Monitoring Unit (EEPCo)
EREDPC      Ethiopian Rural Energy Development and Promotion Center
FIRR        Financial Internal Rate of Return
GCAP        Gilgel Gibe Archeological Project
GIS         Geographic Information System
GoE         Government of Ethiopia
GWh         Gigawatt hour
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Agency
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
ICS         Interconnected System
IDC         Interest During Construction
IS          International Shopping
kWh         kilowatt hour
MDP         Management Development Program
MIS         Management Information System
MW          Megawatt
MME         Ministry of Mines and Energy
MOA         Ministry of Agriculture
NBF         Not Bank Financed
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
NDF         Nordic Development Bank
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
NPV         Net Present Worth
OP          Operational Policy
PAD         Project Appraisal Documents

 PDO               Project Development Objectives
 PAP               Project Affected People
 REDP              Rural Energy Development Project
 SCS               Self-contained system
 WBISPP            Woody Biomass Inventory and Strategic Planning Project




                 Vice President:    Gobind Nankani
              Country Director      Ishac Diwan
               Sector Manager       S. Vijay Iyer
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Philippe Benoit

                                           ETHIOPIA
                                          ENERGY II


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Performance Indicators for Monitoring Future Operations                 31
Annex 9. Details of Financial Rate of Return Evaluation                          32
Annex 10. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report                            33
MAP - IBRD 28768                                                                 56

Project ID: P000736                                                  Project Name: ET-Energy 2 (FY98)
Team Leader: Philippe Charles Benoit                                 TL Unit: AFTEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 28, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: ET-Energy 2 (FY98)                                       L/C/TF Number: IDA-30190; PPFI-P9880
   Country/Department: ETHIOPIA                                                           Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Power (98%); Renewable energy (2%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Climate change (P); Rural services
                            and infrastructure (P); Regulation and competition policy (P); Other financial and private
                            sector development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/09/1997                                     Effective: 05/06/1998                05/06/1998
     Appraisal: 09/15/1997                                         MTR: 01/28/2002
      Approval: 12/11/1997                                      Closing: 01/31/2004                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT. OF ETHIOPIA/MME/EELPA/MOA
                      Other Partners:      Nordic Development Fund, European Investment Bank

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind Nankani                                 Callisto Madavo
Country Director:               Ishac Diwan                                    Oey Astra Meesook
Sector Manager:                 Raju A. Laburam                                Mark Tomlinson
Team Leader at ICR:             Philippe Benoit                                Alfred B. Gulstone
ICR Primary Author:             Kurt Schenk; Luiz Maurer;
                                Yusuf Haji Ali


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1     The project development objectives as stated in the Development Credit Agreement (Second
Energy Project), dated January 25, 1998 (Project Appraisal Document dated November 13, 1997) were (a)
to increase the efficiency and sustainability of Ethiopia's power sector, and to increase electricity use for
economic growth and improved quality of life; and (b) to improve utilization efficiency of rural renewable
energy. Progress on these objectives was measured by Ethiopia achieving by the end of 2002: (i) total
system failures of no more than 3 per year; (ii) capacity to connect 250,000 new customers to the grid as
the distribution network is rehabilitated and expanded (under a separate project); (iii) 100% of new
industrial applicants for power connections will be satisfied; and (iv) to inventory biomass stock in
Northern regions. Key Performance Indicators including actual/latest estimates are included in Annex 1.

3.1.2     The objectives and the design of the Project need to be assessed in the context of (i) low service
cover and quality of electricity supply, (ii) needed efficiency improvements in the operation of EEPCo, and
(iii) low efficiency in the use of biomass. Low access to electricity (about 5% at the time of Project
Appraisal) and inadequate and poor quality supply demanded an urgent increase in generation capacity. In
response, the construction of the 184 MW Gilgel Gibe Hydropower Power plant was included as the
principal component of the Project. In addition, technical assistance was incorporated in the Project to
improve EEPCo's day to day operations and in regulatory and institutional reform of the sector, as well as
to improve the efficiency of biomass utilization by stock taking and promote the use of this basic renewable
energy source.

3.1.3     The objectives reflected essential priorities for the power sector as well as rural sector development
at that time, as identified both by the government and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. They were
consistent with the Government of Ethiopia's (GoE) long term vision of the power sector and in line with
GoE's policy of increasing the use of electricity for economic growth and improved quality of life, in
commercializing EEPCo, in bringing tariffs up to commercial levels, of increasing private sector
investment, and enhancing the utilization of biomass resources in formulating strategies towards meeting
the biomass energy demand in rural area. It had clear links to the Bank's prevailing Country Assistance
Strategy which aimed to reduce poverty by promoting sustained economic growth, and creating an
environment conducive to rapid private sector and export development. The relevance of the Project's
objectives is rated as high. They addressed the right priorities in the power sector at the time of appraisal
and they remain relevant today.

3.1.4     A first step in the commercialization of EEPCo was taken at the time of Project Appraisal with the
establishment of EELPA as a corporation by issuing a Regulation (no. 86/1997) under the Public
Enterprises Proclamation No. 25/1992, with the expectation of reducing its burden on Government
finances. At the same time, a tariff increase of about 39% was approved.

3.1.5     Any hydropower project is demanding on the Implementing Agency, and this project was no
exception. The Project was reasonably complex, and carried a moderate risk rating. It faced a budget
overrun, delays in implementation, and slow filling of the reservoir. Despite these not being uncommon
features in other hydro plants, they impacted the financial feasibility of the Project. Additionally, tariffs
have not increased (in nominal terms) for seven years, significantly reducing EEPCo's internal cash
generation to support new investments. The Bank has in many opportunities, emphazised the importance of
continued tariff increases to build a health and sustainable power sector, able to carry on investments of
such magnitude. The deteriorating financial performance of EEPCo and the scale of the investment plan
has the potential to jeopardize the sustainability of the Ethiopia's power sector. The tariff freeze and the



                                                        - 2 -

deterioriorating financial situation has been responsible for its unsatisfactory PDO rating since December
2004. The institutional components also suffered some delays, but the financial impact on the overall
Project is modest.

3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no formal revision of project objectives.

3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1    The Project, as stated in the Project Development Agreement, consisted of the following three
components:

    Part A: Gilgel Gibe Hydroelectric Plant ($ 281.88 million, including about $189 million in IDA
    financing), comprising: (a) construction of a hydroelectric power station, consisting on an underground
    power house with three 61.3 MW units on the Gilgel Gibe river, and rehabilitation and upgrading of
    associated power transmission lines and substations; (b) improving the efficiency and safety of
    EEPCo's power generation operations, through the acquisition of equipment, provision of technical
    advisory services and training for (i) the establishment and operation of a dam safety unit within
    EEPCo, (ii) the establishment of a maintenance systems for the Gilgel Gibe power plant and
    transmission system, and (iii) the establishment of a system to optimize the use of EEPCo's dam
    reservoirs; (c) acquisition of equipment and provision of technical advisory services for the
    implementation of (i) a plan for the resettlement of persons to be affected by the construction of Gilgel
    Gibe, and (ii) a plan designed to mitigate of the Project's potential adverse effect on the environment.

    Part B: Rural Energy (US$5.08 million, including about $3.5 million in IDA financing), comprising
    (a) implementation of a program aimed at, inter alia, strengthening GoE's capacity in rural energy
    applied research, through acquisition of equipment, provision of technical advisory services and
    training, (b) carrying out an inventory of woody biomass resources in GoE's territory, through
    acquisition of equipment, provision of technical advisory services and training.

    Part C: Institutional Development (US$8.93 million, including about $5.7 million in IDA financing),
    comprising (a) preparation of an appropriate legal and regulatory framework for the Borrower's
    Power Sector aimed at improving the efficiency of the sector and promoting private sector investment
    therein, including the carrying out of a tariff study and training; (b) implementation of a restructuring
    program designed to strengthen the administrative financial, accounting, technical and commercial
    capacities of EEPCo and to increase its autonomy and accountability, through the acquisition of
    computer hardware and software, technical advisory services and training; (c) updating of EEPCo's
    power expansion plans and improving its operations planning, through acquisition of equipment, and
    technical advisory services; (d) preparation and implementation of human resources development
    program for EEPCo; and (e) carrying out an evaluation of EEPCo's fixed assets, through provision of
    advisory services.

3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1    An Emergency Recovery Project was included in June 2004 through an amendment to the DCA to
provide US$10 million for emergency equipment and materials for war-affected areas and in particular to
replace stranded goods and equipment at Assab Port. This consisted of distribution and transmission
materials, substation materials and equipment, as well as diesel generating sets of which the foreign cost
was covered by the Credit.




                                                      - 3 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1     The Project's objectives were clearly defined and achievable at the time of appraisal and were
consistent with the priorities for promoting sustained economic growth. The ICR has rated the quality at
entry as moderately satisfactory on the basis of two issues: (a) slight disconnect between the key
performance indicators and the development objectives; and (b) incomplete identification of all the risks
elements of the Project. A brief discussion follows:

3.5.2     The Project was originally designed as a generation and distribution Project and the Key
Performance Indicators (KPI) included those typical for a distribution expansion and rehabilitation project
(i.e. total system failures; capacity to connect new customers including industrial customers). The Project
costs were estimated at US$405 million. However, subsequently it was decided to separate the Project
components into two Projects, namely Project A and Project B (as per Aide Memoire dated November 28,
1996). Project A included the urgently needed capacity/energy from Gilgel Gibe, institutional development
support, and a Biomass component. The main component of the second Project would be the distribution
component which included system rehabilitation and expansion in urban areas. Project A then became the
Energy II Project, with a total Project costs estimated at about US$295 million equivalent) and Project B a
Distribution Rehabilitation Project became the Energy Access Project which was only appraised in the 2nd
quarter of 2002, about the time that Gilgel Gibe was to be commissioned. The KPI for the Energy-II
Project retained those for a distribution project, which were outside its scope. However, it did include as
well relevant KPI for a generation project (i.e. increase of reserve capacity and increase in installed
capacity), which provides a mitigating factor in the assessment of quality at entry.

3.5.3     The problem of obtaining a technically sound least cost development plan based on a
comprehensive and realistic load forecast and not just on projected rates of growth by various classes of
customers, and taking into account the effect of tariffs, has been a recurrent problem since Project
preparation, This problem has persisted and by Credit Closing EEPCo this matter is yet to be resolved.
The risk of lack of agreement on an appropriate and realistic least cost investment program was not
identified in the PAD. Furthermore, the Project also assigned a "low risk" to commissioning of Gilgel Gibe
by mid-2002, and of "no risk" for increasing EEPCo's dependable capacity and firm generation by 2003.
Both of these events did not materialize as anticipated. There were implementation delays, which, as
already explained, is common for hydropower projects. Finally, the Project assigned a "Moderate" risk to
subsequent tariff increases based on the fact that a tariff adjustment of 39% was made at the time of
Appraisal and subsequent increases were expected. Delays in effecting tariff increases have been one of the
root causes (the other being an unrealistic investment program) for EEPCo's weak financial performance.
Tariffs remained frozen for 7 years, and were only increased in June 2006. The long term sustainability of
the power sector depends on realistic, cost-reflective tariffs. As a consequence, the PDO at the time of
Credit Closing was deemed unsatisfactory, but has been upgraded following action on tariffs and debt
restructuring (see next section).

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1     The overall outcome of this Project is rated as moderately satisfactory. Although the project
achieved its physical objective and most of its institutional objectives, the continuing weak financial
performance of EEPCo has caused noncompliance with financial covenants with the result of an
unsatisfactory PDO rating at Credit Closing. The recent tariff increase effective June 2006, as well as
EEPCo's debt restructuring, have been an important initial step to improve EEPCo's financial performance,
which let to an improvement in the PDO rating to moderately satisfactory.




                                                      - 4 -

4.1.2    Objective 1: Increase the efficiency and sustainability of Ethiopia's power sector, and to increase
electricity use for economic growth and improved quality of life.     The achievement of this objective and
outputs is satisfactory, but there were delays in physical implementation and, notably, in effecting needed
tariff increases. Output targets have been largely met. The construction of Gilgel Gibe I (3 x 61.3 MW )
commissioned in April 2004, injected about 184 MW of dependable capacity and about 722 GWh (in
2005) to the interconnected system, improving reliability and quality of supply. It is in line with GoE
Development Plan which emphasizes the development of hydropower resources, of which only 2% of an
estimated hydropower potential of about 30,000 MW has been developed to date. In the last seven years,
installed capacity reached 790 MW. In addition, since 1997, 2024 km (31% of total) was added to the
transmission network and 12,650 km (55% of total) was added to the LV distribution network. The
number of customers rose to 950,000, an increase of 45% over the 1997 level.

4.1.3    As EEPCo's generation system is predominantly hydro-based, it is still beset with shortages during
the recent and previous droughts. Although reliability and quality of supply have increased, the distribution
system is still beset by low voltage levels and voltage fluctuations beyond acceptable ranges. Much effort is
being expended (including under the Energy Access Project) to improve reliability and quality of service.

4.1.4    During the past seven years, the number of electrified towns has increased by over 150 with the
result that over 370,000 new customers (encompassing about 1.7 million new inhbitants) now have access
to electricity.

4.1.5    On the capacity-building front, EEPCo's manpower development initiatives under the Project have
been successful. The fact that management in EEPCo embraced change rather than resisting to it was the
major factor for the impressive number of management development initiatives taken over the past years.
After being reorganized as part of this Project, EEPCo has made extensive use of modern organizational
change techniques including business process re-engineering, bench marking against international best
practices, gap analysis, and extensive use of performance management systems. The most significant
measure was a decentralization of operation and management, where the EEPCo was divided into eight
regions with 10 to 15 districts in each region. Each district is responsible for the supply, maintenance and
in dealing with commercial matters in its jurisdiction including new connections and revenue collection. As
a result, the performance of the power sector in Ethiopia has become much better and the receivables as
day's sales have been reduced from 105 in 1997 to 40 in 2005. Also the waiting time for new connections
reduced from more than 90 days to about 14 days.

4.1.6    One of the important objectives of this project was the Legal and Regulatory Reform of the power
sector. In line with the relevant outputs, the main achievements are: (i) establishing a legal framework for
private participation; (ii) establishing of a Regulatory Agency; and (iii) legally establishing of commercial
pricing principles of operators.

4.1.7    Environmental and social safeguards comply with the Bank's and national policies. In resettlement
matters, this project was the first one in the history of Ethiopia to carry a constitutional resettlement under
the New Constitution. It was acknowledged by the Parliament of Ethiopia (in 2001) to be a model for
future resettlement. The Bank has also acknowledged (June 2001) the project as good practice. The
project was also instrumental in strengthening the environmental unit at EEPCo, which has been converted
into a permanent organization unit, thus guaranteeing that its work would continue in future projects.

4.1.8     Although the objectives of the Gilgel Gibe (the only physical component) have been fully achieved,
this has to be counterbalanced by the impact to EEPCo and the sector of its deteriorating financial situation
and in particular by: (i) delays in completion of a Tariff Study which would have allowed consideration by


                                                       - 5 -

Government at an earlier stage of a tariff adjustment which is a vital step to improving EEPCo's financial
strength; (ii) delay in developing of an appropriate and realistic Least Cost Master Development Plan
which would identified the best generation projects; and (iii) delays in the completion (past Credit Closing)
of a Decentralized Billing and Accounting System. Delays in completing the Tariff Study put tariff
increases on hold for almost seven years. Although the Tariff Study was completed in late 2006, it is
unclear how EEPCo and the Government will apply its recommentations. Tariff increases were and
continue to be an essential element to assure sustainability of the project and the financial equilibrium of
EEPCo. A recent 22% flat tariff increase (lifeline rates exempted) has been applied (as of June 2006), but
the issue of revenue requirements, tariff structure, and the regressive nature of existing lifeline rates have
not been addressed. Subsequent tariff increases are necessary to maintain EEPCo`s financial viability.

4.1.9     Objective 2: Improve utilization efficiency of rural renewable energy. The achievement of this
objective and outputs is highly satisfactory. Output targets for both the demand side (carried out by MME)
and supply side (carried out by MOA) for this technical assistance have been successfully achieved
although more synergies could perhaps have been obtained if the activities on the demand and supply sides
had been carried out by only one implementing agency. The institution development impact is high. On the
supply side, the Woody Biomass Inventory and Strategic Planning Project (WBISPP) has developed
strategic plans for the sustainable use and management of wood's biomass resources. On the demand side,
the development of short-term objectives and strategies for meeting the biomass energy demand in rural
areas. The major objectives consisted of reports and inventories on the following tasks: (i) fuel wood
supply enhancement; (ii) improved rural wood stoves; (iii) charcoal production improvement and supply
enhancement; (iv) review of market barriers and institutional framework. Those studies raised awareness
and paved the road for future implementation efforts to improve biomass utlization efficiency both at
supply and demand sides.

4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1     The outputs of the Project at Credit Closing are summarized by components and compared to the
expected outputs and KPI set out at appraisal in the table below. Implementation ratings are also shown.

  Project Components           Planned Outputs at                Actual Outputs                  Component
                                        Entry                                                     Rating
A. Construction of 184MW §           Gilgel Gibe      §       Gilgel Gibe commissioned in
Gilgel Gibe hydroelectric   commissioned by mid 2002  April 2004 and is operating satisfactorily,   S
plant                       with no cost overrun      after a delay of about 21 months and cost
                                                      overruns of 16% due mainly to
                                                      unforeseen geological problems, tailrace
                                                      tunnel collapse, embankment slide, etc.
                                                        l Effective implementation of sound
                                                           resettlement program, considered a
                                                           best practice

B. Rural Energy
(a)Wood biomass inventory § Survey and Inventory      § Survey andInventorycompletedby
(b) Assistance in           completed by 2002         2002                                         HS
establishing group to deal
with rural energy.          §        Rural group      §       Rural group established and fully
                            established and fully     functioning since 1999
                            functioning by 2000.
C. Institutional Development
(a)
(i) Study tours for policy  §        Study tours      §       Study tours completed in 1998.
makers;                     completed by June 1998.




                                                      - 6 -

(ii) TA in implementing       §         New Electricity      §      Electricity Proclamation issued in
reform,                       Proclamation in place by       July 1997 and electricity operation
                              end-1997                       regulation in May 1999.
(b)
(i) Tariff Study;             §         Tariff Study         §      Tariff Study completed by
                              completed by April 30, 2001    December 2005, but no tariff increase or
                                                             changes in tariff structure in the last 7
                                                             years
(ii) Training in regulatory   §         Training completed   §      Training completed by December
and agency staff;             by end-1999                    2005
                                                                                                             S
(c)                                                                                                     (on balance)
Restructuring and
strengthening of EEPCO
(i) assistance in             §         Utility incorporated §      Utility incorporated as profit
corporatization and           as profit enterprise by        enterprise in 1997
reorganization;               end-1997
(ii) assistance for asset     §         Asset revalued by    §      Asset revalued in October 2001
reevaluation;                 November 30, 1999
(iii) assistance, training and§         Utility's commercial §      Utility's commercial operations
IT for decentralizing billing operations and accounting      and accounting system decentralized
and accounting;               system decentralized by mid    since May 2006.
                              2000
(iv) manpower development;    §         Training program in  §      Training program in place since
                              place                          2003
                              §         Operations planning  §      Operations planning model
(v) assistance in IT to       model installed and in use by  installed and in use since early 2000
improve operation planning,   mid-1999
                              §         Expansion study      §      Comprehensive Master Plan
(vi) system expansion study   completed by August 31, 1999   completed by August 2005 followed by
                                                             an Independent Review but requested
                                                             update by EEPCo not available. Lack of
                                                             agreements remains on an appropriate
                                                             and realistic least cost development plan
                                                             by Credit Closing.



Construction of 184 MW Gilgel Gibe hydroelectric plant (Component A)

4.2.2      This component is rated satisfactory.          This component consumed about 95% of the total budget
for the Project. It was in line with Government policy of increasing electricity use for economic growth and
improved quality of life. It was part of EEPCo's least cost planting sequence utilizing plentiful
hydropower resources and of meeting the rapidly growing demand. At the time of appraisal, the unit cost
of firm energy from Gilgel Gibe was 6.7 ¢/kWh, including transmission upgrading, which compared with
the cost of base-load thermal generation, using imported fuel and utilizing scarce foreign exchange, as
being in the range 8-11 ¢/kWh. The economic justification for Gilgel Gibe was based on a sound economic
assessment, taking into account incremental costs and benefits obtained from Gilgel Gibe that produced an
EIRR of 11.7% when a discount rate of 10% was used. The average GDP growth rate was at the time of
appraisal 7.5%.

4.2.3      The Project was delayed mostly by unforeseen events­ which precluded a rating of "highly
satisfactory." Commissioning of Gilgel Gibe was supposed to take place by mid 2002; instead it was
commissioned in April 2004. At the outset, there were some delays during the bidder's prequalification
phase, slow mobilization of contractors, time to finalize the engineering drawings, and involvement of too
many contractors making coordination more challenging. Unforeseen events included dam slides due to



                                                             - 7 -

heavy rains in 2001, illegal strikes, and border dispute. Procurement was carried out reasonably
effectively, but with some delays in the issuing of no-objections. Cost overruns were due in part to
unforeseen geological failures producing a collapse of the tailrace tunnel as well as access tunnel and
switchyard. It should be noted that delays in implementation of large hydropower plants is not uncommon.

Environment and Resettlement Aspects of Gilgel Gibe

4.2.4. Gilgel Gibe was given a Category "A" Environmental Impact Classification due to some major
environmental and social issues including, inter alia, the involuntary resettlement of 706 households (ca.
5,000 people); loss of 300 ha of riparian forest for wildlife and resulting biodiversity loss in the Oromia
Region where the Project is located about 260km west of Addis Ababa; altered downstream flow of 16 km
of the Gilgel Gibe river, and increased habitat for water-borne disease vectors. An EA, including and
Environmental Management Plan, was carried out for Gilgel Gibe and completed in May 1997. The EMP
included implementation and monitoring of environmental, health and safety measures. A buffer zone of
about 4,000 ha was created to compensate for the loss of riparian habitat. This buffer zone is to be held
free of cultivation or grazing and occupancy and enforced by local police under existing law. These
measures appear to be adequate at present.

4.2.5     Resettlement, implemented in 1999-2000, was funded by the Federal Government. The 5,000
PAPs were resettled in nine resettlement sites. At the time it was deemed highly satisfactory as previously
mentioned. The resettlement was completed two years ahead of impounding, 4 years ahead of completion
of civil works. The total expropriation cost of immovable property was estimated at US$8,611,000. The
funds required were made available by the Federal Government of Ethiopia to the Oromia Regional
Government before credit approval by the Bank. The resettlement cost was estimated at US$4,600 per
household, which is below the international average for a 180 MW hydropower plant. As part of the
requirements for the completion of resettlement implementation, a socio-economic survey for post
resettlement assessment of the affected people was completed in December 2005 to determine any needed
follow-up activities.

4.2.6    Subsequent to the EA report, some cultural artifacts were discovered at over 20 sites. The lack of
compliance with the Management of Cultural Property OP (OPN 11.03) was recognized during
implementations and a systematic survey of the reservoir inundation and surrounding buffer zone was
undertaken and completed prior to inundation in August 2002. The most significant sites were not
inundated. An Archeological Findings Report was completed in December 2005 with the main goal of
satisfying the requirement of a Cultural Heritage assessment of Gilgel Gibe.

4.2.7    The Archeological Findings Report provided a model that hopefully other governmental agencies
will follow to preserve and protect Ethiopia's rich cultural heritage. The goal of this report (referred to as
the Gilgel Gibe Archeological Project (GCAP)), was to satisfy the requirement of the Cultural Heritage
Assessment for Gilgel Gibe. Its fieldwork was undertaken in three phases, namely: (i) Phase 1 consisted of
a systematic foot survey combined with shovel testing of all sites of potential significance; (ii) Phase 2
involved test excavations of those sites found to be of potential significance based on Phase 1 fieldwork,
and (iii) Phase 3 involved major excavations of the most significant sites. Most of the archaeological sites
found during the course of the field work were located in the upper slopes of the valley basin. Very few
sites were found in the valley bottom, and justifiably, the inundation of the dam was considered to have a
rather low impact on the archeological sites of the Gilgel Gibe valley. Of the 27 sites identified sites, only
three merited Phase 2 excavations. Two of these were located in the main inundation zone, but were found
to contain shallow and non-stratified deposits. The third site, located on a prominent hilltop within the
environmental buffer zone, ended up being the only site that warranted Phase 3 excavations. The site was


                                                     - 8 -

found to be an elite cemetery dating to the 15th century AD, and surrounded by a stone monoliths in many
instances decorated with bold symbolic designs. A total of nine human burials were exposed and ceramics,
iron bangles and glass trade beads among the artifacts recovered.

4.2.8    As the report points out, the recognition of the need to include a cultural heritage management
component in the project was very late in the implementation of the project, which created multiple
logistical, financial, administrative and political problems. This needs to be avoided in future hydroelectric
projects. The GCAP was the first archaeological project conducted in Southwestern Ethiopia, and hence
virtually all its archaeological findings are deemed significant and first of its kind and hence unique. Copy
of the Report is included in the project Files (Annex 7).

4.2.9    A Post-resettlement Assessment for Gilgel Gibe to assess the full impact of the social mitigation
measures implemented was completed in December 2005. The report is available in the files (Annex 7).
Among the 706 households displaced by the project, 562 households were resettled through a government
assisted resettlement scheme and 144 households resettled on their own. For the post-resettlement
assessment, a survey was carried out and the majority (i.e. 96.3%) of the resettled households responded.

4.2.10 As the construction of the dam disrupted the livelihood of the PAPs, as well as expropriated
agricultural land, and demolished businesses and houses in the project area, the RAP, prepared in 1997,
was implemented from 1999-2000. The PAPs resettled in nine sites located in Kersa and Omo Nada in the
Jimma Zone, where the host community spoke the same language, practiced the same religion and were
from the same cultural background. Each one of the PAPs was provided with financial compensation.
Social infrastructure was provided at the resettlement sites, including access roads, several water wells and
water points, rehabilitation of schools, health clinic, one veterinary clinic, four mosques, and one church.

4.2.11 The 562 households that were resettled through Government assistance were each provided with
2.5 hectares land for farming farm plot each. The total land size allocated for the resettled households is
about 8,109 hectares of farmland. The resettlement Project Office has freely ploughed 2 hectares of land
for each of the resettled households and it also supplied them with improved seeds and chemical fertilizer
freely for the first year.

4.2.12 The main findings of the post-resettlement assessments include: (i) the resettlement program was
indeed carried our according to the RAP in line with World Bank Guidelines; (ii) the quality of the new
houses is superior to the old houses: the new houses were constructed with wood and mud and all have
corrugated iron sheet roofing; (iii) both in the pre-resettlement sites and resettlement sites the largest
portion of farmland was used to grow maize followed by teff and sorghum; (iv) walking distance to health
centers as well as schools has been considerably reduced; (v) the average yield level for all types of crops
has been reduced by 54%, (due to climatic factors) which has reduced the distribution of the crops for
household consumption vis-à-vis for sale, (vi) the number of livestock owned by the resettled household has
been reduce by 72%, and (vii) the social infrastructure such as schools, health clinics, and water points
are in poor condition and in need of immediate maintenance. The reason given for the decrease in the
number of livestock is a combination of disease (i.e. trypanomiosis) as well as reduced income which has
forced the resettled households to sell their livestock to meet basic needs. The last two items would require
follow-up monitoring of resettlement.

4.2.13 Without discounting the usefulness of the report, a critical reading would suggest that it lacks
some consistency. Firstly, the role of the Project was to provide the needed infrastructure to improve the
lives of the PAPs and local Government was clearly in charge of maintenance of schools, health clinics,
roads, etc. Secondly, the production of teff and maize actually increased the first two years but declined


                                                       - 9 -

thereafter (climatic reasons). Thirdly, the reduction of agricultural yields and livestock also occurred in
the community of origin as well as in the host community. In spite of those issues, all indications point to
the fact that the PAPs are better off than now than prior to the resettlement effort.

Emergency Recovery Project.

4.2.14 The objectives of this additional component were achieved.

Rural Energy (Component B)

4.2.15 All outputs envisaged by this component have been satisfactorily achieved. It is ranked Highly
Satisfactory. This component consisted of two subprojects: (i) Woody Biomass Inventory and Strategic
Planning Project (WBISPP), completed in June 30, 2005; and (ii) Rural Energy Development Project
(REDP), completed in January 2005.

4.2.16 Successful outputs of the WBISPP include: (i) producing ten separate strategic plans for the
sustainable use and management of each region woody biomass resources; (ii) developing a comprehensive
non-spatial (reports, tables and models) and spatial (GIS and remote sensing) database. The existence of
the WBISPP is expected to have a very positive impact in the establishment of other related institutions, as
well as for bridging information gaps particularly on natural resources that can be used by other
institutions.

4.2.17 The four major tasks undertaken under the REDP comprise: (i) fuel wood supply enhancement; (ii)
improved rural wood stoves; (iii) charcoal production improvement and supply enhancement; and (iv)
review of market barriers and institutional framework. The major outputs consist of "study reports" in
each of these major tasks which provide policy recommendations and set of strategies aimed at enhancing
rural biomass energy supply and efficient use of biomass fuels. The main conclusion of this study is that
under a "business as usual" scenario, the present standing stock of trees will only be able to meet, with
environmental degradation, both the current demand plus the additional demand to compensate for the
energy needs of an additional 20 million people in 2015. This will reduce the standing stock which would
further aggravate the supply and demand balance in the regions. Low agricultural productivity will
continue to be the root cause of further land clearing.

Institutional Development (Part C):

4.2.18 On balance, and despite the excessive and unwarranted delays in (i) reaching agreement on a
realistic least cost investment plan as intended by the Power System Expansion Master Plan Study, (ii)
completing the Tariff Study and, (iii) implementing the necessary tariff inceases and revising the tariff
structure, the achievement of the Institutional Development component is considered to be satisfactory
due mainly to the achievements of the (i) Management Development Program (MDP), (ii) Study on
Regulation Management, Sector Strategy, Electric Standards and Technical Regulation, (iii)
Decentralization of Accounting and Billing, and (iv) Fixed Asset Reevaluation Study, as detailed below.

4.2.19 The Tariff Study was undertaken sequentially with the Assets Reevaluation Study and the
Ethiopian Power System Expansion Master Plan Study. The two main objectives for this study were to
develop a rate structure consistent with the Government objectives in social and economic development,
and to ensure that EEPCo's financial requirements are fully met so that it can operate on a financially
sound basis as well as carry out prospective equitable and realistic development programs. The study was
completed in December 2005, instead of April 30, 2001 as stated in the PAD. The considerable delay was


                                                     - 10 -

caused mainly by a change of load forecast due the consideration of a more ambitious plan of overall
economic plan of the country as well as contractual disputes with the consultant. The objective of a timely
completion of a useful Tariff Study has not been achieved, and its impact has yet to be revealed. Some
issues such as tariff structure, lifeline rates, and revenue requirements to support the expansion program
still have to be addressed by the power sector.

4.2.20 The Fixed Asset Reevaluation Study has been successfully completed and the results have been
incorporated in EEPCo's financial statements since 2004.        However, the software that was supplied as
part of the Study cannot be used till the installation of the new accounting and billing system is in place and
operational.

4.2.21 The Power System Expansion Master Plan Study aims were to (i) define the least-cost program for
the development of Ethiopia's generation and transmission system for the next 25 years; (ii) provide the
facility and capability to update the plan annually; and (iii) to update the plan by considering the changes
occurring in the economy, the power market, and within EEPCo. The study produced a comprehensive
master plan and subsequent revisions, taking into account various demand forecast scenarios and other
changes since the issue of the previous master plan. It also upgraded in-house capability for developing and
updating future master plans. The Master Plan Study, which was completed in 2006 by PB Power
Consultants, has been revisited many times by EEPCo and the latest official version was not available by
Credit Closing. EEPCo has not fully endorsed the study, raising issues about the assumptions used.
EEPCo needs to finalize its official Master Plan. No agreement has been reached on a realistic least cost
development path for the power sector, which properly takes into account the forecasted demand, financial
resources limitations, and ownership structure. In the absence of an official Master Plan, and an articulated
Government vision for the development of the power sector, the achievement of this activity is rated as
unsatisfactory.

4.2.22 The Management Development Program (MDP) has been very successful; it provided EEPCo with
both individual and institutional benefits. Fundamental changes were required within EEPCo to address the
various deficiencies in management and management systems, as well as to introduce commercial
principles for its day-to-day operations, decentralization of authority, implementation of performance-based
management systems, commitment to best practices, and deregulation & privatization. On an individual
basis, the MDP upgraded the skills and knowledge base of about 300 managers in technical know-how and
on management systems and processes. Those managers have acquired alternative concepts of corporate
culture and work ethics, enhanced their leadership skills, creative values and favorable attitudes to the
emergence of entrepreneurship. The MDP also provided institutional benefits which have greatly
contributed to the restructuring process now taking shape within EEPCo, including: (i) fundamental review
of its corporate mission, vision and culture; (ii) review of core activities; (ii) consideration of its operation
in a deregulated environment; (iii) consideration of privatizing some of its core and non-core
activities/functions; (iv) consideration of outsourcing of a number of non-core activities; (v) implementing a
system of performance management; (vii) moving to flatter, less hierarchical management structures; (viii)
moving to decentralize operation giving each regional center a high degree of autonomy; and (ix) moving
from being a monopoly to an effective and efficient public enterprise.

4.2.23 Study on Regulation Management, Sector Strategy, Electric Standards and Technical Regulation.
The objectives of this study have been fully achieved, despite the effort not being translated into the
development of a revised tariff structure. This activity was aimed at finalizing the government initiative to
establish a regulatory body and to work out detailed regulatory instruments, institutional set up and human
resource capacity development. This component consisted of three distinct activities which have been
successfully carried out, namely: (i) defining regulatory instruments for economic and technical regulation;


                                                       - 11 -

(ii) procurement of vehicles and office equipment for the newly established regulatory Agency (i.e.
Ethiopian Electricity Agency or EEA), and (iii) study tours for policy makers and capacity building of the
newly recruited staff of EEA.

4.2.24     The consultancy service to define detailed regulatory instruments has been instrumental. Those
instruments have included the specification of methodologies of utility regulation and draft directives both
for economic and technical regulation. Implementation of these instruments compatible with the existing
legal framework is completed and some instruments have already been put to use by EEA in day to day
regulatory operation. These include electricity tariff regulation procedures and regulatory financial models,
inspection guidelines, model guarantee agreement for bulk power procurement and demand side
management guidelines. These are very important to better equip staff with techniques and tools to dispose
of their duties. These have also been instrumental to raise awareness and concern of stakeholders on
matters of regulatory issues.

4.2.25 The program has helped strengthen the institutional capacity of EEA to enable it to undertake
specific activities in the realm of economic and technical regulation. As a result of this technical
assistance, EEA will pursue its regulatory activity from a better position than was possible before and will
dispose its mandates vested on it by the Parliament so that the power industry would excel in measures of
service coverage, service quality and affordability. Despite the capability development of EEA, decisions
on tariff structure and tariff level are still politically driven.

4.2.26 Decentralization of Accounting and Billing.           Completed in May 2006, past Credit Closing, this
technical assistance component is rated highly satisfactory as its objective is deemed to be fully achieved.
Funded by the Nordic Development Fund (NDF), its main objective was to improve EEPCo's commercial
operations by replacing the existing centralized Accounting and Billing Systems with decentralized and
computerized systems.

4.2.27 This component suffered considerable delays caused mainly by rebidding as no qualified bids were
received during the first tendering process, as well as late delivery due to problems with hardware and
countrywide coverage.

4.2.28    Carried out in three phases, the last phase of implementation was started very late in September
2005, becoming operational for all regions in January 2006. The finalized Operation Acceptance Test for
the Accounting and Billing Document was submitted to EEPCo on 26 April 2006.

4.2.29    Extensive training has been provided with 1145 of EEPCo's trained in billing and accounting
systems as well as in Oracle and database administration and information and communication technology.
In addition more than 1500 of EEPCo's employees have Basic Computer training. The introduction of
modern Information and Communication Technology (ICT) system and tools are expected to strengthen
EEPCo and boost its efficiency and advance EEPCo's effort towards restructuring, as it allows upgrading
the capacity of regional offices in managing the system.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1     The PAD calculated an economic internal rate of return (EIRR) on the project's main component,
that is, the construction of the Gilgel Gibe hydroelectric power plant. The basis for the EIRR for the power
plant component was the evaluation of the difference between the incremental costs associated with the
Gilgel Gibe power plants and the incremental benefits. The analysis points to US$36.8 million of net
present benefits discounted at 10% and a corresponding EIRR of 11.7% assuming 1997-2002 as the
implementation period.



                                                         - 12 -

4.3.2    The ICR has re-estimated the EIRR at completion based on a similar methodology for the
implementation period 1997-2004 and assuming a 50 year economic life. This resulted in a $ 14 million of
net present benefits and an EIRR of 11%. Doubling the willingness to pay from 6 US¢/kWh (i.e. average
tariff) to 12 US¢/kWh produced an EIRR of 18%. Annex 3 provides details of the calculations for the
ICR re-evaluation.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1    EEPCo's financial position has weakened further due to its heavy capital investment program. The
current ratio has dropped from 2.8 times in EFY1995 (GFY2202/03) to 1.5 in EFY1996 (GFY2004/05)
and 1.1 in EFY1997 (GFY2004/05) and it is expected to decline further in the current fiscal year. EEPCO
continues to be noncompliant with the financial covenants, namely: self-financing ratio of 25% and current
ratio of no less than 2.0.

4.4.2    The financial rate of return (FIRR) was obtained on the basis of the following analysis (refer to
Annex 9):

a) Ex-ante analysis, to validate the base case. This produced a FIRR of 10.5% wherein the returns to
holders and shareholders are consistent with those in the PAD (in Annex 4-A):

b) Ex-post analysis, to evaluate the impact of additional investment costs due to the US$ 60 million cost
overrun (from US$295 million to US$355 million). The Project FIRR decreases from 10.5% to 8.6% and
the return to shareholders decreases from about 50% to 1.4%.

c) Impact to Tariff Freeze in the last 7 years: at the current average tariff of 6.0 US cents/kWh, the return
to shareholders falls to negative 2.2% and the Project FIRR falls to 5.6%.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1    The Project's institutional development impact was substantial on balance. Strong evidence for
this are: (i) a regulatory agency, EEA, has been established and strengthened; (ii) EEPCo's skills in
management have been upgraded assisting the restructuring underway including the introduction of
commercial principles; (iii) EEPCo's accounting and billing have been decentralized with country-wide
coverage; (iv) EEPCo's planning capability has been upgraded to allow it to develop Master Plans; (v) a
rural energy agency, EREDPC, has been established; (vi) enhanced capability for developing strategic
plans for the sustainable use and management of woody biomass resources; (vii) Environmental Monitoring
Unit (EMU) permanently established at EEPCo; (viii) first constitutional resettlement process carried out
successfully and deemed good practice. Item (vii) regarding the EMU is particularly notable as the project
itself led to the innternalization and institutionalization within EEPCo of the need to conduct appropriate
environmental and social impact assessments and to implement appropriate mitigation programs for
investments in the electricity sector.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1    The main factor outside the control of government or implementing agency which might have
eroded confidence was the destabilization of the economy caused by the outbreak of the border conflict
between Ethiopia and Eritrea in May 1998 which lasted until June 2000 and created political tensions
which interrupted the momentum of reforms. The border conflict exacted a heavy economic toll which
strained public finances, reduced donor support and undermined investor confidence.




                                                       - 13 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1    The two main factors which were subject to Government control were: (i) tariff structure and
levels, and agreements on a realistic tariff adjustment for EEPCo and the power sector to achive economic
and financial equilibrium; and (ii) reaching agreement with EEPCo on a realistic least cost investment plan
in support of the Government's economic and social development plans. The Government is well aware
that tariffs were not adjusted for the last seven years, a situation which has impacted EEPCo`s bottom line
as well as its reform program. A recent tariff increase of 22% is a first important step to increase EEPCo`s
ability to support the development of the power sector in Ethiopia.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1    The two main and related factors under the implementing agency control were: (i) establishing a
realistic least cost investment program; (ii) coming to terms with the realization that unrealistic investment
programs will not serve EEPCo and Government well which is likely to lead to unsustainable tariff
increases and/or unsustainable requirements for future government subsidies.

5.4 Costs and financing:
5.4.1    The estimated total cost at appraisal to be financed was US$295.89 million equivalent. The latest
estimate of the actual Project costs is $355.79 million, resulting in a cost overrun of about 17%, which was
covered by EEPCo's own resources. Cost overruns were due in part to unforeseen geological failures at
Gilgel Gibe, producing a collapse of the tailrace tunnel as well as access tunnel and switchyard.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1    The Project's sustainability is a point of concern taking into consideration the weak financial
strength of EEPCo as well as an overly ambitious investment plan. However, follow-on projects will
continue to press Government for a tariff adjustment and EEPCo for more realistic least cost generation
plans.

6.1.2    On the positive side, generation from Gilgel Gibe has already exceeded the expectations set out at
appraisal, and given EEPCo's solid practices with respect to operation and maintenance, the likelihood for
these operational and maintenance practices continuing over the economic life of the Project is high. In
addition, management skills have improved, sales are increasing, new connections are being made, there is
a market for energy, and tariffs have recently been raised, which are expected to strengthen EEPCo`s
financial position, the main factor in the "unsatisfactory" PDO rating for the Project.

6.1.3    The Rural Energy component is already assisting the country in fostering the proper management
of Biomass. The strategies developed under this component for natural grazing land and livestock feed
resources as well as the creation of an agency to deal with Rural Energy has advanced the policy
framework and has raised awareness and provided the supportive role for improved utilization of renewable
energy with emphasis on biomass, which will foster its sustainable development in view of the expected
high population growth in combination with low agricultural productivity of the Country which is expected
to continue for the foreseeable future. However, the issue of deforestation is still of concern.

6.1.4    The establishment of a Regulatory Agency, the EEA, and its continuing skills building efforts have
played a significant role in creating the capacity of the staff to assist EEA to meet the regulatory challenges
with better professional competence. However, concerns remain about the regulatory independence on tariff
structure and tariff adjustment issues.




                                                      - 14 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1    Gilgel Gibe hand-over was undertaken seamlessly. Transitional arrangements to regular operations
were put in place during the implementation and takeover of the hydropower plant. Staff from EEPCo was
identified early during project implementation and given proper training locally or at the manufacturer's
works for the various tasks required for operating and maintaining such an important hydropower plant.
Some skilled staff was recruited for the management of the plant. Gilgel Gibe has been fully operational
since April 2004. As EEPCo is well aware of the importance in supplying the growing demand for
electricity and the need for continually improving reliability of supply and quality of service, it is to be
expected that it has the commercial incentive to provide sufficient resources for an appropriate level of
operation and maintenance.

6.2.2    The Project will continue to be monitored with the Performance indicators as describe in Annex 8.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1    The Bank performance in lending was considered satisfactory. From the beginning, the Bank team
was involved in a variety of power sector issues, including: (i) timely and urgent discussions on tariffs and
tariff policy; (ii) establishment of a realistic least cost development plan; (iii) financing issues related
mainly to EELPA's (which became later EEPCo) and financing strategy which at the time did not seem to
be in line with Government's policy of a commercial operation with full cost recovery; (iv) on EELPA's
assets revaluation; (v) decentralization of EELPA's billing system and accounting functions; (vi) proposals
on automatic tariff adjustment mechanism; (vi) and on the apparent lack of authority in EELPA's line
management as a result of the Board's intervention in day-to-day operational decisions, making a strong
case for restructuring and commercialization rather urgent. The Bank team was also at the time trying to
sort out whether to proceed with a Power Generation and Distribution Project, as was the original intention,
or to go ahead with only a Power Generation Project and appropriate technical assistance due to its
urgency, and to relegate the Distribution Project for a later project. Going ahead with a Power Generation
Project (with the main component as the Gilgel Gibe hydropower plant) was agreed by the Prime Minister
(in October 16, 1996).

7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1    The Bank's supervision performance was moderately satisfactory. It is noted that its QAG rating
(2004) for supervision was unsatisfactory for inter alia "failure to detect earlier, and then alert Bank's
management, of EEPCo's deteriorating financial position." The TTL at the time has explained that
EEPCo's financial performance was satisfactory until 2003. In 2004 the Bank detected that the previous
year's performance had not been satisfactory and that financial covenants had not been complied with.
This information was conveyed to the Bank management, which had repeatedly prodded the Government on
the issue of tariffs. Also, the Task Team was insisting on EEPCo's developing a realistic investment
program, which should not have included the overambitious construction of Gojeb and Tekeze. In
December 2004, the Task Team downgraded the PDO rating to "Unsatisfactory" due to lack of action to
strengthen EEPCo's financial performance caused mainly by delays in effecting a tariff increase, which
would affect the sustainability of the Project. The PDO remained "unsatisfactory" through the Closing
Date but, as noted above, it was recently upgraded to moderately satisfactory following action on the tariff
increase and debt restructuring, the result of lengthy dialogue between the Bank and the Ethiopian
authorities.

7.2.2    The Project faced some challenges in terms of supervision. There were in fact four different TTLs
in charge of the Project. These changes in management may have given rise to delays in implementation of


                                                        - 15 -

the institutional components, and slower progress on tariff issues and on the establishment of a realistic
Master Plan. Despite those challenges, there is strong evidence of thorough and attentive supervision as
regards the construction of Gilgel Gibe, which is in point of fact the main component of the Project
consuming about 95% of the budget. The implementation of the Biomass component also received the
necessary supervision. A total of 14 supervision missions were fielded, including the ICR mission.

7.2.3 According to the PAD, the MTR should have been carried 30 months after the effectiveness date,
that is, by October 27, 2000. It was only carried out on January 28, 2002, almost 4 years after
effectiveness. An earlier MTR could possibly have provided useful feedback on project implementation
problems and helped facilitate the transition among the TTLs .

7.2.4    Rapport with main stakeholders during supervision, namely EEPCo, MME, MOA and other
counterparts is deemed satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
7.3.1    On balance, combining the Quality of Entry and Supervision ratings, the Bank's overall
performance is rated as moderately satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1     Both GoE and EEPCo were committed to the Project in view of the importance given to the
commissioning of Gilgel Gibe for increasing service coverage and meeting the increasing demand utilizing
the country's vast hydrological base and reduce poverty by promoting sustained economic growth. There
was a close cooperation at the time of project preparation between the Government and the Bank, in Project
definition and design. The performance of the Borrower during preparation is rated as satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1 The Government's performance during implementation is rated as unsatisfactory. The main issue
was the delay in approving tariff adjustments. The failure of Ethiopian Authorities to proceed with tariff
adjustments, which had not been taken place in the last 7 years, was detrimental to the financial situation
of EEPCo and to power sector.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1    EEPCo financial position has weakened further due to a heavy capital investment program.        Due
to a large investment as well as tariff issues, it has not complied with the financing covenant for 2 out of 6
years of the Project's implementation period, which has caused its financial performance to deteriorate
decreasing the likelihood of the Project's sustainability. Overall system losses remain high at about 20%
and hence efficiency has increased only marginally. Collection rates have traditionally been very high in
Ethiopia (close to 95%), where a culture of payment prevails.

7.6.2    The managerial environment at EEPCo has changed to the positive and more in tune with a
commercializing entity. As a result to EEPCo's commitment to fundamental changes within the
organization to address the various deficiencies in management and corporate culture, there has been a
marked improvement in EEPCo's management capability, in acquiring new skills and knowledge of its
staff, as well as in refocusing of its mission and vision, which are essential if EEPCo is to succeed in its
restructuring and commercialization efforts. Management of the physical construction of Gilgel Gibe as
well as procurement are rated as satisfactory.




                                                       - 16 -

7.6.3    It carried out satisfactorily the implementation of the RAP as well as the required post-resettlement
assessment, and archaeological survey.

7.6.4    On balance, however, the performance of the three Implementing Agencies, namely EEPCo, MOA
and EEA is deemed as satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1    On balance the performance of Borrower is mixed but is rated as moderately satisfactory,
primarily in view of the non-approval of a tariff adjustment and implementation of an unrealistic generation
investment plan which is not supported by proper analysis. On the positive side, the Borrower demonstrated
a satisfactory performance during Project preparation. Similarly, the performance of the Implementing
Agencies, namely EEPCo, MOA and EEA was satisfactory throughout of the Project.


8. Lessons Learned

         Vision Alignment

·        It is important that the Government, the Implementing Agency and the World Bank share a
common vision about the strategic direction of the power sector. This vision was not completely agreed
upon at the outset, resulting in problems down the road. The most important manifestation of disagreement
had to do with the establishment of a Least Cost Development Plan. The Bank has repeatedly expressed
concerns about the overoptimistic demand growth assumptions (supply driven), about EEPCo`s financial
capability to implement large scale hydro projects, and on the inclusion of hydro plants which did not seem
to result from a sound least cost planning process, such as Gojeb and Tekeze. As of today, there is a
Master Plan prepared by a consulting company, but this plan has not been officially endorsed by EEPCo,
resulting in an uncertain scenario as far as the supply and demand visions for the power sector are
concerned.

·        On a related issue, it is clear that Ethiopia is blessed with a low-cost, competitive hydro potential
which can be harnessed to benefit the country and the region as a whole. However, the scale of those
projects represents a substantial financial commitment and entails several types of risks (e.g. geological,
market) for the incumbent utility, which may end up weakening the overall sustainability of the power
sector. Therefore, the current business model of having solely the local utility as the implementing agency
may not provide the necessary hydro capacity to meet Ethiopia and regional needs. Other types of
institutional arrangements have to be examined, including the private sector and multi-country regional
efforts.

         Institutional

·        The Bank and Borrower's commitment in establishing an environmental management unit was
beneficial not only to the development of this Project, but to the organization as a whole. Environmental
concerns have been institutionalized on a company-wide basis, as a result of the Project efforts. Currently
EEPCo's has developed the organization structure, processes and practices to deal with environmental and
social issues in an analitical and professional way.
            Project Preparation and Supervision

·        Continuity in task supervision is a very important factor in assuring a good project performance.
Numerous changes in TTL management can produce a loss of continuity in terms of understanding and
prioritizing key issues in the dialogue with the client. It is important to ensure a smooth transition between


                                                       - 17 -

TTLs, in particular at critical early stages of project preparation (and transitional arrangements need to be
invoked and designed to overcome unforseen events regarding staff availability). In this regard, a timely
completion of a Mid-Term-Review could have helped facilitate this transition, by highlighing problematic
areas and issues that needed urgent management attention, both to the task team and to the Implementing
Agencies.

·        PADs should be designed to allow for a more complete discussion of the risk of the impact of
unforeseen events, which can delay project implementation, and result in cost overuns that adversely affect
anticipated economic and financial results. Similarly, it is arguably more appropriate to judge projects not
on whether they are able to achieve a specified EIRR and FIRR calculated in a base case (which is unlikely
to occur), but whether the project exceeds targeted and minimum returns calculated using stress tests. This
would provide potentially a sounder framework for analyzing whether unforeseen discrete events reduced
the effective EIRR and FIRR to unacceptable levels -- arguably a more meaningful measure of
success/failure than a comparison to a "base case" figure. This is particularly important for large scale,
capital intensive large generation projects.

·        The project legal agreements contained an array of financial covenants that were not well tailored
to a utility that is looking to significantly increase access and expand its generation and transmission
capacity. Given the experience with the Energy II project, the financial covenants under newly negotiated
agreements for the power sector have been modified to focus on the critical issue of ensuring that the
utility, as it expands, generates sufficient cash to meet its obligations, relying as necessary on grant and
other financing to fund investments that exceed its financial capacity.

         Resettlement, Social and Archeological Issues

·        With proper planning and implementation, it is possible to develop strong resettlement efforts, even
in countries with a modest track-record, as witnessed by the Gilgel Gibe Hydro Plant. Support from the
Bank was essential to help the country accelerate the learning process.

·        For Hydropower projects which are located in areas with the potential of uncovering objects with a
rich cultural heritage, it is imperative to be very proactive during project preparation and undertake
thorough field work of sites of potential significance to comply with the Bank's OP on the Management of
Cultural Property;

·        Handover arrangements with PAPs and other stakeholders for post resettlement monitoring and
environmental management of the reservoir (i.e. workshop) is very important to (i) facilitate the transfer to
the local and zonal administrations to better ensure the sustainability of the livelihood support system in
place, and (ii) create awareness among stakeholders about the likely impacts of the project.

         Biomass - Fuel Substitution

·        The potential for introducing agricultural residue-based charcoal to supplement or displace the
wood charcoal presently supplied and consumed in urban areas is significant but such investment would be
financially viable only at large-scale operations.




                                                       - 18 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
EEPCo has commented that the Tariff Study and the Least Cost Master Plan have been satisfactorily
delivered by the consultants by the Project's Closing Date and therefore both tasks have been formally
accomplished. EEPCo has indicated that it intends to provide yearly updates of its Master Plan, which
would be made available to the Bank.


(b) Cofinanciers:
NDF agrees with the content and findings of this ICR.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                   - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


  Project Development                         In PAD                                      Actual/Latest Estimates
        Objectives
1. Improve the efficiency     §Capacityreservesof10%intermsof § Achieved: in 2005, reserves were 39% of firm
and sustainability of         firm energy and of 30% in terms of        energy totaling about 2,836 GWh/year and 25% of
Ethiopia's power sector, and installed capacity.                        installed capacity of 767 MW.
increase electricity use for  §Totalsystemfailureofnomorethat           §Achieved­nofailureswererecordedasofCredit
economic growth and           3 per year                                Closing.
improved quality of life;     §100%newindustrialconnectionsbe           §Achieved­100%ofnewindustrialconnectionshave
                              met;                                      been met in 2005.
                              §Installedcapacityincreasedby184          § Achievedlate,withcostoverrunsof16%
                              MW at Gilgel Gibe with no cost            § Effectiveimplementationofsoundresettlementplan
                              overrun
2. Improve the utilization of § Complete inventory of biomass           § Achieved­the biomassinventorywassuccessfully
rural renewable energy        resources in Northern Ethiopia            completed. In addition ten strategic plans and ten regional
                                                                        reports covering natural grazing land and livestock feed
                                                                        resources were completed. A comprehensive natural
                                                                        resources and socio-economic geographic information
                                                                        system and database were set up.
                                                                        § Achieved-TheEREDPCwasestablishedwith
                                                                        proclamation no. 296/2002. The GoE was also
                              § Helpestablishagencytodealwith establishedindependentregional(rural)energy
                              Rural Energy                              departments/units under the regional Water Mines and
                                                                        Energy Bureaus.



       Project Outputs                  In PAD                                    Status and Comments
1. Restructured power sector: By end of 1997, the following is in       Government commitment in reforming the sector is
                              place:                                    demonstrated by the following measures:

a) Promote private sector     · rules facilitating private participation· Partially achieved. Legal framework for the private
participation;                in the power sector;                      participation established, including entrance procedures
                                                                        and investment incentives. Private operators in the
b) with correct pricing                                                 isolated system are currently operating, despite expressed
system; and                                                             concerns about the need of a more coordinated approach to
                                                                        grid and off-grid electrification.
c) Strengthened,
commercialized EEPCO.                                                   · Achieved. The Regulatory Agency was established in
                              · a regulatory agency (by end of          1997
                              1997);
                                                                        ·Partially achieved. Pricing approach for bulk supply
                                                                        legally defined. However, implementation of new tariff
                              · an adequate pricing system;             structure and tariff levels still pending, due to its
                                                                        significant political content.

                                                                        ·Lack of clarity on access to grid has the potential to make
                              ·third party access to the grid; and      some off-grid investments prematurely stranded. Private
                                                                        participation in large hydro projects has not yet
                                                                        materialized

                                                                        · Achieved ­ EEPCo was established in 1997 to take over
                              ·EEPCo converted into a for-profit        management of the power system from the Ethiopian Light
                              corporation by end of-1997                and Power Authority (EELPA).
2. Increased electricity      · EEPCO's dependable capacity             · On balance achieved: EEPCO's dependable capacity
generating capacity           increased by 184MW at Gilgel Gibe         increased by 184MW at Gilgel Gibe in April 2004 with



                                                                - 20 -

                             by 2003 with no cost overrun,         some cost overrun. In 2005 firm generation from Gilgel
                             increasing Ethiopia's firm generation Gibe was 722 GWh per year.
                             by 664 GWh per year
3. Complete data on biomass · Completion of resource Atlases and · Achieved ­ Ten regional strategic plans were produced.
resources in Northern        formulation of strategic plans for 6
Ethiopia                     regions
4. Establish a capability to · Rural Energy Group established by   · Achieved: Rural Energy Group established by June 30,
deal with Rural Energy       June 30, 1999                         1999


5. Emergency Recovery        ·This sub-component was included in ·Achieved - US$10 million for emergency equipment and
Project                      June 2004 through an amendment to     materials for war-affected areas were included - in
                             the DCA                               particular to replace stranded goods and equipment at
                                                                   Assab Port.




                                                             - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

                           Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                              Appraisal         Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                               Estimate           Estimate         Appraisal
                                              US$ million       US$ million           %
Component
1. Support of Power Sector Reform                  8.93            22.12              248
2. Construction of Gilgel Gibe                  281.88            330.06              117
hydroelectric plant*
3. Improvement of Rural Energy                     5.08              3.58              70
Efficiency and Data Base
Total Project Costs**                           295.89            355.76              120
Total Financing Required                        295.89            355.76              120
*    Includes Contingencies, Resettlement and Land Acquisition
**   Includes new component: "Emergency Recovery Project".



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                              1
                                                       Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                 ICB               NCB                 2         N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                             156302.36               0.00           0.00         49341.86  205644.22
                                     (149040.04)            (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)   (149040.04)
2. Goods                               4993.29             737.25         1110.14         571.99     7412.67
                                      (4993.29)           (737.25)        (1110.14)       (0.00)    (6840.68)
3. Services                               0.00                            10738.74       24311.84   35050.58
                                        (0.00)                ()         (10738.74)       (0.00)   (10738.74)
4. Supply and Erect                   47568.16               0.00           0.00           0.00     47568.16
Equipment
                                     (33364.36)             (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)   (33364.36)
5. PPF Refinancing                        0.00               0.00           0.61           0.00       0.61
                                        (0.00)              (0.00)         (0.61)         (0.00)     (0.61)
6. Operating Costs                        0.00               0.00           0.00          197.51     197.51
                                        (0.00)              (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
    Total                            208863.81             737.25         11849.49       74423.20  295873.75
                                     (187397.69)          (737.25)       (11849.49)       (0.00)   (199984.43)
   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent) (Without taxes
   and duties)




                                                        - 22 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                             179429.42             0.00              0.00          86820.00         266249.42
                                       (149929.42)           (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)       (149929.42)
   2. Goods                              13771.38             0.00            1182.10            0.00           14953.48
                                         (7591.38)           (0.00)          (1182.10)           (0.00)         (8773.48)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00            9753.75         12520.00          22273.75
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)          (5753.75)           (0.00)         (5753.75)
   4. Supply and Erect                   45819.33             0.00              0.00             0.00           45819.33
   Equipment
                                        (33209.33)           (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)        (33209.33)
   5. PPF Refinancing                      0.00               0.00            338.59             0.00             338.59
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)          (338.59)            (0.00)          (338.59)
   6. Operating Costs                      0.00               0.00              0.00           6130.00           6130.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                            239020.13             0.00           11274.44         105470.00        355764.57
                                       (190730.13)           (0.00)          (7274.44)           (0.00)       (198004.57)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
1. Support of Power            4.08                      4.85        5.71         6.13      10.28       140.0             212.0
Sector Reform
2. Construction of Gilgel     191.74       48.03        42.11       188.72        99.23     42.11       98.4     206.6    100.0
Gibe hydroelectric plant
3. Improvement of Rural        4.18         0.90                     3.47         0.11                  83.0      12.2
Energy Efficiency and Data
Base
TOTAL                         200.00       48.93        46.96       197.90       105.47     52.39       99.0     215.6    111.6




                                                          - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

            ETHIOPIAN ELECTRIC POWER CORPORATION
            GIGEL GIBE I HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
            ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
            (Discount Rate: 10%)

                                                                                    PV of
                     Generation O & M   Total    Annual    Net      PV of    PV of  Net
             Sales    Inv. Cost  cost   Cost     Benefits Benefits Benefits  Costs Benefits

 No.  Year  (GWh)    (MUS$)     (MUS$) (MUS$)   (MUS$)    (MUS$)   (MUS$)   (MUS$) (MUS$)
       1997            2.818             2.82                          -     2.82
       1998            4.020             4.02                          -     3.65
       1999            4.638             4.64                          -     3.83
       2000           22.032            22.03                          -     16.55
       2001           107.796           107.80                         -     73.63
       2002           103.717           103.72                         -     64.40
       2003            69.065           69.07                          -     38.99
       2004            0.124            0.124                          -     0.06
   1   2005 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40            20.72    0.73   19.98
   2   2006 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40            18.83    0.67   18.17
   3   2007 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40            17.12    0.61   16.51
   4   2008 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40            15.56    0.55   15.01
   5   2009 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40            14.15    0.50   13.65
   6   2010 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40            12.86    0.46   12.41
   7   2011 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40            11.69    0.41   11.28
   8   2012 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40            10.63    0.38   10.25
   9   2013 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             9.66    0.34    9.32
  10   2014 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             8.79    0.31    8.47
  11   2015 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             7.99    0.28    7.70
  12   2016 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             7.26    0.26    7.00
  13   2017 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             6.60    0.23    6.37
  14   2018 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             6.00    0.21    5.79
  15   2019 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             5.45    0.19    5.26
  16   2020 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             4.96    0.18    4.78
  17   2021 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             4.51    0.16    4.35
  18   2022 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             4.10    0.15    3.95
  19   2023 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             3.73    0.13    3.59
  20   2024 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             3.39    0.12    3.27
  21   2025 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             3.08    0.11    2.97
  22   2026 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             2.80    0.10    2.70
  23   2027 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             2.54    0.09    2.45
  24   2028 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             2.31    0.08    2.23
  25   2029 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             2.10    0.07    2.03
  26   2030 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             1.91    0.07    1.84
  27   2031 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             1.74    0.06    1.68
  28   2032 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             1.58    0.06    1.52
  29   2033 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             1.44    0.05    1.39
  30   2034 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             1.31    0.05    1.26
  31   2035 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             1.19    0.04    1.15
  32   2036 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             1.08    0.04    1.04
  33   2037 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             0.98    0.03    0.95
  34   2038 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             0.89    0.03    0.86
  35   2039 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             0.81    0.03    0.78
  36   2040 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             0.74    0.03    0.71
  37   2041 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             0.67    0.02    0.65
  38   2042 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             0.61    0.02    0.59
  39   2043 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             0.55    0.02    0.53
  40   2044 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             0.50    0.02    0.49
  41   2045 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             0.46    0.02    0.44
  42   2046 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             0.42    0.01    0.40
  43   2047 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             0.38    0.01    0.36
  44   2048 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             0.34    0.01    0.33
  45   2049 740.08               1.57   1.571      44.40             0.31    0.01    0.30



                                             - 24 -

Sensitivity to Willingness to pay increase: Doubling the Willingness to Pay to 12 US$/MWh, produces an EIRR of 18%.

Assumptions:    Cost of Electricity (Willingness to Pay): 6 US$/MWh
                Discount Rate: 10%
                O&M cost: 0.5% of investment cost
                Inflation rate: Not assumed
                System Losses: ICS 19.95%
                Capital cost is assumed to be actual expenditure
                Economic Life: 50 years




                                                            - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)      Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                     Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              12/12/1996                6    Team Leader (1)
                                             Energy Specialist (1)
                                             Financial Analyst (1)
                                             Operation Analyst (1)
                                             Economist (1)
                                             Operation Officer (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/16/1997                6    Team Leader (1)
                                             Economist (1)
                                             Energy Specialist (1)
                                             Operation Analyst (1)
                                             Financial Specialist (1)
                                             Operation Officer (1)
              10/22/1997                2    Team Leader (1)
                                             Operations Officer (1)

 Supervision
              03/04/1999                3    Team Leader (1)                    S               S
                                             Operations Officer (1)
                                             Economist (1)
              11/24/1999                4    Team Leader (1)                    S               S
                                             Operations Officer (1)
                                             Economist (1)
                                             Energy Specialist (1)
              06/20/2000                5    Energy Specialist (1)              S               S
                                             Financial Analyst (1)
                                             Environmental Specialist (1)
                                             Operation Officer(1)
              10/10/2000                4    Team Leader (1)                    S               S
                                             Resettlement Specialist (1)
                                             Operation Officer(1)
              12/28/2001                2    Team Leader (1)                    S               S
                                             Biomass Specialist (1)
                                             Economist (1)
                                             Energy Specialist (1)
                                             Operation Officer(1)
              02/08/2002                5    Team Leader (1)                    S               S
                                             Energy Specialist (1)
                                             Biomass Specialist (1)
                                             Financial Management
                                              Specialist (1)
              06/06/2002                4    Team Leader (1)                    S               S
                                             Economist (1)
                                             Biomass Specialist (1)
                                             Operations Officer (1)



                                              - 26 -

               06/13/2003              3    Team Leader (1)                     S    S
                                            Energy Specialist (1)
                                            Operations Officer (1)
               11/26/2003              4    Team Leader (1)                     S    S
                                            Biomass Specialist (1)
                                            Energy Specialist (1)
                                            Operations Officer (1)
               04/16/2004              3    Team Leader (1)                     S    S
                                            Power Economist (1)
                                            Operations Officer (1)
               12/15/2004              4    Team Leader (1)                     S    U
                                            Financial Analyst (1)
                                            Resettlement Specialist (1)
                                            Operations Officer (1)
               03/08/2005              6    Team Leader (1)                     S    U
                                            Biomass Specialist (1)
                                            Financial Management
                                            Specialist (1)
                                            Financial Analyst (1)
                                            Operations Officer (1)
                                            Resettlement Specialist (1)
               10/14/2005              6    Team Leader (1)                     S    U
                                              Energy Specialist (2)
                                            Financial Management
                                            Specialist (1)
                                            Operations Officer (1)

 ICR
               03/02/2006             3     Task Manager (1)                    S    U
                                            Operations Officer (1)
                                            Energy Specialist (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            58.6                             224.1
  Appraisal/Negotiation                134.1                             470.2
  Supervision                          267.0                           1,658.7
  ICR                                     8.0                             32.3
  Total                                467.7                           2,385.3




                                            - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Resettlement
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.      Gilgel Gibe Hydroelectric Project Environmental Impact Assessment, Executive Summary, May
1997
2.      Gilgel Gibe Hydroelectric Project, Environmental Assessment, Main Report, May July 1997
3.      Project Appraisal Document, Energy II Project, November 13, 1997
4.      Ethiopia ­ Country Assistance Strategy, Initiating Memorandum, April 2002.
5.      Electricity Tariff Study, EEPCo, March 2003
6.      Power System Expansion Master Plan Update, EEPCo, April 2004.
7.      Ethiopia, Rural Energy Development Project; Final Rural Biomass Strategy Report, EREDPC,
October 2004.
8.      Ethiopia, A Strategy to Balance and Stimulate Growth, A Country Economic Memorandum,
January 31, 2005.
9.      Regulatory Study, Final Consultants Report, April 2005
10.     Final Report on the Reservoir Component of the Gilgel Gibe Archaeological Project, Southwestern
Ethiopia, 20 December 2005
11.     Gilgel Gibe Post Resettlement Assessment Main Report and EEPCo's Position and Comments on
the Report of Gilgel Gibe Post Resettlement              Assessment, January 2006
12.     Decentralization of EEPCo's Accounting and Billing Systems, Draft Final Implementation Report
of April 2006.
13.     Completion reports for the following components:
a.      Executive Summary, EEPCo, March 2006
b.      Gilgel Gibe, EEPCo, March 2006
c.      Manpower Development Program, EEPCo, March 2006
d.      Tariff Study, EEPCo, March 2006
e.      Rural Energy Development ­ Demand Side ­ Ethiopian Rural Energy Development and Promotion
Center (EREDPC) - March 2006
f.      Rural Energy Development ­ Woody Biomass Inventory and Strategic Planning ­ Supply Side ­
MOA, January 2006
g.      Legal and Regulatory Reform, EEA, January/March 2006
h.      Power System Expansion Master Plan, EEPCO, March 2006
i.      Decentralization of EEPCo's Accounting and Billing Systems, May 2006.




                                                 - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. Performance Indicators to Monitor Future Operations

The following Performance Indicators to monitor EEPCo's future operation would provide a basis for
ensuring effective project operation and the likelihood of Project's sustainability.



                           Monitoring Indicator                            Base Values for Year 2005
        T & D Losses (%)                                                 ICS*: 19.95%; SCS**: 23.59%
        New Connections                                                               175,686
        Energy Sales (GWh)                                                     ICS: 2,033; SCS: 36
        Employee Productivity (GWh/employee)                                            0.25
        Available Reserve Margin (%) ***                                  Capacity: 39%; Energy: 20%
       *    Interconnected System
       ** Self-contained system
       *** Available Reserve Margin = (Available Capacity or dependable capacity - Peak Load)/Peak load




                                                      - 31 -

Additional Annex 9. Details of Financial Rate of Return Evaluation

                                             Financial Analysis Summary
                                                        (US$ million)
 Ex-Ante Analysis

 Rate of Return Analysis (*)                                           Costs              Return           Net      Rate of Return
                                                                                        (Benefits)       Return     (Approximate)


 Long Term Debt                                                            164.9              141.8         -23.1             8.6%
 234
 Equity                                                                      13.8              45.4           31.6           32.9%
 19
 Adjusted (Plus 23.1)                                                        13.8              68.5           54.7           49.6%
 Total                                                                     178.7              187.2             8.5          10.5%

 Ex-Post Analysis
 Impact on Additional Investment Cost
 Project Cost Increased from US$295 MM to US$ 355 MM = US$60MM
 a) Assuming same Cash Flow Stream of Benefits and Following Share of Additional                        Debt
 Costs ... (US$ Million)                                                                                Holders                40.0
                                                                                                        Equity                 20.0


 Rate of Return Analysis (*)                                           Costs              Return           Net      Rate of Return
                                                                                        (Benefits)       Return     (Approximate)
 Long Term Debt                                                            164.9              141.8         -23.1             8.6%
                                       234
 Equity                                                                      13.8              45.4           31.6           32.9%
 Adjusted (Plus Net Return 23.1)                                             13.8              68.5           54.7           49.6%
 Additional Cost                                                             60.0
 Project Total                                                             238.7              187.2         -51.5             7.8%
 To Debt Holders                                          274.0            193.1              166.0         -27.0             8.6%
 Remaining to Shareholders                                 39.0            154.1               21.2        -132.9             1.4%


 b) Assuming Additional Costs & Adjusted Benefit Cash Flow Stream due to Lower Tariffs = 6 US cents/kWh


 To Debt Holders                                          274.0            193.1              166.0         -27.0             8.6%

 Remaining to Shareholders                                 39.0            154.1              -33.5        -132.9            -2.2%

 Project Total                                                             238.7              132.5        -106.2             5.6%

 (*) From PAD - Sensitivity Analysis (Page 29) -NPV to equity holders falls to 0 if tariffs drop to 6 US$ cents -
 Corresponding to loss in Benefit Stream of US$54.7 Million




                                                               - 32 -

Additional Annex 10. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report

                                         Energy II Project
                             Implementation Completion Report

                                       Executive Summary
                                            March 2006

1. Introduction

The Ethiopian Government has entered a loan agreement with the World Bank (IDA) for the
financing of Energy II Project in January 25, 1998. The total credit amount was SDR
121,000,000. As part of this project the EIB and NDF have also entered agreement for co
financing the project in January 25, 1998 and          amounting $ 42,000,000 and $4,850,000
respectively.

All components which were agreed to implement during appraisal were successfully completed as
per the latest scheduled date, end of December 2005, except the NDF portion; this component is
also planned to complete on March 31, 2006.

Associated to the completion of the Energy II project, the borrower is supposed to prepare an
implementation completion report (ICR). The ICR has two main parts: Executive summary,
presented below, and detail report for respective components organized in a separate document.

2. Program Description

2.1 Project Development Objective

The project was designed with the aim of achieving the following objectives:
1)     To increase the efficiency and sustainability of Ethiopia's power sector ; and

2)      To improve utilization efficiency of rural renewable energy.

2.2 Benefits of the Project

The benefit to gain from the project includes:

1)     relieving financial burden on the treasury;
2)     upgrading generation capacity and number of consumers; and
3)     Reducing degradation of rural ecosystem

2.3    Description of the Project

The project comprises the following components:
1)     Gilgel Gibe Hydroelectric plant;



                                               - 33 -

2)     Manpower Development;
3)     Tariff Study;
4)     Power System Expansion Master Plan;
5)     Fixed Asset Revaluation;
6)     Decentralization of EEPCo' Billing and Accounting System;
7)     Development of Rural Energy Capability;
8)     Completion of Woody Biomass inventory in North of the country;

The following section dwells briefly on describing the tasks being achieved for respective
components.

2.3.1 Gilgel Gibe Hydro Electric Plant

The generation capacity of the plant is 184 MW; its firm and average generation capacity is
640GWH and 770GWH per year respectively.

The construction of the plant took place under the following major components:
·      Rock fill dam with bituminous upstream facing, a crest length of 1704m and a maximum
height of 41m with a total storage capacity of 91 million meter cube;
·      Tower type power intake of a design flow 160m3/s;
·      Concrete lined power tunnel of 9,142m long and 5.5m finished diameter
·      Under ground power house 103m long and 24.4m wide.

Construction of the plant being carried out with the help of nine contract packages and gets
completed, and became operational, since February 2005.

As part of the component, the resettlement program was successfully completed; this made
possible the resettlement of 756 house holds with better environment and supported by extensive
development infrastructures.

2.3.2 Institutional Development

As part of a program to reform Ethiopia's power sector with the objective of long term
sustainability and economic efficiency of electricity supply and relieving the financial burden,
components (discussed below) were designed with the aim of addressing the legal and regulatory
reform on one hand and restructuring of EEPCo on the other hand.

I. Legal and Regulatory Reform
The program promotes in placing new electricity proclamation which lays ground for private
participation in the power sector and establishment of a regulatory authority. The main tasks in
achieving this program includes: study tour for policy makers, technical assistance in the design of
new sector structure and the corresponding legal and regulatory systems, training for the
regulatory agency's staff, supply of information technology equipments and services and expert
assistance during an initial period. All these activities were completed.




                                                 - 34 -

II. Restructuring of EEPCo
In support of the restructuring program of EEPCo, towards favoring commercialization and
decentralization, the following components were initiated:

a) Manpower Development
The component was designed with an aim of upgrading the skill, knowledge, and attitude of
senior, middle and front line managers. During the time of implementation, the original objective
was later adapted to respond the requirements of the national reform agenda, targeted mainly at
improving the performance of the Civil Service at all level.

The implementation phase was undertaken initially by identifying deficiency of management
capability through conducting training need assessment (TNA). The findings of the TNA
established the base to carryout a comprehensive training program allowing the participation of
over 350 managers at senior, middle and lower level. Training courses mainly focused on general
management, specialized functional training and counterpart training helping for upgrading in built
capacity. The training program gets completed, which also marks the completion of the
component, in March 2005 as scheduled.

b) Decentralization of Accounting and Billing System
In recognition for long time taking for accounts closing at the end of the year and bill preparation,
agreement reached by the time to initiate this component geared towards adapting both
accounting and billing systems that would improve efficiency. Implementation of the systems did
require selection of a comprehensive both accounting and billing soft ware, arrangement of hard
ware and extensive training.

Presently, the implementation is at the final stage; accounting decentralization gets completed in
all regions including the head office. Billing decentralization also became operational in Addis
Ababa region which includes five district offices and thirty one service centers, beyond the
original scope shown on PAD. The remaining few tasks planned to complete on the scheduled
date, end of March 2006. The nature of the component prompted to undertake intensive training;
above 1000 staffs of EEPCo get trained.

c) Tariff Study
In support of the reform program, the component was initiated with the aim of improving the
financial position of EEPCo. In line to this as a first step contract signed with the consultant to
carry out the study on April 2004; it was planned to complete in 66 weeks time. Delay of power
system expansion master plan, major input for Tariff study, prevented from keeping the schedule;
the situation forced to enter contract amendment, signed on 28 November 2005. The consultant
has completed the study and submitted the final report on December 2005. The study basically
pursued the long run marginal cost approach, which ultimately proposed a tariff with various
options for both inter connected system and self contained system.

d) Power System Expansion Master Plan
The component was envisaged to carry out a comprehensive study of the Ethiopian Power
System Expansion Master Plan. The component comprises a set of activities which include: power



                                                - 35 -

market forecast, setting a hydropower and energy planning criteria, generation resource,
generation expansion planning, transmission planning and interconnection, financial analysis and
long run marginal cost. The consultant submitted the final report on December 2002 and later
updated by own staff with two scenarios' (moderate and target forecast) on April 2004; this
report was also reviewed by independent consultant and submitted the final report on August
2005.

e) Fixed Asset Revaluation
In the state of reorganizing the state owned electricity utility (the former EELPA) to the present
stage with a title EEPCo, it was a pre requisite to undertake asset revaluation. Agreement reached
by the time to initiate this component. Immediately the procurement process continued and finally
contract signed with the consultant. The scope of the consultancy service include: 1) asset type
reclassification, inventory, tagging and coding; 2) economic useful life adjustment; and 3) current
market replacement cost determination and financial impact analysis. The consultant completed
the study and submitted the final report on October 2001. The proposal presented to the Council
of ministers and obtained approval on July 2003. Following this the revalued amount incorporated
in EEPCo's financial statements starting from 2004.

3. Achievement of Project Objectives and Output

3.1 Project Development Objectives, Key Performance Indicators, Critical Assumptions
and Risks

        Project               Key Performance Indicators                 Critical          Status and comments
    Development                                                       Assumptions
      Objectives                                                        and Risks
1. Improve the           Capacity reserves of 10% in terms of firm  A critical         Yes, achievd
efficiency and           energy and of 30% in terms of installed    assumption is that
sustainability of        capacity.                                  Government will
Ethiopia's power sector,                                            successfully
and increase electricity Total system failure of no more that 3 per restructure EEPCO  Yes
use for economic         year                                       and improve its
growth and improved                                                 operating
quality of life;         100 % new industrial connections be met;   performance        Yes

                         Installed capacity increased by 184 MW at                    System installed capacity increase
                         Gilgel Gibe with no cost overrun                             by 184 MW; this accompanied by
                                                                                      cost over run mainly contributed
                                                                                      by unforeseen geological failure.
2. Improve the           § Completeinventoryofbiomass                None
utilization of rural     resources in Northern Ethiopia
renewable energy
                         § Helpestablishagencytodealwith
                         Rural Energy




                                                             - 36 -

3.2 Project Outputs, Key Performance Indicators, Critical Assumptions and Risks

    Project Outputs               Key Performance                  Critical               Status and comments
                                      Indicators            Assumptions and
                                                                    Risks
1. Restructured power       By end of 1997, the following Government's long
sector:                     is in place:                   term commitment to
                                                           reform is critical      Electricity proclamation issued on
a)         Promote private rules facilitating private                              1996 inviting privates to participate
sector participation;       participation in the power                             in the power sector.
                            sector;
b)         with correct                                                            The agency established in 1997.
pricing system; and         a regulatory agency (by end of
                            1997);
c)         Strengthened,
commercialized EEPCO. an adequate pricing system;
                                                                                   EEPCo reorganized with the basic
                            third party access to the grid;                        motto commercialization and
                            and                                                    decentralization before the end of
                                                                                   1997.
                            EEPCO converted into a
                            for-profit corporation by end
                            of-1997
2. Increased electricity    EEPCO's dependable capacity     Unforeseen             Dependable capacity increased by
generating capacity         increased by 184MW at Gilgel phenomenon (like          184 MW in year 2004; while firm
                            Gibe by 2003 with no cost       geological failure)    generation capacity increased by
                            overrun, increasing Ethiopia's  for the construction   722 MWH, higher than the initial
                            firm generation capacity by 664 of such a big plant    estimate of 664GWH during
                            GWh per year                    should have not been appraisal.
                                                            over sighted.
3. Complete data on          Completion of resource         None. The
biomass resources in         Atlases and formulation of     implementing agency
Northern Ethiopia            strategic plans for 6 regions  has good experience.
4. Establish a capability to Rural Energy Group             Government's
deal with Rural Energy       established by June 30, 1999   commitment to rural
                                                            energy development
                                                            is critical.


3.3. Project Components and Status, Key Performance Indicators, Critical Assumptions and Risks

  Project Components               Key Performance          Critical Assumptions           Status and comments
                                       Indicators                  and Risks
1. Support of power sector                                 For (a): Little risk as
reform program.                                            Government task forces
(a)                                                        have sufficiently clear
(i) Study tours for policy     Study tours completed by    objectives and enough     Yes
makers;                        June 1998.                  understanding of issues to
(ii) TA in implementing        New Electricity             deign a regulatory system
reform,                        Proclamation in place by    for the power sector,
                               end-1997                    creating incentives for
                                                           private investment.
(b)                                                                                  Tariff study completed by
(i) Tariff Study;                                          For (b)(i) : Parliament   December 2005,after a year
(ii) Training in regulatory    Tariff Study completed by   approves the proposed     delay; late completion of Master
and agency staff;              April 30, 2001              new tariff structure      plan due to the decision of
                               Training completed by       without major changes.    incorporating the development
(c)                            end-1999                                              program of the



                                                            - 37 -

Restructuring and                                                                       Government/EEPCo contributed
strengthening of EEPCO                                                                  for the delay.
(i) assistance in
corporatization and            Utility incorporated as profitFor (c) (i) : Government isAsset
                                                             committed to                     revaluation completed on
reorganization;                enterprise by end-1997        commercializing the        October 2001.
(ii) assistance for asset      Asset revalued by November    utility.
reevaluation;                  30, 1999                                                 Accounting and billing
(iii) assistance, training and Utility's commercial          For (b) (ii): EEPCO must   decentralization will be
IT for decentralizing billing operations and accounting      incorporate results in the completed by the end of March
and accounting;                system decentralized by mid   accounts.                  2006.
(iv) manpower development; 2000
(v) assistance in IT to        Training program in place                                Power system expansion master
improve operation planning, Operations planning model                                   plan study completed on
(vi) system expansion study installed and in use by                                     December 2002; updated by own
                               mid-1999                                                 staff on April 2004 and reviewed
                               Expansion study completed                                by consultant on August 2005.
                               by August 31, 1999
2. Construction of 184 MW Gilgel Gibe commissioned            None. The construction Implementation problems: or
Gilgel Gibe hydroelectric      by mid 2002 with no cost       will be contracted out    delays. Please provide reason(s)
plant                          overrun                        to contractors of         and procedures taken to resolve
                                                              international repute      issue.
                                                              with adequate             Any Procurement issues such as
                                                              guarantees in the         claims with contractors.
                                                              contract for finishing on Any complaints to the Bank.
                                                              time and within budget
3. Improvement of rural
energy efficiency and data                                    None. The                 How effective is the survey.?
base                           Survey completed by 2002       implementing agency
(a)Wood biomass survey                                        has good experience       In what activities has the Rural
(b) Assistance in establishingRural group established and                               Group been involved?
group to deal with rural       fully functioning by 2000.
energy.


4. Project Cost and Finacing

For the execution of the Energy II project a total of MUSD 295.89 allocated ; the share of IDA
199.984, EIB 64.38 NDF5.77,and EEPCo25.756 and the corresponding expenditure looks as
199.7, 72.82, 10.28 and 71.82 respectively. Following tables summarizes financial performance,
by component and financing institutions.

4.1 Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                                         Appraisal           Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                          Estimate              Estimate           Appraisal
                              Component                                 US$ million           US$ million
       1. Support of Power Sector Reform                                     8.93                23.21               259.9
       2. Construction of Gilgel Gibe hydroelectric plant*                 281.88               331.41               117.6
      3. Improvement of Rural Energy Efficiency and Data Base               5.08


                                               Total Project Costs         295.89               354.62               119.8


                                         Total Financing Required          295.89               354.62               119.8
      Note:           §       Emergency recovery cost estimate included.
                      §       The cost estimate includes only for EEPCo's components.




                                                              - 38 -

4.2 Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

      Component           Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest Estimate     Percentage of Appraisal
                       IDA    Govt.      CoF.     IDA    Govt     CoF.      IDA    Govt.     CoF.
                                     NDF    EIB                NDF    EIB                 NDF    EIB
  1. Support of Power  3.16           5.77        9.78   3.15 10.28         309.5         178.2
  Sector Reform
  2. Construction of  191.744 25.756       64.38 189.92 68.67        72.82   99    266.6        113.1
  Gilgel Gibe hydro
  electric plant*
  3. Improvement of      5.08
  Rural Energy Effici-
  ency and Data Base



  Total               199.984 25.756  5.77 64.38 199.7   71.82 10.28 72.82 99.9    278.8  178.2 113.1



4.3 Summary of Technical Assistance undertaken by the Project

                TA               Firm/Consultant     Contract      Signature Date &  Provide comments
                                                     Amount        Completion Date
                                                     ( MUSD)
 Tariff Study                    Scott Wilson      0.943             April, 2002
                                Piesold

 Master Plan                     Acres             1.813             June 1999
                                International.                       May 2005
                                Parsons Brinker
 Billing & Accounting Dec.       Norconsult        2.826             Nov. 1999
 Manpower Dev't                  SMEC              0.600             Sept. 2003
                                International
 Fixed Asset                     Fichtner Gmbh     1.438             July 1999
 Gilgel Gibe                     Enel/Elec         19.212            June 1995



5. Major Problems Encountered during Implementation

The energy II project has successfully been completed. The Bank's commitment together with the
borrower's effort contributed a lot towards achieving the objective/output set during appraisal.
The success of the project, however, was accompanied by delay of some components, completed
behind the original schedule. Listed below mainly focuses on factors contributing for the delay:

·        Unforeseen geological failure almost at all civil work in the case of Gilgel Gibe; this has
led to contract amendment and additional cost;




                                                 - 39 -

·       The involvement of many independent contractors in the case of Gilgel Gibe , has created
an interfacing problem that contributed for the delay;
·       Longer procurement process at the stage of tender preparation and approval; this had a
significance influence in the case of Accounting and billing system decentralization where the
tendering process has taken quite significant time, the same is also true for obtaining approval
from NDF for additional budget.
·       Handling the controversial issue of load forecasting has taken longer time, the cornerstone
of power system expansion plan. The circumstance has forced to update the master plan for the
second time by own staff, which is scheduled to complete soon. This has also contributed for the
late completion of the Tariff study.

6. Bank Performance
The performance of the Bank starting from conception (appraisal stage) up to the completion of
the project is praise worthy. The realization of the project made possible EEPCo to own the
biggest hydro plant ever constructed and became operational. A great achievement was also
recorded along the effort of upgrading the institutional capacity. The bank's contribution towards
achieving the project can specifically put as:
·       Technical advices at all procurement stages safeguarded institutions in bringing eligible
companies/contractors and consultants.;
·       Timely approval of disbursement requests;
·       The regular visit of the technical mission of the Bank that has created an opportunity to
extend any support found outstanding and also laying ground for the next milestone tasks;

With all these strong points commendable, delay of obtaining " No Objection " , as noticed on
some components, is believed yet a room for improvement.

7. Lessons Learned
The completion of the Energy II project made possible EEPCo to achieve a lot. The
commissioning and operational of Gilgel Gibe Plant, the biggest hydro plant, has significantly
contributed in overcoming the power shortage. The coming of the plant at the right time
prevented form worst option of power shading, which adversely affects the economy. Joint effort
of the two parties (The Bank and EEPCo) did led to achieving the set objectives. In relation to
this, the success of the resettlement program is highly commendable. In addition to resettling
more than 700 families at a better environment than they were used to live before, it serves as a
model for future similar construction.

The realization of the project further created an opportunity to build the institutional capacity of
executing agencies. Following is major achievements in this regard.
·       The technical assistance extended during implementation, particularly institutional
strengthening components made possible carrying out the same responsibility on its own. The
planning department of EEPCo is now in apposition to properly utilize the model for any master
plan update changes; this is witnessed by the consultant who reviewed the updated master plan
produced by own staff on April 2004. The second time updating of the master plan is undergoing
and hopefully will be completed shortly. The same capacity is also built in tariff study.




                                                - 40 -

·      The Man power Development component through its intensive training program made
possible building in-house capacity to carryout similar program on its own with out seeking any
outside support. In addition, the learning resource center established during implementation laid a
good ground in transforming EEPCo into a learning organization.
·      The expertise gained during the implementation of the Fixed Asset Revaluation
component has created an opportunity for EEPCo to take over the responsibility. After the
completion of the component (October, 2001), all possessed new assets up to the period year
2005 have been recorded and entertained in the financial statements on its own using the same
methodology; this marks the knowledge transfer being institutionalized.

On the other hand the execution of the project did also witness cost overrun particularly in the
case of Gilgel Gibe hydro plant. Unforeseen geological failure on the civil work, the major factor
contributed for the cost escalation, forced EEPCo to cover a significant share beyond the amount
allocated by the Banks. This entails proper attention for risk and uncertainty during appraisal is
yet to be desired.

          EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROGRAM

          1)   PROJECT OBJECTIVES:

            The objective of Emergency Recovery Project (ERP) electric power component is to
            rehabilitate and reconstruct power supply facilities in war affected areas and
            procure equipment and goods to replace those stranded at Assab Port.

            The ERP-EEPCo component is financed by reallocating resources of about
            MUSD 10 from the ongoing IDA- Financed Energy II Project. This amount covers
            the supply portion; while EEPCO takes the share for the construction part.

                  The following contract packages were designed for the supply.

          a)   Contract- A "Supply of Distribution Materials"
          b)   Contract- B " Supply of Substation Material and Equipment"
          c)   Contract- C "supply of Transmission Line Material"
          d)   Contract -E " Supply of Diesel Units"

          2)   Supply and Delivery

               2.1) Distribution
               All distribution materials (Contract A) have been delivered.

               2.2) Substation
               All materials have been delivered to site except damaged items.

              2.3 Transmission
               All materials have been delivered to site.



                                                - 41 -

         2.4 Diesel Generating Set
               The generating set including transformers were delivered to EEPCo's
               Ware House.

         3)   Project cost

            The total finance utilized to date is about MUSD 4.2.



          Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation

                GILGEL GIBE HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT

        COMPLETION REPORT ON ENVIRONMENT AND RESETTLEMENT

                                          MARCH 2006

                Environmental Issues Of Gilgel Gibe HEPP

       Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for Gilgel Gibe Hydro Electric Power
Project (GGHEP) was produced in 1997 by an Italian consulting firm named ENEL/ELC.
The purpose of the EIA study was to predict the negative environmental impacts that
were likely to occur as a result of preparing, constructing and operating of the Project.

       Since the beginning of the construction work, GGHEP of EEPCo has fully
incorporated the environmental management & monitoring activities into its different
construction areas.

       According to the EIA recommendation, the project has established the
Environmental Monitoring Unit (EMU) at work site level, since September 1998. The
Unit was staffed by qualified personnel (one Environmentalist, one Sociologist and one
Forester). The Unit was involved in monitoring and helped in mitigating the predicted
environmental, social & health impacts that were occurred during the construction &
operation periods.

I. Major Environmental issues during construction are:

1.     Monitoring contractors' compliance

-      Dumping areas
-      Quarry Site



                                              - 42 -

-      Borrow sites
-      Water pollution
-      Water borne diseases
-      Chemicals, used oil, etc
-      Solid and liquid waste
-      Compensation flows
-      Others

2.     Project forest clearing operation

3.      Project buffer zone management

4.     Archeological survey

5.     Road re-alignment

6.     HIV/AIDS and STDs health education program

1.     Contractors' compliance on environment, health & safety issue

       The project has given greater attention for health & safety status of the
contractors' construction workers & other environmental related issues.

1.1.   Dumping Sites:

       Totally about six mucks and spoils dumping sites were used during the
construction period as per indicated in the EIA document. The Contractors after
commencement of major excavation works have asked for some more dumping sites, out
of which some were approved by EMU and others were not approved.

       This was one of the environmentally sensitive case EMU has faced during
construction phase.

1.2.   Quarry areas:

       One quarry site was used all through out the construction period in order to extract
material for the construction activities. The quarry site was intensively used and the site was left
open /untreated without rehabilitation. The overburden was also thrown over the cliff into the
natural water course.

       At present, the road upgrading contractor is extracting quarry material for Addis Ababa
-Jimma highway No. 7 upgrading work.



                                               - 43 -

1.3.    Borrow Site:

        Only one borrow site was selected in order to extract select material for dam fill
purpose. Careful extraction of the material was undertaken by the Contractors not to
affect more area unnecessarily.

1.4.    Water Pollution:

        There was significant amount of stream pollution coming out from discharges of
construction sites. After careful assessment, EMU proposed the use of sedimentation
ponds to enable the turbid matter and contaminants to settle down in the ponds. When the
ponds were full with dirt, the contractors clean it up and dump it at the designated
dumping sites.

1.5.    Water borne disease:

        The EIA study revealed that malaria, onchocerciasis and some helminthic infections
(including bilharzia or schistosomiasis) are the major disease threat in the project area. To
overcome this problem, people residing in the buffer zone (500 m above maximum reservoir water
level) were resettled. The buffer zone was revgetated in order to help as a barrier to keep away
mosquitoes from flying into individual's residence. The surrounding people were told not to swim,
wade or wash in the reservoir water.

1.6.    Chemicals, used oil, etc:

        Fuel stations and other chemicals were located far away from water sources in order not
to causing stream pollution. In addition to this, car washing shades were also located at a distance
from the river course. In order not to aggravate soil and water pollution, the Unit proposed to the
contractors to construct grease/oil trap which was practically applied in the construction sites.

        The used oil was properly collected in a closed barrel /container and later on transported
for recycling purpose.

1.7.    Solid and liquid waste disposal:

        Solid waste was properly collected in a portable receptacle with handle and cover at every
work site. The collected waste was regularly transported to the final dumping pits prepared for
the purpose. When the pits are full or at the end of the construction phase, all the solid waste
dumping pits were covered by soil and landscaped.

        All liquid waste/from laundry, sewerage, kitchen, etc/ were properly disposed off in the
septic tanks.




                                                - 44 -

1.8.   Compensation/ amenity flow:

       According to EIA study, 1m3/s compensation flow will be allowed to flow and 5.28m3/s
on an average will be spilled monthly through bottom outlet. This compensation flow will provide
a balanced flow for the 16 km long down stream stretch users. This will be augmented by about 4
small streams downstream. These jointly will minimize downstream effect on ecosystem and
users.

1.9.   Others

-      Regular monitoring to the work sites and camps in order to make sure, that the
contractors' employees are working in a conducive and healthy environment.

-      There were adequate supply of personal safety wears and equipment in the
construction working areas

-      Workers have been properly oriented before starting work on how to wears and
equipment in the construction working areas.


-      The clinics were working smoothly. They were well equipped and staffed.

-      The first aid stations were similarly working well. They are equipped with
ambulance cars & other first aid facilities.

-      The Contractors have provided sufficient clean and potable water supply.

2.     Project forest clearing operation

              As predicted in EIA study, the natural vegetation including the riparian
       forest and the woody savannah were totally removed from the dam reservoir area
       of 40 km2 during the construction period.

              The purpose of reservoir area forest clearing is to avoid the adverse water
       quality due to high nutrient load and oxygen deficiency in the reservoir was
       compulsory to clear all the large woody vegetation the dam impoundment.

              The reservoir area was occupied by some 300 ha of partially degraded
       riparian forest and the remaining area consists of cultivated and grazing lands with
       remnants of the transitional zone and savannah woodland.




                                              - 45 -

             The project has thus cleared all the woody vegetation from the reservoir area
       prior to the reservoir inundation. The woody biomass totally cleared is estimated
       to be about 80,000 m3.

3.     Project buffer zone management

             As the project construction activities entails the removal of natural
       vegetation, a buffer zone of about 4,000 ha of land encircling the reservoir area
       has been created to compensate the loss of riparian vegetation including the woody
       savannah and its wildlife habitat. Besides the area closure, the project has already
       commenced the buffer zone reforestation program since 2001 by establishing tree
       nursery & producing different multipurpose tree seedlings.

             As a compensation measures, a buffer zone of about 4,000 ha was established
       all around the reservoir area.

             The species selected for plantation were of indigenous and exotic types
       characterized to develop rapidly on poor soils.

    S. No.     Year         No. of trees Buffer zone covered by plantation and natural
                            planted       revegetation (ha)
                                          Areas covered by plantation Areas covered
                                          by natural vegetation Total area covered
      1           2001        175,000                          70
      2           2002        200,000                          80
      3           2003        200,000                          80
      4           2004        200,000                         80--
                                                              130
                                                              110
                                                             3070
                                                              210
                                                              190
                                                              110
    Total       775,000         310                         270580

       The buffer zone as a whole is expected to be revegetated both by plantation and
natural regeneration. The buffer zone management generally helps to produce a suitable
micro climate to offset the lost woody biomass resources, restore the wild animals and
control soil erosion and minimize sedimentation flow into the reservoir, helps as a barrier
from mosquitoes. The Unit has taken preventive measures to protect the natural
vegetation against fire and encroachment.



                                           - 46 -

        Totally 775,000 different indigenous and exotic tree species planted around the
reservoir from 2001 to 2004 covering 310 hectares of land as it is shown in the table
above.

        As to survival of trees planted, it can be said that, it is generally satisfactory.
According to the result of the survival count measurement, about 75 % of the planted tree
seedlings were found survived, which is encouraging.

        So far (from 2001-2004) over 580 ha of the buffer zone area has been covered by
plantation & natural re-vegetation, especially on erosion prone areas.

4.      Archeological survey

        As the cultural heritage assessment was not exhaustively carried out earlier during
the EIA study, EEPCo fully accepted the proposal from the Authority for Research and
Conservation of Cultural Heritage (ARCCH) and prepared a contract document for the
implementation of the archaeological survey without hampering the inundation schedule
by allotting the necessary fund.

        The ARCCH archaeological survey team comprising of foreign consultants has
commenced their field operation in April 2002 and has completed their activity in June
2002.

5.      Road re-alignment

        As part of high way No. 7 is partially inundated by the reservoir water, the
Ethiopian Road Authority (ERA) has designed and constructed an emergency new route
for temporary use. The construction work was started early January 2002 and opened for
traffic the same year.

        EMU has been monitoring whether the new road re-alignment crosses through the
buffer zone or not, which later on was confirmed that it will not affect the buffer zone.

6. HIV/AIDS and STDs health education program

As predicted in the EIA study, to curb the increasing threat of communicable diseases, in
particular HIV/AIDS, the project has carried out a health education campaign in
collaboration with Zonal Health Department and the Ethiopian Red Cross Association
branch of the Jimma Zone.

The focus target groups were:




                                           - 47 -

·      Project workers (GGHEP staff, Contractors' employees, and Consultant's staff).
·      Surrounding urban dwellers (Sekoru, Deneba and Asendabo towns).
·      Resettled and host communities.
·      School students and teachers.

Totally, health education was given for about 11,000 people from different target groups
from December 2nd - 11th 2000.

The educational sessions were supported by audio visual and other IEC material, like
leaflets, booklets, brochures, posters, etc.

EMU in collaboration with Woreda HIV/AIDS Control Office has also conducted health
education program on 5th October 2003 for EEPCo staff and employees of both Salini
and Zublin Contractors.

II. After project completion

Measures taken by the contractors to restore the surrounding project area are:

-      The borrow area was properly landscaped.

-      Most of the mucks and spoils dump sites were also properly landscaped, except in some
areas where the spoils and quarry overburden were not restored.
-      The quarry site was not rehabilitated, it was planned to be used by the road upgrading
contractor.

-      Stockpile area for quarry materials was properly landscaped.

-      Contractors' construction camp sites were all remove.

III. Projects compliance to Environmental requirements

More or less all the critical environmental issues were properly taken care of through the Units'
effort and contractors' proper compliance to environmental clauses. However, in general terms,
the contractors were reluctant comply with environmental requirements.

Part of the reason for lack of willingness on the part of the Contractors is that enforcing
mechanisms were not sufficiently addressed in the contract document.




                                               - 48 -

IV. Lessons Learned

-       Considerations on environmental and social issues on Gilgel Gibe Hydro Electric Power
Project were paramount. It was the first in its kind for the power sector that became a model for
other similar projects.

-       Based on the experience of GGHEP environmental activities' EEPCo has established an
office at corporation level, in order to take due environmental care for all power projects.

                              Rsettlement at Gilgel Gibe HEPP

Back Ground Information

        Gilgel Gibe I Hydroelectric Power Project is located some 250 km West of Addis
Ababa and 70 km North East of Jimma, in Omo Nada and Kersa Weredas of Jimma zone
in Oromiya Regional State.

        Similarly, the resettlement sites are located in the Jimma Zone of Oromiya region
in kersa and Omo Nada Woreda. They are located at about 280-300 km from Addis
Ababa.

        The constriction of Gilgil Gibe Hydroelectric Power Project has adversely affected
the lives of people. There were 706 households displaced by the Project, out of which
562 households resettled through government assisted resettlement scheme and 144
households preferred to be resettled by themselves.

        The construction of the dam has disrupted household income sources of Project
Affected Persons (PAPs), expropriated agricultural farm land, demolished business and
residential houses located in the project area, and forcing PAPs to involuntary
resettlement.

        In order to mitigate the adverse impact of the resettlement programme was planned
and implemented from 1999 to 2000 and the PAPs were resettled in nine resettlement
sites that are located in Kersa and Omo Nada Weredas of Jimma Zone. The proximity of
the resettlement sites from their departure or previous location varies from 5 to 30 km
distance. The host communities and the resettled households are from the same ethnic
group, speak the same language, and practice the same religion and are from the same
cultural background.




                                                - 49 -

1.     The establishment of GGI resettlement project

       To assist the Federal Government of Ethiopia, the World Bank approved in
December 1997, IDA credit of US$ 200 millions to build the Glgel Gibe Hydro Electric
Power plant. Ethiopian Energy II is the Bank's name of the project. The Ethiopia Electric
Power Project (EEPCo) was designated as the implementing agency. The reservoir of the
power plant was estimated to cover an area of 6,200 ha, thus inducing land acquisition
and involuntary resettlement. An Environmental Assessment (EA) including Social
Assessment (SA) was carried out and a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was prepared to
address the adverse social impacts.

       A detail survey of the number of project affected persons (PAPs), identified 738
households to be affected. In Addition, 367 households under the transmission line were
identified to be partially or totally affected. All together about 5,000 people were
assumed to be resettled. Those numbers made Gilgel Gibe, the second most Bank
supported resettlement operation in Africa 1998-1999, the other one was Manantali in
Senegal (2200 households, 11,0000 PAPs).

       To execute the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), a resettlement office under
EEPCo was set up as a component of the Gilgel Gibe Hydroelectric Power Project. Staff
from EEPCo, the Jimma Zone Administration and representatives of PAPs undertook a
full inventory of private and public property including selection of the arrival sites.
Settlement sites were 3-30 km far from their area of origin, was selected out of three
potential sites prospected.

2.     Agricultural activities

    For the first resettlement year the project has plowed 2 ha of land for each resettled
households. Improved seeds and chemical fertilizer were supplied for the first year. The
agricultural extension workers also assisted the resettled households and home agents for
improved farm practices, tree planting, drainage structures, in door environment.

3.     Resettlement Project Achievements

    The relocation of PAPs was completed in 2000. It was followed by a quality
assurance period of one year, to monitor and provide additional assistance. The
implementation of the resettlement was considered successful, both by the Bank and by
the client. The main achievement of the project was the following:

·      The civil works at the Gilgel Gibe Hydroelectric Power Project were completed in
December 2003. The plant was inaugurated in January 2004.




                                            - 50 -

·       The resettlement was completed 2 years ahead of impounding, 4 years ahead of
completion of civil works.

·       Social infrastructure built includes 971 tin roofed houses, 1 health clinic, 1
veterinary clinic, 1 school building, 3 houses and offices for agricultural extension agents,
3 mosques, a church and a market place.

·       All members of PAPs households were provided medical check up, and treatment.
The medical records were computerized and handed over to the new health clinic built to
serve PAPs and host communities.
·       All PAPs were given 2.5 hectare of land, one hectare more than the average
farmland in the area of origin.

·        PAPs' farms were cultivated with tractors, by an EEPCo contractor the first
resettlement year; likewise, fertilizers were sponsored by EEPCo and delivered timely the
first resettlement year.

·       About 231,900 trees were planted in the resettlement sites; the survival rate is
about 60%.

·       School enrolment amongst PAPs per year in the first grade for 171 students, the
first year of resettlement children increased from about 10 students.

·       The project is the first well-planed and implemented resettlement ever made in the
history of Ethiopia.

4.      Resettlement implementation cost

        The total expropriation cost of immovable property was estimated at US$
8,611,000. The funds required were made available by the Federal Government of
Ethiopia, to the Oromiya Regional Government before credit approval by the Bank. The
resettlement cost per household was estimated at US$ 4,600 per household, which is
below the international average for a 180 MW hydro power plant.

5.      Land allocation

    In the resettlement sites, land is equally distributed to all resettled households and has
    received 2.5 hectares of land and there is not a single household that does not have
    land in the resettlement sites. The egalitarian form of land distribution has benefited
    those households who did not have land in their previous settlements. Those
    households, who did not have land in their previous location, are now economically
    and socially better off since they are able to own farmland.


                                             - 51 -

6.     Types of Houses

       The housing types in the previous locations were mainly constructed of thatched
roof whereas in the resettlement sites, all houses are constructed with corrugated iron
sheet.

       All the resettled households were provided with residential houses that have
equivalent size to their previous houses and constructed with CIS roof. This is a major
change in the quality and standard of their living condition. The houses in the
resettlement sites also have different rooms for human and livestock, which is better than
their former houses.


7. Relation of resettled communities with the host community

       The resettled communities share a number of resources with host communities
living in their surroundings. The shared resources include grazing land, burial place,
clinic, school, agricultural development agent, water resources, mosques, church, etc.
Certain resources or infrastructures, even though, were constructed or allocated for the
benefit of the resettled household, the host communities have also become one the
beneficiaries of the services.

8. Social and religious infrastructures

       Different social and religious infrastructures were constructed by the resettlement
project office for the use of the resettled households. The social and religious
infrastructures constructed for the resettled households include: -

·      Primary schools
·      Health clinics
·      Veterinary clinic
·      Access roads
·      Water wells
·      Mosques and churches.

       8.1 Primary school

       One primary school was constructed at site 5 and, two other primary schools were
rehabilitated in sites one and five. Most households, children attend schools constructed
by the resettlement project. The average distance traveled by student from their houses to
schools has been reduced after the resettlement program.


                                            - 52 -

       8.2    Health Clinic

       There is one clinic constructed for resettled households and located in Bulbul
town. The clinic is not well equipped, faces shortage of medicine and does not have any
power supply system.

       In the resettlement sites, people have got better access to health service as
compared to their previous locations. The health center is near to the residential places of
the inhabitants.

       8.3    Veterinary clinic

       One veterinary clinic built at Bublu town for the use of resettled and host
communities. The building of the vet. clinic is found in a very good condition. The clinic
provides animal health service for the resettled population.

       8.4    Access Road

       Access roads were constructed in all the sites, except those roads located near to
the main road; all of the other roads were easily damaged due to water logging. Lack of
drainage facilities has further worsened the condition of the roads as a result of the
resettlement sites are completely in accessible especially during rainy seasons. The
absence of the access roads is one of the major constraint that have affected the
accessibility of the resettled households.

       8.5    Water well

       The resettlement project constructed 14 water wells, out of these; sites number 3, 4
and 6 have two wells each. The other 6 sites have got one water well each. Currently the
water wells are functioning but they do not have adequate yields to satisfy the demand of
the resettled communities especially during dry season. During the rain season also, the
volume of water reduces significantly due to slippage of water through cracks of the
water walls

       8.6    Development Agent offices

       The resettlement project constructed three development agent offices at sites 3, 6
and 8. All the three offices were found in good condition except the office at site 8, its
roof is affected by wind and so far it is not yet maintained.




                                             - 53 -

9.      Religious Institutions

        9.1     Mosques

        At the resettlement sites, 4 mosques are constructed at sites 2, 3, 5 and 9 and their
overall conditions are rated good and are serving the resettled and host communities
properly.

        9.2     Church

        In the resettlement site, one church constructed for the settlers and it is found in a
good condition and serves the community properly. Residents of Asendabo and Gibe
towns are also among the users of the church.

10.     Overall Compensation (Rehabilitation) performance

        The review of the RAP by the consultant ENEL and project progress reports
combined with field observations suggests that overall rehabilitation scheme have been
satisfactory. The relocation of PAPs was timely done. Likewise, compensation was
timely paid to all PAPs. The social organization of the PAPs has been settled, their social
net works and their relationship with the host communities have been strengthened, and
they all seemed to know each other.

        In relation to the above point the EMU staff members site visit report on 20
January 2006 in the resettlement area state that:

        All PAPs consulted gives great value for improved houses, access to potable water,
close access to the mosques and to the church, as the main assets of the resettlement. The
houses were well constructed and many had their living rooms painted with earth colors.
Discussing the housing situation, most of the resettled community expressed that they felt
like living in modern urban facilities, and, they were better off now, than the people they
left in their area of origin.

        Intermarriages between PAPs and host communities were reported at each
resettlement site, the first marriages took place already, within the first year of the
relocation. The PAPs and the host population worship together in the mosques and
church, respectively. All PAPs houses have been yearly sprayed against mosquitoes,
since relocation in 2000. In addition, one mosquito net has been provided to each
household.




                                            - 54 -

11.    Conclusion

       In January 2001, following a visit to the resettlement area, the parliament of
Ethiopia acknowledged the satisfactory completion of the project. It declared the project
as a model for future resettlement in the country. In June 2001, Bank's Board, after a
field visit of the Gilgel Gibe resettlement, acknowledged the project to be the best in East
Africa and suggested that it be used as a good practice in the region.




                                             - 55 -

                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 28768




                                  ETHIOPIA
                      ENERGY II PROJECT                                                                                                                  To Addis
                                                                                                                                                           Ababa
                   LOCATION OF GILGEL GIBE
                      HYDROELECTRIC PLANT

                                                                                                                                                               235km


                                   PROPOSED RESERVOIR                                                                                                   Saja
                                                                                                                                                       240km

                                   RIVERS


                                   MAIN ROAD


                                   TOWNS AND VILLAGES                                                                  R.
                                                                                                                                           245km
                                   PROJECT BOUNDARY                                                              Gibe         250km


                                                                                        Underground       Gilgel                         Sekeru
                                                                                        Power House




                                                                                                                         Permanent
                                                                                                                         Village area

                                                                                                                   255km




                   Dimtu                                    Ayno                                        260km


                                                                             Tunnel
                          Nano             Koticha
                          Dimtu              Maru                                                       Denaba
                                                                    Intake Spillway
                                                                                          265km
                 Budo                                                      Dam
                                                                                        Construction
                                                                               Inkure     Camp                       This map was produced by the
                                                                                                                     Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                       Gilgel                                                                        The boundaries, colors,denominations
                                                                                                                     and any other information shown on
             Docoso                           Gibe  Max. N.W.L.                    Toldo                             this map do not imply, on the part of
                                                    R.1669 m.                                                        The World Bank Group, any judgment
                                                                                                                     on the legalstatus of any territory,or
                                                                        270km                                        any endorsement or acceptance of
                   Harena
                             Tur                275km                                                                such boundaries.

                             Metatebo

                                                                                Liben
               Asendabo  280km
                                                                                                     35°             40°       SAUDI ARABIA                50°
Gibe                                                                                                                  Red                          ED


    285km                                                                                                                                   NODEFINNDARY
                                                                                                                                              BOU
 To   Wenji      Yedi
Jima                                                        Kara                          15°              E R I T R E A            R E P . O F                   15°
                                                                                                                                     Y E M E N
                                     Wedeyi                    Bore                          S U D A N
                                                                                                                                             Gulf       of
                                                                                                                                 DJIBOUTI


                                                                                          10°                E T H I O P I A                                      10°

                                                                                                                    Addis Ababa
                                                                                                        Area
                                                                                                      of map

              To
             Omo
                                                                                          5°                                                                      5°
                                                                                                                                     SOMALIA

                                                                                                                                                         I N D I A
     0                   5                      10                                         UGANDA                                                        N

                    KILOMETERS                                                                             K E N YA
                                                                                          0°           Lake                                                       0°
                                                                                                       Victori

                                                                                                      35°                40°            45°                   50°

                                                                                                                                                           MAY 1997

