Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17170-ET
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
ENERGY 11 PROJECT
November 13, 1997
Energy Team
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =        Ethiopian Birr (ETB)
US$1.00       =       Birr6.801 as of November 1997
SDR 1.0       =       US$1.37 as of October 1997
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I kilometer     =       0.621 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)    =       0.386 square miles
1 kilovolt (kV)    =       1,000 volts
1 megawatt (MW)       =       1,000 kilowatts
1 megavolt ampere (MVA)      =       1,000 kilovolt amperes
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)     =       1 million kilowatt hours
1 ton of oil equivalent (toe)  =      10,500,000 kilocalories
Vice President:     Callisto Madavo
Country Director:   Oey Astra Meesook
Technical Manager:   Mark Tomlinson
Task Manager:       Alfred Gulstone



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB          African Development Bank
BOT          Build, Operate and Transfer
DANIDA           Danish International Development Agency
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
EELPA           Ethiopian Electric Power and Light Authority
EEPCO           Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation
EESRC           Ethiopian Energy Studies and Research Center
EIA          Environmental Impact Assessment
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
ESMAP           Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
GOE          Government of Ethiopia
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
ICS         Interconnected System
IDA          International Development Association
LRMC           Long Run Marginal Cost
MME           Ministry of Mines and Energy
MOA           Ministry of Agriculture
NGO           Non Governmental Agency
NORAD            Nordic Development Agency
NPV          Net Present Value
PA          Project Agreement
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PAP          Project Affected Population
PMU           Project Management Unit
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
SCS          Self Contained System
Sida         Swedish International Development Agency
STD          Sexually Transmitted Diseases






ETHIOPIA
ENERGY II PROJECT
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
CONTENTS
Page No.
Project Financing Data ..................................1I
BLOCK 1:
Project Description ...................................2
1. Project Development Objectives ...................................2
2. Project Components .....................................2
3. Benefits and Target Population ...................................2
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements ...................................3
BLOCK 2:
Project Rationale ...................................3
5. CAS Objectives Supported by the Project ...................................3
6. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy ...................................3
7.   Sector Issues to be addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices ........................................5
8.  Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection ....................................................6
9. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or Other Development Agencies .............6
10. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design .............................................................6
11. Indications of Borrower Commitment and ownership .............................................................7
12. Value Added of Bank Support .............................................................7
BLOCK 3:
Summary Project Assessments .............................................................7
13. Economic Assessment .............................................................7
14. Financial Assessment .............................................................8
15. Technical Assessment .............................................................9
16. Institutional Assessment ............................................................                                            10
17. Social Assessment .............................................................1.1
18. Environmental Assessment ............................................................                                            I 1
19. Participatory Approach ............................................................                                              12
20. Sustainability ............................................................                                                      12
21. Critical Risks ............................................................                                                      12
22. Possible Controversial Aspects ............................................................                                      12



- ii -
BLOCK 4:
Main Loan Conditions ..........................                                                          13
23. Effectiveness Conditions ..........................                                                       13
24. Assurances ..........................                                                                     13
BLOCK 5:
Compliance with Bank Policies .......................                                                      14
Annexes
1.  Project Design Summary ..........................                                                         15
2.  Detailed Project Description ..........................                                                   18
3.  Estimated Project Costs ..........................                                                        23
4.  Cost Benefit Analysis Summary ..........................                                                  24
4A. Financial Analysis Summary ..........................                                                     28
5.  EEPCO Past and Current Financial Performance: FY90/91-95/96 .30
6.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .37
7. Project Processing Budget and Schedule .44
8. Documents in the Project File .45
9.  Status of Bank Group Operations in Ethiopia .46
10. Ethiopia at a Glance .47
Map:
Ethiopia - IBRD No. 28768



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AsSOcIATIoN
AFRICA REGIONAL OFFICE
AFC06
Project Appraisal Document
ETHIOPIA
ENERGY II PROJECT
Date: November 13, 1997                                               []  Draft    [X] Final
Task Manager: Alfred Gulstone                       Country Director: Oey Astra Meesook
Project ID: 736                                     Sector: Energy
Lending Instrument:  Sector Investment and Maintenance PTI:    [ ] Yes          [X] No
Loan
Project Financing Data               [   Loan   [X] Credit   [   Guarantee  []   Other [Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$mlSDRm): US$200.0 million/SDR 146.1 million
Proposed Terms:                         []  Multicurrency   [   Single currency
Grace period (years): 10 years    []  Standard        [X] Fixed            []   LIBOR-based
Variable
Years to maturity: 40 years
Commitment fee: 0%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                                 Local             Foreign            Total
Government                                             24.64             24.29            48.93
Cofinanciers:
European Investment Bank                             9.65              32.46            42.11
Nordic Development Fund                              0.00               4.85             4.85
IDA                                                    42.93             157.07          200.00
Total      77.22             218.67           295.89
Borrower: Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
Guarantor:
Responsible agencies: (i) Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME); (ii) Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation (EEPCO);
and (iii) Ministry of Agriculture (MOA).
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    1998    1999     2000      2001     2002      2003    2004
Annual  2.29      21.49    39.88    51.01    50.44    27.50       7.39
Cumulative  2.29      23.78    63.66    114.67   165.11    192.61   200.00



Page 2                                                                         Project Appraisal Document
Ethiopia: Energy II Project
For Guarantees:                                [] Partial Credit    [ ] Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of
financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization
profile
Financing available without guarantee?:          []   Yes              []   No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Expected effectiveness date: January 31, 1998               Closing date: January 31, 2004
Block 1: Project Description
1. Project development objectives (see Annex 1 for key performance indicators):
The project objectives are: (a) to increase the efficiency and sustainability of Ethiopia's power sector, and to
increase electricity use for economic growth and improved quality of life; and (b) to improve utilization efficiency of rural
renewable energy. Progress on these objectives will be measured by Ethiopia achieving by the end of 2002: (i) total
system failures of no more than 3 per year (ii) capacity to connect 250,000 new customers to the grid as the distribution
network is rehabilitated and expanded (under a separate project); (iii) 100% of new industrial applicants for power
connections will be satisfied; and (iv) inventory of biomass stock in Northern regions.
2. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                         Category                Cost Incl.         % of Total
Contingencies (US$M)
(I) Gilgel Gibe Hydroelectric Plant      Physical                         281.88              95
(ii) Rural Energy Development            Physical/Institution               5.08               2
Building
(iii)Power Sector Reform:
Legal and Regulatory Reform       Institution Building               0.53
Restructuring of EEPCO            Institution Building               8.73               3
Total         295.89             100
3. Benefits and target population:
The benefits of power sector reform include relieving the financial burden on the treasury by charging adequate
prices, reducing costs, improving quality of service, and by eventually attracting private capital for system expansion as
needed. A more appropriate capital structure and better working capital management would reduce the cost of capital to
EEPCO. The benefit of the Gilgel Gibe hydroelectric plant will result from energy generated and used by consumers
during the useful life of the plant, (valued at $330 million). The benefits from the rural energy development component
will result from reduced degradation of the rural ecosystem.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 3
Ethiopia: Energy II Project
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: Six years, 1998-2003
Executing agencies: (i) EEPCO for construction of the Gilgel Gibe Hydroelectric Plant and restructuring
program of EEPCO; (ii) the Ministry of Agriculture for the Woody Biomass Inventory; and (iii) MME for the power
sector reform program and institutional strengthening for rural energy.
Project coordination: (i) EEPCO has appointed project management consultants for Gilgel Gibe; EEPCO's
planning unit will be responsible for the restructuring program; the Ministry of Agriculture will establish a project
implementation team with a project manager for the Woody Biomass Inventory; and (iii) MME, with the help of short-
term consultants, as needed, will implement the power sector reform and the institutional strengthening for rural
components. Quarterly progress reports will be submitted by each of the implementing agencies; because they each have
sufficient capacity, there is no need for an overall coordinating unit.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: EEPCO will have its accounts, including its
financial statements, special account, and statements of expenditure audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA.
MME will establish a project account and a special account for the power sector reform components and the rural
institutional development. It will have this account, its special account, and statements of expenditure audited by the
Audit Service Corporation or any independent auditor acceptable to IDA. MOA will establish a project account and a
special account for the Woody Biomass survey component. It will have these accounts audited by the Audit Service
Corporation or any auditor acceptable to IDA. EEPCO will send its audited accounts along with the corresponding audit
reports to IDA within six months after the closing of its fiscal year, except for FY97 and FY98 when it will submit these
reports nine months after the close of the fiscal year. MME and MOA will send their audited accounts and the
corresponding audit reports to IDA within six months of the close of their fiscal year.
Block 2: Project Rationale
5. CAS objective(s) supported by the   Document number and date of latest CAS discussion: Report No. 17009 dated August
project                             19,1997, discussed by the Executive Directors on September 9, 1997.
Ethiopia's major development objective is sustained poverty reduction. The Bank's assistance strategy aims to
reduce poverty both directly and by promoting sustained economic growth, notably by creating an environment conducive
to rapid private sector and export development. This will be achieved through four clusters of activities: (i) policy and
capacity; (ii) infrastructure; (iii) sources of growth; and (iv) poverty and human development. To sustain the
Government's GDP growth target of 7-8% per year, as well as to alleviate poverty more directly, a major effort is needed
to ease the severe infrastructural constraints. As noted in the CAS, per capita electricity consumption in Ethiopia is only
one-half that in Mozambique and one-sixth that in Kenya, and the shortage of electricity is a major impediment to
industrial growth. The Bank/ESMAP's Energy Sector Assessment (April 1995) provides options and strategies for
energy development in Ethiopia and provides an analytical base for lending. The proposed project supports the
Government's policy of increasing electricity use for economic growth and improved quality of life. The Government
recently raised tariffs and proposes, under the proposed project, to raise them again to commercially viable levels. It has
also taken measures to commercialize the electric utility (EEPCO), and has accepted the need, in principle, for private
sector investment, although it is moving cautiously to define how this might best be achieved.
6. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues:
Electricity operations represent a growing burden on the treasury. Over the past several years, the Government



Page 4                                                                       Project Appraisal Document
Ethiopia: Energy II Project
has maintained electricity tariffs below cost for social welfare reasons. EEPCO has been provided with increasingly large
subsidies, both by relinquishing debt servicing and by direct grants for investment. With vigorous economic growth
fueling demand, the treasury can no longer sustain the subsidies at levels to cover the growing investment needs.
Service coverage and quality are low. Only about 5% of Ethiopia's population has access to electricity. Where
electricity is supplied, the quality of the electricity service is becoming inadequate to meet the needs of a growing
economy that is becoming increasingly sophisticated. Low access is a result of very low investment in power system
expansion over the past several years, especially in the distribution systems that make the final connection to the
customer. More recently, and largely as a result of demand growth in existing customers and poor rainfall, Ethiopia went
through a period of power rationing. Although the Government minimized the impact by instituting a well organized and
transparent plan for the rationing, the outages had a dampening effect on economic growth; as a result, increasing
generation capacity has become the first priority.
EEPCO's day to day operations need major changes to improve efficiency. EEPCO's day to day operations have
been constrained by a lack of management autonomy and by a shortage of cash resulting from Government policies to
keep tariff levels low. Although EEPCO managed to maintain relatively high service continuity to its customers, the
institutional framework had few incentives for efficiency and relied on the dedication of individual staff. Also, the
management culture was one that was more concerned about providing an essential service than operating the utility
according to commercial principles. Some of the items that must be addressed to improve efficiency are: (a) Improved
financial management. Basic operating and management systems (such as accounting and customer billing), required to
facilitate prompt financial management decisions, must be upgraded. (b) The present capital structure cannot sustain
long-term investments for growth and must be aligned with that of a commercially based electric utility. (c) Receivables
must be reduced to the lowest feasible level. (d) Total losses, of about 18%, must be reduced. This implies that investing
in distribution system strengthening will yield high returns.
Low efficiency in the use of traditional energy sources. Biomass is the only form of energy available to most of
Ethiopia's population. A growing population and drought in some areas has resulted in rapid depletion of biomass
resources, for example, 100 years ago about 40% of Ethiopia was forested; today only 3% is forested. The depletion of
biomass resources is exacerbated by inefficient use. Not only does the inefficient use deplete the biomass more rapidly, it
leads to drudgery for women who have to walk several kilometers every day to collect enough fuel for cooking. Also the
inefficient use of biomass leads to larger volumes of smoke being inhaled by the population and this results in health
problems.
Government Strategy:
After ESMAP prepared an Energy Assessment in 1994, the Government made several changes in the power
sector and continues to make more changes. The Government has stated that it intends EEPCO to operate commercially
(so that poor people in the countryside are not subsidizing the more affluent users of electricity in the urban areas). The
specific changes the Government has made or plans to make are embodied in two parallel efforts: to design and enact a
new legal and regulatory framework; and to corporatize and commercialize EEPCO. In the first category, the
Government has issued a Proclamation (no.86/1997). The proclamation promotes private participation; establishes a
regulatory authority responsible, among other things, for recommending tariffs; and establish the principle of third party
access to the grid (which makes competition possible in the future). Regarding private investment, the Government has
made a proclamation that Ethiopian citizens can invest in power plants of up to 25 MW.
In the second category, the Council of Ministers has issued a Regulation (no.86/1997) establishing EELPA as a
corporation to be named the Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation (EEPCO) under the Public Enterprises Proclamation
No. 25/1992. The Corporation is governed by a Management Board. The powers and duties of the Board and of the



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 5
Ethiopia: Energy H Project
General Manager of the Corporation are clearly indicated in the Public Enterprises Proclamation. Meanwhile, a Task
Force within EEPCO has designed an internal restructuring of the utility including giving more autonomy and
accountability to the seven regional managers, separating and creating separate accounting for the non-core activities of
the utility, such as construction and transport maintenance, decentralizing the accounting and billing systems, introducing
a program of human resource development, and improving operations planning.
The Government has announced an electricity pricing policy to complement the changes in the management and
structure of EEPCO. The policy includes the elimination of all subsidies to EEPCO. Towards this end, the Govermnent
has proposed tariff increases in several steps. The Government implemented the first increase from the previous level of
US$ 0.034/kWh equivalent to US$ 0.0476/kWh equivalent in April 1997. At that time, the Government announced a
second increase, affecting domestic customers only, to be implemented in 12 months (April 1998). Based on a joint
assessment by EEPCO and the Bank of EEPCO's financial needs, the Government has agreed to raise tariffs again by
July 1, 1999, to move EEPCO closer to commercial operation.
In keeping with its new mandate to operate commercially and make a profit, Government has announced a new
capital structure for EEPCO with authorized capital of 6.1 billion Birr (US$ 924 million), of which about one-third is
paid. EEPCO will be subject to taxation and the payment of dividends.
In addition to supporting improvements in the use of traditional fuels, the Government is finalizing its policy to
extend electricity services to rural areas by (i) network extensions; and (ii) decentralized systems based on renewable
energy (micro-hydro, PV, and wind). In all cases, community participation and ownership will be emphasized. A senior
official of the Ministry of Energy recently has been on a study tour of UK and USA to study policy options to support
renewable energy resources and technology development.
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Most of the constraints in the Ethiopian power sector, (inadequate investment, low efficiency, and extremely low
customer access to electricity) can be removed by restructuring the Sector to promote private investment, competition,
and clear and transparent regulation in cases where competition is not possible. The Bank's strategy, in this respect, is
based on recommendations embodied in the report of sector work undertaken by ESMAP in 1994 (ref. Ethiopia Energy
Assessment: Report 179/96 issued in February, 1996)
The proposed project will be the Bank's first lending operation in the Ethiopian power sector for about ten years.
The project seeks to address two aspects of the necessary evolution of the sector: First, it builds on changes the
Government already has made to restructure the sector and helps establish a continuing dialog with the Government
regarding the other changes it proposes; these changes will further promote private investment. Second, the project
addresses many of the short term issues that constrain efficient operation; it seeks to improve EEPCO's cash flow to
permit regular maintenance and expansion. Also, the project provides the tools required for effective financial
management and full restructuring of the sector, such as decentralized accounting and billing systems; these systems will
bring immediate efficiency improvements to EEPCO and could promote private investment in the Sector. One of the
studies included in the project, the generation expansion study, will consider the economics of all feasible options for
expansion, including the use of natural gas.
The project supports development of a hydroelectric generating plant, that is part of the least cost generating
expansion sequence. Its development will help ensure that the present robust economic growth is not choked off
prematurely by power shortages. A planned follow-up project would strengthen the distribution infrastructure, another
prerequisite for sustaining economic growth. Private investment in the generating plant was not feasible at present
because of the urgency of the capacity addition and the lack of a precedent for very large private investments.
The second dimension of the project is its focus on rural energy. Since 95% of the population has no access to



Page 6                                                                         Project Appraisal Document
Ethiopia: Energy II Project
electricity at present, it is important to start addressing the energy needs of this large segment of the population. The
biomass information system, that utilizes satellite imagery, helps locate areas where intervention in rural energy is
needed and helps in the selection of appropriate intervention methods. The institutional strengthening associated with this
component will help the Government prepare for more focused rural development. A follow-up project is being designed
to use various types of renewable technologies and new institutional structures to help address the rural energy need in a
multi-faceted approach.
During project preparation, the project team attempted, as much as possible, to seek areas of common
understanding with the Government and strengthen and support the Government's actions. In return, the Government has
sought the Bank's opinion on most of the actions it has taken, and proposes to take to restructure the sector. This
cooperative approach has lead to much more progress than would have been expected in a short time and, if continued,
will lead to rapid changes that will improve the performance of the sector.
Some of the detailed activities that will help support the strategic choices outlined above are: (a) a study tour, by
senior Government officials, of countries where electricity reforn has taken place; (b) a revaluation of fixed assets to help
establish EEPCO's revenue requirements; and (c) a tariff study to determine an appropriate tariff structure and rates, and
to determine the cost of service at various voltage levels and at various geographic locations in the power system.
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The major choice was between Private-Public investment. The alternative approach that was considered by the
Project Team was whether to go the " private sector route" for the construction of Gilgel Gibe Hydroelectric Plant
including a Build, Operate and Transfer (BOT) option. But initial investigation showed that private sector interest in such
a project in Ethiopia is weak at this stage. The project team, therefore, felt that it would be better to undertake the
hydroelectric project with public sector investment and vigorously to help EEPCO commercialize and decentralize, with
cost/profit centers created both geographically and for generation, transmission and distribution. Other options such as
management contract for all or selected operations of EEPCO were considered, but it was decided by the project team that
changes that would promote private investment are more important at this stage. Regarding other alternatives for power
generation (thermal or hydroelectric) please see Annex 4, and the economic assessment in the project files. These
documents present a discussion on the Gilgel Gibe project as the least cost option to satisfy electricity demand in the
Ethiopian interconnected system up to the year 2000. For a discussion of alternative project designs, please see the Gilgel
Gibe feasibility study in the project files.
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned):
The Bank has financed four completed projects in the Energy sector, going back to the early seventies; in
general, performance of these projects has been satisfactory. Implementation of the on-going Calub Gas Development
Project has been delayed; the Government has formed a high level committee to prepare for selling the company to the
private sector.
Several donors (NORAD, the Netherlands, Austria, Japan, Switzerland and AfDB/ADF) are currently financing
EEPCO projects. EESRC has received funds from DANIDA, the Netherlands, Sida, UK and USAID; the UK and
Germany are planning studies on renewable and wind energy.
10. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
One of the important lessons that arose from Finchaa Hydroelectric Project, which was closed in 1975, was the
importance of reasonable load forecasting before undertaking a major hydro project, given the time lag requirement, to
make sure that the investment is not premature. As a result, for the proposed project, the project team has sought to
ensure that the master plan, of which the Gilgel Gibe is a part, is based on a realistic load forecast. Another major lesson
emerging from previous projects is that unless EEPCO is fully commercialized it would be difficult to improve supply
efficiency. The relationship of MME and EEPCO is being streamlined so that their responsibilities and accountabilities
will become transparent and clear. EEPCO will be made autonomous and accountable to supply electricity in an efficient



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 7
Ethiopia: Energy H Project
and business like manner. As it becomes feasible, the Government will continue to promote private investment in the
sector. Also, a predetermined tariff setting mechanism will facilitate commercial operation of EEPCO and encourage
private sector participation in the sector.
11. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The proposed project is being undertaken at the explicit request of the Government. The Government's
commitment to the project is further illustrated by the fact that it has already acted upon several of the Bank's
recommendations for policy change in the sector. For example, the Government has already enacted a new Electricity
Law and the Council of Ministers' Regulation for converting EEPCO from an Authority to a for-profit corporation has
been issued. Also, the Government has approved a tariff increase of 39% and agreed to two further increases by mid-
1999. It has also agreed to undertake a Tariff Study for developing a tariff policy and structure (see also section 6).
Under the Electricity Law, the Government has established a Regulatory Agency under MME.
12. Value added of Bank support:
This is a sector which is rapidly being reformed. Until private investment is forthcoming in the power sector in
Ethiopia, the Bank, which has been a significant player in this sector, needs to provide financing for the least cost solution
to electricity supply necessary for economic development. Also, Ethiopians need assistance in learning about other
countries' experience in reform efforts in the energy sector, and the Bank is well positioned to provide such assistance.
The Bank is also playing a leading coordination and catalyst role with other donors for ensuring a coherent strategy in this
important sector.
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments (Detailed assessments are in the project file. See Annex 8)
13. Economic         [x] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$35.6 million []  Cost Effectiveness   [  Other
Assessment                at 10%; ERR= 11.7%                            Analysis:              [Specify]
(see Annex 4):
The benefits of the project are: (1) The benefits from the Gilgel Gibe plant resulting from energy generated and
used by consumers during the useful life of the project; (2) the benefits from the rural energy development component
resulting from reduced degradation of the rural ecosystem, which has a positive impact on the poor (primarily women)
who are the fuelwood gatherers; and (3) the benefits from the power sector reform which will relieve the financial burden
on the treasury by charging adequate prices, reducing costs, improving quality of service, and eventually attracting private
capital for system expansion as needed.
The major project component, the Gilgel Gibe Hydroelectric Plant, which has quantifiable benefits, has been
evaluated by cost-benefit analysis as discussed in Annex 4. The Gilgel Gibe Hydroelectric Plant is the least cost option, in
the sequence of studied and feasible alternatives, to satisfy the power demand by the year 2003 when the plant will start its
operations. The unit cost of firm energy of the Gilgel Gibe Plant is US$0.067 is the lowest compared to other feasible
hydroelectric or thermal power generation options. Environmental and social costs have been taken into account,
including the full cost of relocation, resettlement and mitigation in the project costs (approximately US$19 million
including physical contingencies).
The project is economically viable, with an economic rate of return of 11.7% and sensitivity analyses show that
the economic returns are robust. The sensitivity analysis (see details in Annex 4) shows that the major risks to achieving
the expected economic benefits of the project are: (i) an increase in total project costs (12% increase of both investment
and operations and maintenance costs makes the NPV nil); (ii) a reduction in Gilgel Gibe's output (13% reduction in the
plant's output every year makes the NPV nil); and (iii) delays in commissioning of the Gilgel Gibe plant (a 2 year delay
makes the NPV negative). These risks are mitigated by the fact that EEPCO has been responsible for implementing
several hydroelectric projects and will have the support of an experienced international consulting firm for project
implementation. Close Bank supervision and a mid-term review will also mitigate these risks. The probability that the
ERR will be below 10% is negligible.



Page 8                                                                       Project Appraisal Document
Ethiopia: Energy II Project
Fiscal impact:
The project will have a positive effect on government finances since EEPCO is being commercialized and its
current burden on Government finance will be stopped. Furthermore, EEPCO will pay taxes, related to the Gilgel Gibe
plant's production, to the Government of Ethiopia (GOE) estimated at a present value of US$58 million during the life of
the project. Estimated dividends paid by EEPCO to the GOE as shareholder amount, at present value, to US$16 million.
If tariffs are increased to commercial levels but no (or limited) dividends are paid by EEPCO to the Govermuent, then the
burden on govermnent finances as a result of the project will be limited to expected dividends on the equity contribution
or the opportunity cost of those funds (e.g., if the funds were invested in other Govermnent programs). Covenants to
reduce this risk and to guarantee the commercialization of EEPCO have been included in the project. The amount of the
IDA credit does not have a negative effect on Govermment finances since it will be on-lent to EEPCO at adequate rates.
The fnancing of EEPCO through the Government could, however, indirectly affect the funding of other future priority
public sector projects due to the project's contribution to Ethiopia's debt ratio.
Given that the project is a hydro project, it has the advantage that it will not require petroleum imports (as a
thermal project would) and will therefore have a positive impact on balance of payments. Furthermore, given the high
cost of power shortages and load shedding, the project will contribute to the overall growth of the economy.
14. Financial Assessment (see Annexes 4-A & 5 for financial rates of return)
Detailed analysis of EEPCO's past and current financial performance, tariff issues and future financial projections
are included in Annex 5. Financial rate of return analysis of the Gilgel Gibe component and EEPCO is included in
Annex 4-A.
1. EEPCO's Past and Current Financial Performance: EEPCO's electricity sales and revenues have been
steadily increasing during FY9 1-FY96; however, its profitability has been very low due to low level of tariff and
devaluation of the currency. EEPCO's profitability is still overstated since its annual depreciation charges do not fully
reflect the impact of the currency devaluation and the intrinsic value of its fixed assets. EEPCO's capital structure is
characterized by a large outstanding balance of accounts receivable and accounts payable partly due to problems with
billing and collection. EEPCO intends to reduce its electricity sales debts by improving its billing and collection
operations and maintain the balance lower than two months' equivalent of its sales revenue after the end of 1998. EEPCO
has financed its investments, debt service and working capital requirements mainly by long-term loans, grants and
contributions since its internal cash generation has been inadequate to meet its cashflow requirements. EEPCO will
gradually increase its internal cash generation up to 25% of its capital expenditures. While EEPCO's debts to debt plus
equity ratio remained in a reasonable level of some 40%, it will need to leverage its capital structure further to meet large
investment requirements while maintaining the optimal capital structure.
2. EEPCO's Tariff: EEPCO has suffered from a low level of average tariffs and long delays in revision.
EE'PCO has not been able to carry out proper maintenance of its assets or generate sufficient cash from operations. The
Government has recently changed its sector policy: EEPCO will be required to operate as a financially independent
commercial entity. EEPCO will no longer receive free budgetary contribution except for some activities to be taken up by
EEPCO due to past policy failures or for social purposes. EEPCO will be able to maintain its tariff at the level that its
revenues will be able to cover its operation and maintenance expenses, financial and administrative charges, an
appropriate return on equity and income tax. The Government will require an appropriate return on its equity share
holding in EEPCO with a premium over the cost of EEPCO's long-term loans. EEPCO will be required to maintain an
optimal capital structure to minimize its cost of capital. A tariff revision was approved on April 7, 1997: the average
energy tariff was increased by 39 percent to 4.76 US cents. Another increase for domestic users to be implemented in
April 1998 has already been approved. The Government and EEPCO have further agreed that the average energy tariff
will be increased to by July 1, 1999. Also, major changes in input prices such as fuel prices and currency fluctuation will
be automatically adjusted in accordance with an agreed price adjustment formula. There is a need for further review of



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 9
Ethiopia: Energy II Project
EEPCO's economic LRMC estimates; various studies estimate LRMC in the range between 4 and 12 US cents due to
different assumptions of load forecasts, asset values and investment costs. In order to establish an optimal tariff level and
structure, in which price distortion is minimized and financial requirements are appropriately addressed, the Government
agreed to carry out a power system expansion study, an asset revaluation study and a full tariff study.
3. EEPCO's Financial Performance Projections: EEPCO plans to meet load demands for FY98-FY2008
period by implementing its investment and rehabilitation program of Birr 9.0 billion. EEPCO would finance its total
investments by long-term loans (44%), internal cash generation (20%), equity finance (25%) and grants and contributions
(11%). Electricity sales are estimated to gradually increase over the Project implementation period. Sales revenue is
projected to grow by an annual average compound rate of 15% until FY08. The after tax return on total net assets will
increase to 4.9% by FY08. The return on equity will increase to 10.3% by FY08 and EEPCO's capital structure will
remain sound. The ratio of its long-term loans to total liabilities and equity will remain less than 50% during FY98 -
FY08. Its cashflow is estimated to remain sound. It will generate cash from operations no less than to 25% of its annual
capital expenditures in FY2000 and the following years. Working capital requirements will also be met during FY98-
FY08.
15. Technical Assessment:
After diverse alternative design concepts for the Gilgel Gibe project and its elements were considered during the
project's gestation period, the final concept was approved by the Panel of Experts in December 1996. The proposed
design consists of a 40-m high, curved rockfill dam, a 9 km long power tunnel, a surge shaft, an underground power house
with three generating units, a tailrace tunnel, a cable shaft, and an outdoor switchyard. However, at the same time that it
approved the design concept, the Panel of Experts also requested that a campaign of additional geological investigations
be carried out to serve as a basis for (a) deciding whether an earthfill dam would not be more adapted to the relatively soft
terrain on which the dam will be founded; and (b) to permit optimizing the location of the underground powerhouse
(having as much of its volume as possible to be in good quality rock). A meeting of the Panel in July 1997 concluded that
the rockfill dam is appropriate. Also, the geological investigations have helped locate an appropriate block of rock for the
construction of the underground powerhouse.
The plant will be equipped with three Francis turbines driving three 61.3 MW generators for a total installed
capacity of 184 MW. Average annual potential generation will be 770 GWh, while the firm energy capacity will be 640
GWh/year. Three step-up transformers located in the outdoor switchyard will raise the generated voltage to the 220 kV
transmission level. The transmission line that will link Gilgel Gibe with the Sabatha substation near Addis Ababa is
already built but needs some rehabilitation. Some substation rehabilitation and two short transmission links are required
to complete the system.
The total cost of the Gilgel Gibe component is estimated at US$281.9 million, including physical and price
contingencies, but excluding taxes. The Consultants have prepared very detailed cost estimates that were discussed with
the project team, during its pre-appraisal mission, and the Chairman of the Panel of Experts in May 1997. The Bank
found the cost estimates, as well as the assumptions on which they are based, to be reasonable. The contingency
allowances were found to be adequate, given the current knowledge of the geology.
For the purposes of procurement, the project has been divided into 9 lots, which will each be the object of a
separate contract: (1) power tunnel; (2) preliminary works for the powerhouse; (3) ancillary works for the powerhouse; (4)
underground powerhouse, shafts, tailrace tunnel and switchyard; (5) dam and appurtenant structures; (6) turbines and inlet
valves; (7) generators and balance of plant; (8) penstock and gates; and (9) transmission line and substation rehabilitation
and expansion. Lots 1, 4, and 5 require prequalification of contractors. Prequalification for lots 1 and 4 is already
underway. All procurement to be financed by IDA will follow World Bank procedures.



Page 10                                                                        Project Appraisal Document
Ethiopia: Energy II Project
The construction schedule, which was also reviewed during the World Bank mission of May 1997, and found to
be reasonable, shows that the first generating unit would begin operation in March 2002, followed by the other two units
at intervals of two months each.
To advise it on all technical matters relating to project design and construction, EEPCO has appointed a four-
member Panel of Experts, currently being financed from an advance for project preparation facility (PPF). The project
will continue to finance the services of the panel until completion of the works.
To support adequate operation once the plant is commissioned, the project will finance technical assistance for
setting up a modem system for maintenance management, as well as the organization and resources for dam safety. The
project will also finance technical assistance and training for EEPCO's System Operations Division, to provide an
operations planning model for optimizing reservoir management.
16. Institutional Assessment:
A. Executing 4gencies: The main executing agency will be the Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation (EEPCO).
EEPCO was previously the Ethiopian Electric Light and Power Authority which was set up in 1956 as a statutory agency
wholly owned by the Ethiopian Government to generate, transmit and distribute electricity. In April 1997, the Cabinet
approved its conversion from a statutory agency to a Corporation under the Public Enterprise Act of 1992. EEPCO
currently operates two systems, namely the Interconnected System (ICS) and the Self Contained System (SCS). The ICS
has a total installed capacity of 380.6 MW and serves the major towns and industrial centers. Thle SCS has a total installed
capacity of 38.2 MW and services isolated supply centers through diesel generators. By EEPCO's own assessment, while
it attempted to develop a reasonable technical and managerial competence, it was not able to complement it adequately
with effective support services due to lack of sufficient financial backing and material support which a utility business
demands. A study task force for the restructuring of EEPCO was established in May 1995, and its December 1996 Report
was commented on by Bank staff. Its main recommendations, which will be implemented soon and supported under this
project, include commercialization of EEPCO's activities, complete autonomy of operations under a Management Board,
and decentralization of responsibilities to the nine Regions. EEPCO has executed several projects funded by the Bank and I
other donors, including the recently completed Energy I Project.
B. Project Management will be undertaken by:
(a) The Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME), for the Sector Reform Program.
(b) EEPCO will be responsible for construction of the Gilgel Gibe project, as well as the utility's Restructuring
Reform Program. For project execution, EEPCO has established in Addis Ababa a project office under an experienced
project manager. The Gilgel Gibe Project Office reports directly to EEPCO's General Manager, and acts as a liaison with
various agencies and government bodies associated with the project. The Project Office also maintains technical staff on
the site for carrying out and/or coordinating field investigations and other preparatory works. Under the terms of its
contract with EEPCO, a Consultant is responsible for setting up the project organization at site, and for supervising all
aspects of project implementation. The Consultant will assure the liaison between the contractors, the suppliers, and
EEPCO through the Project Office. Two camps, including housing, office facilities, and warehouses already exist at the
site. The Consultant is required to assume full responsibility for the project at the site, and will assign a Resident Engineer
(Site Manager), as well as other staff as required for effective supervision of the works. The Project Office will also assign
EEPCO's engineers, technicians and other personnel to the project site, to work under the direct supervision of the
Consultant. The Gilgel Gibe Project Manager will also be responsible for coordinating with the Oromia and other
Regional Governments on resettlement activities and the environmental mitigation plan.
(c) MME will implement the Rural Energy Institutional Development component. It has sufficient trained and
experienced staff to undertake the project with the help of specialized consultants.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 11
Ethiopia: Energy II Project
(d) The Ministry of Agriculture will manage the Woody Biomass inventory through its Woody Biomass office.
This office is adequately managed and staffed to implement the component with the help of specialized consultants.
C.    Procurement capability: 6for details on procurement and disbursement arrangements, see annex 6)
(a) EEPCO has executed a Bank project in the past and consultants will assist in civil works and supply/erect
contracts. MOA's portion will be executed by the woody biomass group and they will employ consultants. They also
have experience from the implementation of the Energy I Project. The MME component is small and they will hire a
consultant if necessary.
17. Social Assessment:
The resettlement plan has been prepared by EEPCO in collaboration with the Oromia Regional Government on
whose territory the project site and the resettlement area are located. About 2,000 households (12,000 people) will be
resettled. The selected resettlement site of 8,000 hectares used to be a military training ground, now left in fallow. The
area is not only large enough to provide land for the project affected population (PAPs), its soils are similar to those soils
currently cultivated by the PAPs. The Oromia Regional Government has transformed the resettlement action plan to a
development project, and this will enhance the livelihood of the PAPs. The plan prepared is consistent with World Bank
Operational Directives on Involuntary Resettlement. About 1,000 squatters are living under the transmission line from
Gilgel Gibe to Addis Ababa. The line was built about 12 years ago and remained unenergized. These people will be
asked to move and will be compensated for the loss of their houses.
Through communication, consultation, and participative decision making, the various stakeholders have taken part
in the planning of the project. For example, every household has received a visit in their homes, from project staff
planning the resettlement.
In June this year, the resettlement planning had a delay of six months, but the work is now progressing well. Six
extension agents have been in the field revisiting the families to be resettled in order to make a last check of the number of
people and amenities to be taken into account. The houses will be self-built, following the local building tradition but with
the building material supplied by the project. The project office in Addis Ababa is not only functional but has created an
enabling environment. Project staff there, project staff in the field and the Regional Council of Oromia are well prepared
and committed to the project. Funds are set aside for the continuation of the implementation.
The project planning is satisfactory. The institutional commitment is strong and likewise the institutional
capacity. There is, however, a need for temporary targeted capacity building activities.
18. Environmental Assessment:    Environmental       [x] A       []  B     []  C
Category
A satisfactory Environmental Assessment (EA) report has been submitted by the government and was available to
the public in Ethiopia from May, 1997.
Major environmental issues include loss of 300 ha of riparian forest for wildlife, altered downstream flows for 16
km of the Gilgel Gibe River, increased habitat for water-borne disease vectors of bilharzia and malaria, increase in
transmission of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), including HIV/AIDS, and potential increase in alcohol abuse.
Minor environmental issues include temporary noise, dust and safety concerns from construction, influx of
laborers for construction, increase in costs of basic commodities in the local economy.
Proposed Actions: The Project area has been enlarged to provide a 2,600 ha buffer zone around the reservoir free
from human habitation and intensive use. The buffer zone will provide wildlife habitat, reduce sedimentation, and reduce
transmission of water borne diseases. An amenity flow will provide water throughout the year for the stretch of river



Page 12                                                                       Project Appraisal Document
Ethiopia: Energy 11 Project
between the dam and the powerhouse. A vigorous sex and health education campaign will be carried out for the work
force and the local community. EEPCO will have an on-site environmental unit to manage and monitor environmental
conditions during construction.
NGOs Consulted: Peasant Associations in the affected areas and the resettlement areas have actively participated
in the project planning.
19. Participatory Approach:              Identification/Preparation  Implementation       Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups       CON                    CON                  IS
Intermediary NGOs         CON                    CON                  IS
Academic institutions       CON                     IS                  IS
Local government         COL                    COL                  iS
Other donors         COL                    COL                 IS
Other (specify))
Other (specify))
Other (specify))
Other (specify))
Defiition: CON = consultation  COL = collaboration   IS  information sharing
20. Sustainability:
Essential factors critical for sustainability of project benefits are: (i) a reliable tariff-setting mechanism to be in
place; (ii) corporatization of EEPCO; and (iii) reform of the power sector.
21. Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk                   Risk Minimization Measure
Ratin!
Government long-term commitment to    Moderate  Since Government long-term commitment to reform is critical,
power sector reform may falter                 ensure that a reasonable number of steps towards sector reforms
are undertaken during project preparation. Several steps have
been taken.
Government finds that increasing tariffs to Moderate  The first tariff adjustment of 39% has already been made.
commercial levels (higher of LRMC or           Another one in 12 months' time (April 1998) has been officially
financial) is politically too costly           announced. The Government has also agreed to another increase
on July 1, 1999.
Overall project risk rating          Moderate  EEPCO has been responsible for implementing several hydro-
electric projects. On the reform side, the Government's
commitment seems firm.
22. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There are no serious negative factors or potential controversies expected to affect the Project. Kenya, as a riparian
of the Omo River, (the project will be constructed on its tributary Gilgel Gibe river) has given its No Objection to the
Riparian Notice sent by the Bank on behalf of the Ethiopian Government. Ethiopia already has six hydroelectric plants;
construction of all of these went smoothly as they were acceptable to civil society and the NGO community. The
settlement plan has been widely discussed and consultations have taken place with each one of the affected households
and the NGO community. The rate of compensation is considered reasonable and adequate.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 13
Ethiopia: Energy II Project
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions
23. Effectiveness Conditions
Prior to credit effectiveness, (i) EEPCO will establish a Project Management Unit (PMU) with a competent Project
Manager; (ii) the Government will establish a PMU within MME headed by a competent coordinator; and (iii) the
Government will establish a PMU within MOA headed by a competent coordinator. EEPCO's PMU and the units within
MME and MOA would: (a) coordinate execution of the project; (b) communicate with IDA and other financiers on
various components of the project; and (c) deal with all correspondence, procurement activities, financial reporting and
progress. Also, a subsidiary loan agreement will be executed between the Borrower and EEPCO.
24. Assurances
During negotiations, the Government and EEPCO gave assurances on the following:
Sector Reform and EEPCO Restructuring
1. No later than June 30, 2000, EEPCO will have developed and installed a decentralized accounting system, and
provided the necessary training to its staff.
2. No later than June 30, 1999, EEPCO will have adopted a plan to decentralize part of its billing and collection
system (as a pilot scheme), and no later than June 30, 2000, it will have installed the system and trained its staff in its use.
3. No later than June 30, 1999, EEPCO will prepare and submit to IDA a Human Resource Development Plan,
and, on receipt of IDA's comments, promptly implement the plan.
4. No later than August 31, 1999, EEPCO will have completed a power system expansion study which will
include consideration of all feasible generating options. On completion of the study, provide IDA with a copy for
comments. No later than November 30, 1999, EEPCO will have adopted a plan based on the findings of the study
acceptable to IDA.
5. No later than November 30, 1999, EEPCO will have completed an evaluation of its fixed assets and will have
revalued its fixed assets based on the evaluation by June 30, 2000.
Tariffs
1. No later than July 1, 1999, EEPCO will increase the average tariff.
2. No later than April 30, 2001, EEPCO will have carried out a full tariff study utilizing information from the
power system expansion study and the valuation of assets, and no later than November 30, 2001, will adopt an action plan,
including a tariff escalation forrnula, for the implementation of the recommendations of the tariff study.
3. Beginning in July 1998, EEPCO will review the level of its tariffs at least every six months for inflation and
foreign exchange rate changes and adjust the tariff level according to an agreed formula.
4. Until the Project completion, the Borrower shall ensure that electricity prices allow EEPCO to cover its
operating costs, earn adequate return on invested funds, meet its financial obligations and make a reasonable contribution
to future investment.
Financial
1. Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, EEPCO shall (a) produce funds from its internal sources equivalent to no
less than 10% for FY98, 20% for FY99 and 25% for FY2000 onwards, of the average annual capital expenditures to be
incurred for the next three year period; (b) not incur any debt unless it is able to maintain, each fiscal year during the terms
of debt to be incurred, a ratio of cash generated from operations to debt service requirements of no less than 1.3; and (c)
maintain a ratio of long-term loans to total sum of all liabilities and equity of no more than 50%. The ratio of EEPCO's
current assets to current liabilities shall be greater than one.
2. By adopting a detailed plan of action for the recovery of overdue accounts by June 30, 1998, EEPCO shall, by



Page 14                                                                      Project Appraisal Document
Etiiopia: Energy II Project
March 31, 1998, reduce its accounts receivable to no more than 60 days of sales and maintain it at less than that level
thereafter.
3. Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, the Government shall not provide EEPCO with grant contributions
except: (a) a one-time contribution to EEPCO's rehabilitation projects in generation, transmission and distribution
included in its FY96-06 investment program to compensate for maintenance that was deferred because low tariffs; and (b)
to undertake, at the Government's request, any investment program for social purposes.
4. Unless IDA shall otherwise agree, EEPCO shall not undertake any investment exceeding by more than five
percent of the project investment program costs (Birr 9.0 billion) for 1997-2006.
Safety and Environment
1. EEPCO shall continue to employ competent consultants to manage construction and commissioning of the
Gilgel Gibe Hydroelectric Plant, and shall continue to employ a competent Panel of Experts for the duration of the
implementation period.
2. No later than six months before the expected completion of the dam and structures, EEPCO shall provide IDA
with details of its arrangements for regular inspection and maintenance of the dam and associated structures.
3. No later than June 30, 1998, EEPCO will (a) establish an environmental unit at the Gilgel Gibe site, and
implement the environmental mitigation plan; and (b) submit to IDA the first progress report on the resettlement plan for
the population at the project site.
4. No later than June 30, 1998 EEPCO shall carry out a social study and prepare a detailed plan for the
resettlement of the population in the right of way of the transmission line from Gilgel Gibe to Addis Ababa.
5. No later than December 31,. 2000, EEPCO shall implement the resettlement plan for the population in the right
of way of the transmission line from Gilgel Gilbe to Addis Ababa.
Annual Review
1. No later than October 31 of each year, commencing on October 31, 1998, the Govemment shall undertake with
IDA and EEPCO ajoint annual review on all matters relating to the progress of the Project.
Mid-term Review
1. On or about 30 months after the effectiveness date, the Government shall carry out, jointly with IDA and
EEPCO, a mid-term review of progress made in carrying out the project.
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies
[x ] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Tasi'Manager:                                            Coitry Director:



Annex 1
Ethiopia - Energy II Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary       Key Performance Indicators'    Monitoring and Supervision   Critical Assumptions and Risks
CAS Objective
To reduce poverty both      By 2003, supply 222 GWh per  Confirm from EEPCO records   Economic growth is
directly and by promoting   year electricity to industrial    that the additional consumers   broadbased leading to
sustained economic growth,    consumers, and 323 GWh to    have been connected.     increased power requirements
through four clusters of    residential/commercial                                  at approximate levels assumed
activities, among them, a major  consumers (from Gilgel Gibe).                      for power load growth.
effort to ease the severe
infrastructural constraints.
Project Development
Objectives
1. Improved power sector     By 2002, Ethiopia achieves:    Supervision of the project  Critical assumption is that the
efficiency and sustainability,    -capacity reserves of 10% in    components will ensure the  Government will successfully
and increased electricity  terms of frmn energy, and of    achievement of the       restructure EEPCO and
generation capacity for     30% in terms of installed   performance indicators: bi-    improve its operating
economic growth and         power;                      annual field supervision and  efficiency.
improved quality of life of  -Total system failure of no  close contact with the
Ethiopians.                 more than 3 per year;       implementing agencies will be
-100% new industrial       required to ensure timely
connections requested be met;  completion, and improvement
-Installed capacity for    in operations; also review and
generation increased by 180  monitor:
MW at Gilgel Gibe with no   -audited EEPCO accounts;
cost ovenun; 2              -power system operation
statistics;
-statistics on no. of consumers
and processing of new
connections.
2. Improved utilization of  -Complete inventory of      -Annual review of statistics  -None.
rural renewable energy.     biomass resources in Northern  from Ministries of Agriculture
Ethiopia.                   and Energy.
-Help establish agency to deal
with Rural Energy.
I Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-term, end of project and
full impact.
2 Expected investments in distribution (including a possible FY99 project financed by IDA) will allow output of the
generators to be supplied to customers.



Page 16                                                                                                   Annex I
Ethiopia: Energy II Project
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators'    Monitoring and Supervision    Critical Assumptions and Risks
Project Outputs
1. Restructured power sector:  -By the end of 1997, the   -Bi-Annual supervision        -Government's long-term
(a) Promote private sector   following is in place: rules  missions. Close collaboration   commitment to reform is
participation; (b) with correct   facilitating private participation  with MME and EEPCO  critical.
pricing system; and (c)      in the power sector: a        providing them any reform
strengthened, commercialized   regulatory agency (by end-  information needed from other
EEPCO.                       1997); an adequate pricing   successful reformers.
system; third party access to
the grid; and EEPCO
converted into a for-profit
corporation by end-1997.
2. Increased electricity     -EEPCO's dependable capacity  -Bi-Annual visit to the Dam  -None. The construction will
generation capacity.         increased by 194 MW at Gilgel  site to review construction  be contracted out to contractors
Gibe by 2003 with no cost    progress. Receive and study   of international repute with
overrun, increasing Ethiopia's  progress reports of the project   adequate guarantees in the
firm generation capacity by  construction on a quarterly  contract for finishing on time
644 GWh per year.            basis (review computerized   and within budget.
Project Monitoring System
Reports). Collaborate closely
with the project management at
all times.
3. Complete data on biomass   -Completion of resource     -Bi-Annual review of latest   -None. The implementing
resources in Northern Ethiopia.  Atlases and formulation of  inventory information.     agency has good experience.
strategic plans for 6 regions.
4. Establishment a capability to  - Rural Energy group    - Bi-annual review of Rural   -Government's commitment to
deal with Rural Energy.      established by June 30, 1999.   Energy program.            rural energy development is
critical.
Components:
1. Support of power sector
reform program:
(a)
- Study tours for policy     - Study tours completed by   -Task force reports.          Little risk as Government task
makers.                      June 1998.                                                 forces have sufficiently clear
objectives and enough
- Assistance for implementing   - New Electricity Proclamation  -Review of successive drafts    understanding of issues to
a regulatory framework.      in place by end- 1997.       of legal documents.           design a regulatory system for
the power sector, creating
incentives for private
mvestment.
(b)
-Electricity Tariff Study    -Tariff study completed by   -Review of draft /final report    - Parliament approves the
April 30, 2001.                                           proposed new tariff structure
- Training for Regulatory and    - Training completed by end-    - Training reports.    without major changes.
Agency staff.                1999.



Project Appraisal Document
Ethiopia: Energy 11 Project                                                                           Page 17
Narrative Summary       Key Performance Indicators'    Monitoring and Supervision   Critical Assumptions and Risks
(c)___                                                                                          _
- Restructuring and
strengthening of EEPCO:
(i) assistance for          - Utility incorporated as for-    - Review of EEPCO's program   - Government is committed to
corporatization &           profit enterprise by end-1997.  on restructuring.       commercializing the utility but
reorganization;                                                                     we have to monitor progress.
(ii) assistance for asset   - Assets revalued by        - Review Draft and final    EEPCO must incorporate
revaluation;                November 30, 1999.          reports.                    results in its accounts.
(iii) assistance, training, and IT  - Utility's commercial  - Close review of Utility's
for decentralizing billing &  operations and accounting  Management Information
accounting;                 systems decentralized by mid-   System.
2000 (TA & training).
(iv) manpower development;    - Training program.       - Training reports.
(v) assistance and Information   - Operations planning model    - Model documentation.
Technology to improve       installed and in use by mid  Operations planning reports.
operations planning;        1999.
(vi) system expansion study.    - expansion study completed
by August 31, 1999.
2. Construction of Gilgel Gibe   - Gilgel Gibe commissioned by  -Regular supervision.  Low risk. EEPCO has good
hydroelectric plant (180 MW).  mid 2002 with no cost overrun                        experience in supervising the
project management
consultants who will monitor
3. Improvement of rural energy                                                      construction.
efficiency and data base:
(a) woody biomass survey;    - Survey completed by 2002.   -Regular supervision.
(b) assistance in establishing  -Rural group fully functioning
group to deal with rural    by 2000.
Energy.



Annex 2
Ethiopia - Energy II Project
Detailed Project Description
The project comprises the following components:_
* Decentralization of EEPCO's Accounting system;
*   Decentralization of part of EEPCO's Billing system as a pilot;
* Manpower development to support EEPCO's restructuring;
*   Construction of the Gilgel Gibe hydroelectric plant;
* Development of a Rural Energy capability;
* Completion of the Woody Biomass inventory in the North of the country;
* Studies including sector restructuring study, a generation expansion study, a tariff
study, and a valuation of fixed assets;
* Assistance with Sector Restructuring.
T;he following is a description of the components:
Decentralization of EEPCO's Accounting system
The intention is to provide EEPCO's seven Regional managers and, in the case of Addis Ababa,
its four Zonal managers with a fully computerized accounting capability. Decentralizing the
accounting responsibility would reduce the time taken to close accounts at the end of the year and
would have a beneficial impact on security because separate audits of the Regions and Zones
would quickly identify the source of any irregularities.
The procedure for implementing the system would be one in which a competent accounting firm
would manage the update of EEPCO's accounts, taking care to preserve the audit trail. The firm
would select a comprehensive suite of accounting software, arrange for any hardware needed and
transfer the accounts in stages to the new system. The consultant would be responsible for
training EEPCO's staff to ensure that they are fully familiar with the system. Another task that
must be performed is to change the mode of operation of the present data processing department
from data processing to providing data security and maintenance of software and hardware.
Decentralization of EEPCO's Billing system
At present all bill calculations are done by EEPCO's main computer in Addis. This involves
reading the meters all over the country and physically transporting the readings to Addis where
they are processed in batches. The batches of bills are then redistributed for local distribution to
customers. Under this procedure, EEPCO assumes that there will be a delay in collection of bills
of 60 days after the electricity is actually used. In practice the delay-averages 105 days.
EEPCO is working on a short term solution that involves the installation of workstations at
regional offices linked by communication lines to the main computer in Addis. This would shift
the responsibility for entering the customer readings and printing the bills to the Regional offices,



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 19
Ethiopia: Energy II Project
but the processing would continue to be done in a batched mode by the main computer in Addis.
Under this plan, there would be no change in the billing cycle except that the bill calculation
would occur one week earlier.
The proposal to decentralize the billing system envisages a distributed computing environment,
where the Branch offices would be fully equipped to calculate their own bills and manage their
customers, thus giving the manager the appropriate tools and corresponding responsibility. With
the distributed system, the lag between meter reading and bill preparation can be reduced to two
to three days, giving EEPCO significant cash flow benefits. EEPCO is cautious about quickly
changing the entire operation to distributed computing in the Branch offices because of concerns
about security and the capability of the present staff. EEPCO has agreed to implement the new
system in three Branch offices and, if it is satisfied that there is improvement without security
problems, to continue to implement the system for all of its Branch offices.
The decentralization would require the following:
*   renovation of the branch offices;
*   the installation of computers, power conditioning equipment, printers and magnetic
storage equipment.
*  the installation of suitable computer software;
*   extensive training of staff (this can be reduced somewhat if the interface of the
software is very well designed);
*   consulting services to plan and manage the installation and training.
The pilot project of three offices can be completed in nine to twelve months.
Manpower Development
EEPCO plans to reorganize to give more authority to Regional management, and to establish
non-core functions such as the construction department, workshops and garages as separate cost
centers , eventually moving to have them compete with outside contractors for work. The
purpose of the manpower development component is to provide the management training and
technical skills to EEPCO's management that would help them perform these new functions.
EEPCO will prepare a detailed list of its requirements with the help of consultants as necessary.
Gilgel Gibe Hydroelectric Plant
The Gilgel Gibe hydroelectric plant, scheduled to be commissioned in 2002, will have a capacity
of 180 MW, and will increase Ethiopia's firm generation capacity by 640 GWh per year, and its
average generating capacity by 770 GWh per year.
The proposed Project, as originally conceived, consisted of two power stations in cascade, each
with two units of 45 MW each for a total capacity of 180 MW. After extensive studies of the
geology in the area, the scheme was recently changed to a design consisting of single
underground powerhouse with three units of 61.3 MW each.
Teams from North Korea carried out the initial studies for the project. These studies included
extensive field investigations, with borehole drilling at the dam site, along the tunnel route, and at
the original powerhouse location. Work has been started on the diversion channel, the upstream



Page 20                                                                           Annex 2
Ethiopia: Energy II Project
and downstream headings and an adit of the tunnel. Both temporary and permanent housing for
personnel is practically completed, although some upgrading will be needed to meet international
contractors' standards. Construction equipment including aggregate processing plants, a concrete
batching plant and some movable construction machinery is at site. Most access roads have been
constructed. The transmission system to connect the power stations to the Ethiopian
Interconnected system has been built; only local connections to the Gilgel Gibe substation and
substation in Addis Ababa are still to be done. Also, some of the substations must be upgraded.
The Project is located about 260 km South-West of Addis Ababa on the main highway from
Addis Ababa to Jimma. The Gilgel Gibe scheme includes a regulating reservoir with Full
Storage Level (FSL) at Elev. 1669 m created by a 40.0 m high, curved rockfill dam, with a crest
length of 1600 m, sealed with a bituminous upstream facing. The Project would develop a 230
meter gross head on the Gilgel Gibe River, a tributary of the Omo River. The Omo River flows
into Lake Turkana which is partially in Ethiopia and partially in Kenya. The river's catchment
area, at the dam site, covers 4,225 square km. Gross storage capacity is computed at 803 million
cubic meters of live storage. The water surface area of the reservoir at FSL would be 48 square
km. Long term average inflow is estimated at 52.9 cubic meters per second while usable
regulated discharge is 39 cubic meters per second, or a 74% regulation. With the revised design,
water would be taken from the reservoir to the turbines by a 5.5 meter diameter, concrete-lined,
headrace tunnel, 9.0 km long, and three 250 meter, steel penstocks of various diameters. A surge
shaft, 1 6m in diameter towards the downstream end of the tunnel would project the tunnel from
hydraulic hammer surges. Three 61.3 MW vertical, Francis turbines generators would be
installed at the powerhouse.
Commissioning of the Project would be expected by the year 2002. EEPCO hired Messrs.
Electroconsult and Messrs. ENEL of Italy to review and complete the design of the scheme, and
to supervise its construction. Given the size and complexity of the project's structures,
particularly the dam, in accordance with World Bank guidelines, EEPCO has hired a Panel of
Experts (POE) to review the design and construction of the project. The POE consists of
independent, internationally known engineers with particular knowledge of the technical
disciplines involved in the Project
EEPCO's current estimate shows the cost of completing the project to be US$ 281.8 million
including physical and price contingencies or about US$ 1500 per kW.
Except for the dam, the structures proposed for the Project are straightforward and will be located
in relatively competent geology, mainly massive basalt. A significant portion of the dam, about
700 meters of its total length of 1.7 km would be sited over competent basalt. The balance of one
km would be sited over tuffaceous clay interbedded by volcanic ash with traces of burnt wood.
The tuffaceous clay shows relatively low permeability but high compressibility, as much as 6% to
10%. The volcanic ash layers exhibit high permeability. The current design to control leakage
under the dam, involves the use of a grout curtain cutoff done from a gallery at the foot of the
dam, where the asphaltic concrete mask would be tied in.
Dam Safety, Maintenance Management System and Optimization of Water Use
The project includes a component to provide consulting services, training and the appropriate
software to: establish a dam safety unit in EEPCO, establish a systematic maintenance
management system for the Gilgel Gibe plant; and establish a group in the operations center to



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 21
Ethiopia: Energy 11 Project
optimize the use of all the reservoirs. These systems will improve the efficiency of EEPCO's
generation operations and help raise the profile of dam safety activities.
Rural Energy Development.
The component consists of two sub-projects: (i) Woody Biomass Inventory and
Development Project; and (ii) the strengthening of the Government's capability to deal with rural
energy. A brief description of each of these projects is given below.
* Woody Biomass Inventory and Development Project. There will be woody biomass
inventory data collection and survey in Tigray, Amhara, Harer and Dire Dawa, Benishangul-
Gumuz, Afar and Somali Regions. In all 658,000 square kilometers will be surveyed. On
completion of the survey work, detailed Atlas and preparation of strategic plans for rational
planning and management of forestry resources in these six regional states will be done.
Also, a survey will be undertaken at a scale of 1:250,000 using high resolution panchromatic
satellite imagery in nine regions. The survey will indicate the extent and productivity of
grazing lands, and undertake a livestock carrying capacity analysis. In addition, 12 persons
will be trained overseas and locally in woody biomass inventory studies and remote sensing.
* Strengthening of Rural Energy Capability. This component will provide the means for the
strengthening of a group to deal with rural energy and to support the Government's
decentralization objective. This group will undertake technology development work and its
main focus will be adapting technology for use in Ethiopia. There will also be training of
research personnel overseas in various energy research fields.
Institutional Development
The government is in the process of designing a program to reform Ethiopia's power
sector with the objectives of ensuring the long-term sustainability and economic efficiency of
electricity supply, and of relieving the financial burden the sector currently imposes on the
Treasury.
The program is proceeding along two parallel tracks. In the first place, a Task Force
coordinated from the Prime Minister's office is working on the definition of a new legal and
regulatory framework, to be embodied in an Electricity Proclamation (Electricity Law) together
with secondary laws and regulations. The new legal framework promotes private participation in
the power sector, and creates a regulatory authority. The new framework will also include the
definition of an efficient electricity pricing system, and would establish conditions to make
competition possible in the future. The project will finance a study tour for policy makers, and
will provide specialist services to assist in the design of the new sector structure and the
corresponding legal and regulatory systems. The project would also finance training for the
regulatory agency's staff, as well as information-technology equipment and services required to
set up the agency, and expert assistance during an initial period. The project will finance a tariff
study to implement the pricing system.
The second aspect of the reform program is the restructuring of the state-owned utility
(EEPCO) to convert it into a for-profit corporation operating on a commercial basis. The
restructuring would also decentralize the utility's operations. An essential element consists of
increasing the utility's management autonomy and accountability. The project will finance
specialist services for (i) designing a new Financial and Accounting System; (ii) billing and



Page 22                                                                               Annex 2
Ethiopia: Energy II Project
customer servicing systems; and (iii) human resource development, including executive
management development training. It will also finance hardware and software, as well as
training. As a basis for the tariff study mentioned in the previous paragraph, the project will
finance consulting services for asset revaluation and for updating the utility's power system
expansion plan. Finally, the project will finance technical assistance and information technology
to improve operations planning (hydro-thermal operations optimization).



Annex 3
Ethiopia - Energy II Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                        Local        Foreign      Total
-----------------------US $ million---------------
Gilgel Gibe Hydroelectric Plant                          70.13         175.22      245.35
Rural Energy                                              0.25          4.59        4.84
Institutional Development:
- Legal and Regulatory Reform                          -0-           0.50        0.50
Restructuring of EEPCO                                0.30          8.07        8.37
Subtotal, Institutional Development                      0.30           8.57        8.87
Total Baseline Cost                                      70.68         188.38      259.06
Physical Contingencies                               6.83          15.00       21.83
Price Contingencies                                  -0.30         15.30        15.00
Total Project Cost                                       77.21         218.68      295.89



Annex 4
Ethiopia - Energy II Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
For the Gilgel Gibe Hydroelectric Plant Component
(Currency: US$, Units: Million, and Base year: 1997)
Present Value of Flows               Fiscal Impact
Economic        Financial
Analysis        Analysis'         Taxes          Subsidies
Benefits                 330.0           See Annex 4-a
Costs                    295.9
Net Benefits:            35.6                             154 (EEPCO)   69 (EEPCO)3
ERR:                     11.7%                            58 (Gilgel      Nil (Gilgel
Gibe)           Gibe)
Dividends:2
212 (EEPCO)
16 (Gilgel
Gibe)
Economic Analysis (see details in Economic Assessment Report in the Project File):
In order to evaluate the economic viability of the Gilgel Gibe hydroelectric plant, an economic
rate of return (ERR) has been calculated on the basis of the incremental cost and benefit streams
associated with the Gilgel Gibe project component. Benefits will result from energy generated
and used by consumers during the useful life of the plant. Benefits are valued in terms of the
incremental demand that can be served under the project compared to the lower level of demand
that could be served if no new supply capacity were added to Ethiopia's Inter-connected System
(ICS). The costs are the costs for generation (the cost of the Gilgel Gibe hydro plant) and
transmission and distribution needed for delivering the extra energy generated by the plant.
The Gilgel Gibe Hydroelectric Plant (194 MW of dependable capacity) is the least cost option to
satisfy the electricity demand in the ICS by the year 2003 when the plant will start its operations.
In terms of least cost for the medium to short term, the first candidate is Tis Abay II followed by
Gilgel Gibe. Tis Abay II (a 73 MW run-of-the-river hydro plant) is under construction now and
'The difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is due to the fact that economic
values are estimated taking into account the consumers' surplus derived from the electricity consumed that
will substitute existing energy methods (kerosene, fuelwood, diesel) by electricity from the Gilgel Gibe
Hydro plant, while financial analysis is based on the current and expected tariff levels.
2 This is the present value of dividends, at 10% discount rate, which are paid by EEPCO to the GOE as
shareholder until FY2025.
3 EEPCO's operations and maintenance are not subsidized. The low tariffs that were charged by EEPCO in
the past are being progressively raised so that EEPCO will be able to operate and maintain its plant
adequately. This amount is the present value of grants from the Government to EEPCO to fund
rehabilitation and expansion investments only during FY98-2006, to compensate for the insufficient
expansion and rehabilitation provided earlier due to lack of funds.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 25
Ethiopia: Energy II Project
its construction is scheduled to start in 1998 and be completed in 1999. The unit cost of firm
energy of the Gilgel Gibe Plant is US$0.067 (including transmission upgrading), which is the
lowest compared to other already studied and feasible hydroelectric or thermal options. Tekeze
(184MW), although apparently less expensive than Gilgel Gibe at a per unit energy cost of
US$0.06, is still at feasibility stage of preparation. Other hydro plants have per unit energy costs
in the US$0.08 to US$0. 10 range. Gilgel Gibe is also the least-cost option compared to thermal
power generation, since thermal's energy cost, when used on base-load duty, ranges from
US$0.08 to US$0.11, due to fuel transportation costs which are high in Ethiopia due to the long
distance from the port. Thermal power generation also has the disadvantage of using imported
fuel which requires scarce foreign exchange. Regarding geothermal power generation, the most
advanced study of the geothermal resources is for the Langano-Aluto field in the Lakes District
which would provide 30 MW of capacity with a unit cost of base load energy supply estimated at
US$0.07/kWh, which is higher than Gilgel Gibe. Other geothermal fields with larger unit sizes,
which might have significantly lower cost - US$0.045/kWh - have not been explored yet.
Indigenous gas resources - Calub gas field in the Ogaden - could become a good alternative, but
would not be available in the near future since only a small gas utilization project, financed by
IDA, is now being implemented.
A load forecast for Ethiopia's ICS was done by an international consulting firm in 1993 and
updated in 1995. EEPCO later revised those estimates in May 1996 and April 1997 to reflect
recent economic developments. An international consulting firm reviewed EEPCO's load
forecast in August 1997. EEPCO's forecast is based on detailed assessments and projections for
the main customer categories. For the existing customers, this forecast estimates energy demand
from relationships between power demand and economic growth and energy prices. For new
load, the expected additional load from waitlisted customers, transfers from the SCS to the ICS,
as well as new towns under the rural electrification program has been estimated.
Total benefits are estimated by each class of customer (domestic, commercial, and industrial).
Benefits for domestic consumers arise from the consumers' surplus derived from the electricity
consumed that will substitute existing methods of lighting (kerosene lanterns) and cooking
(fuelwood injera stoves) by electric lighting and cooking. The consumers' welfare is derived
from the power consumed at a lower price from the switch from non-electrical method of
lighting and cooking to electric forms. Similarly, benefits for commercial consumers arise from
the consumers' surplus derived from electricity consumed that will substitute existing methods of
lighting by electricity lighting at a lower price. Benefits for industrial consumers arise from the
consumers' surplus derived from electricity consumed that will substitute existing methods of
electricity generation (installing and operating diesel-based generators) by electricity from the
ICS. For the estimation of consumers' surplus demand is assumed to be linear. The per kWh
equivalent price of Kerosene for lighting for domestic consumers is US$0.19 and of fuelwood for
cooking is US$0.12. The per kWh equivalent price of Kerosene for lighting for commercial
consumers is US$0.15. The per kWh price of self-generated electricity (diesel) for industrial
consumers is US$0.17. Environmental and economic benefits due to improved environmental
management and enhanced resources in the project area have not been quantified and are
therefore not included in monetary value as part of the benefits.
Costs are incremental (investment and operations and maintenance) as compared to the "without
project" scenario in which none of the investments would have been made. Investment costs are
calculated by adding physical contingencies (which vary from 4-20% for various project sub-
components) to the base costs. Costs are expressed in 1997 prices net of taxes and duties.



Page 26                                                                           Annex 4
Ethiopia: Energy II Project
Environmental and social costs have been taken into account by including the full cost of
relocation, resettlement and mitigation in the project costs (approximately US$19 million
including physical contingencies). One indirect environmental cost is the reduction in about 15
Gwh/ per year of energy production aimed at keeping an amenity flow in the river), which could
provide a consumer benefit estimated at about US$1.6 million per year. A shadow exchange rate
of ETB7=US$ 1 has been used to reflect the opportunity cost of foreign exchange. Labor costs
are estimated using market rates, therefore no opportunity cost adjustments have been made.
Cost of capital is estimated at an opportunity cost of 10%. Investment costs include the costs of
the Gilgel Gibe Hydro plant and the necessary investments in transmission and distribution to
deliver that electricity to the consumers. Operations and maintenance costs are the O&M costs of
the Gilgel Gibe plant plus the incremental O&M associated to transmission and distribution
necessary to deliver the incremental electricity generated by Gilgel Gibe to the consumers.
Net benefits from the Gilgel Gibe plant are estimated by subtracting the incremental costs
associated to the Gilgel Gibe component from the incremental benefits. This results in US$35.6
million of net present benefits discounted at 10%. The ERR is 1 1.7%.
Main Assumptions (See details in Economic Assessment Report in the Project File):
Discount rate:                   10%
Average growth in electricity demand: 13.7% per year (1997-2002)
Growth in GDP:                   7.5% per year
Real exchange rate:              Constant at ETB7=US$1
Growth in real prices of output:  See Annex 4A. Price elasticity of demand is assumed to
be negligible, however, since currently there is a large
demand for electricity which is unserved and there are
limited opportunities for substitution given the higher
price and limited availability of alternative energy
sources.
Cost recovery:                   EEPCO's tariff will be adjusted to allow for financial
sustainability (See Annex 4a)
Technical and Non Technical Losses:  Gradually decrease from 18% in 1997 to 16% in 2002
Nature of Benefits:
Consumers' surplus derived from additional power generated and consumed during the useful
life of the plant
Main beneficiaries:
Domestic, commercial and industrial consumers that will have a readily available source of
energy at lower price
Switching values of critical items:
Total Project Costs:   If both investment (which already include physical contingencies) and
operations and maintenance costs increase by 12%, the NPV becomes nil
Energy Output:     If Gilgel Gibe's output is reduced every year by approximately 13%, the
NPV becomes nil
Construction time:    If Gilgel Gibe is commissioned one year later (with no other cost
increase), the ERR drops to 10.4%. If there is a 2 year delay, the ERR
drops to 9.5% and the NPV becomes negative



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 27
Ethiopia: Energy II Project
Demand:             If demand grows slower and only 65% of Gilgel Gibe's output could be
utilized, and Gilgel Gibe cannot be fully utilized until the year 2007, the
NPV becomes nil
Technical and
Non-Technical Losses: If losses are not reduced from 18% to 16% in 2002 and are kept at 18%,
the ERR drops to 11.1%. If losses increase to approximately 25%, the
NPV becomes ml
This sensitivity analysis shows that the major risks to achieving the expected economic benefits
of the project are: (i) an increase in total project costs; (ii) a reduction in Gilgel Gibe's output;
and (iii) delays in commissioning of the Gilgel gibe plant. These risks are mitigated by the fact
that EEPCO has been responsible for implementing several hydroelectric projects and will have
the support of an experienced international consulting firm for project implementation. Close
Bank supervision and a mid-tern review will also mitigate these risks.
Risk Analysis:
Probabilistic (Monte Carlo) risk analysis was carried out to assess the impact on the project's
ERR of the uncertainty in key variables, particularly the energy output, project costs, construction
time, demand forecast and technical and non-technical losses. A commercially available
software was used. The risk analysis shows that the base case ERR varies from 10.0% to 13.5%,
with a negligible probability of being less than 10%.
Figure 1: Probability Distribution for ERR
Forecast: 031
10,000 Trials           Frequency Chart               6 Outliers
.025                                                 252
.01918
.01312
'-.006                                                6 
.000           10
10.0%     10.9%       11.8%      12.6%      13.5%



Annex 4-A
Ethiopia - Energy II Project
Financial Analysis Sunmmary
EEPCO Corporate Financial Return and
Gilgel Gibe Hydroelectric Power Plant Component Return
(Currency; US$ million: and Base Year; 1997)
EEPCO Corporate Return         Instruments           Financial Rate of Return
Long-term Debts       5.0-6.9 % (FY2000 - FY2008)
Equity           9.7-14.7% (FY2000- FY2008)
Gilgel Gibe Hydro              Instruments        Present Value        Rate of
Component                                                              Return
(with 10%)
Long-term Debts  Costs           164.9
(annual interest:    Return       141.8
8%)
Net Return     -23.1          8.5%
Equity       Costs           13.8
Return          45.4
=_______________________    ==________     __  =   XNet Return  31.6        50.3%
1.    Financial Rate of Return Analysis: The financial rate of return analysis was conducted
for EEPCO's corporate financial return and the Gilgel Gibe Hydropower component. The returns
are calculated for specific category of investors and debt holders since the investment risk of each
stakeholder is different. The rates of return are all on the basis of ex-tax (35%) returns. Major
assumptions are summarized in the paragraph 7 of this Annex. The detailed data are available in
the Project File.
Financial Rate of Return
2.    EEPCO Corporate Financial Return: EEPCO's debt holders' average return will be in
the range of 5.0% and 6.9% during FY2000-FY2008. The existing debt holders' average return
is around 4.5% and new debt holders' return is estimated at 8%. The return for equity investors
is estimated at in the range of 9.7% and 14.7% during FY2000-FY2008 since the tariff is set to
produce, on average, 12% return on equity investments.
3.    Gilgel Gibe Hydro Component Financial Rate of Return : Debt holders for the Gilgel
Gibe Hydropower Plant component will earn 8.5% return on its cashflows. The difference
between the assumed 8% interest rate on debts and actual return of 8.5% arises from the interest
roll-up during the repayment grace period. The equity investors will earn a return of 51.6% from
this component since the average energy tariff is to be set based on the EEPCO's system-wide
cost of capital and operations, rather than the long-run marginal cost of capital and operations
specific to the Gilgel Gibe component. The weighted average cost of capital for EEPCO's total
system is estimated at some 6-8% during FY98-FY08 period, while the weighted average cost of



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 29
Ethiopia: Energy II Project
capital of Gilgel Gibe component is estimated at 8.3%. The average unit cost of generation of the
Gilgel Gibe power plant is roughly estimated at US 6.7 cents per kWh, excluding transmission
and distribution costs.
Sensitivity Analysis
4.    A switching value analysis, using 10% discount rate, was conducted. The financial rates
of return for debt holders are not the dependent variables of input factors such as tariffs, demand
growth, cost overrun, and construction delays unless these affect the debt holders' investment
risk or credit worthiness of EEPCO: therefore, the switching values are estimated only for the
equity holders. Returns on equity are sensitive to tariff changes and demand growth: but, not so
sensitive to cost overrun or construction delays.
5.    Tariff: If the level of energy tariff is eroded to 4.4 US cents equivalent due to inflation,
currency devaluation or delays in tariff revision throughout FY99-FY08, the EEPCO's corporate
wide return on equity is estimated to drop to around 0% towards FY2006. The net present value
of the return on equity for Gilgel Gibe would decrease to 0 if the average tariff is eroded to 6.0
US cents equivalent throughout FY99-FY08.
6.    Growth Scenario: The equity return for Gilgel Gibe component would have negative net
present value if the demand growth goes down to 9.6% during FY98-FY03 and 6% during FY04-
FY08, compared to 13.5% during FY98-03 and 7.5% during FY04-08. Under the same
assumptions, the rates of return on EEPCO would be reduced to same 7% from 10% during
FY04-08.
Main Assumptions
7.    Discount rate:                          10%
Average growth in electricity consumption    13.5 per annum on average during
FY98-02 and 7.5% per annum on
average during FY03-08.
Average EEPCO energy tariff:           Birr 0.3141 (US$0.0476) for FY97.
The average tariff will be set to meet
the financial objectives.
Terms of long-term debts:              8% interest with 5-year grace for
principal repayments with 20-year
installments
Resettlement and relocation costs:     the costs are born by the Government
Finance for the Gilgel Gibe component:  Long-term debt US$234 million (93%)
Equity US$19 million (7%)
Finance for the FY97-FY06 EEPCO program: Long-term debt US$594 million (44%)
Equity US$346 million (25%)
Cash from Operations US$273 million
(20%)
Grants US$154 million (11%)



Annex 5
Ethiopia - Energy II Project
I. EEPCO Past and Current Financial Performance: FY90/91-95/96
1.          The past seven years have been an extraordinary period for EEPCO: there was a major
management change after the end of Civil War in 1991, the Ethiopian Birr was devalued by 142
% from Birr 2.07 per US$ to Birr 5.00 per US$ in 1992 and Eritrea became independent in 1993.
The devaluation of the currency, especially, had a significant negative impact on EEPCO's
profitability and its service capacity to its debt obligations.
2.           EEPCO's historical financial performance during FY91 -FY96 is summarized in Table
5.1 below, and the detailed financial statements are included in the Project File.
Table 5.1: EEPCO's Financial Performance, FY91-96
CY9I          CY92           CY93           CY94          CY9s           CY9B
Exdlge FRate (Average.)       USS1.00= ET Bff                         2.07          2.81           5.00           5.09          8.15           6.15
Conawner FPric Increase (%)                                           35.7           10.5           3.5            7.6           10.0          10.0
EELPA Key Financial Perbmwnce Inicators                                 FY9O/91       FY91/92        FY9293        FY93J94        FY94/96        FY95i96
(ST '000 u    sle sted oihew) I_
Instled Capaity   I(                                                 367.1          367.1         367.1          367.1         380.0          412.1
Sale (March 96 report) (GW)                                          945.3         995.0         1,035.3       1,133.9        1,178.4        1,284.5
Impid Aveae Twif (ETrKVVh)                                           0.202         0.198          0.204          0.202         0.238          0.265
Impld Averape T2iff (U     6)                                        0.098         0.070          0.041          0.040         0.039          0.041
Total OperatingnRevenue                                            200,502       207,872        232,787        252,097       289,484        382,484
Oeprating Matrgin    |                =                             B60,251       57,416         64,627         75.263       105,732        148,732
ProfitLoss befm Appropriton                                         16,144        (24,490       (85,301)       (57.327)       16,132         44,627
Tota Cnret Assets  I                                               511,451       568,368        630,770        712,685       926,681      1.342.564
Tote Fiued Assets                                                1,936,682      2,052,126     2,636,316      2,904,529      3,019,882     2,993,390
Total Assets                                                     2.448,132      2,620,494     3,259,068      3,617,214      3,946,543     4,335,954
Tot CremLntiabibties                   4                           355,773       510,143      . 709,548        829,567      1,045,717       969,053
Total Long-term Loans                                              694,507       753,730      1,245,486      1,465,945      1,448,112     1,780,485
Total Equity       I                    I.                       1,397,853      1,358.621     1,314,053      1,321,702      1,454,715     1,609,414
Total Liatattiand Equity      I          _=                      2,448,132      2,620,494     3,269,086      3,617,214      3,948,543     4,335,952
Tota: Funds tom Operations        _                                 56,057         3,293        (18,548)        11,176       110.179        174,435
Tot: Funds from Ohr Sources                                        180,311       120,602        534,489        288,232       128.,29        440,528
Tobl: Source of Funds                                              236,368       123,895        515,941        299,409       238,609        614,963
Tot Applicat  of Funds                                             216 ,141      221,347        652,944        337,513       240,982        327,428
Total: Wobldng Capitalrcea   (Deease)  _12.881                                  (121,959)      (147,657)      (148.332)       (96,048)      195,279
Movement inCash    =            i -|                                 7,345        24,607         10,654        110,238        93,874         92.256
Annual Rnue Growth (%)    |ToWt Opwn  Revee Prev. Yer                           22%            3.7%         1Z0%            8.3%          14.8%         25.2%
Operatin Marn (%)             Opeatn MargirTotAl Rnuev      |         j          30%           28%9           28%            30%           37%            41%
Potm Margin (%)                 Froh/Loss before AppTrot Revenue                  8%          -12%           -37%           -23%            6%            12%
Ratum on Total Assets (%)     PrclttiLoss bore App End Total Assets             0.7%          -0.9%          -2.8%         -1.E%           0.4%          1.0%
CueoriraeboCies)                z     rntAsset wreLabilihies a                    1.4            1.1           0.9            0.9           0.9            1.4
Long-term DebtsDebs+Equi1y (%)                                                   28%           29%            38%           41%            37%            41%
SalesNdsldn  Capital (Tlme)             i                                         1.3           3.6           -3.0           -2.2          -2.4            1.0
Accomut Receivable (Ds)       iDebtorfrotal Revenue36S                           394           427            447            329           342            595
CasMowfromOperertioCurrent UsabOites (Utmes)                                     0.2            0.0          (0.0)           0.0            0.1           0.2
Csflwfrfomm Operatios/nteres Charges+Loan eayents (ie)12                                   0.1           (0.7)1          0.3           1.6            0.7
Revenues and Profitability
3.           EEPCO's electricity sales and revenues have been steadily increasing during FY91-
FY96. Its electricity sales have been increasing by an average annual compound rate of 6.3%
from 945GWh in FY91 to 1,285 GWh in FY96. Its sales revenue has been increasing by an
average annual compound rate of 12.2% from Birr 191 million in FY91 to Birr 340 million in
FY96.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 31
Ethiopia: Energy II Project
4.    Despite the steady growth in electricity sales and revenue, EEPCO's profitability has
been very low mainly due to delays in tariff revision and devaluation of the currency. Its profit
margin remained negative during FY92-FY94 and increased only to 14% in FY96. Its net profit
returns on total assets were negligible or negative throughout FY91-FY96: it remained in the
range from[-]2.6% to 1.1%.
S.    EEPCO's profitability is overstated since its annual depreciation charges do not fully
reflect the impact of the currency devaluation and the intrinsic value of its fixed assets. After the
devaluation of the currency in 1992, only the increase in value of its fixed assets financed by the
long-term loans was incorporated into its balance sheets. Its fixed assets have not been revalued
since 1989. Under the proposed Project, an asset revaluation study will be conducted and its
outcome will be incorporated in the accounts and used in the follow-on tariff study.
Capital Structure and Finance
6.    EEPCO's capital structure is characterized by a large outstanding balance of accounts
receivable and accounts payable partly due to inefficient billing and collection and a dispute
between the Ministry of Finance and EEPCO regarding the debt service obligations of its existing
non-multilateral loans. Its outstanding balance of electricity sales debts during at the end of
FY96 was Birr 154 million or about 5.4 months equivalent of its annual sales revenue. Its
creditor's outstanding balance increased continuously from Birrl68 million in FY91 to Birr 540
million in FY96, equivalent to some 19-month worth of its total revenue, since EEPCO did not
serviced its debt obligations of non-multilateral loans to the Ministry of Finance due to
disagreement as to who bears the debt service obligations.
7.    EEPCO intends to reduce its electricity sales debts by improving its billing and collection
operations. A more efficient and decentralized billing and collection system will be introduced
on a pilot basis under the proposed Project and additional 2% of outstanding balance of electricity
sales debts will be written off as provision for bad debts. EEPCO will maintain the outstanding
balance of electricity sales debts equivalent to two months of its annual electricity sales revenue
after end- 1998. As for the outstanding balance of account payable, the dispute between the
Ministry of Finance and EEPCO on debt service obligations will be resolved by end-1998.
8.    EEPCO finances its investments, debt service requirements and working capital
requirements mainly by long-term loans, grants and contributions since its internal cash
generation is inadequate to provide significant portion of its cashflow requirements. It is
estimated that EEPCO's accumulated cashflow from operations provided only 15% of its
accumulated cashflow requirements during FY91-96: the accumulated cash generation from
operation during FY91-96 amounted only to Birr 337 million (half of which was generated in
FY96 alone), compared to the accumulated fund requirements of some Birr 2,270 million during
the period. The rest of requirements were met by long-term debts of Birr 1,208 million (53%),
grants and contributions of Birr 462 million (20%), and working capital charge of Birr 306
million (12 %).
9.    While EEPCO's debts to debt plus equity ratio remained in a reasonable level of some
40%, it will need to leverage its capital structure further to meet large investment requirements
and, at the same time, to maintain an optimal capital structure. During the Project period,
EEPCO will gradually increase its contribution from internal cash generation to the capital



Page 32                                                                            Annex 5
Ethiopia: Energy II Project
expenditure up to 25% while it will maintain the debts to debt plus equity ratio under 50%. The
Government will make equity investments and will require appropriate return on investments.
EEPCO's Compliance with Financial Covenants under IDA Credit 1704-ET
10.   A loan of US$45 million was provided to EEPCO during 1986-1995 under IDA Credit
1 704-ET for rehabilitation of its infrastructure in generation, transmission, substations,
distribution and other operational assets. Under the Credit, among others, the following financial
covenants in Table 5.2 were agreed to; however, they were not complied with by GOE or EEPCO
during most of the Project period. The major factors that affected the Borrower and the
implementing agency's financial performance were the civil unrest and the change in
govermnent. The new government has made remarkable progress in stabilizing the economy and
has introduced a sector reform program. It has recently established the electric utility as a
corporation and has shown its commitment to the sustainable development of the sector and the
efficiency improvement.
Table 5.2: Compliance with Financial Covenants under Credit 1704-ET
Covenants                             Status
Credit   Local Currency Investment Requirements: GOE shall  - Partially complied with.
3.04     take all measures necessary to ensure that EEPCO shall - GOE provided grants and
timely have at its disposal sufficient funds to meet the   budgetary contributions to
local currency requirements of EEPCO's investment   EEPCO.
I program
Credit   Tariff Revision: GOE shall take or cause to be taken   - Not complied with.
4.02     all measures required to enable EEPCO to adjust its    - There was no tariff revision
tariffs and meet its obligations under Project  during FY90-95 to catch up
Agreement                                      with inflation and currency
devaluation.
Project   Account Receivable: EEPCO shall have reduced its    - Not complied with.
3.04     accounts receivable to no more than 90 days of sales    - Its outstanding balance of
by July 7, 1987                                account receivable remained
at around 7-10 months
equivalent.
Project  Intemal Cash Generation: EEPCO shall produce funds  - Not complied with.
4.02(a)  from its intemal sources equivalent to not less than  - EEPCO's internal cash
15% for FY88, 29% for FY89 and 25% thereafter of    generation covered less than
EEPCO's average annual capital expenditures    10% of its capital investments
during Project period.
Project   Debt Ceiling: EEPCO shall not incur any debt without - Not complied with
PA4.03   IDA's agreement unless the 12 month net revenue prior - The ratios were less than
to incurring the new debt covers at least 1.5 times  one most of the project
future maximum debt service including the new debt.  period.
Project  Investment Ceiling: EEPCO shall not until the  - Complied with.
4.4      completion of the project undertake any major projects  - EEPCO has not taken on
which shall exceed 1.5% of EEPCO's gross revalued   any major new investments
assets in operation and which is not included in the  during FY90-95 due to
Power Sector Investment Program agreed with GOE.   management transition.



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 33
Ethiopia: Energy II Project
II.    EEPCO Tariff
1.    EEPCO has suffered from low average tariffs and long delays in revising tariffs. The
level of the average tariff has been so low that EEPCO has not been able to carry out proper
maintenance of its assets and it has not been able to provide from its cash for operations any more
than 10% of its capital expenditures until FY96. Tariff revisions have been implemented only
five times since 1960, with insufficient increases after a long delays. As a result, EEPCO has
been heavily dependent on budgetary contribution and grants from the Government.
2.    The Government has recently changed its sector and pricing policy: it has improved the
tariff policy to ensure that EEPCO will be able to operate as a financially independent
commercial entity. EEPCO has been transformed to a limited liability company as set forth in the
proclamation No.25/1992. The Government has set up a sinking fund up to Birr 2.7 billion to be
used for its equity investments and contributions to EEPCO.
Financial Aspects of New Tariff Policy
3.    Under the new sector policy, EEPCO will no longer receive free budgetary contributions
except for some activities to be taken up by EEPCO due to past policy failures or for social
purposes. EEPCO will be able to maintain the average level of tariff so that its revenues will be
able to cover its operation and maintenance expenses, financial and administrative charges, an
appropriate return on equity and income tax obligations. The Government will require an
appropriate return on its equity share holding in EEPCO with an appropriate premium over the
cost of EEPCO's long-term loans. EEPCO will be required to maintain an optimal capital
structure to minimize its cost of capital.
4.    Under the new sector policy, a recent tariff revision was approved on April 7, 1997. The
average energy tariff was increased by 39 percent from Birr 0.2254 (3.42 US cents) to Birr
0.3141 (4.76 US cents). Another increase for domestic users to be implemented in April 1998
has already been approved. Furthermore, the Government has agreed to raise tariff levels again
in July 1999 to maintain EEPCO's profitability. EEPCO's currently approved energy tariffs and
other charges are included in the Project File.
5.    Major changes in input prices such as fuel prices and currency fluctuation will be
automatically adjusted in accordance with an agreed price adjustment formula, after the tariffs are
adjusted structurally based on the analysis in the proposed tariff study.
6.    The detailed financial requirements and tariff calculations are included in the Project
File. Its financial implication for EEPCO's future financial performance is presented in Section
III.
Remaining Issues
7.    While several attempts have been made in the past to estimate economic long-run
marginal cost (LRMC) of EEPCO's operation, there is a need for further review of EEPCO's
economic LRMC estimate. EEPCO's tariff study in 1992 estimated its economic LRMC at
around 5 US cents, on the basis of the preliminary Gilgel Gibe hydropower plant development
program. ESMAP study in 1993 estimated the economic LRMC at some 7-8 US cents based on



Page 34                                                                                             Annex 5
Ethiopia: Energy 11 Project
the preliminary Aleltu hydropower plant development plan. EEPCO's power system planning
study in 1996 estimated its LRMC in the range of 7-12 US cents based on various hydropower
plant expansion plans.
8.     The variances in various estimates were caused by difference in crucial assumptions such
as load forecasts, asset values, and required investment costs. These factors would require
fiurther review since the economic environment is drastically changing. In order to establish an
optimal tariff level and structure in which price distortion is minimized and financial
requirements are appropriately addressed, the Government agreed to carry out a power system
expansion study, an asset revaluation study and a full tariff study. The power system expansion
study will be completed by August 31, 1999, and the asset revaluation study will be completed by
November 30, 1999. The full tariff study will be initiated shortly after the above two studies in
order to incorporate the outcomes of the studies and the outcomes of which will be implemented
from November 30, 2001.
m. EEPCO Investment and Finance Strategy and Financial Performance Projections
EEPCO Investment Program: FY97-FY2006
i.     EEPCO plans to meet load demands for FY98-FY2006 period by expansion and
rehabilitation of generation, transmission and distribution assets and improvements of its
operational efficiency. The total cost of investments is estimated at Birr 9.0 billion for the period.
The investment program for FY98-FY2006 is summarized in Table 5.3 below and details are
included in the Project File.
Table 5.3: EEPCO Investment Program FY97-FY2002
Project                         C cost (Birr mio)   l Completion (CY)
Generation      Tana Beles Regulation                                            27.1               1997
Rehabilitation    Fincha Penstock Rehabilitation                                 10.0               1997
Fincha Generator & Turbine Rehab.                                18.5              1999
Koka Rehabilitation                                               2.0              1999
Awash II & III Rehabilitation                                    69.1              1999
Tis Abay Rehabilitation                                           2.0              1999
Generation      Aluto Langano Geothermal Plant (7.3 MW &62.7GWh)                111.3               1998
Expansion       Medium Speed Diesel Power Plant (21 MW &179 GWh)                103.9               1998
Gilgel Gibe Hydro Power Plant (180 MW & 642 GWh)               1,736.2             2002
Tis Abay II Hydro Power Plant (73 MW & 331 GWh)                 504.0              1999
Fincha 4th Unit Expansion (33.3 MW & 137 GWh)                   135.0              2000
Tekeze (203.3 MW & 981 Gwh)                                   2,456.8              2002
Gojeb (102.0 MW & 364 Gwh)                                     1,616.0             2006
Transmission    Rehabilitation and Expansion                                   1,403.0             2005
and Substation
Distribution    Distribution Rehabilitation and Expansion, and Rural            824.0              2005
Electrification
Rehabilitation Total           317.7
Expansion Total            8,700.8
Total             9,018.5



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 35
Ethiopia: Energy II Project
EEPCO Finance Plan: FY97-FY2006
2.    In order to maintain an optimal capital structure, EEPCO intends to finance its total
investments by long-term loans (44%), internal cash generation (20%), equity finance (25%) and
grants and contributions (11%). Grant and contributions will cover rehabilitation costs since the
long overdue rehabilitation work is caused by the past sector policy that did not allow EEPCO to
carry out proper maintenance. The plan for FY97-FY2006 is summarized in Table 5.4 below and
details are included in the Project File.
Table 5.4: EEPCO Finance Plan FY97-FY2006
FY97  FY98  FY99  FY2000 FY2001 FY2002 FY2003 FY2004 FY2005 FY2006  TOTAL
Loan     304   724   539    713    698    495         240    208                -      3,921
Equity    76    181   162    238    233       371    240      208    459    2,281    2,281
ICG       51    121   216    396    388       310      172     149      -       -      1,801
Grants    76    181   162    238      233      62      34      30      =        -      1,015
Total    506  1,206  1,078  1,584   1,552   1,238    686    595       459      113     9,019
LTL/L+E  38%   43%   45%    46%    46%    45%    44%    43%    40%    38%
3.     Under the new sector policy, EEPCO's revenue will cover its operating and maintenance
expenses, financial and administrative charges, appropriate return on equity and income tax. The
major assumptions are as follows: average cost of existing long-term loans is 4.5 %; average cost
of new loans is 8%; and return on equity is 12%, or 4% premium over the average costs of new
long-term loans. The average cost of capital is estimated remain below 7% throughout FY2008.
EEPCO Financial Performance Projections: FY98-FY2008
4.     Projections of EEPCO's financial performance are made based on the above assumptions
and the summary is presented in Table5.5 below. Detailed assumptions and financial projections
are included in the Project File.



Page 36                                                                                                                                                      Annex 5
Ethiopia: Energy II Project
Table 5.5: EEPCO's Financial Performance Projections (FY98-08)
NW________0   97/38  0/       02000   00/01    01/02    02/03   jO3/04         04/0      0/06/S    06/07     M7/0
(1997 Constart Birr MiDin)             .
ICG Sup  (GWh)                 1,368.4   1,477.0   1,670.0   1,933.0  2,130.0   2,455.0   2,696.0  2,925.0   3,147.0   3,383.0   3,832.0   3,862.0
hncome              _ _t_               _____
Revenue                  _       418.8    494.2    661.3    947.2   1,043.7   1,203.0   1,321.0   1,433.3   1,542.0   1,057.7   1,779.7   1,892.4
Opeat  MaigIn                    196.6    241.4    370.4    601.9    652.1    759.8    846.3    925.3   1,004.2   1,095.6   1,194.3   1,285.5
Profit aftwTax                    72.4    104.4    188.3    339.4    380.4    430.7    437.1           4532      457.6    470.8    505.1    554.2
Reaned Eaw,  after Div.           72.4    104.4    186.3    270.0    213.7    219.4    197.1    188.1    137.4    137.0    171.3    220.4
inttnal Caah Geneatn
Actl IGCAvalio _                 117.9    178.6    258.9    379.6    356.4    377.6    346.1    331.3    264.0    238.7    249.7    281.6
Ann4ml Invest Req. (AIR)         506.4   1,206.0   1,078.0   1,584.3   1,551.8   1,238.0    666.3    595.3    459.2    113.2
Actual IGC/AIR                     13%       14%       18%       26%       31%      45%       60%        N.A.      N.A       N.A       NA.       NA
Planned IGCOAIR                    10%       10%       20%       25%      25%       25%       25%        N.A.      N.A.     NA         N.A.      NA.
iBalance Shee_t
CuentAssts   _                   1,052       979       792       545       553       609      770       841        991     1,224     1,377     1.627
Net Fbcad Asets                  3,430     4,536     5,492     6,922     8,289     9,318     9.781    10,141    10,358    10.223     9.976     9.730
Tota Auset                       4,482     5,515     6.284     7,467     8,842    9,927    10,551    10,982    11,347    11,447    11.353    11.357
Current Liabilites               1,000       900       700       500       570       589      606       525       441       467       400       400
LT Loa    I                      1.692     2,359     2,818     3,456     4,082    4,495      4,631     4,717     4,566     4,393     4,194     3,978
Dev. Reaeve.                       566       568       566       56        566       566       556       566       568       566      56       566
Grant                              776       957     1.118     1,356f    1,589     1,851     1,685     1,715     1,715     1.715     1,715     1,715
Retalned Earnngsl                 (128)      (23)      163       433       6 647    86W   1t,063       1.251     1,389     1,526     1,697     1,918
Coawnon Shae       I__             576       757       919     1,156     1.389     1,760     2,001     2,209     2,668     2,781     2,781     2,781
Totl L&E           I4.482                  5.515     8,284     7.487     8,842    9,927    10,551    10,982    11,347    11,447    11,353    11,357
FIFnancial Penrfomnce IndIcator.                             ..      I         .,=
Cnt Rego                      1.05      1.09      1.13      1.09      0.97      1.03      1.27      1.60      2.25      2.62      3.44      4.07
ROA(ProlttaltertaxbeforeDlv.)    1.6%       1.9%      3.0%      4.6%      4.3%      4.3%      4.1%      4.1%      4.0%      4.1%      44%       4.9%
ROE (DRt+RE+CS)  _                7.1%      8.0%     11.3%     15.7%     14.6%,   13.5%      12.0%     11.3%      9.9%      9.7%     10.0%     10.5%
Op. MargIn          _____          47%       49%       56%       64%      62%        63%       64%      65%       65%       66%        7%       68%
LTDe       E        __T   _        38%       43%       45%       46%      46%       45%1       44%      43%       40%        38%      37%        35%
Caeh pnO       ettServ.           2.08      2.79      3.10      4.94      6.29                          2.92      2.43      2.13      2.01      2.01
5.          The electricity sales is estimated to gradually increase from 1366 GWh in FY97 to 2244
GWh in FY03. EEPCO's sales is projected to grow by an annual compound rate of 14% from
Birr 494 million in FY98 to Biff 1,892 million in FY2008.
6.          The operating margin is estimated to improve from 47% in FY97 to 68% in FY08. Profit
after income tax will increase from Biff 72.4 million in FY97 to Birr 104.4 million in FY98 and
then will gradually increase to Birr 554 million in FY08. The after tax return on total net assets
will increase from 1.9% in FY98 to 4.9 % in FY08. The return on equity will increase from 8.0%
in FY98 to 10.5% in FY08, which is close to the target return for equity used for the tariff
calculation.
7.          EEPCO's capital structure will remain sound. The ratio of its long-term loans to total
liabilities and equity will remain less than 50% throughout the period FY97 - FY08. Its current
ratio is estimated to increase from 1.05 in FY97 to 4.07 in FY08.
8.          EEPCO's cashflow is estimated to remain sound. EEPCO will meet target ratio of
internally generated cash to annual capital expenditure (IGC ratio) throughout FY03: its target
IGC ratio would be 10% in FY98, 20% in FY99, 25% in FY2000 and 25% in FYO1, as compared
to the targets of 10% for FY98, 20% for FY99, 25% for FY2000 onward. Its working capital
requirements will also be met throughout the period FY98-FY08.



Annex 6
Ethiopia - Energy II Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement  Procurement methods (see Table Al, A2, A3 and A4)
Only USS 12.6 million of the goods and services financed by IDA will not be procured by International Competitive Bidding
(ICB). These consist of:
(a)    US$ 9.3 million worth of consulting services that will be procured using the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants;
(b)    USS 1A. 19 million worth, in several contracts, of specialized services and training relating to institutional development that
will be procured by direct contracting;
(c)    USS 348,000 worth of specialized equipment that will be procured through International Shopping;
(d)    US$ 761,000 worth of vehicles, consisting of several different types of vehicles for the three implementing agencies involved
in the project, that will be procured through the UN system (IAPSO); and
(e)    USS 737,000 worth of computer equipment in several contracts, for the three agencies implementing the project, that will be
procured through National Competitive Bidding
ICB contracts represent about 94 % of the procurement financed by IDA. The Borrower's NCB procedures are acceptable. A
schedule of procurement actions is included in the Project Implementation Plans.
The implementing agency responsible for most of the procurement, EEPCO, has executed a Bank project in the past and is capable of
managing the procurement. It has engaged a consultant to assist with the large Civil Works contracts. The MOA has also
implemented Bank project similar to this one and it still has the staff that managed the procurement for that project. The MME
component is small and they have staff qualified to manage the procurement. They will engage consultants for specialized items.
Prior review thresholds (see Table B)
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (see Table C)
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs): Contracts for goods, works and consultancy firms valued at less than
US$100,000; consultancy services with individuals valued at less than US$50,000; and training. Documents verifying
expenditures under SOE procedures should be retained for review by IDA supervision missions.
Special accounts:
There will be three Special Accounts, as follows:
Special Account "A" for Gilgel Gibe Hydroelectric Plant:   US$1,000,000
Special Account "B" for institutional components (MME):   US$100,000
Special Account "C" for woody biomass component(MOA): US$100,000
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
FY98        FY99         FY00          FY01          FY02          FY03          FY04
Annual         2.29        21.49        39.88        51.01         50.44          27.50          7.39
Cumulative     2.29        23.78        63.66       114.67        165.11         192.61        200.00



ETHIOPIA - ENERGY 2
Table A-1: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS - All Implementing Agencies                                                Go
Procurement Method (USS '000)
International    National
Competitive   Competitive  Intemational    Direct    From U.N.  Consulting
Bidding      Bidding      Shopping   Contracting a/ Agencies    Services       N.B.F.         Total
A. CIVIL WORKS                      156,302.36                                 *                                  49,341.86      205,644.22
(149,040.04)                                                                                 (149,040.04)
B. SUPPLY AND ERECT
EQUIPMENT                        47,568.16          -              -            -          -             -            -       47,568.16
(33,364.36)                                                                                  (33,364.36)
C. GOODS
1. Vehicles                          372.52           -             -            -      761.80            -         79.66        1,213.98
(372.52)                                          (761.80)                                 (1,134.32)
2. Equipment                        3,934.96     737.25         348.34           -           -                     492.33        5,512.87
(3,934.96)    (737.25)      (348.34)                                                        (5,020.55)
3. Materials                         685.81                                                                             -         685.81
(685.81)                                                                                    (685.81)
0. SERVICES
1. Studies                                -           -                          -           -      3,193.69           -        3,193.69
(3,193.69)                  (3,193.69)
2. Training                               -           -             -        445.93          -       475.74        104.20        1,025.87
(445.93)                (475.74)                     (921.67)
3. Engineering Services.                  -           -                          -           -      5,649.42    24,207.64       29,857.06
(5,649.42)                  (5,649.42)
4. Other Services                         -           -             -        973.96          -            -             -         973.96
(973.96)                                             (973.96)
E. PPF REFINANCING                          -           -             -            -           -         0.61            -            0.61
(0.61)                      (0.61)
F. OPERATING COSTS                          -           -             -            -           -            -        197.51         197.51
TOTAL                           208,863.81     737.25         348.34      1,419.88    761.80      9,319.47    74,423.18      295,873.73
(187,397.69)   (737.25)      (348.34)    (1,419.88)    (761.80)    (9,319.47)          -    (199,984.43)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
a/  'Training" includes several short-term courses for specific skills. "Other Services" includes satellite imagery and rental of helicopter for Woody Biomass surveys.
_.
Pa
a_4



ETHIOPIA - ENERGY 2                                                                   ,
Table A-2: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS - EEPCO                                                         >
Procurement Method (US$ '000)
International    National
Competitive   Competitive  International    Direct    From U.N.  Consulting
Bidding      Bidding     Shopping    Contract. a/  Agencies    Services     N.B.F.        Total                  ,3
A. CIVIL WORKS                     156,302.36         -                                                       49,341.86     205,644.22
(149,040.04)                                                                             (149,040.04)
B. SUPPLY AND ERECT
EQUIPMENT                        47,568.16          -             -           -         -             -            -      47,568.16
(33,364.36)                                                                              (33,364.36)
C. GOODS
1. Vehicles                         372.52          -             -           -     200.49            -        79.66         652.66
(372.52)                                        (200.49)                                 (573.00)
2. Equipment                      3,934.96       92.55        192.13          -          -            -       492.33        4,711.97
(3,934.96)    (92.55)     (192.13)                                                       (4,219.64)
3. Materials                        685.81           -            -           -          -            -            -         685.81
(685.81)                                                                                 (685.81)
D. SERVICES
1. Studies                              -           -             -           -          -      2,878.98           -        2,878.98
(2,878.98)                 (2,878.98)
2. Training                              -           -            -       103.48         -       475.74        104.20        683.41
(103.48)               (475.74)                    (579.22)
3. Engineering Services                  -          -             -           -          -      3,460.21    24,207.64      27,667.85
(3,460.21)                 (3,460.21)
4. Other Services                              -            -           -                       -            -
E. PPF REFINANCING                        -           -             -           -          -         0.61            -           0.61
(0.61)                     (0.61)
F. OPERATING COSTS                        -           -             -           -          -            -
TOTAL                           208,863.81      92.55        192.13      103.48     200.49     6,815.54    74,225.68     290,493.66
(187,397.69)   (92.55)      (192.13)    (103.48)   (200.49)    (6,815.54)          '    (194,801.87)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
a! Training" includes several short-term courses for specific skills.



ETHIOPIA - ENERGY 2
Table A-3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS - MME
Procurement Method (US$ 000)
National
Competitive    Direct    From U.N. Consulting
Bidding    Contract. a/  Agencies   Services   N.B.F.     Total
A. CIVIL WORKS
B. SUPPLY AND ERECT
EQUIPMENT                              -            -          -           -       -
C. GOODS
1. Vehicles                             -            -     163.04           -       -        163.04
(163.04)                         (163.04)
2. Equipment                       326.08            -          -           -        -       326.08
(326.08)                                                 (326.08)
3. Materials                                                                -
D. SERVICES
1. Studies                                           -          -      314.71       -        314.71
(314.71)             (314.71)
2. Training                             -       155.28          -           -       -        155.28
(155.28)                                     (155.28)
3. Engineering Services                 -            -          -      310.55       -        310.55
(310.55)             (310.55)
4. Other Services
E. PPF REFINANCING                        -            -          -           .
F. OPERATING COSTS                        -            -          -           -
TOTAL                              326.08       155.28     163.04      625.27       -      1,269.67
(326.08)    (155.28)    (163.04)    (625.27)      -     (1,269.67)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
a! Training" includes several short-term courses for specific skills.
5.B
a0



ETHIOPIA - ENERGY 2                                                                      R 
Table A-4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS - MOA                                                            ', z
Procurement Method (USS '000)
National
Competitive  International    Direct     From U.N.  Consulting                                                              -U
Bidding     Shopping   Contracting a/ Agencies    Services        N.B.F.      Total                                       00
A. CIVIL WORKS                            -              -
B. SUPPLY AND ERECT
EQUIPMENT                              -              -            -           -             -         -
C. GOODS
1. Vehicles                             -              -            -      398.28             -         -        398.28
(398.28)                             (398.28)
2. Equipment                       318.62         156.20            -           -             -         -        474.83
(318.62)      (156.20)                                                        (474.83)
3. Materials                            -              -
D. SERVICES
1. Studies                              -              -
2. Training                             -              -        187.18          -             -         -        187.18
(187.18)                                         (187.18)
3. Engineering Services                 -              -            -           -      1,878.66         -       1,878.66
(1,878.66)              (1,878.66)
4. Other Services                       -              -       973.96           -             -         -        973.96
(973.96)                                         (973.96)
E. PPF REFINANCING                        -                     -                 -             -         -
F. OPERATING COSTS                        -              -             -          -             -    197.51        197.51
TOTAL                              318.62         156.20      1,161.13     398.28      1,878.66    197.51       4,110.40
(318.62)      (156.20)    (1,161.13)    (398.28)    (1,878.66)        -     (3,912.90)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
al "Other Services" includes satellite imagery and rental of helicopter for Woody Biomass surveys.
P0



Page 42                                                                                              Annex 6
Ethiopia Energy II Project
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure           Contract Value          Procurement         Contracts Subject to
Category              (Threshold)              Method               Prior Review
1. Works                 $500,000 and above            ICB              $200,000 and above
2. Goods                 $250,000 and above            ICB              $200,000 and above
$50,000-$250,000            NCB               $200,000 and above
Below $100,000             IAPSO                   N.A.
Below $50,000               IS                    N.A.
3. Services              $100,000 and above           QCBS            $100,000 and above for
QBS           firms*
Less than $50,000         Individual       $50,000 and above for
individuals*
Less than $50,000        Single Source              All
$200,000 and above for
application of sub-para.
two of para. 2(a) of
Appendix I of the
Guidelines
*Terms of Reference for all consultant contracts, as well as all single source appointments, irrespective of dollar amounts, are
subject to prior review.
ICB = International Competitive Bidding
NCB = National Competitive Bidding
IS = International Shopping
QCBS = Quality and Cost Based Selection
QBS = Quality Based Selection



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 43
Ethiopia Energy II Project
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in US$ million          Financing Percentage
EEPCO:
Civil Works                   134,118,000                   100% of foreign expenditures and
85% of local expenditures
Equipment and Installation   27,371,000                     100% of foreign expenditures and
.______ _   85% of local expenditures.
Vehicles and Materials       4,106,000                      100% of foreign expenditures and
95% of local expenditures.
Equipment, Vehicles and                                     100% of foreign expenditures and
Materials                     1,081,000                     95% of local expenditures
Trainn g                      588,000                       100%
Consultants Services          7,199,000                     100%
NMM
Equipment Vehicles and                                      100% of foreign expenditures and
Materials                     821,000                      95% of local expenditures
Training                      55,000                        100%/0
Consultants Services          630,000                       100%
M OA                          ___________________
Equipment Vehicles and                                      100% of foreign expenditures and
Materials                     1,834,000                    95% of local expenditures
Training                      192,000                       100%
Consultants Services          1,875,000                     100%
Refunding of Project
Preparation Advance           600,000
Unallocated                   19,530,000
Total                         200,000,000



Annex 7
Ethiopia - Energy II Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                            Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
374,400              336,100
B. Project Schedule                                   Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)           12 months            12 months
First Bank mission (identification)                  06/15/96              06/15/96
Appraisal mission departure                         05/05/1997           05/05/1997
Negotiations                                         05/27/97              10/09/97
Planned Date of Effectiveness                         10/15/97             01/31/98
Prepared by: EEPCO, MME and MOA
Preparation assistance: PPF of US$600,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included: Alfred Gulstone (Task Team Leader and Principal
Power Engineer); Fauzia Najm (Principal Financial Analyst); Angel Baide (Power Engineer); Takuya
Kamata (Sr. Financial Analyst); Keta Ruiz (Economist); Gus Tillman (Sr. Env. Specialist); Antoine
Lema (Resettlement Specialist); Max Wilton (Energy Specialist); Yuriko Sakairi (Financial
Analyst/Economist); Charlotte Jones (Operations Analyst); David Phan (Task Assistant); Negede
Lewi (Infrastructure Operations Officer in the Resident Mission); and Helen Berhe (Task Assistant in
the Resident Mission). The Quality Reviewers were Karen Rasmussen (Sr. Financial Analyst); Joseph
Gilling (Sr. Energy Economist); and Peter Cordukes (Principal Financial Analyst).



Annex 8
Ethiopia - Energy II Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
EEPCO's Project Implementation Plan
Woody Biomass Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Economic Assessment*
Financial Assessment*
Project Cost Tables
C. Other
Environmental Assessment, EEPCO, August 1997
Resettlement Plan, EEPCO, April 1997
Load Forecast and Investment Plan, Applied Energy Group, October 1997
Aleltu Hydroelectric Project Feasibility Study, Power System Planning Study,
Acres International Ltd., July 1993 (Draft)
Gilgel Gibe Hydroelectric Project, Feasibility Study, EELPA and Electroconsult/ENEL, May 8, 1997
Ethiopia Energy Assessment, ESMAP, Report No. 179/96, February 1996
The Woody Biomass Inventory and Development Project, Phase II: Project Document, November 1996
Terms of Reference for Consultancy Services of Gilgel Gibe Hydroelectric Project, EELPA, April 1997
*Including electronic files.



Annex 9
Ethiopia - Energy II Project
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of September 30, 1997
(US$ millions)
(Less Cancellations)
Loan or        Fiscal                                                                           Undis-
Credit No.     Year      Borrower   Purpose                               Bank         IDA      bursed
Twelve (12) Loans and forty-eight (48) Credits closed.                  108.60      1334.88     12.96
of which SAL, SECAL or Program Loan/Credit:                                        (250.67)
Cr.18730         1988    Ethiopia    Education VII                                    64.06     14.58
Cr.19130        1988    Ethiopia    Family Health                                     33.00      8.42
Cr.21030        1990    Ethiopia     Market Towns Dev.                                40.20     16.43
Cr.21610        1990    Ethiopia    Second Addis Urban Dev.                           35.00     20.66
Cr.24380        1993    Ethiopia     Road Rehabilitation                              96.00     60.24
Cr.25880        1994    Ethiopia     Calub Energy Dev. Pr.                            74.31     67.53
Cr.27400        1995    Ethiopia     Nat. Fertilizer Project                         120.00     85.85
Cr.27410         1995    Ethiopia    National Seeds Project                           22.00     19.17
Cr.28410         1996    Ethiopia    ESRF I                                          120.00    103.11
Cr.28420         1996    Ethiopia    Water Supply Dev. & Rehab.                       35.73     31.73
Total **                          108.60      1975.18    427.72
of which repaid                  108.60        93.71
Total held by Bank & IDA            DM0      181A.
Amount sold     6.04
of which repaid 6.04
Total Undisbursed                                        449.6
** Total approved, repayments, and outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Loans and Credits.



Annex 10
Ethiopia Energy II Project
Ethiopia at a glance                                                             8/28/97
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan    Low-
Ethiopia    Africa  income      Development dlamond
Population mid-1996 (millions)                        58.1      600    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                             110       490      500                 Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                                6.4      294    1,601
Average annual growth, 199046
Population (%/6)                                      2.1        2.7      1.7     GNP                             Gross
Labor force (%l)                                      2.3        2.6      1.7     per                            prmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                           capita                       enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban population (%of total population)                13        31       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       49        52       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              112        92       69               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% Of children under 5)             47
Access to safe water (% of population)                 27        47       53
illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   65        43       34                Ethiopia
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  27        72      105
Male                                                 33        78      112                Low-income group
Female                                               21        65       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985       1995    1996
Economic ratios'
GDP (billions US$)                                     6.7       5.4      6.1
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  ..      9.0      16.3    20.5              O         of
Exports of goods and services/GDP              ..      8.2      14.4    12.8               penness  economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     ..      1.0       6.8      7.6
Gross national savings/GDP                     ..     3.4       14.0    14.2
Current account balance/GDP                    ..    -5.6       -1.6    -7.5                     /            I
Interest paymentslGDP                          ..     0.6        1.1      1.4     Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 ..    30.3       95.9     82.6
Total debt servicelexports                    7.3    28.4       19.1     33.7
Present value of debtlGDP                      ..      ..       63.1
Present value of debtlexports                  ..      ..    425.0         ..Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96    1995      1996  199745
(average annua/ growth)                                                                     Ethiopia
GDP                                   ..      2.3      5.4      12.4      5.9
GNP per capita                        ..    -0.3      3.1        9.5      2.9            Low-income group
Exports of goods and services         ..    -2.2    10.2         8.9      8.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1985       1995    1996
(% of GDP)                                                                        Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                    .      53.2        ..       ..    100
Industry                                       .      12.7        ..
Manufacturing                                ..      7.2        ..       ..
Services                                       ..    34.1                          o-
92   93   94   95   93
Private consumption                            ..    84.6       82.4    81.1      .so .
General govemment consumption                  ..    14.4       10.8     11.3                    GDI       GDP
Imports of goods and services                  ..    16.2       23.9    25.7
1975-85  1986-96     1995    1996
(average annual growth)                                                           Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                    ..      2.5       3.4     17.5    100.
Industry                                       ..    -2.6        8.1      8.5     80
Manufacturnng                                ..    -3.1        9.0      9.2      40
Services                                       ..      5.4       7.2      7.1     20
Private consumpton                             ..      2.9       3.9      9.0      0                       093   95    9
General govemment consumpton                   ..    -4.9        2.7    17.9    -40
Gross domestic investment                      ..      6.0      13.8    41.2    -s0
Imports of goods and services                  ..      0.5       6.9     29.0
Gross national product                         ..      2.2       6.0     12.9               Exports    -mports
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 10
Ethiopia Energy II Project
Ethiopia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995      1996
Domestic pres                                                                        Inlaon (%)
(% change)                                                                          30 -
Consumer prices                                6.6      19.1      13.4      0.9    20
Implicit GDPmp deflator                         ..    29.5        14.0      1.3
Govemment finance                                                                   10
(% of GDP)                                                                           0
Current revenue                                 ..    16.8        17.1     17.6             91   92   93   94   95    9s
Current budget balance                           .      -2.7       1.5      1.0              -GDPdef. --O-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          .    -11.3       -8.1      -8.3                   G
TRADE
1975     1985      1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                       Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                            230      359        454      410      1,500
Commodity 1: Coffee                            ,.     225        288      273
Commodity 2: Leather and leather products      ..      46         60       49
Manufactures                                   ..100
Total imports (cif)                            276      975      1,064    1,413
Food                                           ..     283        181      215       Soo
Fuel and energy                                ..     186        169      215
Capital goods                                  ..    249         334      460         0C
Export priceindex (1987=100)                    ..       96        116       96            90  91  92  93  94  95  9o
Import price index (1987=100)                   ..      101        105      109                  n xports   Isimports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                       ..       95        110       88
BALANCE o PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                  330      549       784       783      o
Imports of goods and services                  409    1,082      1,273    1,646         9    91   9239  94   9    96
Resource balance                               -79     -533       -488     -863
Net income                                     -17      -33        -60      43          _
Net current transfers                           45      193       459       446
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers            -52      -373       -90     -460      ^ -.
Financing items (net)                           45      420        146      515
Changes in net reserves                          7      -48        -56      -55          -.
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)            315      216        550      878
Conversion rate (lbcal/US$)                      -      2.1        6.3      6.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           344    2,027      5,221    5,059                       G
IBRD                                         69        49         0         0                      G9
IDA                                           73      437      1,470    1,555                330
Total debt service                              25      159        155      278                                   B55
IBRD                                           9        7         4         0
IDA                                            1        6        23        25
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               35      514       475                       E
Official creditors                            65      276       194       165           2E21
Private creditors                             -3       59        -49      -70           20,21
Foreign direct investment                     19        0         7         0                               D
Portfolio equity                               0        0          0        0                              964
World Bank program
Commitments                                  71        32        142      156      A - IBRD                     E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                 26       50        84       142      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                           4        7         12       14      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Netflows                                      22       43         72      127     _
Interest payments                              6        7         11       11
Nettransfers                                  16       36        61       116
Development Economics                                                                                                  8128/97
Note: The debt data excludes a substantial amount of ruble-denominated military debt.



IBRD 28768
ETHIOPIA
ENERGY  11 PROJECT                                                TAbaba
LOCATION OF GILGEL GIBE
HYDROELECTRIC PLANT
235km
PROPOSED RESERVOIR                                       Saja
-C~-- RIVERS
-     MAIN ROAD
o TOWNS AND VILLAGES
PROJECT BOUNDARY                                km
Underground           e
Poe /Hou' se  
/        ...... Ptermanent
--\    --X....  Vilage area
I-  ---4--l/l
Ck   W=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sk
Dimtu'<J)    t      \~  Ayo                     2O0km
INan "I                                 / J DeAb addsAaa
D         [ar  a/Kr       _         .'RTE~~
|   KLOMEleRS   10~~~~~~~~~~io I                  ETHIOPIA;
ThisOmapmwas prod  1 997
0                                                            ndan5he i10mtinsbwno
H rena                                   such boundarVicires .
Tur~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4~K
Metatebo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AY19



