Report No. PIC5051
Project Name                      Ethiopia-Energy II Project
Region                            Africa Region
Sector                            Energy
Project ID                        ETPE736
Borrower                          Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
Implementing agency               Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME),
Ethiopian Electric Light and Power Authority
(EELPA),
Ethiopian Energy Studies Research Center
(EESRC).
Date of PID preparation           April 28, 1997
Project appraisal date            May 1997
Projected Board date              June 1997
1.      Country and sector background. Recent economic performance by
Ethiopia has been remarkable. This performance has been favorably
affected by an improved policy environment, the start in the
rehabilitation of infrastructure, and favorable rainfalls. Real GDP
grew at 5.4% in 1994/95, compared to more than -3% per annum during
the pre-reform period (1991/92). GDP growth in 1995/96 was
impressive: an estimated 10.4%. Still, Ethiopia is one of the
poorest countries in the world, with a population of 56.5 million
and a per capita income of US$100 in 1995.
2.      Ethiopia has one of the lowest levels of energy consumption
per capita in the world. Only 5% of the population has access to
electricity. Electric power supply in Ethiopia is under the
jurisdiction of EELPA, with the country divided into two major
divisions, the interconnected system (ICS), consisting primarily of
the large hydro generating facilities supplying the main supply
grid, and small self-contained systems (SCS). The total installed
capacity in the ICS is 378 MW. Power sales totaled 1,142 Gwh in
1995, of which about 42% were to domestic customers, 44% to
industrial customers, and 14% for commercial customers and street
lighting. The total installed capacity in the SCS in 1995 was 30.5
MW with total sales of 35,612 Mwh in 1995.
3.      Continuity and quality of electric supply in the ICS are
essential to support the country's continued economic growth.
Expansion of the SCS, possibly under new institutional
arrangements, will address the low access rate and help support
further economic activity in the rural areas. In 1994, Ethiopia
suffered a drought that, combined with the very narrow capacity
margins, necessitated widespread load shedding. The Government
responded by acquiring about 60 MW of thermal plant to help relieve
the shortages under these circumstances and provide for more
effective use of the water resources. However, it is clear that,
with the rapidly expanding economy, a substantial block of capacity
must be added to the ICS to forestall major shortages in the



future.
4.      Project objectives. The project objectives are: (A) to
increase efficiency and sustainability of the power sector in
Ethiopia, and to increase electricity generation capacity for
economic growth and improved quality of life for its citizens; and
(B) to improve utilization of rural renewable energy. The progress
on these objectives will be measured by Ethiopia achieving by the
end of 2002: (i) capacity reserves of 10% in terms of firm energy,
and of 30% in terms of installed power; (ii) continuity of supply
of not less than 0.998; (iii) 250,000 new customers connected to
the grid after rehabilitating and expanding distribution network
under a separate project; (iv) 100% of new industrial applicants
for power connections will be satisfied; and (v) decreased biomass
requirements for cooking purposes by 50%.
5.      Project description. The project proposes to support: (i)
power sector reform program in Ethiopia; (ii) construction of the
Gilgel Gibe Hydroelectric Plant (180 MW); and (iii) improvement in
utilization of rural renewable energy. The Gilgel Gibe
hydroelectric plant will be built on the Gilgel Gibe river, a
tributary of the Omo River in the Jimma Zone of the Oromiya Region,
about 260 km southwest of Addis Ababa. Several studies of
hydroelectric plants on the Gilgel Gibe river were carried out in
the past. The final scheme selected has a single power plant. The
rural energy component includes biomass inventorization of the
northern regions, and a nationwide promotion and dissemination of
an efficient biomass stove for household use.
6.      Project Financing. Initial project cost estimates total
US$279.3 million, of which the foreign currency cost will be
US$202.5 million. The tentative financing plan includes an IDA
credit of US$200 million and cofinancing of US$62.5 million.
7.      Project implementation.
-- Implementation Period:         Five years, 1997-2002.
- Executing Agencies:            (i) MME for the power sector reform program;
(ii) EELPA for the Gilgel Gibe construction;
and (iii) EESRC for the rural energy
component and for Woody Biomass Inventory.
- Implementation arrangements: (i) For the power sector reform, the planning
wing of the MME with the help of short-term
consultants as needed. (ii) For Gilgel Gibe,
project management consultants are being
appointed.
(iii) For Rural Energy components, EESRC
will establish a project implementation
team, with a project manager and accounting
staff. Consultants will be hired to assist
with technical specifications and project
management.
- 2-



8.      Project sustainability. Important factors for sustainability
will be: (i) the ability of the utility to maintain tariff levels
that reflect full commercial operation; (ii) corporatization of
EELPA; and (iii) restructuring of the power sector creating an
enabling environment for open competition in
generation/distribution.
9.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector.
One of the important lessons learned in this sector is the
importance of reasonable load forecasting before undertaking a
major hydro project given the time lag requirement and to make sure
that the investment is not premature. The proposed project, of
which Gilgel Gibe is a part, is based on a realistic load forecast.
Another major lesson learnt is that unless the utility (EELPA) is
fully commercialized it would not be possible to improve supply
efficiency. It is, therefore, necessary that the relationship of
MME and EELPA be streamlined so that their responsibilities and
accountabilities are transparent and clear. EELPA has to be made
fully autonomous and accountable to supply electricity in an
efficient and business- like manner. An independent tariff setting
mechanism will ease commercial operation of EELPA, and will help to
eventually attract private sector participation in the sector.
10.     Poverty category. Not applicable to this project.
11.     Environmental aspects. The proposed project is in category
"A". There will be resettlement of 2,476 households. An
Environmental Impact Assessment has been prepared showing a
satisfactory mitigation plan. Also, a Resettlement Report has been
prepared showing detailed resettlement arrangements and
satisfactory compensation for the affected households. The
resettlement arrangements include unique features that provide for
the needs of the resettled population in a way not normally seen in
similar projects; for example, a legal fund has been established
for resettled people to use if they feel their human rights have
been violated.
12.     Program objective categories. The program objectives that
will be addressed under the proposed project include: private
sector development, through the power sector reform program; and,
environmental sustainable development, by expanding power
generation and improving utilization of rural renewable energy with
a positive environmental impact.
Contact Point:           Alfred Gulstone, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



Processed by the Public Information Center week ending May 2, 1997.
- 4 -



