Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3019 ET
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Energy Project)
between
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 25, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3019 ET
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 25, 1998, between FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF 
ETHIOPIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Association  has received a letter dated, November 13, 1997, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to improve 
the efficiency of the Borrower’s power sector (the Program) and declaring the 
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(C)
Parts A, C.2, C.3, C.4 and C.5 of the Project will be carried out by the 
Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation (EEPCO) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as 
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to EEPCO part of the 
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; 
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from the European Investment Bank (EIB) 
a loan in an amount of forty-two million United States dollars ($42,000,000) (the EIB 
Loan) to assist in the financing of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth 
in an agreement (the EIB Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and EIB; 
and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and EEPCO;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in 
the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank 
or for goods 
produced in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for 
the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of 
goods, if such payment or import, 
to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a decision 
of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of 
the Charter of the United Nations.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any 
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the 
Association determines, after consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the Credit 
will not be required to finance the Project’s 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, or (c) at any time, the 
Association determines, with respect to any contract to 
be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the 
Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the 
Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of 
the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit Account, the Association may, 
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals 
with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount 
of the Credit shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Borrower’s Project Implementation Plan” means the plan described in the 
Borrower’s letter, dated November 18, 1997, specifying, inter alia, procedures, 
timetables, and other arrangements agreed upon between the Borrower and the 
Association for the purpose of the implementation of Parts B.1, B.2 and C.1 of the 
Project;
(b)
“EEPCO’s Project Implementation Plan” means the plan described in EEPCO’s 
letter, dated November 18, 1997, specifying, inter alia, procedures, timetables, and 
Page  3
other arrangements agreed upon between EEPCO and the Association for the purpose of 
the implementation of EEPCO’s Parts of  Project (as hereinafter defined);
(c)
“EEPCO’s Parts of the Project” means Parts A, C.2, C3, C.4 and C.5 of the 
Project;
(d)
“EEPCO” means the Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation, established 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Council of Ministers’ Regulation No. 18/1997 of July 7, 
1997 (EEPCO-Regulation), which is the successor of the Ethiopian Electric Light and 
Power Authority (EELPA) which was established pursuant to the Borrower’s General 
Notice No. 213-1956;
(e)
“Environmental Mitigation Plan” means the plan, dated November 13, 1997 
and referred to in Part A.3 of the Project, containing actions, procedures, 
timetables, and other arrangements designed to mitigate the Project’s potential 
adverse impact on the environment; 
(f)
“Ethiopian Birr” and “Birr” mean the currency of the Borrower;
(g)
“MME” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Mines and Energy;
(h)
“MOA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture;
(i)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
EEPCO, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(j)
“Resettlement Plan” means the plan, dated November 13, 1997 and referred 
to in Part A.3 of the Project, containing actions, procedures, timetables and other 
arrangements for the resettlement of persons to be affected by the Project;
(k)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(l)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and EEPCO pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred forty-six million one hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 146,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars three separate special deposit accounts (the Special Account A for EEPCO’s 
Parts of the Project, the Special Account B for Part B.1 and C.1 of the Project, and 
the Special Account C for Part B.2 of the Project) in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
setoff, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, each respective 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
Page  4
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 15 and November 15 commencing May 15, 2008 and ending November 15, 2037. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 15, 2017 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
Page  5
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.09. EEPCO is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions in respect 
of EEPCO’s Parts of the Project.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
Parts B.1, B.2 and C.1 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and 
technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for Parts B.1, B.2 and C.1 of the Project. 
(b)
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause EEPCO to carry out EEPCO’s Parts of the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and technical practices, and 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable EEPCO to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and, except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Parts B.1, B.2 and C.1 of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(d)
For the purposes of EEPCO’s Parts of the Project, the Borrower shall 
relend the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (2), 
(3), (4) (a), (5) (a) and (6) (a) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement to EEPCO under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and EEPCO (the EEPCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement) under terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Association. Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, such terms and conditions shall include the following:  
(i)
the principal amount of the subsidiary loan shall be repaid by 
EEPCO in Birr 
to the Borrower in equal semiannual installments over 
twenty-five years, 
including a grace period of five years; 
(ii)
the principal amount of the subsidiary loan repayable by EEPCO 
shall be the 
equivalent in Birr (determined as of the date, or respective 
dates, of 
repayment) of the value of the currency or currencies 
withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in respect of the 
above-mentioned categories; and
(iii)
interest shall be charged on the outstanding balance of the 
subsidiary loan at 
a rate of 7.19 % per annum. 
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Page  6
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of EEPCO’s Parts 
of the Project shall be carried out by EEPCO pursuant to Section 2.03 of the EEPCO 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the continued achievement of the objectives of Parts B.1, B.2 
and C.1 of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all action necessary or appropriate on its 
part to enable EEPCO to implement the Environmental Mitigation Plan and the 
Resettlement Plan, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or materially interfere with the implementation by EEPCO of each of the said 
plans. 
ARTICLE IV 
Other Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out Parts B.1, B.2 
and C.1 of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Accounts B and C for 
each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
Page  7
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower and the Association shall, from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views with regard to the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, including the Borrower's pricing policies and its plans in 
respect of the overall development of its power sector.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all action necessary or appropriate on its 
part to enable EEPCO to carry out its obligations under Sections 4.02 to 4.07 of the 
Project Agreement.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not, until the completion of the Project, extend to EEPCO any non-reimbursable 
financial assistance, provided, however, that the Borrower may: (i) extend to EEPCO a 
non-reimbursable financial assistance for the rehabilitation and expansion of its 
power generation, transmission and distribution systems specified in the Borrower’s 
1997-2006 investment program, and (ii) provide EEPCO with non-reimbursable financial 
contributions for the execution of social programs required to be carried by EEPCO on 
behalf of the Borrower.
Section 4.05. Until the completion of the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) 
ensure that  prices for electricity allow EEPCO, under conditions of efficient 
operation at reasonable levels of capacity utilization, to cover its operating costs 
including taxes, earn an adequate return on funds invested in them, meet its financial 
obligations and make a reasonable contribution to future investment for expansion of 
capacity; and (b) subject to the achievement of the objective in subparagraph (a) 
above, pass on the benefit of declines in the real costs of production to EEPCO’s 
customers, through reduction in prices in real terms.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall adopt, by November 30, 2001, an action plan, 
including a tariff escalation formula, in form and substance acceptable to the 
Association, for the implementation of the recommendations of the tariff study to be 
carried out under Part C.1 of the Project, and thereafter implement said action plan 
with due diligence and efficiency.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
EEPCO shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that EEPCO will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(d)
EEPCO-Regulation shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of EEPCO to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(e)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of EEPCO or for the suspension of 
Page  8
its operations.
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
EIB Loan 
shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the 
agreement providing therefor; or
(B)
such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under 
such agreement; and
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; 
(b)
any events specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and 
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the units referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and 
in paragraph 2 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, have each been established 
under terms and reference acceptable to the Association; and  
(b)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and EEPCO.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a)
the Project Agreement has been duly authorized by EEPCO, and is legally 
binding upon EEPCO in accordance with its terms; and 
(b)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized  by and is legally 
binding upon EEPCO in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Page  9
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance is designated as representative of 
the Borrower  for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
P.O. Box 1905
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Telex:
21147
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
By /s/ Sufian Ahmed 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  10
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
  98,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(2)
Equipment and
  20,000,000
100% of foreign
installation under
expenditures and
Part A.1 of the
85% of local
Project
expenditures
(3)
Vehicles and
   3,000,000
100% of foreign
materials under
expenditures and
Part A.1 of the
95% of local
Project
expenditures
(4)
Equipment, vehicles
100% of foreign
and materials
expenditures and 95%
of local expendi-
tures
(a) under Parts A.2, A.3,
     790,000
C.2, C.3, C.4 and C.5 of
the Project
(b) under Parts B.1 and
     600,000
C.1 of the Project
(c) under Part B.2 of
   1,340,000
the Project
(5)
Training
100%
(a) under Parts A,
     430,000
C.2, C.3, C.4 and
C.5 of the Project
(b) under Parts B.1
      40,000
and C.1 of the Project
(c) under Part B.2
     140,000
of the Project
(6)
Consultants' services
100%
(a) under Parts A,
   5,260,000
C.2, C.3, C.4 and
C.5 of the Project
(b) under Parts B.1
     460,000
and C.1 of the Project
(c) under Part B.2 
   1,370,000
of the Project
(7)
Refunding of Project
     440,000
Amount due pursuant 
to
Preparation Advance
Section 2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
  14,230,000
Page  11
TOTAL
 146,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower, for expenditures for: (a) goods 
and works under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and (b) consultants' 
services under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for consulting firms and 
$50,000 for individual consultants. 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to increase the efficiency, and sustainability 
of the Borrower’s power sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Gilgel Gibe Hydroelectric Station and Transmission System 
1.
Construction of a hydroelectric power station, consisting of an underground 
powerhouse with three units of 61.3 MW each, on the Gilgel Gibe river, and 
rehabilitation and upgrading of associated power transmission lines and substations, 
through the carrying out of civil works, acquisition and installation of equipment, 
and provision of technical advisory services and training.
2.
Improving the efficiency and safety of EEPCO’s power generation operations 
through the acquisition of equipment, provision of technical advisory services and 
training for: (i) the establishment and operation of a dam safety unit within EEPCO, 
(ii) the establishment of a maintenance system for the Gilgel Gibe power plant and 
transmission system, and (iii) the establishment of a system to optimize the use of 
EEPCO’s dam reservoirs. 
3.
Acquisition of equipment and provision of technical advisory services for the 
implementation of: (a) a plan for the resettlement of persons to be affected by Part 
A.1 of the Project, and (b) a plan designed to mitigate the Project’s potential 
adverse effect on the environment.
Part B: 
Rural Energy  
1.
Implementation of a program aimed at, inter alia, strengthening the Borrower’s 
capacity in rural energy applied research, through acquisition of equipment, provision 
of technical advisory services and training.  
2.
Carrying out an inventory of woody biomass resources in the Borrower’s 
territory, through acquisition of equipment, provision of technical advisory services 
and training.
Page  12
Part C:
Institutional Development 
1.
Preparation of an appropriate legal and regulatory framework for the Borrower’s 
power sector, aimed at improving the efficiency of the sector and promoting private 
sector investment therein, including the carrying out of a tariff study, through 
provision of technical advisory services, and training. 
2.
Implementation of a restructuring program designed to strengthen the 
administrative, financial, accounting, technical and commercial capacities of EEPCO 
and to increase its autonomy and accountability, through acquisition of computer 
hardware and software, and provision of technical advisory services and training. 
3.
Updating of EEPCO’s power expansion plan and improving its operations planning, 
through acquisition of equipment, and provision of technical advisory services. 
4.
Preparation and implementation of a human resource development program for 
EEPCO. 
5.
Carrying out an evaluation of EEPCO’s fixed assets, through provision of 
technical advisory services. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I. Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996  (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Prequalification 
Bidders for works required under Part A of the Project for the construction of 
the power tunnel, and the dam shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic 
contractors 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(d)
Notification and Advertising 
Page  13
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures. 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $350,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $760,000 equivalent, may be procured from IASPO in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract for works, and each contract for goods estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II. Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
Page  14
The short list of consultants for services under Part B of the Project, estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants. 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services under Part C.1 of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services under Parts C of the Project which are estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000, or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
Page  15
1.
MME shall be responsible for the implementation of Parts B.1 and C.1 of the 
Project, and MOA shall be responsible for the implementation of Part B.2 of the 
Project.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) carry 
out Parts B.1, B.2 and C.1 of the Project in accordance with the Borrower’s Project 
Implementation Plan; and (ii) not permit the said plan, or any provision thereof, to 
be waived or amended in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of said Parts of the Project.
3.
The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter maintain until the completion of 
the Project: (i) a unit, within MME, with terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, to be responsible for the coordination of the implementation of Parts B.1 
and C.1 of the Project; and (ii) a unit, within MOA, with terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association, to be responsible for the coordination of the 
implementation of Part B.2 of the Project. Said units shall be headed by coordinators 
whose qualifications and experience shall be at all times satisfactory to the 
Association, and shall consist of suitably qualified staff in adequate numbers.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators, satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of Parts B.1, B.2. and C.1 of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
not later than October 31 of each year, commencing on October 31, 1998, 
undertake, in conjunction with the Association and EEPCO, a joint annual review on all 
matters relating to the progress of the Project and, in particular the progress 
achieved by the Borrower and EEPCO during the current fiscal year, having regard to 
the monitoring indicators referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph;
(c)
not later than one month prior to each annual review, furnish to the 
Association, for its comments, a report in such detail as  the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the progress of the Project; and 
(d)
following each annual review, act promptly and diligently in order to 
take, or assist EEPCO in taking, any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any 
shortcoming identified in the implementation of the Project, or to implement, or 
assist EEPCO in implementing, such measures as may have been agreed upon between the 
parties in furtherance of the objective of the Project. 
5.
Midterm Review
(a)
On or about thirty months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall 
carry out, jointly with the Association and EEPCO, a midterm review of the progress 
made in carrying out the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review).
The Midterm Review shall cover, amongst other things:
-
levels and structure of EEPCO’s electricity tariffs;
-
power sector reforms, including the legal and regulatory 
framework;
-
implementation of the Environmental Mitigation Plan and the
Resettlement Plan; 
-
the financial condition of EEPCO; and 
-
the status of the implementation of EEPCO’s restructuring program.
(b)
The Borrower shall, at least four weeks prior to the Midterm Review, 
furnish to the Association a separate report describing the status of implementation 
of each component of the Project and a summary report of Project implementation 
generally.
(c)
The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks after the Midterm Review, 
Page  16
prepare an action program, acceptable to the Association, for the further 
implementation of the Project having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, 
thereafter, implement, and cause EEPCO to implement, such action program.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means, in the case of Special Account A 
Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) (a), (5) (a) and (6) (a) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; in the case of Special Account B, 
Categories (4) (b), (5) (b) and (6) (b) set forth in said table, and in the case of 
Special Account C, Categories (4) (c), (5) (c) and (6) (c) set forth in said table; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule, equivalent, in the case of Special Account A to $1,000,000; in the case 
of Special Account B to $100,000, and in the case of Special Account C to $100,000; 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation for Special Account A shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account allocated to 
Categories  (1), (2), (3), (4) (a), (5) (a) and (6) (a) plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions for EEPCO’s Parts of the Project shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 4,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
respective Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of, each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the respective 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association 
from the 
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other 
evidence. 
Page  17
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Parts of the Project related to 
that Special Account, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation for that Special Account. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
for that Special Account shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
