Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIL USE ONLY
RapurtNo. 11706
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 1218-BUR)
MARCH 5, 1993
Agriculture Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
BND            Banque Nationale de Developpement
BOAD           Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement
West African Development Bank
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique
(French Aid Agency)
CDR            Comite pour la Defense de la Revolution
(Committee for the Defense of the Revolution)
CNCA           Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
(National Agricultural Credit Bank)
CRPA            Centre Regional pour la Promotion Agropastorale
(Regional Agropastoral Promotion Center)
DSA             Direction des Services Agricoles
(Agricultural Services Department)
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FAER           Fonds d'Assistance a l'Equipement Rural
(Rural Equipment Assistance Fund)
FAO/CP         Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
FDR            Fonds de Developpement Rural
(Rural Development Fund)
FEER           Fonds de l'Eau et de l'Equipement Rural
(Water and Rural Equipment Fund)
HER            Direction de l'Hydraulique et de 1'Equipement Rural
(Rural Water Supply and Engineering Department)
IDA            International Development Association
MAE            Ministere de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage
(Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock)
MDR            Ministere du Developpement Rural
(Ministry of Rural Development)
ME             Minist6re de l'Eau
(Ministry of Water)
MQP            Ministere de la Question Paysanne
(Ministry of Peasants Affairs)
PCR            Project Completion Report
ORD            Organisation R6gionale de Developpement
(Development Regional Organization)
RAF            Loi sur la Reorganisation Agraire et Fonciere
Agrarian and Land Tenure Reorganization Law
R&D            Research and Development
RDF            Rural Development Fund
SAED           Societe Africaine d'Etudes et de Developpement
(African Company for Development and Studies)
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
TPR            Tribunal PopuLaire de la Revolution
(Popular Tribunal of the Revolution)
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
March 5, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND ThE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Burkina Faso
Third Rural Development Fund Project (Credit 121 8-BUR)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on
Burkina Faso Third Rural Development Fund Project (Credit 1218-BUR)" prepared by
the Africa Regional Office. The Borrower contributed Part II.
The project aimed at improving rural infrastructure and increasing
agriculture production through small-scale works and support services. It also aimed
at enhancing the institutional capacity for funding and managing rural investments.
While it achieved significant results, the production impact was short-lived and the
project failed to develop a reliable and cost-effective capability for managing small-
scale rural investments. The project was implemented in a turbulent administrative
environment. The Rural Development Fund (RDF), a financial intermediary, had to
take on technical tasks because of severe weaknesses in line agencies and poor
coordination.  On balance, the project is rated as marginally satisfactory, its
sustainability as uncertain and the institutional impact as partial.
The Project Completion Report is of high quality. An immediate audit of
the third project is not intended. The two predecessor projects were audited.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 1218-BUR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .
Evaluation Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity .1..  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
B.    Project Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           1
C.    Project Objectives & Description . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
D.    Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
E.    Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
F.    Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
G.    Project Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
H.    Project Impact and Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . .   10
I.    Bank Performance ...................                              12
J.    Borrower Performance .................                           .    12
K.    Project Relationship .................   .    13
L.    Consultancy Services .................   .    13
M.    Project Documentation and Data . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . .   1S
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Credits .17
2. Project Timetable .19
3. Disbursement of Credit .20
4. Project Implementation .21
5.   Project Costs & Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
6. Project Results.                                                    25
7. Status of Covenants .27
8. Use of Bank Resources .28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BURKINA FASO
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 1218-BUR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Rural
Development Fund Project in Burkina Faso, for which credit 1218-BUR in the
amount of SDR 13.6 million was approved on March 30, 1982. The Credit became
effective on May 4, 1983 and was closed on April 30, 1990, after three years
of extension. The last disbursement was on April 25, 1990 and the Credit was
fully disbursed.
The PCR was prepared by the Agricultural Operations Division of the Sahel
Department, Africa Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and
the Borrower (Part II).
The  PCR  is  based,  inter  alia,  on the  Staff  Appraisal  Report,  the
Development Credit Agreement, Supervision Reports, Progress Reports by the
Borrower, the first four year report prepared by the Borrower in July 1987,
the external evaluation report prepared in March 1988, a Summary technical
Synthesis prepared by the Borrower in March 1991, correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda and interviews with the
executing agency officials who were associated with the Project.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
(CREDIT 1218-BUR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
obiectives
1.       The project -a follow-up to two quite successful Rural Development
Fund projects- aimed at developing a reliable and cost-effective capability
for managing small-scale rural investments. The specific sub-project types
identified were to increase crop and fuelwood production, improve the
availability of safe drinking water for rural communities and increase the
value of agriculture produce through processing and better storage.
2.       Project components were:
(i)   land development works aiming at limiting soil erosion and water
runoff and providing control of flooding and, in some specific
cases, irrigation;
(ii)   support to research, extension and training;
(iii)   credit to farmers or villagers for productive investments;
(iv)   village cereal Banks and storage facilities;
(v)   tree plantations to protect anti-soil erosion works and produce
wood, fodder and fruits, and
(vi)   village water supplies for human and animal consumption.
3.       The project was cofinanced by the Dutch Government and the West
African Development Bank (BOAD). FAO provided technical assistance.
Implementation Experience
4.       The project was implemented during a turbulent period in Burkina's
history, which saw fundamental changes in institutions and policies and,
towards the end of the period, growing economic problems and the launching of
an adjustment  program.    Major  changes and events which  affected   and
disrupted project implementation were as follows:
- The 1983 Revolution, the aftermath of which gave rise to intense scrutiny
of civil servants, suspected -or accused- of working against the interests
of the people.   Popular Tribunals of the Revolution were established,
creating a climate of fear among civil servants, including those linked to
the project.
- Frequent government reshuffles and changes in the structure of ministries
and other government service structures.
- Government issuance of a new land tenure law (RAF) establishing that all
land belonged to the State and no land could be owned privately. This law
discouraged people from making any long term investment in land.



- iv -
- Transfer of the Project implementing agency, the Rural Development Fund
(FDR), to a different ministry and its merger with the Rural Equipment
Assistance Fund (FAER) to create the Water and Rural Equipment Fund
(FEER).
- Dissolution of one of the key executing central agencies, the Rural Water
Supply and Engineering Department (HER).
- Redefinition of the mandate and status of the Regional Development
Organizations (ORD), responsible for the execution of some components of
the Project and providing technical support. As they became Regional Agro-
Pastoral Promotion Centers (CRPA) with administrative status, the ORDs
lost their autonomy and their commercial status.
-  Increasing involvement of FDR-FEER in technical matters and in project
execution, a major shift in its mandate.
Results
5.       FDR,  HER and the ORDs were identified at appraisal as the key
implementing agencies. with the dissolution of HER and the change in the ORD
mandate, FDR-FEER found itself assuming also the technical functions
(execution and supervision) initially assigned to other responsible executing
agencies. Because it did not have a reliable capability in these areas, FDR-
FEER had to abandon operations such as irrigation.
6.       As a result of the project, crop production yields increased, in
most cases, during the first two years but declined subsequently; the
performance of tree plantations remained very low; the supply of safe
drinking water benefited hundreds of communities; the processing and storage
facilities  for  cereal  production,  though  very  much  in  demand  by  the
community, faced management and maintenance problems, and credit repayment
rates were low.
(i)      Under the land Development component,  the project supported the
following developments: for the anti-erosion measures sub-component,
over  58,000  ha,  nearly  300% of the  area targeted;  for simple
management of bottomlands, 677 ha or 107% of the area targeted; for
the improvement of existing bottomland developments and the small
scale irrigation sub-components, 19% and 14% respectively of the
targeted objectives, mainly as a consequence of the closing down of
HER.  As  a result  of  these  operations,  crop  yields  increased
significantly the first two years, but started declining for a
series of reasons. The earth bunds technique utilized for the anti-
erosion measures was found inadequate as bunds had a very short life
span. These were later replaced by stone bunds which did not require
heavy machinery, had a longer life span and needed less maintenance.
In the bottomlands and the irrigated areas, decline in yields was
mainly due to the limited or non-use of additional production inputs
such as fertilizers or improved seeds.
(ii)     Support services such as training and extension were provided at a
rate, in person-days, above the targeted objectives: training of
extension agents (107%), extension (105%), workshops (181%), and
training  of  tractor  drivers   (128%).         On-farm  trials  and
demonstration plots (applied research) were established at over 201
sites. In addition, literacy courses -not planned for under the
project- were organized.
(iii)    Rural credit was made available for the acquisition of grain mills,
animal drawn implements and rice dehullers. The number of units
actually financed through the credit represented 63%, 18% and 0%
respectively of the targeted figures. The demand for grain mills
was high but poor management and maintenance, and low credit



repayment rates forced the project to down size the operation.
Except for the cotton area, credit granted for animal drawn
implements was low, as farmers could not finance the initial down
payment. With regard to the rice dehullers, there was no interest
from the community for such equipment.  A separate line of credit
was set aside to promote the establishment of animal drawn implement
production units but could not be utilized as the agency designated
to administer the funds, FAER, could not meet the conditions
(restructuring) requested.
(iv)     The program for the construction of cereal banks was fully completed
and provided the country with an additional storage capacity of
5,000 tons. Credit was provided to help village groups, in charge of
the cereal banks, acquire initial cereal stocks but the credit
repayment rate was low (68%). Cereal banks faced some difficulties
in financial and inventory management, stock disposal in the surplus
regions, and pest and disease control.
(v)      The construction of village supply stores was successfully completed
and credit was made available for the purchase of the initial stock
of goods. Poor financial and stock management resulted in very low
credit repayment rates.
(vi)     The tree plantation sub-components of the project were implemented
and the execution rates, in terms of hectares planted and in
comparison with the targeted areas, were between 103% to 423%. The
results in terms of survival and growth, however, were very low due
to the prevailing soil and climatic conditions.
(vii)    The rural water supply component of the project,  consisting of
digging new -or deepening existing- wells and drilling tubewells was
successfully completed, providing safe drinking water to hundreds of
thousands of people and to their livestock. The free supply of the
well pumps by the project was conditional on the community's
commitment to finance the maintenance and operating costs. Because
this condition could not be met, pumps were not provided.
7.       Although most of the targetted objectives were physically attained
(number of trees planted, wells dug, hectares of land treated, etc.) the
operations were generally not very successful from the beneficiaries' point
of view - the communities.   Many of the investments faced difficulties or
were abandoned after project financing was discontinued.
Sustainability
8.       The question of sustainability must be addressed at two levels: (a)
the sustainability of FDR-FEER as "a reliable, cost-effective capability for
managing small-scale rural investments" as this was defined as the main
objective of the Project, or (b) the sustainability of the investments
financed by FDR-FEER, namely the small-scale rural investments as such.
Sustainability at the level of FDR-FEER is basically irrelevant if most of
the investments it was financing are not sustainable, as it was in fact the
case under the Project. Moreover, many of these investments were subsidized.
Of the total project disbursements, credit to rural communities represented
only three percent. The rest constituted subsidized costs for investments,
support services and administration. Even for the small amount on-lent, the
credit repayment rates were low. The project relied, therefore, heavily on
grants. In addition the actual costs of FDR-FEER (CFAF1,887 million or 21%
of total costs) were too high, and exceeded appraisal estimates (CFAF552.2
million or 9% of total costs). Long-term sustainability was therefore not
achieved under this project, with a few exceptions such as the stone bunding
operations.



- vi -
9.       At the time of appraisal,  economic rates of return  (ERR) were
estimated for some investment components. These were: the Erosion Control
Measures (13%), the Simple Management of Bottomlands (60%), the Improved
Management  of  existing  Bottomland  Developments  (12%),  the  Small-Scale
Irrigation (12%), and the Tree Planting (15%). For the purpose of the PCR
exercise, the calculation of the Economic Rate of Return for Erosion Control
Measures was disregarded since the unsuccessful technique of earth bunds was
abandoned. The rate for the Simple Management of Bottomlands was 40%, and
11.3% for the Improved Management of existing Bottomland Developments. The
ERR for the Small-Scale Irrigation component was negative (-7.1%). However,
it excludes significant external benefits such as the development of
vegetable gardens by women, fishing activities, the use of water resources
for drinking purposes (human and animals), and for the production of mud
bricks. The rate of return for the Tree Planting component could not be
calculated as exploitation of these trees has yet to begin. However, it is
expected to be very low or even negative, based on actual survival rates and
the slow growth monitored.
10.      From the communities' point of view, investments with negative or
low economic rates of return can still be considered attractive if (i) the
investment  are  free  of  cost  because  they  are  subsidized,  (ii)  labor
constitutes their in-kind contribution and has in fact no real opportunity
cost, and (iii) there is an incremental production, acceptable enough for
them to justify their present level of input.   In other words when their
financial rate of return is positive.
Findings and Lessons Learned
11.      The multiple role played by FDR-FEER as financier, implementor and
supervisor hampered its performance. This, and the lack of proper internal
monitoring mechanisms allowed FRD-FEER, for example, to pursue its erosion
control program using inappropriate techniques (earth bunds) for five years
before switching to stone bunds.
12.      Another lesson learned was that the execution, on the other hand, of
technically and economically sound investments does not, by itself,
constitute a sufficient condition for success if a proper enabling
environment  is not created.   Problems not related to technologies were
encountered,  which  prevent  some operations  from meeting  success.    The
findings indicate a pressing need for:
- a clear and appropriate legal framework to provide security over land and
other natural resources, and guarantee community rights over the benefits
generated by the investments;
- an adequate training and extension to enable people to efficiently
maintain and manage the investments and maximize the results. Irrigated
crop production, for instance, cannot be sustainable if the scarce and
expensively obtained water resources are not utilized in a rational manner
and if traditional production systems are not improved (use of production
inputs such as fertilizers, pesticide and/or high yielding crop
varieties); and
- a technical back-up and efficient supervision, monitoring and feed-back
system to be set-up after the investment is realized, in order to identify
problems and take corrective measures when necessary.
13.      Emphasis  was  put,  at  appraisal  and  during  implementation  on
quantitative achievements (number of wells to be dug, trees to be planted or
mills to be installed). A better method would have been to establish, as a
principal objective, the development of sustainable rural production systems,
based on the most rational use of the existing renewable natural resources
and using a holistic approach. The specific actions to be carried out, would
then be decided at the implementation stage with the community members. As a



- vii -
the investments tended to be scattered and unrelated, with little cumulative
or synergetic effect.
14.      The basic responsibility for reporting, identifying problems, and
proposing solutions acceptable to IDA for projects, rightly must lie on the
Borrower.   While there is no overwhelming evidence to suggest that Bank
supervision missions under this project fell short in providing effective
problem identification and recommendations, the borrower's comments to the
effect that "supervision rarely went beyond observations and/or criticisms"
is a cause for concern. So is the comment that financial recommendations were
provided only in English. There are indications that, especially given the
complexity of the project, more supervision inputs and more focus on field
visits, would have been most useful.
15.      The concept of participation was applied in a restrictive way.
People were informed about possible investments the project could finance,
had some choice between these investments, and demonstrated their interest
and commitment by providing in-kind labor and, in some cases a financial
contribution. They were then trained on how to operate, maintain and replace
the investments. In practice, the decision making process remained rather
supply driven and top-down. A true active participation implies that the
beneficiaries occupy a central role in deciding what their needs and
priorities are in terms of financial and technical support.
16.      FDR-FEER became a large and centralized rural development agency,
too remote from the field to be able to make sound investment decisions at
the micro level. Such large institutions have a tendency to become
bureaucratic and their operating costs too high. The presence of
decentralized, local, relatively autonomous services is essential for good
project implementation.
17.      The Economic rates of return as defined and calculated in the
Appraisal Report for various components, do not fully reflect the
significance of this type of projects for the rural communities. To be fully
reflective, cost-benefit calculations should be made, based on a variety of
point of views (such as the Government, the collective, the targeted
communities and, more importantly, the individual beneficiary). Furthermore,
there are external benefits that are difficult to accurately measure and
qualitative results that are not measurable.
18.      With  respect  to technical  assistance,  the  lesson  is that  the
presence of a large group of expatriate experts stifles the initiative of
national project staff and failure to designate local counterparts undermines
the anticipated transfer of knowledge and skills.
19.      The lessons on policy, technology and institutional issues learned
through this project, and described above, were instrumental for the design
and development of a new series of more promising projects in the Sahel, such
as the Burkina-Environmental Management Project and the Mali-Natural
Resources Management Project, for which credits were approved by the Bank in
FY91 and FY92 respectively. A Niger-Natural Resources Management Project is
currently under preparation.






PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
Name:              Third Rural Development Fund Project
Credit no.:        1218-BUR
RVP Unit:          Africa Region, Country Department V
Country:           Burkina Faso
Sector:            Agriculture
Subsector:         Rural Development
B. Project Background
1.      Sector Development Obiectives.  At the time the project was appraised
in 1981, Agricultural production accounted for about 45% of GDP and nearly 65%
of exports.   Fifty per cent of export revenues were earned from the sale of
cotton lint and oil seeds, while the export share for livestock and meat products
was decreasing. Production of coarse grain was sufficient in good rainfall years
but  deficits  were  foreseen  due  to  population  growth  trends.    The  urban
population's demand for rice was rising, and most of rice was being imported,
since irrigated production was lagging behind its potential due to several
constraints.
2.      The government's top priority at the time of project appraisal was to
achieve national self-sufficiency in food production translated into the
following proposed measures:
(a)  maintain,  and if possible improve, the productivity of rainfed crop
production through extension advice and inputs;
(b)  develop bottomland  agriculture  and  irrigated production  schemes to
counter the effects of insufficient and unreliable rainfall; and
(c)  promote migration to the under-populated southwest and specially the
Volta valleys where rainfall is adequate and reliable and soils more
fertile.
3.      The Bank provided financial support to three successive Rural Development
Fund projects --RDF, RDF II and RDF III-- for a total amount of USS27.6 million,
over a 17-year period between 1972 and 1990. The second and third projects were
also supported by loans from the West African Development Bank (BOAD) and Dutch
grants. In addition, the implementing agency, FDR-FEER, received grants from
Canada and the European Development Fund (FED) to finance other projects in the
country, and technical assistance from the French government and UNDP-FAO.
Earlier Projects
4.      Credit 317-UV in the amount of US$2.2 million for the first Rural
Development  Fund  project  (RDF)  was  approved  in June  1972  and  the  final
disbursement was made on June 23, 1977. The objective of RDF was to finance a
variety of small productive investments which, because of their size and
scattered locations, were otherwise not suitable for conventional Bank Group
lending. The project, which was conceived as the first experimental phase of a
longer program, was to consist of: (i) 500 wells to improve village water supply;
(ii) 700 small village storehouses for farm inputs; (iii) the development of
1,500 ha of bottomlands for rice cultivation; (iv) erosion control works on 1,000
ha to improve crop yields (sorghum, cotton, groundnuts); (v) 200 ha of small
irrigation schemes downstream of the existing dams, to produce rice; (vi) the
upgrading of 270 km of feeder roads; and (vii) a number of unidentified
investments. An essential point in investments selection was the interest of the
people concerned, expressed through their willingness to provide free labor for
investments, implementation, subsequent operations, and maintenance.



5.      Concentrating on the central plateau, Credit 640-UV for the Second Rural
Development Fund Project (RDF II), in the amount of US$9.4 million was approved
in May 1976 and financed the same type of components and investments as under the
first project with the exception of feeder roads.  In addition, it provided for
training and technical assistance to overcome staff constraints and financed
studies of development potential in adjacent areas. Other components included
agricultural credit and the creation of a maintenance brigade for the wells. The
project was to be executed over a five year period, but was extended by one year
as activities in the first, and partly the second, year were still financed under
RDF. Additional financing provided by Dutch Aid (DFL5.15 million equivalent to
about US$2.0 million) was to ensure that no substantial reduction of the work
program will be necessary in the last project year.
6.      According to the Staff Appraisal Report for the RDF III project, the
major lessons learned from the first Rural Development Fund project were: (a) the
need to strengthen staff in the technical and executing agencies (HER and ORDs);
(b) the problem of ensuring maintenance of assets created with RDF financing,
especially feeder roads; and (c) the absolute necessity for ensuring the
availability of credit to enable farmers to acquire complementary inputs and
equipment in the absence of which the full benefits of the land development
schemes could not be realized. Overall, however, the project was described in
the PPAR issued in September 1979 as a "highly innovative project which was
successful in implementing diversified and scattered subprojects". Beneficiaries
were estimated at some 230,000 people.
7.      The follow-up project,  RDF II,  incorporated the lessons of RDF.  It
continued with the sub-projects proved successful under its predecessor, included
elements which had been revealed to be essential (credit and strengthening of
staff of technical and executing agencies) and excluded feeder roads for which
a more competent national body had meanwhile been created, thus ensuring better
maintenance. Results, under RDF II, were generally satisfactory, especially for
the erosion control and water supply components. Credit, primarily medium-term
loans for animal traction and agricultural equipment, was a popular program
although repayment rates at farm level could not be determined.
8.      Poor results recorded for the two projects in bottomland development were
the result of: (a) land tenure problems, (b) the heaviness of bottomland soils
which made land preparation difficult, (c) poor design and quality of works; and
(d) an undeveloped marketing system for paddy. The major successes of these
earlier projects, however, were creating an efficient organizational tool for
appraising small productive rural investments, providing sound financial control
during their execution, and building up a capability for the monitoring of such
projects. The Third Rural Development Fund project (RDF III) was based on a full
utilization of these capabilities.
C.   Project Objectives and Description
9.      Project Obiectives.  The project aimed at completing the process pursued
under the preceding two projects, of developing a reliable and cost-effective
capability for managing small-scale rural investments. The specific sub-project
types identified were to increase crop and fuelwood productions, improve the
availability of safe drinking water for rural communities and increase the value
of agricultural produce through processing and better storage.
10.     Project Components.  The project included the following components:
(a) land development comprising: engineering design services, implementation
and supervision of a program of (i) anti-erosion bunds to protect about
20,000 ha of dry land farms, (ii) simple bunding on 640 ha bottomlands
to provide partial control of flooding, and construction of earth dams,
intake structures, spillways and flood protection dykes to provide for
complete control of flooding and supplementary irrigation on 240 ha of
existing bottomland developments, and (iii) small-scale irrigation works



-3-
to provide  full water control  irrigation  on 160 ha downstream of
existing reservoirs or from ponds and shallow wells;
(b)  support to ORDs consisting of training and providing initial funds for
the departments responsible for training of extension staff and farmers;
credit administration and input supply; and research and demonstration;
(c) credit (i) to farmers for the purchase of ox-drawn implements and oxen
to be administered by CNCA; (ii) to groups of farmers, to finance small
rice dehullers, small grain mills and initial stocks of cereals and
general merchandise for group-owned and operated village stores, to be
administered by RDF; and (iii) to the Rural Equipment Assistance Fund
(Fonds d'Assistance a l'Equipement Rural-FAER) to finance the purchase
of inputs required for the manufacturing of animal drawn implements;
(d)  villaqe storage sheds which would be used either to store inputs and
implements in which case they would be operated by ORD staff, or as
community-owned and operated stores for traded cereals (cereals bank)
or general merchandise;
(e)  tree plantations consisting of investments in 6 nurseries and about 400
ha of trees to provide wood, fruits, fodder and the equivalent of a
further 160 ha in trees to fix bunds on soil erosion sites;
(f) village water supplies consisting of the establishment of 60 new wells
and deepening of 200 existing wells; the drilling of 150 boreholes; a
provision for the equipment and operating funds for wells and boreholes
maintenance brigades; and a stock of spare parts for pumps which would
be sold for cash to villagers; and
(g)  proiect management costs consisting of a headquarters building for RDF
and other costs associated with managing the investment program outlined
above.
(h) The project was also to provide funds for the financing of other small-
scale rural projects which would be identified in the course of project
execution. Such small projects would be selected using substantially
the same criteria of technical and economic feasibility as for the
already identified investments.
D.   Proiect Design and Organization
11.     The project was designed to be flexible in its implementation, thus the
different components were described in a broad manner. The choice of villages
or communities and the type and size of investments were to be decided at the
local level at the time of implementation. Emphasis was put at appraisal on the
selection criteria for the investment which were defined as follows:
(a) need as evidenced by a request from potential beneficiaries;
(b) effective demand as evidenced by a willingness on the part of such
beneficiaries to contribute in kind or in cash to the investment;
(c) technical feasibility which implies a design simple enough to be
realized by local farmers under the technical supervision of staff of
project executing agencies (ORD, HER, etc.);
(d) economic efficiency, which is deemed to be satisfied by a minimum
economic  rate  of  return  of  12%  on  productive  projects  and,  for
infrastructure investments by a design judged to produce the lowest cost
per beneficiary; and



- 4 -
(e) social acceptability, which requires RDF to examine proposed subprojects
taking into account the larger social context to ensure their acceptance
by target populations.
12.     The preparation cycle for the investment micro-projects at local level
was conceived in order to involve the beneficiaries in the identification and
design of these projects with the back-up of technical agencies at regional (ORD-
CRPA) and central (HER, FDR-FEER) level. Pre-appraisal was done by the ORDs and
appraisal by FDR-FEER. The latter deciding on the financing, supervising the
implementation and carrying out ex-post evaluations. The FDR-FEER Board approved
the annual program to be executed by the competent technical agencies and the
beneficiaries providing basic labor in kind.
13.     The organization  setup proposed  for the project  involved  several
agencies: at regional and local levels, FDR-FEER called on the existing
institutions (ORD, HER etc.) to execute project sub-components. Over the years
however, FDR-FEER began executing directly some of the tasks and studies in
addition  to  being  funding  institution  with  a  financing,  monitoring  and
supervision role. This prevented the institution from having an objective feed-
back on its own performance.
E.   Project Implementation
Modification in Project Implementation and Financing
14.     The Credit was approved by the Board on March 30, 1982 for an amount of
SDR 20.2 million, equivalent to USS 23.8 million. This amount included a Dutch
grant for an amount of SDR 6.6 million equivalent to US$7.8 million to be
administered by IDA. Soon after Board approval, the Dutch Government decided to
administer directly its funds and to use parallel financing.   This decision
delayed until October 28, 1982 the signature of the Credit which became effective
May  4,  1983.    These  delays  did  not,  however,  seriously  affect  project
implementation as the Dutch Government provided an interim grant to FDR.
Factors that Affected Proiect Implementation
15.     The 1983 Revolution led to a series of measures, some of which had an
adverse effect on all the government staff including the project staff. These
measures were:
(i) set-up of Committees for the Defense of the Revolution (CDR), creating
a tense working environment for civil servants suspected of exploiting
the workers;
(ii) attempts to "moralize" the civil service by establishing Popular
Tribunals of the Revolution  (TPR).   The fear created by these TPRs
paralyzed civil service employees who became too scared to do anything
without clearance from the highest level; and
(iii) suspension of allowances, including travel allowances, which hampered
the work of field staff whose regular interaction with the rural
communities was essential to project success. There were, at the same
time, budget cuts on means for transportation (field vehicles) and
office supplies.
16.     In 1984, the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) was dissolved and two
new ministries were created: the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAE) and
Ministry of Water (ME).  The Regional Development Organizations (ORDs), formerly
with the MDR, were put under the MAE and the FDR, also formerly with the MDR, was
attached to the ME. Because ORDs and FDR ended under different ministries, with
FDR in the ME controlling the funds, ODRs became less committed to the project
and were brought to focus more on agricultural extension at the time the Bank
started to support the agricultural extension program in Burkina.



17.     The government adopted in 1984 a new agrarian and land tenure law (RAF)
giving the ownership of all lands to the state. Although never fully implemented,
this law constituted a disincentive for long term investments in rural areas.
18.     In 1986, the Ministry for Peasants' Affairs (MQP) was created and later
renamed Ministry of Peasants' Cooperative Action (MACP). The Rural Water Supply
and Engineering Department (HER), in the Ministry of Water was abolished and part
of its activities were transferred to FDR, which was renamed Water and Rural
Equipment Fund (FEER) and put under the ME. The key role expected to be played
by HER in project implementation (to assure quality control for all interventions
related to water erosion control and water harvesting, collection, storage, and
distribution) could not be effectively assumed by FEER since it did not have the
necessary expertise. As a result, the quality of the work declined. In addition
FEER was granted a status of an Administrative Public Corporation (EPA) with much
less administrative and financial autonomy than FDR had as a Specific Public
Corporation (EPS).
19.     The Government took the decision in 1986 to abolish the ORDs but for
about one year the decision was not implemented and ORD staff remained employed
but not knowing what their future would be. Under these circumstances, little
work was done and project activities slowed down. In 1987 ORDs were re-baptized
Regional Centers for the Promotion of Agro-Pastoral Activities (CRPA) but lost
in the process their autonomy with regards to signing contracts with agencies
such as FEER. The CRPAs ceased to administer the Agricultural Credit at local
level.
F.   Pro-ect Results
20.     The project's original duration was four years with December 31, 1986
as completion date. The credit closing date was then extended to December 31,
1989, which allowed some of the project components to be completed beyond
appraisal estimates, although other components could not fully implemented.
Results are summarized below.
(a) Land Development
21.     Anti-Erosion Measures using contour bunds were carried out over a total
area of 58,251 ha (nearly 3 times the estimated area of 20,000 ha) at the cost
per ha of CFAF 61,274 (appraisal was CFAF 77082). The technique of earth bunds
was found inadequate as these were damaged by water erosion and animal stamping,
and became inefficient after three to five years while their expected life span,
at the time of appraisal, was 10 to 15 years.   The project staff was not
sufficiently trained for the proper design of these bunds; the grassing along the
bunds was not done and the works maintenance by the communities was neglected
because of the amount of labor required.  In addition, the farmers used to break
open the earth bunds themselves during good rainfall years to avoid waterlogging.
As an adverse effect, open bunds increased rill and gully erosion. Crop yields
increased by 60 to 80% (90 kg net in the North and 250 kg in the central zone)
the first year, but declined rapidly when the bunds started to deteriorate. After
five years, the yields were back to their initial level. From the beginning, the
implementing agency, FDR-FEER, had a tendency to put more emphasis on the
execution of physical investments and less on the impact of these investments.
The situation was partly corrected in 1987: earth bunds were replaced by stone
bunds that allowed water seepage, reduced waterlogging and flooding, and
controlled soil erosion. Leguminous trees (acacia) were planted on both sides
of the bunds and other soil conservation techniques were utilized.   Initial
results indicate that yields increased and remained stable over a longer period
of time ( 5 years). It is considered that stone bunds, if regularly maintained,
will last indefinitely. Precise data from project experiments with stone bunds
are not yet available.
22.     Management of Bottomlands was executed on a total area of 677 ha,
slightly larger than projected (640 ha) and at the cost of CFAF150,567/ha. Total



production during the first four years of the project, and over a total cropped
area of 392 ha attained 1837 tons of rice, 76 tons of sorghum and 1.1 tons of
soya. Gross yields for rice increased sharply from 0.3 to 1.3 t/ha during the
first two to three years, then declined progressively over the years (0.8 t/ha
in year-10) mainly due to soil fertility decline (no use of fertilizers) and
limited maintenance. The technique utilized (stone bunds) gave good results and
bunds had a long lasting effect. One source of disincentive, however, was the
very small size of individual plots allocated to each family, (0.09 ha) because
of a larger than expected demand from farmers.
23.     Improvement of Existing Bottomland Developments. This was carried out,
using more sophisticated techniques involving the construction of small dams of
50,000 to 500,000 m3 reservoir capacity.  The area developed (46 ha) was small
and represented only 19% of the appraisal estimates, as HER --designated during
appraisal for the execution and supervision of this component-- closed down.
Investment costs (CFAF574,152/ha) were lower than appraisal estimates. Gross
yields for rice, the main crop, attained 2 t/ha in the first production year but
declined slowly, mainly because of decline of soil fertility in the absence of
fertilizer to replenish soil nutrients. Over the first two campaigns (84-85 and
85-86), 125 tons of paddy rice and 9 tons of corn were produced. Given the
limited size of individual family plots, 0.05 to 0.1 ha, the value of the
incremental production per family was small. This production played, however, a
positive role in solving, locally, the food shortages that followed the 1984-85
drought. The life span of the works (small dams) is presently estimated at 15
years, although good maintenance is expected to expand that period.
24.     Small Scale Irrigation Works involving construction of dams similar to
the above but with larger water capacity, were originally planned over 160 ha
spread over 10 sites. This component suffered from the closure of HER and the
subsequent lack of technical back-up and supervision.  Only 23 ha or 14% of the
estimated area were developed.  Investment costs were CFAF 3.06 million per ha,
nearly 6 times higher than those of improved bottomlands, because of the larger
structures (dams) involved. As a result of better supply and control over water,
crop yields were higher (about 2.5 t/ha/year) but, as for the managed bottomland
areas, yields declined after the first year in the absence of fertilizers.
25.     Besides cereal production, bottomlands and irrigation works provided
additional benefits as they permitted the development of vegetable gardens
(mostly managed by women) and fishing activities. Irrigation made also water
available for humans and animals, and in some cases for the production of mud
bricks for housing.
2-6.    The management of Bottomlands and the Small Scale Irrigation Works
components were executed with the help of the communities, however, most of these
works were done on land belonging to community leaders, not on family or
community plots. There was therefore little incentive for people to participate
actively in the operation and maintain the investments. Even when works were
done on community land, people were cautious about investing much of their time
and efforts as there was no assurance that they would get their fair share of the
output. As per Section 3.04 of the Credit Agreement, the government was supposed
to transfer property titles to members of the community who participated in the
program, but this clause was not respected. The lack of security on land tenure
increased and extended to family holdings when, in 1984, the Agrarian and Land
Tenure Reform Law (RAF) was promulgated, stating that all land belonged to the
State. The law was never really implemented and it was amended to recognize land
rights to communities and individuals.
(b) Support to ORD Services
27.     Funds were made available under this component for training, applied
research and demonstration programs, and for administering rural credit funds.
28.     Training.    The  ORDs  (later CRPAs)  of Ouagadougou  and  Khaya  were
strengthened; offices were built or refurbished, audio-visual equipment and
vehicles acquired, and recurrent costs were financed by the Project funds.



ORD/CRPA extension agents were trained in order to provide better assistance to
farmers. A total of 11,075 person-days (pd) of training (appraisal estimate was
8550 pd) were organized for the extension agents who, in turn, provided training
and extension services to farmers in the form of (i) visits (7318 pd organized
for 7000 scheduled), (ii) workshops (2172 pd organized for 1200 scheduled), and
(iii) literacy courses (69612 pd organized). The latter, not scheduled at the
time of appraisal, was to enable rural groups to better manage cereal banks,
mills and other investments for which basic management and accounting skills were
required.   In addition,  tractor operators received 562 pd of training  (440
scheduled). A long-term intermediate technician training program, scheduled for
3 people, did not take place as no candidates were found. Training and Extension
had a positive effect on the quality of the work carried out by community
members, and the design, construction and maintenance of land management works
improved. Farmers also learned how to produce and use organic fertilizer more
efficiently and protect crops. The quality of this training was not uniform and
regular. Communication between farmers and government services were improved
through the program of visits.
29.     Applied Research and Demonstration.  The objective of this component was
to establish a link between Agriculture Research and Agriculture Extension
Services in order to develop and promote techniques suitable for sustainable
agricultural production and for natural resources management. On the basis of
recommendations provided by the Agricultural Research institutions, on-farm
trials were established with farmers' participation, on lands that were subject
to  anti-erosion  measures,  managed  bottomlands,  and  irrigated  sites.    The
principal techniques tested were the production and utilization of organic
fertilizer, use of local rock phosphate, tie-ridging, transplanting of rice and
use of improved varieties of rice, niebe and sorghum. A total of 201 small sites
(16 large sites originally planned) were established, spread over the five ORDs
of the Central Plateau where R&D units were created.   The project provided
financial support for vehicles purchase, travel costs and for the acquisition of
necessary inputs.  Field experiments and demonstrations were successful in soil
improvement technologies and in the use of organic fertilizer and phosphate at
anti-erosion  measures  sites.    The  bottomlands  experiments,  with  improved
varieties of rice produced higher yields but results were not conclusive because
of high rainfall variability.
(c) Credit
30.     The objective was to provide, through the National Agricultural Credit
Bank (CNCA), credits to farmers for the purchase of animal drawn Implements, rice
dehullers and grain mills, and for the acquisition of initial stocks for the
cereal banks and village stores.  Credits were also to be made available to the
Rural Equipment Assistance Fund (FAER) for the establishment of production or
assembling units for the animal drawn implements.
31.     Animal Drawn Implements.  By the end of 1989, CNCA provided credit for
the purchase of 1,479 animal drawn implements while the total scheduled was 8,800
scheduled. This low performance was due, the first year, to a slow start-up of
the credit program and, the subsequent years, to poor rainfall and to the
priority given by farmers to the use of the credit for additional purchases of
seeds. While the needs for animal traction were properly estimated at the time
of appraisal, farmers could not mobilize the funds required for the down payment
and could not fulfil the principal credit condition, to install a composting
unit. It was however found that the use of animal traction was more popular in
the cotton producing areas (cash crops).
32.     Credit Line for FAER.  The credit line for the Rural Equipment Assistance
Fund (FAER), later rebaptized CNEA, was never open as Government could not
provide the guarantee required in the Credit Agreement with regard to the
financial and organizational restructuring of FAER and its proper staffing.
33.     Rice Dehullers.   No credit was granted under this sub-component as no
interest was expressed for such equipment.



- 8 -
34.     Grain Mills.  The credits for grain mills were to benefit mainly women.
Delays occurred during the first year in the supply of equipment. At the end of
the third year, 100 mills, or 50% of the total number scheduled, were supplied
and installed. People paid to have their grain milled in order to offset the cost
of maintenance and repair and to renew the equipment. Mills operated without
major problems during the first and second year but, because a large number of
them was poorly run and maintained, and credit recovery was very low (34%), the
program was slowed down. At the time of completion, a total of 125 mills were
completed or 62.5 % of the appraisal estimate. Wherever people were properly
trained for equipment maintenance and financial management, mills were able to
operate in a sustainable manner. Freed from manual pounding, women could devote
more time to other productive (such as vegetable gardens) or family activities.
(d) Village Storage Facilities
35.     Seventy five village cereal banks or merchandise stores and thirty input
and equipment storage sheds were to be established in forty selected villages.
RDF was to finance the cost of building materials and the skilled labor for the
construction through grants, and the cost for acquiring the original stock of
cereals or general merchandise through credit. This program was very popular and
a total of 162 cereal banks or merchandise stores and 32 input and equipment
storage sheds were established. Cereal banks established had a total capacity
of 5000 tons. Credit recovery rate averaged 68% with very high variability (from
99% to 32%). These banks enabled communities to constitute food security stocks.
In addition, their presence in some villages made it possible for small farmers
to sell locally, and at a good price, while enabling the local consumer to find
a source of supply close-by, hence avoiding long journeys to the cities.
Merchandise stores made available to villagers and rural communities, essential
products at reasonable prices, on a non-profit basis. These stores were
unfortunately poorly managed, in terms of financial and stock management and many
had to close down.  No precise data was available on the number of stores still
in operation.
(e) Tree Plantations
36.     The need to promote rural tree plantations for fuel, construction timber
and soil protection was strongly stressed at the time of appraisal and the
volumes achieved exceeded appraisal estimates.  In total, 16 new nurseries were
established and four rehabilitated, producing 1.4 million seedlings between 1982
and 1989. These were utilized for the establishment of 1,392 ha of community and
farm woodlots, and 472 ha of erosion control plantations.  In addition, 529,000
seedlings were planted on farmers' lands representing the equivalent of another
846 ha. Compared to the appraisal estimates, this represents achievement rates
of 348%, 103% and 423% respectively.
37.     The results of these tree plantations were not very encouraging.  Trees
were planted on poor soils and heavy losses were recorded, also due to harsh
climatic conditions and lack of maintenance and protection.   Seedlings were
browsed by livestock or suffered from drought. In some cases (intercropping with
food crops), the survivors constituted a problem of competition for light and
water. Although fast growing species were utilized, the yields obtained (0.3 to
1 m3/ha/year) were low compared to the 5 m3/ha/year yields expected at appraisal
and were in fact similar to those obtained from the natural forest vegetation
existing in the area. Tree seedlings were supposed to be sold to farmers but
because of the meager results obtained, farmers were unwilling to pay, forcing
the project to distribute them for free.   No data is available on the exact
growth obtained from these plantations as trees have not reached their
exploitation age.
(f) Rural Water Supply
38.     The objective of this component at appraisal was to (i) dig 60 new wells,
(ii) deepen 200 existing wells, (iii) equip 175 with hand pumps and (iv) drill
and equip 150 boreholes.  In 1983 these objectives were modified as follows: 250
new wells to dig, 100 old wells to deepen. The hand pumps and boreholes programs



remained unchanged. While the purchase cost of the hand pumps was to be borne
by the project, the maintenance costs were to be met by the community.
39.     At the Credit closing date, a total of 196 new wells were dug and 115
existing ones deepened. All the 150 boreholes were drilled and equipped between
1986 and 1988, supplying water to 142 villages at an average flow of 2.2
m'/hour/borehole with a flow over 5m3 in 20% of the cases.  The digging of wells
and drilling of boreholes was successful as this was done on a contract basis by
efficient private or state firms (SAED), financed through project funds, with no
contribution expected from the community. Of the 175 planned, only three hand
pumps were installed on community wells as communities were not willing to pay
for the maintenance costs which implied an initial investment of CFAF 50,000 per
pump. This component contributed, however, to the supply of drinkable water to
hundreds of thousands of people (331,000 in 1986) who previously used water from
ponds and were subject to waterborne diseases. Water, readily available in the
village, reduced women's workload and provided extra water for them to raise
small farm animals and grow vegetable gardens. FEER indicated the occurrence of
sanitation problems near and around the water points and, in 1989, a separate
sanitation program was launched for 59 wells.
(g) Other Accomplishments
40.     Beekeeping.  The beekeeping program, identified after appraisal, aimed
at: installing 600 modern beehives in 3 years, training about 30 beekeepers to
manage the hives and organize the marketing of the honey. Each hive was expected
to produce 30 kg of honey per year.   Between 1983 and 1986, 295 hives were
installed in 13 villages in the provinces of Houet, Kenedougou and Comoe with the
participation of 95 beekeepers.  The July 87 project report from FEER (page 87,
para g-l) mentions that at the end of 1985, 50% of the hives were colonized by
bees and producing up to 20 kg honey per year sold at CFA 700 per kilo.  The
beekeepers had to reimburse the cost of the hive or CFA 14,850 (hive and base).
41.     Small Stock Raising Units.  The objective was to help individual farmers,
especially women, earn additional income by raising small animals on their own
farms. The units were to consist of 4 sows and one boar, 20 hens and 2 roosters,
or 10 sheep.   Forty-seven farmers obtained grants to build animal shelters,
credits (total of CFA 12.6 million) to purchase animals and feed, and technical
support and veterinary services.  Credit recovery rate was low (19%) as incomes
generated were lower than expected. Because of lack of technical back-up from
the livestock department, FDR was forced in 1985 to abandon this program for
which it had no expertise.
42.     Vegetable Gardens.  Twenty six small perimeters of about 1 ha each were
established between 1983 and 1988 in bottomland areas where water was available
from shallow wells.  The main vegetables grown were cabbage, onion, carrots and
potatoes.  The July 87 report indicated low yields (8 to 12 tons/ha), due to
shortages of irrigation water, late seed supply and farmers' insufficient
experience in vegetable gardens.
43.     Village infrastructure.  Acute need for basic facilities in many villages
made it necessary for the project to provide financial support for the
construction of 10 village stores, 17 schools, 6 houses for teachers, one
maternity and one medical center.
44.     Extension Services.  A decision was made in 1985 to help the province
of Yatenga reorganize its extension program and test the Training and Visit
system promoted by the Bank. Financial support was provided for the training of
extension agents and for field operations in the areas of erosion control and
compost production. Erosion control measures were carried out over an area of
1,048 ha and 1514 compost pits were built. The effect of the erosion control
measures on crop yields was very positive as these yields doubled in two years.
This test program, which was not identified at the time of appraisal, took place
between 1985 and 1987.  Further extension operations were taken over by the IDA
financed Agricultural Services Project that started in 1989.



- 10 -
G. Project Costs and Financing
45.     Total  project  cost  was  estimated  at  appraisal  at CFAF7.8  billion
equivalent to US$28.9 million at the rate of CFAF270 per USS at the time of
appraisal. The actual project expenditures at the time of credit closing were
CFAF9.128 billion equivalent to US$26.1 million with an average exchange rate of
349 for the 82-89 period.   IDA's contribution, estimated at SDR13.6 million
(US$16.0 million) at appraisal, was fully disbursed. The Dutch contribution of
DFL20 million, equivalent to US$7.8 million or SDR6.6 million (CFAF2.106 billion)
at the time of appraisal, was partly disbursed (CFAF1.739 billion) and the BOAD
loan for an amount of CFAF1.0 billion equivalent to US$3.7 million was fully
disbursed.   In addition the Government contributed an amount of CFAF 0.388
billion (appraisal estimates were CFAF0.378 million). Higher exchange rates for
the SDR during project implementation provided the borrower with a larger CFAF
mass of money and a three-year credit extension period, and allowed FDR-FEER to
achieve larger targets.
H. Project Impact and Sustainability
46.     Project investment and operating costs were largely financed with donor
grants and loans with limited government funding (5%). At appraisal, the Credit
component represented only 15% of the estimated costs (credits to community
members  individuals and groups).   The largest share of the costs went for
subsidized investments and operating and management costs. In terms of actual
expenditures, the Credit component represented as little as 3% of the total. In
addition, credit repayment rates were very low: 17% for the Animal Drawn
Implements component and 60% for the other components of the credit.
47.     The Project results, in terms of direct physical achievements such as
number of trees planted or wells dug, were generally significant and in many
cases higher than appraisal estimates. A few, however, could not be attained,
particularly when greater community involvement and financial participation were
called for.   However,  when we try to determine whether these investments,
successfully implemented, had a positive impact on the targetted beneficiaries
in terms of significant increase in crop yields or rural income, or in terms of
improving the general living conditions of the rural communities, the findings
are less bright. As described in earlier paragraphs:
(a) Anti Erosion Measures gave successful but short-lived results, as the
earth  bunds  were  destroyed  after  five  years.  Use  of  additional
production inputs by farmers was marginal and erratic rainfall patterns
had a negative effect on the results;
(b) Management of Bottomlands was popular, but the size of the family plots
were so small that the impact, in terms of additional income per family,
was not significant. Limited use of fertilizers and improved seeds and
poor maintenance of the works caused the yields to decline after a first
good year or two;
(c) Animal Drawn Implements program was abandoned as people could not
reimburse the credit.   Credit repayment rate was higher with farmers
growing cash crops, like those in the cotton area;
(d) Efficient management and maintenance of grain mills was often lacking,
to the extent that many units stopped operating;
(e) Cereal Banks and Merchandise Stores were very popular, but in several
cases their management by community members was so poor that most of
them closed down;
(f) Tree Planting at the village level did not give the results that would
have encouraged people to pay for more seedlings and to protect and
maintain the plantations; and



- 11 -
(g) Rural Water Supply received unanimous approval from the communities but
their financial contribution for the maintenance of the wells and the
pumps could not be always obtained.
48.     In terms of sustainability being measured at the sub-components level
(erosion control works, tree planting, grain mills construction, etc.), we can
conclude that most operations were not sustainable.
49.     In economic terms, rates of return (ERR) calculated at the time of
appraisal for the four Land Development subcomponents --Erosion Control Measures,
Simple Bottomlands Management, Improved Bottomland Management, and Irrigation--
and for the Tree Plantations component were estimated at 13%, 60%, 12%, 12% and
15% respectively.
50.     Based on the data presently available and on reasonable projections (see
Part III, section 6 (a) of the PCR), the following Economic Rates of Return were
obtained:
-    Erosion Control Measures using earth bunds and traditional cultivation
techniques: not applicable as these unsuitable techniques were
abandoned.
-    Management of Bottomlands using simple bunds:           40.0%
(0.12% of total project costs)
-    Improvement of Existing Bottomland Developments:    11.3%
(0.27% of total project costs)
-    Small Scale Irrigation Works:                           -7.1%
(0.7% of total project costs)
-    The ERR for Forestry Plantations for wood and fuelwood production could
not be determined as trees have not yet been harvested. However, the ERR
is not expected to be positive due to the high mortality rate recorded
and to the very slow growth of the surviving trees.
51.     The main objective of the project was to develop a reliable and cost-
effective capability for managing small-scale rural investments. It can be said
that FDR-FEER succeeded in being perceived as a performing agency, capable of
mobilizing all the services to implement complex programs and disburse funds
rapidly.   Its cost-effectiveness becomes however questionable when project
management costs reach 21% of the Project total costs and when final outputs are
taken into consideration.  Because of its focus on achieving project's physical
goals and faced with the inefficiency of some of the existing executing agencies,
FDR-FEER moved progressively away from its principal role as a funding agency or
a bank to become an executing agency. By doing so, FDR-FEER grew too big,
embracing too many functions, became a less manageable and very centralized
organization (FDR-FEER had no regional offices).  Sustainability did not appear
to be the institution's main priority as long as its sources of funding were
assured. It is important however to stress the fact that, at that time, no better
alternative existed.
52.     The approach adopted by the project remained top down, although the
conclusion drawn from FDR 1 and FDR II was that communities must be involved, a
message that had then been repeatedly conveyed by the Borrower and the
implementing  agency  itself.    It  seems  that  community  participation  was
interpreted narrowly as to communities being "consulted", and "associated" with
the implementation of project components, essentially by providing unpaid labor
and undertaking training to carry out maintenance and management tasks. In fact,
they were not fully part of the decision making process.  At best, they were
given a menu of investments to choose from.
53.     The project was designed to use a multidisciplinary approach. Several
operations were therefore launched (anti-erosion measures, wells, grain mills,
seed banks, beekeeping, etc.) but independently from each other and in an



- 12 -
unrelated manner. As a result, project interventions were rather scattered,
focussing on themes across the region (water supply or beekeeping programs for
example) rather than based on a holistic approach to natural resources management
or to community development, where communities are seen as the central point and
where all actions are inter-related and complementary, and converging towards a
common goal.
I. Bank Performance
54.     Project Preoaration and Appraisal.  Preparation started in August 1979
and was undertaken by RDF staff under the supervision of the Regional Mission in
West Africa (RMWA).  It was based on a careful analysis of, and lessons learned
from, the two previous RDF projects and other related projects supported by the
Bank in Burkina Faso. Successive drafts of the Preparation Report were reviewed
by RMWA staff during the fall of 1980 and the full report, incorporating most of
the suggestions, was completed before the end of 1980.  An Appraisal mission
visited the country in March - April 1981.  It was composed of four Bank staff,
two West African Development Bank (BOAD) staff, two Dutch government
representatives and one consultant. The Staff Appraisal Report and the 8 working
papers constituted a solid base for all subsequent work carried out.
55.     Supervision.  The Bank fielded 14 supervision missions over a period of
6.5  years,  representing  an  average  of  two  to  three  missions  per  year.
Supervision reports were carefully prepared and follow up action carried out.
There was however insufficient supervision of the project's financial management
and accounting aspects.   A total of 95.7 staff weeks were spent on project
supervision,  with 88 days in the field (missions).   Considering the project
complexity, supervision missions should have been carried out by multi-
disciplinary teams with a large part of these missions devoted to field
supervision. Joint donor supervision was very difficult to achieve, particularly
with the BOAD.
J. Borrower Performance
56.     During the first year of the project, FDR/FEER was consistently rated
by the supervision missions as a performing institution, capable of mobilizing
the different services involved in the project. It had an important technical
assistance staff, particularly at the start-up of the project (9 expatriates in
1983), financed by the Dutch and French cooperation and FAO/UNDP.
57.     Surviving political turmoil, ministerial changes and restructuring, FDR-
FEER operated successively under the umbrella of the National Development Bank
(BND), the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) and the Ministry of Water (ME).
Under the BND it was an autonomous financial institution responsible for
coordinating, mobilizing and managing funds to finance small rural operations.
After being taken out of the BND, the institution became increasingly involved
in technical activities for which it had no technical capabilities or competent
staff. The obvious reasons for such changes in the institution's focus were FDR's
transfer to a technical ministry (MDR then ME), the merging of FDR with another
institution (FAER), the closing down of a technical agency (HER), and FDR's
decision to take over the execution of some of the tasks that could not be
handled efficiently by ailing technical services and executing agencies.
58.     On the human resources side, FDR-FEER suffered from lack of specialized
technical staff to supervise important components (such as anti-erosion measures
and  investments  geared  towards  the  promotion  of  women),  technical  staff
overburdened by administrative responsibilities, absence of national counterparts
to the foreign technical assistants (FAO/UNDP experts left without having trained
local staff to take over) and high staff turnover due to lack of incentives
(staff recruited on contractual basis at low civil service salaries).
59.     On the financial side, lengthy disbursement procedures delayed project
implementation. While IDA financing and financing procedure were clearly defined,
the approval process of, and type of expenses to be covered by, the Dutch



- 13 -
financing were unclear and raised a series of problems. In addition, FDA-FEER had
poor financial management and accounting systems and had long delays in producing
financial reports and other essential financial documents. This was repeatedly
highlighted in financial audit reports. The stock inventory was also poorly
managed. It is only in 1988 that the accounting system was efficiently organized
and computerized.
60.     FDR-FEER produced detailed technical reports during the first four years
of the project (82-86) and an extensive, though unclear, final report in July 87
(the original completion date of the project was December 31, 1986). The IDA
credit was extended for 3 more years (86-89), however no final technical report
was produced at the end of the extension period, in spite of repeated requests
from the Bank.  In 1991, a sketchy summary of FDR III technical achievements was
submitted to the Bank and financial reports (annual and final) for the 87-90
period are still missing. The uncooperative attitude of FEER during the last
years of the credit coincides with the time the Bank announced it would not
support a fourth FDR project and insisted on FEER focusing on its original
mandate (under FDR), giving up its current role as technical and executing
agency, and reducing its staff drastically.
K. Project Relationshio
61.     Bank staff and Borrower staff involved in the implementation of the
project had a very good professional relationship in spite of the difficult
situation that followed the 1983 political events. The situation began, however,
to cool down when the Bank decided in 1988 at the beginning of the extension
period not to consider a fourth RDF project (proposed by the Borrower as FEER I)
and recommended that FEER should return to its original mandate as a fund, and
dismantle  its heavily  staffed and centralized technical  services.   Bank's
decision was shared by the Dutch, French and German Governments and the EEC. FEER
relationship with other donors was fairly good until 1987.   At that point,
several key donors started raising questions about current approaches to rural
development and recognized the failure of centralized, top down, technology-
driven, rural development projects.  In other words it was a change of paradigm
to which FEER responded reluctantly. FEER's insistence - backed by ME and the
then Ministry of Planning and Cooperation - in maintaining a heavy handed role
in the implementation of NRM and rural development projects in the country
excluded the institution from being associated with the new generation of Natural
Resources Management and Terroir Management projects developed in Burkina with
the support of the Bank and the donors mentioned above. FEER was not associated
either to the National Environmental Management Project ("Projet de Gestion des
Terroirs") co-financed by Germany, Norway and France and IDA.
L. Consultancy Services
62.     Full-time  consultants  were  assigned to the project  under UNDP/FAO
technical assistance. Similarly, Dutch cooperation provided full-time technical
assistance.    In  addition,  short-term  consultants  were  utilized.    These
consultants and technical assistants could not, however, transfer their knowledge
and skills to nationals due to lack of local counter-part staff.
M. Project Documentation and Data
63.     The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was very well prepared, with detailed
annexes. Eight Working Papers were produced to guide project staff during the
implementation phase. The SAR was mainly   based on the Preparation Report,
produced by the staff of the implementing agency with the support of Bank staff,
and two other documents: "Subproject Appraisal Procedures" and "First Evaluation
Report on Land Development Schemes". Other documents available prior to the
appraisal were the SARs and Development credit Agreements (DCA) for RDF and ROF
II and all the special, annual and final reports related to these two projects.



- 14 -
64.     The SAR, Working Papers, and DCA constituted a very useful framework for
the Borrower and the bank for the implementation and supervision of the project.
The Borrower tried as much as possible to prepare technical and financial reports
reflecting the format of Bank's documents while trying at the same time to meet
other donors and government reporting requirements. As a result, reporting was
a difficult exercise for the borrower while the results achieved (in terms of
reporting format) did not necessarily meet each donor's specific requirements.
For the Bank, for example, comparison between appraisal estimates and actual
achievements, on the basis of data provided by the borrower, was very uneasy.
65.     Data relevant to the preparation of the PCR was very difficult to gather
and synthesize. The key document, the final report was never produced by the
Borrower, except for a very short and sketchy technical summary submitted by the
Borrower to IDA in March 1991, after repeated Bank requests. This report
summarizes the physical achievements of the project but contains no information
on project costs and project impact in terms of investments output or economic
benefits. It was also found to contain incorrect data.
66.     One of the two most useful documents for the preparation of the PCR was
the report dated July 1987 and produced by the implementing agency at the end of
the original four year period of project implementation, which was then extended
to seven years. Although not very well structured and lacking clarity, this
document contains an impressive amount of data on project's physical achievements
and costs. It covered, unfortunately, the period from project start, until
December 1986 only. The second useful document was the external audit report
prepared jointly by a team of donors and government representatives in March
1988. This latter report was based on the earlier one but was better structured
and more analytical and covered the same project period.



- 15 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
67.     Because of the way this project was designed, its implementation was
dependent on action by a group of donors, who contributed to it in varying
degrees.
Donors
68.     West African Development Bank (BOAD).  This institution's contribution
to the project was strictly limited to the component it financed, which still
awaits final evaluation. The fact that technical design work had not taken full
account of local conditions meant that major difficulties were encountered, with
a consequent adverse impact on the execution process.  The rigid nature of BOAD
procedures made it impossible to introduce the necessary rectifications. The
terms of the Agreement were scrupulously observed by BOAD.
69.     World Bank.  As lead project donor, the World Bank played its role fully,
by monitoring both the technical and financial sides of the project at regular
intervals. The Bank's advice on management matters in conjunction with annual
audits by Cooper and Lybrand, facilitated sound project management. Although the
overall Bank contribution constituted significant support for the project, we
wish to note that:
-    Washington took too long to approve subproject proposals, thereby often
jeopardizing their execution;
-    technical supervision of physical works rarely went beyond observations
and/or criticisms, to the formulation of specific recommendations.
-    Bank's financial documentation and recommendations were produced only
in English, making it difficult for project accounting personnel to take
appropriate actions.
70.     Netherlands.  The major financial contribution from the Netherlands, in
subsidy form,  facilitated enormously project implementation.   Backed up by
technical assistance in the socioeconomic arena and financial monitoring of
project expenditures, this contribution was a significant element in the project
results achieved. The financing plan devised by Netherlands technical assistance
personnel, and its acceptance by all the other project donors, facilitated the
utilization of funds.  However, we would note that the Netherlands took no part
in the monitoring and technical supervision of project works.
71.     UNDP/FAO.  UNDP/FAO technical assistance has been an important element
in FDR projects, and particularly FDR III. Through it, the projects had access
to the services of highly qualified experts with wide experience of development
projects, and also to assistance for the directorate-general (in the form of
contributions of office equipment and means of transport).
72.     Government.  Apart from the assignment to FEER of necessary local project
management personnel, the Government's other commitments, namely release of
counterpart funds and gradual assumption of responsibility for field agents, were
met only partially.
73.     Consultants/Experts.  The full-time experts assigned by UNDP/FAO and the
Netherlands provided very important technical support with the execution process,
given their numerical strength and the high quality of the services they
rendered. In addition, they contributed to some degree to the personnel training
effort. However, the presence of such a large group of expatriate experts
somewhat stifled the initiative of Burkina professionals, while the failure to
designate local counterparts, undermined the anticipated transfer of knowledge
and skills.



- 16 -
74.     The part played by BOAD and the World Bank in monitoring project
execution was limited to the dispatch of consultative missions.   There was
evidence of failure to coordinate these missions, the usefulness and
effectiveness of which were not always apparent.  The confusion in the terms of
reference of the BOAD consultant made his services of almost no value.
75.     National Agencies (ORDs, technical services).   In its role as funding
agency, FEER had to rely, for the execution of the project, on national agencies
whose intervention capacity was limited. FDR III had to compete not only with
other projects which those agencies were already executing, but also with their
own programs of activities. In addition, they did not always fully understand of
the role they were expected to play for executing project components, and this
had an adverse impact on project results.
76.     High turnover among local staff was an added difficulty for both FEER
itself, and the other agencies, a situation not conducive to the stability and
continuity necessary for sound project execution.
77.     It must be recognized  however that,  without the participation and
availability of these agencies, it would have been impossible to carry out the
project. Their contribution materialized despite the numerous constraints under
which they operated at the time and continue to operate now.
78.     We wish to draw attention to the need for and importance of an agency
such as HER with responsibility for technical design and supervision, since
experience has shown it to be essential to the successful development of programs
and their execution on a sound technical and scientific basis.
79.     Beneficiary population groups.  Community participation was present in
the execution of project components. It must be emphasized however, that this
participation, which was expected at all stages of the project, from inception
to completion, was limited in fact essentially just to the execution stage. This
is clearly insufficient to make the project investment operations sustainable.
80.     These various lessons, learned from the experience provided by FDR III,
were taken into account in the design and preparation of the five-year FEER I
project, which is now in the course of execution.



- 1 7 -
PART 111. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Credit                         Purpose                                        Year of
Title                                                                         Approval      Status
Cr. 225                        To develop cotton production                    12/30/70     closed
West Volta Cotton Project
Cr. 317                        To raise rural standards of living             06/26/72      closed
Rural Development Fund         and improve income and health
Cr. 442                        To assist people in the drought-                12/07/73     closed
Drought Relief                 affected areas redevelop and
improve their farms and herds
Cr. 496                        To provide extension and other                 07/19/74      closed
Bougouriba Agric. Devt.        support services, and improve
water supplies, roads, etc.
Cr. 557                        To construct a livestock market                06/18/75      closed
Livestock D;vt. Project        and holding ground, and provide
for training, field trials, project
evaluation and monitoring, and future
project preparation
Cr. 640                        To provide a line of credit to the FDR         06/21/76      closed
Second Rural Devt.             for investment in small-scale rural projects,
Fund Project                   in order to increase crop production and
improve village vater supplies
Cr. 706                        To provide production inputs, storage          05/23/77      closed
West Volta Agric. Devt.        and processing facilities, infrastructure
and support services to rural communities
and promote Government's role
Cr. 982                        To provide comprehcnsive program to            04/07/80      closed
Forestry Project               strengthen the operational capacity of
the Forestry Administration with staff
and equipment to carry out its assigned
functions of protecting, developing and
exploring the country's forest resources
within the framework of the National
Forestry Plan.
Cr 1013                        A pilot phase of a possible three              05/08/80      closed
Niena Dionkele rice            phase program to convert swampland to
Devt. Project                  more productive use



- 18 -
Credit                         Purpose                                       Year of
Title                                                                       Approval      Status
Cr. 1097                      To consolidate the experience                  03/06/81      closed
Bougouriba                    of the first Bougouriba
Agricultural Development Project
Cr. 1284                      To raise domestic food production,             08/26/82      closed
Volta Noire Agric. Devt.      increase cotton exports and improve
the quality of rural life
Cr. 1293                      To identify & put into place                   09/21/82      closed
Koudougou Pilot               agricultural system capable of
Agricultural                  preventing or stopping soil
degradation
Cr. 1550                      To make possible more widespread and           02/26/85      under SPN
Fertilizer Project            efficient use of fertilizers and lay
a sound basis for increasing cereal
production
Cr. 1896                      Strengthen research capacity by                04/19/88      under SPN
Agricultural Research         improving research/extension
linka,es
Cr. 1979                      Improve agricultural support                   01/17/89      under SPN
Agricultural Services         services to farmers & hearders;
improve functional literacy
Cr. 2229                      Improve natural resource                       04/25/91      under SPN
Environmental                 management at community level
Management                    throughout the country



- 19 -
2. Proiect Timetable
Original          Revised             Actual
Phases                           Date              Date               Date
Appraisal Mission             03/11/1981                           03/16/1 981
Credit Negotiation             12/16/1981                          12/16/1981
Board Approval                03/30/1981                           03/30/1982
Credit Signature               10/28/1 982                         10/2811982
Credit Effectiveness          05/04/1983                           05/04/1983
Credit Completion              12/30/1986        06/30/1 988       12/31/1989
Credit Closing                06/30/1987         12/30/1988        04/30/1990



- 20 -
3. Disbursement of Credit
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
FY   Qtr Cum. Estimate      Actual      Actual Cum.           Actual        Actual Cum.
Act/Est
US$           SDR         SDR                US$           US$
82    1
2
3       350
4       700
83   1      1,400
2     2,100    640,000.00   640,000.00           693,472.00   693,472.00       33%
3     2,800    158,181.11    798,181.11          165,761.15   859,233.15
4     3,500    632,235.00  1,430,416.11          661,188.11  1,520,421.26      43%
84   1      4,300    263,506.39  1,693,922.50         275,461.24  1,795,882.50
2     5,100    188,974.83  1,882,897.33          196,435.66  1,992,318.16      39%
3     5,900    552,505.21  2,779,537.15          556,403.43  2,888,227.57
4     6,700    344,134.61  2,435,402.54          339,505.98  2,331,824.14      35%
85   1      7,700      28,659.46  2,808,196.61          27,942.77  2,916,170.34
2     8,700   1536,557.16  3,344,753.77         530,593.60  3,446,763.94       40%
3     9,700            0.00 3,344,753.77               0.00  3,446,763.94
4    10,700            0.00 3,344,753.77               0.00  3,446,763.94      32%
86   1    11,700    452,291.11  3,797,044.88          493,730.02  3,940,493.96
2    12,700            0.00  3,797,044.88              0.00  3,940,493.96      31%
3    13,400    457,011.98 4,254,056.86           534,234.85  4,474,728.81
4    14,100    757,512.14  5,011,569.00          910,602.31  5,385,331.12      38%
87    1    14,800    444,543.91  5,456,112.91         563,088.50  5,948,419.62
2    15,500   1,126,372.50 6,582,485.41        1,458,939.80  7,407,359.52      48%
3    15,800    674,065.29  7,256,550.07         873,035.17  8,280,394.69
4    16,000    861,118.90  8,117,669.60        1,148,646.70  9,429,041.39      59%
88   1              1,041,818.58  9,159,488.18       1,432,844.40 10,861,885.79
2               566,237.09  9,725,725.27        773,867.54 11,635,753.33       73%
3               736,126.98 10,461,852.25        954,268.52 12,590,021.85
4               955,282.59 11,417,134.84       1,295,794.63 13,885,816.49      87%
89    1               764,946.9412,182,081.78         993,41 5.91 14,879,232.40
2               569,696.49 12,751,778.27        708,284.15 15,587,516.55       97%
3               467,422.62 13,219,200.89        579,344.31 16,166,860.86
4               260,057.86 13,479,258.75         343,566.08 16,510,426.94    103%
90   1                106,709,09 13,585,967.84        141,465.31 16,651,892.25
2                 14,032.17 13,600,000.01         18,232.43 16,670,124.67     104%
Discrepancy between Credit dollar amounts is due to SORiUSS exchange rate fluctuations
Credit closed on Dec 31, 1989.
Final disbursement made on April 20. 1990.
Original Credit amount SDRs =    1 3.600.000
Amount actually disbursed SDRs =  13.600,000.01
Actual/Estimated SDRs         1
Amount canceled SDRs =       0



- 21 -
4. Proiect Imolementation
Appraisal       Achievements              Achievements
Indicators                        Units     Estimates       as per 1 2,3 1/86         as per 12/31/89
(Volumes)   (Volumes)        I%)        (Volumes)   (%)
a) Land Development
Anti Erosion Measures              ha        20,000       35,809          179         58,251      291
Management of Bottomlands
- simple Bunding                   ha          640         423            66            677       106
- improving existing
developments                     ha           240          46            19            46        19
Q   Small Scale Irrigation
Works                             ha          160           23            14            23        14
Treatment of 'Ravines"                          0           135           NA            135       NA
b) Support to ORDO'CRPA Services
Training
- Extension Agents                 p.d.-      8,500         9,110         107         11,075      130
-Tractor Drivers                   p.d.        440           520          128           520       128
- Technicians                      Nbr          3             0            0             0         0
- Visit to farmers                 p.d.       6,000         7,318         122         7,318       122
- Workshop for farmers             p.d.       1,200         2,172         181         2,172       181
- Literacy                         p.d.         0          50,112         NA          69,612      NA
   Credit Administration &
Input Supply                     NA           NA           NA            NA           NA         NA
o Applied Research and                 Sites        16           1 58         988           201       1256
Demonstrations
c) Credit
o Animal Traction                      Nbr        8,800         1,479         17           1,479       17
Equipment
o Rice Dehullers                       Nbr          ND            0            0             0         0
o Grain Mills                          Nbr         200           100          50            125       62.5
d) Village Storage Facilities
a Cereal Banks and Village
merchandise stores                  Nbr          75            144         NB            162        NA
o Input and Equipment Storage
Sheds                               Nbr          30            23          77             32       107



- 22 -
Appraisal       Achievements              Achievements
Indicators                        Units     Estimates       as per 12/31/86           as per 12/31/89
(Volumes)   (Volumes)        I%)        (Volumes)   I%)
ei Tree Plantations
- Nursery Management               Nbr          6              18         300             20      333
-Seedling Production               Nbr          ND       1,287,000        NA        1,418,000      NA
- Community/Individual
woodlots                         ha          400          1,253        313           1,392      348
- erosion control planting
. Seedlings planted             Nbr       100,000       102,500         103        295,000      295
. Area planted                  ha            160           164         103           474       295
- other plantations
. Seedlings planted             Nbr       125,000       256,000        205         529,000      423
. Area planted                  ha           200           410         205            846       423
f) Village Water Suoply
- Establishment of new wells           Nbr        60-250 *                        1 77
196
- Deepening old wells                  Nbr       200-100 ...                      115   58
115                                    58
- Establishment of boreholes           Nbr           1 50         -            0            150       100
- Installation of hand pumps           Nbr           175           3           2            153        88
g) Other Unscheduled Activities
 Bee Keeping
- Modern Beehives                    Nbr          ND           295          NA            295       NA
-Experimental Beehives               Nbr          ND             20         NA             20       NA
Small stock raising units
(farm level units)                  Nbr           ND           42           NA            47       NA
 Small 'mara?cher'
perimeters                          Nbr           ND            15         NA             26       NA
 Village infrastructure
- Stores                             Nbr          ND            10          NA             10       NA
-schools                             Nbr          ND            17          NA             17       NA
- Housings                           Nbr          ND            6           NA             6        NA
- Maternity                          Nbr          ND             1          NA             1        NA
- Medical Center                     Nbr           ND            1          NA             1        NA
*  Person-days
Appraisal Estimates were only for cereal Banks
*   Appraisal estimates and 1 983 Revised estimates



5. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs per Category
(USS millions)
Categories                                              Appraisal Estimates                                                        Actuat
---- IDA -----    DUTCH    BOAD        GOVT      TOTAL       ----- IDA -----        DUTCH       BOAD       GOVT       TOTAL
SDR       USS                                                   SDR       USS
1. Civil Works and Equipment                   3      3.53      3.40                         6.93       6363581  7920254
2. Staff and Labor                           2.3      2.71      1.70                0.80      5.21       2958252  3497899
3. Financing of Equipment Fund              0.27      0.32      0.50                          0.82             0         0
(Part I of project)
4. Animal Traction Equipment                   2      2.35      0.00                          2.35        366821   425840
(Part Cl of project)
5. Equipment and Supplies                   0.34      0.40      0.00                          0.40        410833   460741
(Part 2c of project)
6. Vehictes and Other Equipment             1.29      1.52      2.20                          3.72        637341   798240
7. Goods and Services                        1.6      1.88      0.00                          1.88       2828791  3647227
(Part H of project)
8. Speciat Account                          0.64      0.75      0.00                          0.75        -18296  -147475
9. Unallocated                               2.1      2.47                                    2.47             0         0
10. Studies                                 0.06      0.07                                    0.07         52677    67398
Rural Water Supply (BOAD)                           0.00      0.00     3.70       0.60     4.30              0         0
TOTAL                                       13.6    16.00       7.80     3.70       1.40    28.90   0 13600000 16670124 4982808 (1)              1083095 (2)  22736027
(1) USS equivalent of CFAF 1,739 million at the average exchange rate of 1 USS = (FAF 349
(2) USS equivalent of CFAF 389 mittion at the average exchange rate of 1 USS = CFAF 349
B. Project Financing
(USS millions)
Planned             Actual
IDA                    16.00
Dutch                   7.80
BOAD                    3.70
Govt.                   1.40
TOTAL                  28.90



C. Project Cost per Component
(millions)
--- Estimate ---            ---------------------------    Actuals
CFA       US$                                             (CFAF millions)
1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89    TOTAL
Exchange Rate                       270                  350       380       450       450        330       300       300       349
a) Land Development                                     2459       9.1                601.4    478.1      270.7       542        844       753       279   3768.2
b) Support to ORD/CRPA Services
Credits Admin. & Input Supply                                                                 12         7                                                 19
Training                                                                         12.6       6.9          2      2.8          6        23        48    101.3
AppLied Research and Demo                                                        16.7          7         1       3.7        10                          38.4
124       0.5                29.3      25.9         10       6.5        16        23         48    158.7
0
c) Credits                                              1200       4.4                 43.2    109.8       55.6      21.6         14        11        15    270.2                        4.
0
d) Village Storage facilities                            110       0.4                 44.5      47.8      44.4      21.3         70        16        26       270
0
e) Tree Ptantation                                       108       0.4                 29.1      20.1        29      31.3         56        52       101    318.5
0
f) Rural Water Supply                                    850       3.2               296.5    253.5    263.3    146.8          1030          3              1993.1
0
g) other Unscheduled Activities                          646       2.4                 52.6      15.9      36.3       148        111        27        71    461.8
h) Project Management                                    552          2               299.3    242.9      127.6    116.6         173       368       560   1887.4
0
Total Costs                                             6049      22.4               1395.9      1194    836.9   1034.1        2314       1253      1100   9127.9
Contingencies
Volume increases                                        318       1.2
Price increases                                        1433       5.3
TOTAL BASE COSTS               CFAF                     7800      28.9               1395.9      1194    836.9   1034.1        2314       1253      1100   9127.9
USS                                                      4.0       3.1       1.9       2.3        7.0       4.2       3.7      26.1



- 25 -
6. (a) Project Results: Direct Benefits
Reference         Erosion Control              SimpLe            Improved           Smal; Scale
Years             Measures                     Bottomlands       Bottomlands        Irrigation
North    Center
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ...................... ................................................. ........... .................... ... ... ...... ......... .............
ESTIMATED YIELDS (Kg/ha/year)
-Treated Land                      1 to 10                550       550              1500               2500               3500
-Untreated Land                    1 to 10                450       450               300                800                  0
-Additional Gross Production       1 to 10                100       100              1200               1700               3500
-Losses (XI                        1 to 10                 15        15                10                 10                 10
-Additional Net production         1 to 10                 85        85              1080               1530               3150
ACTUAL YIELDS (Kg/ha/year)
-Treated Land                      1                      236       724              1323               1935               2940
-Untreated Land                    1                      130       430               300                500                  0
-Additional Gross Production       1                      106       294              1023               1435               2940
-Losses (%1                        1                       15        15                15                 15                 15
-AdditionaL Net Production         1                       90       250               870               1220               2500
2                       70      200                809              1171               2475
3                       50      160                752              1124               2450
4                       30      130                700              1079               2426
5                      20       100                651              1036               2401
6                        0       70                605               995               2377
7                       0         0                563               955               2354
8                       0         0                523               917               2330
9                       0         0                487               880               2307
10                      0         0               453                845               2284
11                                                                   845               2284
12                                                                   845               228,4
13                                                                   845               2284
14                                                                   845               2284
15                                                                   845               2284



- 26 -
6. (b) Project ResaLaitha. Eoonomic Irnpact
ADDITnONAL ECONOMIC COSTS ADDII7ONAL ECONOMIC BENEFITS  ECONOMIC RETURN
- - -   (per ha) - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - (per ha) - - - - - - - - -          - - - - - - - - -
ADDITIONAL    ADD  ADD                      ADDITIONAL
SUB-PROJECTS                             YEAR  INVESTMENT  PRODUCTION  YIELDS VALUES   NET INCOME                                          RESULTS   IRR
Actual             Actual           AcLual   AcLual             Actual             Actual
(CFAF)             (CFAF)             (Kg)    (CFAF)            (CFAF;             (CFAF)
EROSION CONTROL ME.\SURES
(Coarse Grai,u)
- Northern Zone       Year 1                57600               3600          90        5400                  1800         -55800
Year 2                                    3600          70        4200                  600              600
Year 3                                   3600           50        3000                 -600            -600
Year 4                                    3600          30        1800                -1800           -1800
Year 5                                    3600          20        1200                -2400           -2400
Year 6                                       0           0            0                    0               0
Year 7                                       0           0            0                    0               0
Year 8                                       0           0            0                    0               0
Year9                                        0           0            0                    0               0
Year 10                                      0           0                                 0               0
ERR
IRR(%)               ERR
- Central Zone        Year 1                57600               3600         250        15000               11400          -46200
Year 2                                   3600          200       12000                 8400            8400
Year 3                                   3600          160        9600                 6000            6000
Year 4                                   3600          130        7800                 4200            4200
Year5                                    3600          100        6000                 2400             2400
Year 6                                    3600          70        4'00                  600              600
Year 7                                       0           0            0                   0                0
Year 8                                       0           0            0                    0               0
Year 9                                       0           0            0                   0                0
Year 10                                      0           0            0                   0                0
-0.28
IRR(%)=              -28
SIMPLE BOTTONLA.NDS                    Year 1               153477              13200         870        69600                56400        -102077
(Rice)                                Year 2                     0             13200         809       64728                51528            51528
Year 3                    0             13200          752       60197                46997           46997
Year 4                    0              13200         700       55983                42783           42783
Year 5                    0              13200         651       52064                38364           38864
Year 6                    0              13200         605       48420                35220            35220
Year7                     0             13200          563       45031                31811           31s3l
Year 8                    0              13200         523       41878                28678           26678
Year 9                    0              13200         437       38947                25747            25747
Year 10                   0              13200         453       36221                23021           23021
0.40
[RRkrs)=               40
IMPROVED BOTTONLAN'DS                  Year 1               539703              13200        1220       97600                84400         -455303
(Rice)                                Year2                     0              13200        1171       93696                80496            80496
Year3                     0             13200         1124       89948                76748           76748
Year 4                    0              13200        1079       86350                73150           73150
Year 5                    0             13200         1036       82896                69696           69696
Year 6                    0              13200         995       79580                66380           66380
Year 7                    0             13200          955       76397                63197           63197
Year 3                    0              13200         917       73341                60141           60141
Year 9                    0             13200          880       70408                57206           57208
Year 10                   0              13200         845       67591                54391           54391
Year 11                   0             13200          845       67591                54391           54391
Year 12                   0              13200         845       67591                54391           54391
Year 13                   0              13200         845       67591                54391           54391
Year 14                   0              13200         845       67591                54391           54391
Year 15                   0              13200         845       67591                54191           54391
0.11261
IRR (?Io)=           11.3
SMALL SCALE IRRIGAION                  Year 1            2828098.1              79600        2500      200000               120400        -2707698
~Rice)                                Year2                                    79600        2475      198000               118400           118400
Year3                                   79600         2450      196020               116420          116420
Year 4                                  79600         2426      194060               114460          114460
Year5                                   79600         2401      192119               112519          112519
Year6                                   79600         2377      190198               110598          110598
Year 7                                  79600         2354      188296               108696          108696
Year 8                                  79600         2330      186413               106813          106813
Year9                                   79600         2307      184549               104949          104949
Year 10                                 79600         2284      182703               103103          103103
Year 11                                 79600         2284      182720               103120          103120
Year 12                                 79600         2284      182720               103120          103120
Year 13                                 79600         2284      182720               103120           103120
Year 14                                 79600         2284      182720               103120          103120
Year 15                                 79600         2284      182720               103120          103120
-0.0710
IRR (%)-             -7.1



- 27 -
7. Status of Covenants
D. C. A.
Section
of Covenant Brief Description of Covenant           Compliance  Remarks
3.03 lb)     Furnish quarterly and annual           done         quarterly reports discarded
activity reports
Furnish annual work program            done (1)    (1) except for extension period
3.03 (e)    Furnish final report                    not done
3.04        Transfer to participating               not done    In the 1984 Land tenure law, the Govt.
farmers land titles                                 declared land cannot be privately owned
3.05        Name and maintain a panel of            done         FAO/UNDP experts
experts to review and approve
the designs of HER for works
included in Part A of Project
3.06        Include a 7% charge to the              done
cost of animal drawn implements
financed through Credit
3.07        Establish an autonomous Equipment       not done    the body was never created and the
Fund financially viable                             funds were reallocated
3.08 (a)    Maintain competent key staff within     partly done   HER was dissolved in 1986 and project
implementing agency (FDR) and                       was affected by decision
accounting agency (HER)
3.08 (b)     Exchange views with the Association    not done     RDF became increasingly involved in
on any proposal to assign to RDF any               technical matters and project extension
new activity
3.09 (a)     Prepare annual budgets to be approved   done
by Interministerial technical committee
and submitted to IDA
3.09 (b)    Credit quarterly to the RDF, government  partly done   annually and with delays
financial contribution to project budget
3.11         Provide credits to farmers in accordance  done
with terms and procedures satisfactory
to IDA
4.01         Maintain proper accounting system and   partly done   Accounting system not properly maintained;
have accounts and financial statements              frequent delays in submitting audit reports.
annually audited and furnish to IDA                 No audit or financial report after 1988.
all required financial statements and               No final financial report
audit reports
4.02         Ensure enforcement of cost recovery    not done
policy for the irrigation and water
supply components



- 28 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A Staff Inputs (in staff weeks)l/
FY76  FY77  FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84 FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91 FY92 TOTAL
Preparation           0.4    1.4   5.3    24.9                                                                          32.0
Appraisal                           37.0  23.0                                                                          60.0
Negotiations                               30.1                                                                        30.1
Supervision                                6.3    16.9  10.3  21.3  8.6    13.3  14.7  7.1    3.7                1.7  103.9
PCR                                                                                               0.1    0.7            0.8
Other
TOTAL          0.4    1.4   5.3    61.9  59.4   16.9  10.3  21.3  8.6    13.3  14.7  7.1    3.8    0.7    1.7  226.8
1/ No information is availabe from the MIS on FY78-79.
B. Nlissions (Staff and consultants)
Cofinancier staff
Phase of Cvcle    Nlonth/year     IDA Staff + Consultants        + Consultants         Performance 3!    Problems 4/
No.people/No.days/Specialties2/   No.people
Identification
Preparation
Appraisal
Supervision 1      Apr. 1982          2      12      a, b                 0                     2              M
Supervision 2      Jan. [983          2       7      a, b                 0                     2              Ni
Supervision 3      June 1983          1       3      a                    0                     2              T
Supervision 4      Oct. 1983          2      10      a, b                 0                     2              F, Nl, T
Supervision 5      Mav  1984          1       6      a                     1                    2              M, T
Supervision 6      Dec. 1984          3      17      b, c, d               1                    2              P. T
Supervision 7      June 1985          1       8      d                    0                     2              F
Supervision 8      Oct. 1985          2       3      d                    0                                    5/
Supervision 9      Apr. 1986          1       5      a                    0
Supervision 10     Oct. 1986          1      11      a                    0
Supervision 11     Mar. 1987          1      10      a                    0
Supervision 12     Nov. 1987
Supervision 13     Feb  1989
2' a =a-riculturalist, b =financial analyst, c=economist, d=rural enginecr
3 ! = no or minor problems, 2 = moderate problems, 3 = major problems
4 F= financial, Nl=mana,erial, T=technical, P=political, O=other
5. With introduction of new 590 format, problem identification no longer took this form.



