Document of             F IL E  C  - PY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3621-UV
UPPER VOLTA
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 24, 1982
Western Africa Projects Department
Agriculture Division 5
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
SDR 1               US$1.18     =      CFAF 319
US$1.00      =      SDR 0.84    =      CFAF 270
CFAF 1,000   =      US$3.70     =      SDR 3.11
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Systems
ABBREVIATIONS
AVV      -   Volta Valleys Development Authority
BCEAO    -   Central Bank of West African States
BOAD     -   West African Development Bank
CERCI    -   Irrigated Crops Study and Research Center
CNCA     -   National Agricultural Credit Bank
DAFR     -   Directorate of Forestry Management and Reforestation
DSA      -   Agriculture Department (MRD)
FAER     -   Rural Equipment Fund
HER      -   Rural Water Supply and Engineering Department (MRD)
ICRISAT  -   International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics
IMTC     -   Inter-Ministerial Technical Committee
IRAT     -   Tropical Agriculture and Foodcrops Research Institute
IRCT     -   Cotton and Textiles Research Institute
IRHO     -   Oils and Oilseeds Research Institute
MRD      -   Ministry of Rural Development
OFNACER  -   National Cereals Agency
ORD      -   Regional Development Organization
PY       -   Project Year
RDF      -   Rural Development Fund
RMWA     -   Regional Mission in West Africa
SC       -   Standing Committee of IMTC
SOFITEX  -   Voltaic Textile Fibre Company (Parastatal)
FISCAL YEARS
Government           January 1 - December 31
Project              October 1 - September 30
IDA             :    July 1 - June 30



UPPER VOLTA                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I*  BACKGROUND .   *.......*e*ee.ceee***.e*e*e.e****. .*ee........               1
A - The Economic Setting *         ..................................       1
B - The Rural Sector                         ....                           1
C - Sector Strategy, Development Constraints and
Matjor Issues ...6
II.  THE PROJECT AREA ....................                                        8
A - Ecology and Population .         ......a8
B - Earlier Projects                                                        9
III.  THE PROJECT  ..........11
A - Project Origin and Preparation          ..................11
B - Objectives and Summary Description...               0*0......          11
C - Detailed Features                                             ....    12
D - Cost Estimates                                    ....        ....     21
E - Proposed Financing.. .                                  .      .    22
F - Procurement                 ........                                   25
G - Disbursement .............**.. .    ......... .e. ..                   26
H - Accounts, Auditing and Reporting  .................* ....              27
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .............................    28
A - Sub-project Selection Criteria and Project Cycle ........              28
B - RDF Organization and Staff .............. .............                31
V.  TECHNOLOGICAL AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS ..............                  33
*                A - Investment Phase ceeecceeecec.....e.ce....c.0.c... c                    33
B - Operating Phase ...c...                 ... eece.....c...*..e          33
C - Yields and Output cc...e..............e..................              34
Vl.  DEMAND, MARKETS AND PRICES; FINANCIAL RESULTS ....... ...... ...      .    36
A - Demand, Markets and Prices  ....c.. o....ece..e....e..e..              36
B - Financial Results ....eecc. ......eooo.o...c... o ......c..            37
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting
of Messrs. Osei, Cole, Meimaris, Simsolo (RWA), Thiam and Traore (BOAD), van
Bolhuis and Zijderveld representing the Dutch Government and Loaec (Consultant)
which visited Upper Volta in March/April 1981.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
VII.  BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .....      .........................   39
A - Major Benefits and Benefit Distribution .................   39
B - Economic Rate of Return .....................       ............   40
C  -  Risks       ...................................................  41
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .......................   41
ANNEXES
1. Organization and Management
2. Supporting Tables
Table 1:  Detailed Project Cost
Table 2:  Financing Plan and Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 3:  Government Cash Flow
Table 4:  Economic Rate of Return Calculation
3. Selected Documents and Data in Project File
A. Working Papers to Guide Implementation
1. Land Development Sub-projects
2. Agricultural Development
3. Agricultural Support Services
4. Agricultural Credit
5. Production of Animal Traction Equipment
6. Rural Forestry
7. Village Water Supply (in French)
8. Basic Data for Economic Analysis
B.  Reports and Studies Related to Project
1.  Troisieme Fonds de Developpement Rural; RDF; November 1980.
(Preparation Report in 3 vols. + summary and 12 Annexes, French)
2.  Instructions Generales sur les operations etc; RDF; November 1973.
(Subproject Appraisal Procedures; in French)
3.  Rapport de Suivi sur les Amenagements Hydroagricoles, campagne 79/180,
RDF. (First Evaluation Report on Land Development Schemes (1978/79)
in French).
LIST OF TABLES IN TEXT
1. Project Cost Summary
2. Financing Plan
3. Disbursement Categories and Amounts
4. Key Technical Parameters: Land Development Schemes
5. Production Specifications; Yields; Output
6. Farmgate Prices, Market Prices and Economic Values
7.  Summary Farm Budgets
8. Summary Results of Economic Rate of Return Calculations
IBRD Map No. 16064



UPPER VOLTA
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. The Economic Setting
1.01      Upper Volta is classified as among the 29 "least developed coun-
tries" with GNP per capita estimated in 1979 at about US$180. Agricultural
production activities which provide employment for the 90% of the population
classified as rural, are severely constrained by low and uncertain rainfall
and generally poor soils and the concentration of such activities on the
densely-populated central plateau where nearly 65% of the total population
occupy 33% of the land area. Domestic expenditures for both consumption
and investment exceed GDP (by about 30% in recent years) and a large part
of the difference is made up by emigrants remittances and pensions paid
by France. Even after such transfers, Upper Volta still needs foreign aid
grants and loans equivalent to as much as one fifth of its GDP in order to
make ends meet. There are plans to rework alluvial gold seams and other
mineral resources which are known to exist (manganese and rock phosphate) but
the distance of the country, some 600 km from ports on the coast, makes it
unlikely that manganese deposits would be exploited in the near future; rock
phosphate is already being mined on a small scale and is used as fertilizer.
1.02      The dismal prospects for development have been, in part, responsible
for a massive migration; as much as 0.9 million Voltaics, equivalent to 16%
of the total population of 5.7 million and about 22% of the adult population
between 15 and 59 years of age, are migrant workers, mostly in the Ivory
Coast. There is also a sizeable movement from rural to urban areas. These
migration patterns account for the high growth rate of the urban population
(4% per annum) compared to the overall growth rate of 1.6% and the slow rate
of increase in the rural population (1.4%).
B. The Rural Sector
1.03      Agricultural production (including livestock, fishing and forestry)
accounts for about 45% of GDP and nearly 65% of exports. Traditionally,
livestock and meat products dominated exports but in recent years cotton lint
and oil seeds exports have consistently earned nearly half of export revenues,
reflecting better prices for these products and stepped-up promotion, espe-
cially of cotton. By contrast the traditional coastal markets for Upper
Volta's livestock and meat products with the notable exception of Nigeria have
softened considerably under the impact either of local economic difficulties
lowering effective demand (in Ghana), or increased local production activity
(Ivory Coast) and access to cheaper imports from alternative sources. Produc-
tion of coarse grains (millet and sorghum), which form the basic staples, has
been generally sufficient (at about 1 million tons) in normal rainfall years
to feed the Voltaic population. However population growth trends and the



- 2 -
apparent stagnation of yields make it likely that the country could move into
a position of structural deficit before the end of the present decade. The
rapidly growing urban population would also increase the demand for rice
which is at present imported for the most part (about 30-50,000 tons each
year). Cotton is the dominant cash crop and the rapid increases in both
yields and production achieved in recent years give further grounds for
believing that productivity in cereal production can also be improved; in
effect cotton is the only crop which benefits from the complete range of
services--input supply, organized extension, assured marketing and research.
1.04      Irrigated production in Upper Volta lags behind its potential.
It is estimated that only some 7,000 ha of the 120-150,000 ha of potential
irrigable land is developed. The constraints which have prevented a faster
rate of development include: high investment costs per ha (up to US$6,500/ha
for large-scale schemes); inadequate price and marketing arrangements for
irrigated crops, principally rice (typically less than 20% of paddy output Ls
marketed); and lack of experience in planning, executing and maintaining major
irrigation works (ONBI, the national agency responsible for this is only 5
years old). Against this must be weighed the growing demand, both locally and
in nearby export markets, for rice, and a highly motivated agricultural labor
force which has demonstrated its adaptability to the rigorous discipline
required for irrigated crop production. Further development in the sub-sector
will be based largely on the result of the pilot project at Niena-Dionkele
and on a master plan for the Black Volta and Sourou basins which is nearing
completion.
1.05      Provision of rural water supplies is inadequate in most regions
in Upper Volta. As indicated by a recent report prepared by a Bank consultant,
the basic requirement of 10 liters/capita/day (lcd) is met for only 15% of the
population, with areas like the Koudougou ORD receiving even lower levels of
service. A national water supply strategy, developed in 1976 and updated in
1979, states that, to keep the same standards (or higher for villages or
centers of 500 inhabitants or more) some 6,700 water points remain to be
drilled or deepened. At present some 900 water points are created each
year in Government and NGO-supported schemes. The main issues in rural water
development are (i) the danger of lowering the water table if a program of
the dimensions proposed were to be realized; (ii) the high cost, fragility and
multiplicity of pumps currently in use or proposed for Upper Volta; (iii)
inadequate maintenance; (iv) the financial ability of Government to provide
water at no charge to users; and (v) inadequate attention to parallel efforts
in health education. The rural water supply component of the proposed project
addresses these issues (para. 3.22). What is required, however, is a national
policy for the sector as a whole which takes account of each of these factors.
UNDP has already financed two studies which will, respectively, determine
the optimum performance criteria for pumps suited to the Upper Volta environ-
ment and examine appropriate levels of, and collection arrangements for, user



- 3 -
charges. IDA staff have been closely following both studies and some prelim-
inary results would be incorporated in the proposed project (para. 3.22).
Further sector work, focussing especially on maintenance, is to be undertaken
by IDA staff in the coming months.
1.06      Principal Institutions.  The Ministry of Rural Development (MRD)
has centrally based "staff" units with technical advisory functions and field-
based "line" organizations responsible for execution.  The central staff
comprise a planning and administration unit and specialized technical units
for agriculture (Direction des Services Agricoles-DSA), livestock (Direction
d'Elevage-DE) and Rural Water Supply and Engineering (Direction de l'Hydrau-
lique et l'Equipement Rural-HER). In the field, MRD is represented by 11
regional development organizations (ORDs) which have broad responsibilities in
their areas of operation. They cover the whole country, with the exception of
the valleys around the Volta and its tributaries, where river blindness is
endemic and population consequently very low. In these areas an autonomous
Volta Valleys Development Authority (AVV) is responsible for a resettlement
program whose progress to date has been poor. ORDs depend upon the central
services for specialist technical advice.
1.07      The four ORDs covering the central plateau (Center, East Central,
North Central and North), where most of the activities under the proposed
project would be carried out, are among the weakest in Upper Volta--apart from
the funds available for investments under the second RDF project, their only
other major source of financing has been Government budgetary grants which
coier only the salaries of established civil servants, less than 40% of
employees. The ratio of extension workers to farm families ranges from 1:800
to 1:1,100 compared to 1:330 in Bougouriba and 1:420 in the two ORDs of
Bobo-Dioulasso and Dedougou where the IDA-assisted West Volta Cotton Project
is currently underway. There is a general lack of logistical support for
extension work, farm-level extension workers receive no training except in
Yatenga (North) and the use of modern inputs and improved husbandry practices
is still far below the potential.
1.08      Government has recently received the report of a commission which it
set up to study the functioning and financing of ORDs. Its major recommenda-
tions are: (i) limitation of the functions of ORDs to improving agricultural
production and promoting farmer organizations to this end, (ii) giving greater
autonomy to ORD directors especially in personnel management (at present all
employees are either hired on contract in which case their salaries are
uncertain from month to month, or civil servants whose transfer, conditions
of service, salary and promotion are decided at the central level) and (iii)
most importantly, instituting a tax on all agricultural exports and imports
for the express purpose of providing ORDs with operating funds. The report
also significantly recommends that externally financed projects should have
a longer duration and should provide for the operating costs of ORDs which
execute them. For the 1982 fiscal year, Government has taken measures which
have the effect of limiting the annual deficits of ORDs to their 1981 levels;
a long-term solution still needs to be found.



- 4 -
1.09      Central Services of MRD.  The planning unit is essentially respon-
sible for planning, programming and controlling ORD activities. In ORDs where
there are no externally-funded projects--such as in Fada-Ngourma and Sahel--ORD
activities are ineffective. Elsewhere, the control of the unit (and therefore
of MRD) over ORDs is purely nominal, being replaced by such control and
supervision as is exercised by the funding agency. Active discussions are
underway to mount a technical assistance project with IDA support which iwould,
inter alia, attempt to remedy the situation.
1.10      The two other services which would play a role in the execution of
the proposed project are:
(a) Rural Water and Engineering (HER) which has national responsibility
for the design and construction of rural water points and small-
scale rural works (bottomland development, small irrigation peri-
meters etc...). In the past HER concentrated almost exclusively on
well and borehole construction and on irrigation projects. In
recent years, responsibility for large-scale irrigation works has
been transferred to an autonomous agency, the National Dams and
Irrigation Agency (Office National des Barrages et de lIrrigation,
ONBI). HER has thus been forced to concentrate on small-scale rural
works in which, especially under RDF 2, it has now built some
expertise. Its role has been limited to providing design and periodic
technical supervision services to ORDs for erosion-control and
bottomland development works; this would be continued under the
proposed project. In rural water supply, the division of its
activities between the construction of new wells and boreholes and
the maintenance of existing water points has been too much in favor
of the former. Under the proposed project, emphasis would be placed
on increasing its planning, programming and supervision capability
and reorienting operations towards maintenance of existing water
points (para. 3.22);
(b) Agriculture Department (DSA). DSA's professed function is to
provide the link between research activities and extension work by
ORDs. In externally-financed projects, DSA is normally by-passed
and the ORDs are provided with the means to conduct field trials and
demonstrations, sometimes with the support of the research agencies.
Elsewhere, DSA, because it lacks operating funds, has made little
impact.  The proposed project provides for the means to enable
DSA to give technical support to the ORD demonstration program
(para 3.12).
1.11      Forestry related activities are carried out by the Directorate
of Forestry Management and Reforestation in the Ministry of Environment
and Tourism. This directorate will receive material assistance to enable
it to provide required technical support to the village reforestation sub-
project under RDF 3 (para 3.20).
1.12      Agricultural Research.  A number of research institutions are
responsible to MRD or to the Ministry of Higher Education. For cotton,



the main agency is the Cotton and Textiles Research Institute (IRCT), and
for cereals the Tropical Agriculture and Foodcrops Research Institute (IRAT).
The Irrigation Crops Study and Research Center (CERCI) conducts work on
irrigated crops, particularly rice. CERCI is financed by and receives tech-
nical assistance from UNDP/FAO; the other two institutions are funded by
France. Sorghum and millet breeding and agronomy are pursued by a regional
team of the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics
(ICRISAT) carrying out both on- and off-station trials and an associated farm
systems study on the central plateau. The development of improved cereals
(millet, sorghum, maize) and food legumes (cowpeas, groundnuts), and cultural
practices compatible with small farms in semi-arid regions is the purpose of
the Semi-Arid Food Grain Research Development (SAFGRAD) program financed by
USAID under the auspices of the Scientific, Technical and Research Committee
of the Organization for African Unity. The new programs are centered on
the rehabilitated Kamboinse research station near Ouagadougou. Staff to
support the program are provided by the International Institute of Tropical
Agriculture, Nigeria; the International Crops Research Institute for the
Semi-Arid Tropics, India; Purdue University, USA; and IRAT. Usable results,
except for cotton and maize, are as yet meagre, and even then, not always
known to ORD staff who are supposed to communicate them to farmers.
1.13      Agricultural Credit.  Seasonal loans principally for cotton and
fertilizer purchases are provided by 2 consortia of local banks, including
a small (about 5%) participation by the recently formed Agricultural Develop-
ment Bank (CNCA). These loans, which are rediscountable by the central bank
(up to 65%) have been repaid reasonably promptly (about 90% repayment rate
when due and most overdues are subsequently collected). CNCA, which is owned
jointly by Government and public bodies (54%), and the regional Central Bank
(BCEAO), its development banking subsidiary (BOAD) and the French bilateral
aid agency (Caisse Centrale), has an authorized capital of CFAF 1300 million
(US$4.8 million) of which half is paid in. For medium-term credit to farmers,
CNCA planned to lend, in 1981, about CFAF 400 million (US$1.5 million) mostly
for animal traction equipment. Most of the projected resources available for
this purpose would come from central bank rediscount facilities and from
earmarked funds included in externally financed projects. This latter source
of funds would continue to be necessary to enable CNCA to expand lending for
medium-term asset acquisition by farmers. CNCA is expected in its initial
years to concentrate upon management and control of funds at a central level,
establishing lending criteria and ceilings, and training ORD credit and supply
staff who will continue to handle day-to-day credit operations (technical
appraisal of loan requests, disbursements, and recovery). Until the advent
of CNCA in 1980, ad hoc arrangements for medium-term credit were operated in
the context of development projects, including the ongoing RDF II project.
Repayment at about 80% nationally is expected to improve with the strengthen-
ing of ORD credit and supply bureaus as in the proposed project (para. 3.11).
Conventional medium-term credit would gradually become the exclusive respon-
sibility of CNCA (para 3.14).
1.14      Marketing.  The record of official cereals marketing policy in
Upper Volta is reminiscent of similar efforts elsewhere in West Africa:
because of the small size of the market in relation to total production,



- 6 -
small variations in output cause large variations in marketed quantities
and prices and the official marketing agency (OFNACER) does not have the
flexibility and financial resources to enable it to react efficiently to such
changes. While OFNACER has done well in distributing food aid in drought-
induced emergencies, its record in regulating price fluctuations between
harvests has been much less impressive. It buys only a small proportion of
marketed output (about 20%); its costs (especially transport costs) are high
and it operates at a loss; storage losses are high; it is inadequately
financed; and ORDs acting as buying agents for OFNACER lack transport and
storage facilities. Without the incentive of reliable markets and prices high
enough to justify cash outlays for inputs, the modernization of cereal produc-
tion will continue to be slow. One possible solution to this problem is to
promote a more active role for farmers groups in crop storage, processing and
marketing. Based on pilot actions begun under the Second project, the proposed
third project provides for the construction and operation of village cereal
banks and small cereals dehullers in furtherance of this objective. Cotton
marketing is satisfactorily handled by SOFITEX, a joint state/public enterprise.
C.   Sector Strategy, Development Constraints, and Major Issues
1.15      Governments Objectives.  Successive Governments in Upper Volta
have stressed national self-sufficiency in food production as the topmost
priority for the agriculture sector. In examining the ways in which it
has intervened in the sector, one can infer that its strategy consists in:
(a) maintaining, and if possible improving the productivity of rainfed
crop production through extension advice and inputs. The ORD
structure is the best evidence of this: it is not selective and
it is predicated on the belief that marginal improvements in
traditional cultivation practices are possible and can be acquired
by farmers through the action of extension agents;
(b) promoting migration to the under populated southwest and especially
in the Volta Valleys where rainfall is adequate and reliable, and
soils more fertile. The AVV project, now in its eleventh year,
shows the persistence of Government efforts in this area in spite of
the poor results; and
(c) swampland and irrigated production schemes to counter the effects of
insufficient and unreliable rainfall.
1.16      Bank-Group Support to the Sector.  To date there have been ten
IDA-supported projects in the rural sector of which four have been completed.
Two of these, the Cotton project (Cr. 225-UV signed in 1970) and the Bougou-
riba project (Cr. 496-WV approved in 1974) supported the ORD-managed regional
development approach. Although the cotton project had a clear commodity
focus, its major result was to demonstrate that where an improved technology
existed which was within the means of small farmers, it could be spread widely
in a fairly brief period of time with the ORD organization. The high recurrent
cost effect of this approach did not create any problems during the execution
of the cotton project because it increased the production of a commodity



- 7 -
which had a high market value and whose marketing was and remains easily
monopolized by a public agency. A recalculation of the economic rate of
return upon project completion showed a slightly higher return (37%) than
the appraisal estimate (32%). By contrast, the first Bougouriba project had
only a small cotton component and cotton prices had meanwhile not risen as
much as during the cotton project; the rate of return on completion (15%)
indicated that appraisal estimates (68%) were much too optimistic. The major
lesson was to demonstrate the difficulty that Government has in paying for
agricultural development programs organized and operated in this manner. The
other two completed projects were the drought relief project (Cr. 442-UV of
1973) and the first Rural Development Fund project (Cr. 317-UV of 1972) both
of which aimed at financing small discrete and mostly physical assets using
the same institution (RDF) to channel the funds and control expenditures for
activities which were physically carried out by existing Government services.
Overall, results were satisfactory (paras. 2.02-2.06).
1.17      The remaining IDA-assisted operations in the rural sector include
follow-up projects to the cotton (West Volta, Cr.706 of 1977) and Bougouriba
(Credit 1097 of 1980) projects, both of which explicitly promote regional
development on a broad front rather than narrowly focussing on specific
commodities. There are also projects in irrigation (Niena Dionkele, Cr.1013-UV
of 1980); Livestock (Cr.557-UV of 1975); Forestry (Cr.982- V of 1980) and a
Second Rural Development Fund project (Cr.640-UV of 1976). Project execution
is progressing satisfactorily in all these projects.
1_. d     Major Constraints and Elements of a Strategy.  The summary evalua-
tion of completed IDA-supported projects discussed above leads to the identi-
fication of the major issues which have to be taken into account in a develop-
ment strategy for the sector:
(a)  the physical environment (climate, hydrology and soils) is not
favorable to crop and livestock production. The indirect way of
tackling this problem is to develop a technology which makes the
most of these given facts of nature. Research results which are
adapted to actual farm conditions are a small part of the work
currently being done. This leads to the second major constraint,
viz;
(b)  lack of suitable technologies.  In part this is a matter of organi-
zation since some improved husbandry practices which have been
developed by research can be adapted for use by small farmers at
reasonable cost. For example, in parts of the central plateau, better
land preparation methods using available (and affordable) animal
traction equipment coupled with erosion-control measures and organic
fertilization have been shown to give yield increases of 20-30%
compared to traditional methods using hand-hoes. With better
organization of the design, construction and maintenance of
erosion-control bunds, of extension advice on suitable husbandry
practices and of credit as under the second RDF project, farmers
were shown to be willing to take up this technology; and



- 8 -
(c)  institutional weakness.  This has several facets: organizational, as
in the above demonstration; financial as demonstrated by the persis-
tent lack of operating funds for the ORDs which are the major
executants of Government policy; and human, given the paucity of
skilled technicians in general and specifically those willing to
work in the rural area.
1.19      Government's principal objective of meeting national food demand                 =
from local production can be further promoted by the strategy it has pursued
thus far with some important qualifications and safeguards. First, the heavy
cost of maintaining the present ORD structure can only be justified where it
can be demonstrated that practicable technological packages exist which can be
passed on to, and be economically usable by, small farmers. By this reasoning,
the present structure of ORDs is premature for some ecological zones (such as
the central plateau). Even for areas where suitable packages exist, expenditures
on the ORD should be carefully controlled to bring them in line with the value
of the output of the farmers benefitting from the extension package. Secondly,
a major effort is required both in research and in the organization of the
transfer of research results into usable packages at the farm level; only thus
can the ORD structure find its full justification. Side-by-side with this,
there is room for promoting productivity-increasing investments which through
simplicity of design and reduced scale, can be brought within the management
and maintenance capacity of rural communities. Resettlement should be encour-
aged in the context of standard regional development projects planned for
underpopulated zones rather than being organized separately and at high costs
as is presently done by AVV (para 1.06). Given the developmental character of
the "operating costs" necessary for key functions such as research and exten-
sion, external financing should make provision for such expenditures.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Ecology and Population:
2.01      Agricultural production activities under the project would be
concentrated on the central plateau covering the ORDs of Ouagadougou (Center),
Kaya (North Central), Ouahigouya (North), and Koupela (East Central).
In addition a pilot action would be mounted in Sahel in the sector of Dori.
The water supply component would be limited to Koudougou (West Central) which
would also benefit from RDF financed subprojects in those parts of the ORD not
included in the Koudougou Pilot Project currently being prepared. Climate is
primarily Sudanian with annual average rainfall declining from around 1,000 mm
in the south, to less than 700 mm north of Kaya and Ouahigouya and to below
600 mm in Dori. There is a four- to five-month wet season (May-October) but
the beginning of the rains is erratic; they are generally interrupted between
mid-June and early July, and they may cease as early as mid-September.
Temperatures range from a maximum of 34/400 C to a minimum of 16/260 C in
the dry season. The dry season divides into a cool period of three months
between December and February followed by a hotter period prior to the rains.
Most of the arable land consists of shallow, poorly structured tropical
ferruginous soils often acidic and deficient in nitrogen, phosphate and



- 9 -
organic matter. Generally a distinction can be drawn between the thin, over-
exploited soils around villages towards the top of the watershed and deeper
less gravelly soils further down the toposequence. Bottomland soils are more
fertile but sometimes difficult to work by hand. Total rural population is
estimated at about 2.4 million, about 300,000 farm families. Density averages
some 35 in/km2 and is over 60 in/km2 in the parts of the Ouahigouya (North)
ORD.
B. Earlier Projects.
2.02      Credit 317-UV in the amount of US$2.2 million for a rural develop-
ment fund project was approved in June 1972. The final disbursement was made
on June 23, 1977. The objective of RDF was to finance a variety of small
productive investments which, because of their size and scattered location,
were otherwise not suitable for conventional Bank Group lending. The project,
which was conceived as the first experimental phase of a longer program was
to consist of: (i) 500 wells to improve village water supply; (ii) 700 small
village storehouses for farm inputs; (iii) the development of 1,500 ha of
bottomlands for rice cultivation; (iv) erosion control works on 1,000 ha to
improve crop yields (sorghum, cotton, groundnuts); (v) 200 ha of small irri-
gation schemes below existing dams, to produce rice; (vi) the upgrading of
270 km of feeder roads; and (vii) studies and a number of unidentified sub-
projects. An essential point in sub-project selection was the interest of the
people concerned, expressed through their willingness to provide free labor
for sub-project implementation and subsequent operations and maintenance.
2.03      Project execution was entrusted to RDF, created as an autonomous
unit within the National Development Bank (BND) for this purpose. Since 1979,
RDF has been operating independently of BND, with its management reporting
directly to the Secretary-General of MRD (para. 4.04). RDF appraises projects
identified in the first instance by potential beneficiaries themselves and
largely prepared by technical and field services such as HER and ORDs. After
approval of RDF's annual program by an interministerial committee chaired by
senior MRD staff, the project is executed by the competent agency (HER or ORD
for example) which signs a contract with RDF for this purpose. Financial
accounting and control remain the responsibility of RDF which also follows up
on completed projects.
2.04      Actual implementation was as follows:
Component                      Appraisal       Actual
Wells (no.)                       500            262          52
Village storage (no.)             700            644          92
Bottomlands (ha)                1,500          1,719         115
Erosion control (ha)            1,000          1,395         140
Small irrigation (ha)             200             96          38
Feeder Roads (km)                 270            366         136
Instead of three years, actual project implementation took over four years.
Actual costs were 7.5% higher than appraisal estimates.



- 10 -
2.05      Concentrating on the central plateau, Credit 640-UV for the second
rural development fund project financed the same type of sub-projects as
under the first project with the exception of feeder roads. In addition,
it provided for training and technical assistance to overcome staff con-
straints and financed studies of development potential in adjacent areas.
Other components included agricultural credit and the creation of a well
maintenance brigade. The project was to be executed over a five year period,
but has been extended by one year while activities in the first, and partly
the second, year were still financed under RDF 1. Additional financing
provided by Dutch Aid (DF1 5.15 milion equivalent to about US$2.0 million)
will ensure that no substantial reduction of the work program will be neces-
sary in the last project year. Actual implementation to date compared to
appraisal objectives is:
Component                             Appraisal    Actual      _
Bottomlands (ha)                        2,700        1,885    70
Improved bottomlands (ha)                 300          145    48
Small irrigation (ha)                     200          170    85
Erosion control (ha)                    9,200       15,051   164
Open wells (no.)                          520          569   109
Tube wells (no.)                          180          180   100
2.06      The major lessons learned from RDF 1 were: (i) the need to strengthen
staff in the technical and executing agencies (HER and ORDs); (ii) the problem
of ensuring maintenance of assets created with RDF financing, especially
feeder roads; and (iii) the absolute necessity for ensuring the availability
of credit to enable farmers to acquire complementary inputs and equipment
in the absence of which the full benefits of the land development schemes
could not be realized. Overall, however, the project was described in the
PPAR issued in September, 1979 as a "highly innovative project which was
successful in implementing diversified and scattered subprojects". Benefi-
ciaries were estimated at some 230,000 people and a recalculation of the
economic rate of return on agricultural subprojects showed a result much
higher (22%) than the appraisal estimate of 16%. The follow-up project
incorporated the lessons of RDF 1 since it continued with the subprojects
proved successful under its predecessor, included elements which had been
revealed to be essential (credit and strengthening of staff of technical and
executing agencies) and excluded feeder roads for which a more competent
national body had meanwhile been created, thus ensuring better maintenance.
Results as shown above have been very satisfactory, especially for erosion
control and water supply. Credit, primarily medium-term loans for animal
traction and agricultural equipment, has been a popular comlementary program.
Repayment rates at farm level are not known precisely (para. 3.28) and in any
case it is still too early to judge; however, there is ample evidence that
results would be at around the national average for such credit (about 80%).
Poorer results in bottomland development have been the result of: (a) land
tenure problems, (b) the heaviness of bottomland soils which make land prepara-
tion difficult, (c) poor design and quality of works, and (d) an undeveloped
marketing system for paddy. The proposed third project includes bottomland
development but on acreage less than 50% of the actual realizations of RDF 2



- 11 -
(para 3.06), whose design would be improved as a result of their review by
an independent panel of experts (para 3.07), and on which cultivation rights
for participants would be given legal underpinning (para 3.07). The major
successes of the earlier projects however have been in creating an efficient
organizational tool for appraising small productive rural investments,
providing sound financial control during their execution, and building up a
capability for the monitoring of such projects. The proposed project is
based on a full exploitation of these capabilities.
III.  THE PROJECT
A.   Project Origin and Preparation
3.01      The Second Rural Development Fund Project is in effect the third in
a series of projects financed with IDA assistance and was substantially
completed by September 1981; Dutch funds are available to continue activities
at substantially the same rate as in recent years until the expected date of
effectiveness of the proposed third project. A third RDF project was first
mentioned in 1977 but it was not until August 1979 that Government and the
Bank reached agreement in principle to begin project preparation. The work
itself has been undertaken largely by RDF staff under the supervision of RMWA.
Successive drafts of the preparation report were reviewed by RMWA staff during
the fall of 1980 and the full report, incorporating most of the suggestions
mace then, was completed before the end of 1980.  An appraisal mission visited
the country in March-April 1981.
B.   Objectives and Summary Description
3.02      Objectives.  The project would aim at completing the process,
pursued under the preceding two projects, of developing a reliable and cost-
effective capability for managing small-scale rural investments. As demon-
strated in the earlier projects, there is both a demand and a need for such
investments, which have attracted high rates of participation especially in
the heavily populated and poorer-than-average central plateau. The specific
subproject types identified in the course of project preparation and appraisal
have been based on experience acquired under the previous projects; they would
increase crop and fuelwood production, improve the availability of safe
drinking water for rural communities, and increase the value of agricultural
produce through processing and better storage.
3.03      Summary Description.  The project would be implemented in the four-
year period 1982/83-1985/86 and would comprise the following subprojects:
(a) land development comprising engineering design services, equipment
and supervision of construction of (i) anti-erosion bunds to protect
about 20,000 ha of dry land farms, (ii) simple bunding on 640 ha
bottomlands to provide partial control of flooding, and construction
of earth dams, intake structures, spillways and flood protection
dykes to provide for complete control of flooding and supplementary



- 12 -
irrigation on 240 ha of existing bottomland developments, and
(iii) small-scale irrigation works to provide full water control
irrigation on 160 ha downstream of existing reservoirs or from ponds
and shallow wells;
(b)  support to ORDs consisting of training and initial funds for the
departments responsible for training of extension staff and farmers;
credit administration and input supply; and research and demonstra-
tion;
(c)  credit to farmers for the purchase of ox-drawn implements and oxen
to be administered by CNCA; to farmers' groups to finance small rice
dehullers, small grain mills and initial stocks of cereals and
general merchandise for group-owned and operated village stores,
to be administered by RDF; and to the Rural Equipment Support Fund
(Fonds d-Assistance a lEquipement Rural-FAER) to finance purchase
of inputs required for the manufacturing of animal drawn implements;
(d)  village storage sheds which would be used either to store inputs and
implements in which case they would be operated by ORD staff, or as
community-owned and operated stores for traded cereals (cereals
bank) or general merchandise;
(e)  tree plantations consisting of investments in 6 nurseries and about
400 ha of trees to provide wood, fruits, fodder and the equivalent
of a further 160 ha in trees to fix bunds on soil erosion sites;
(f)  village water supplies consisting of 60 new wells; deepening of 200
existing wells; 150 boreholes; provision of equipment and operating
funds for wells/boreholes maintenance brigades; and a stock of spare
parts for pumps which would be sold for cash to villagers; and
(g)  project management overheads consisting of a headquarters building
for RDF and other costs associated with managing the investment
program outlined above.
The project also provides funds for the financing of other small-scale rural
projects which would be identified in the course of project execution. Such
projects would be selected using substantially the sane criteria of tecbnical
and economic feasibility as for identified projects (para. 4.02).
C. Detailed Features
3.04      Erosion Control Works.  High population densities leading to
progressively shorter fallow periods have made large areas of the central
plateau practically unusable for cultivation, with topsoils completely washed
off by successive rains. The construction of simple earth bunds, by allowing
more time for infiltration and by braking the force of the flow of rainwater,
has been shown to have a marked effect on crop production; evaluation surveys
carried out in 1980 on bunds constructed in 1978 under RDF II indicate yield
increases of 20%-65% above yields on similar plots with no erosion bunds.



- 13 -
3.05      About 20,000 ha of farmland would be protected against soil erosion
under the proposed project. Except for a small pilot project to check the
effects of wind erosion in the northern Sahel ORD (about 1,600 ha), soil
erosion works would be concentrated on the three most populous ORDs of Kaya,
Ouagadougou and Ouahigouya (about 5,800 ha each), with a much reduced program
(1,000 ha) in Koupela ORD where soil erosion is not a major preoccupation.
Typically each site covers about 25 ha and is farmed by some 15 farm families
(1.5 ha each) who generally have an equivalent area of land off-site.  Con-
struction methods are simple: after ORD survey teams stake an area, a tractor-
drawn disc plow traces the line. Bund construction is then completed by
beneficiary farmers under the supervision of ORD staff. The project provides
for the necessary design, extension and supervision services; equipment;
operating costs of ORD land survey teams; and spare parts and small tools.
The labor contributed by beneficiaries on such sites during initial construc-
tion is substantial: about 20 days/ha (or 500 working days per site) and a
further 3-5 working days/ha per year for maintenance. Increased extension
activity would be required after land development works are completed in order
to train farmers in the use of the full range of improved cultivation practices
necessary to enable maximum benefits to be derived from such works. Thus, for
erosion control and simple bottomlands average area per extension worker
increases from 50 ha in the year of construction to 200 in the sixth year
after construction; comparable areas for improved bottomlands and irrigated
lands are 5 ha rising to 20 ha in the sixth year. The costs of such additional
extension work are included in the project. It is understood that this would
not require recruitment of new staff; rather existing ORD staff would be
redeployed from lower priority functions. This was confirmed by Government
during negotiations. No problems of land allocation on developed sites have
been encountered so far and are unlikely to occur under the proposed project
since ownership of such land is well established before the construction of
erosion control works. A major change in procedure would be initiated under
the proposed project: whole watersheds would be studied instead of small
scattered sites at present. If conditions are judged suitable (willingness
of rural population to participate, appropriate physical and hydrological
conditions) an erosion control and bottomland development program covering
several seasons would be planned for the locality. Other refinements in
design initiated under the current project which would be continued under the
proposed project include planting perennial grasses or bushes on bunds after
construction and suitable vegetation cover to protect waterways against gully
erosion. About 13,500 farm families would benefit from such works. Further
details are in Working Paper 1 and project costs are detailed in Annex 2 of
this report.
3.06      Bottomland development works.  Under the first and second projects
some 3,000 ha of relatively fertile bottomland soils have been equipped with
simple earth bunds to provide some control of flooding and improved distribu-
tion of water. In bottomlands where flooding is more severe, water control is
further increased by the construction of a larger earth dike (1.5 m high)
above the system of bunds with a drainage canal and an intake structure so
that the introduction of extra water into cropped-areas does not depend solely
on the physical configuration but can be increased at will by local farmers
(improved bottomland developments). The command areas of such improved works



- 14 -
constructed under the second project amounted to about 120 ha. Construction
methods are identical to those used in soil erosion works. Although problems
have been encountered in the operation of bottomland developments (para 2.06),
sufficient farmer interest and suitable areas exist to justify a modest
subproject under the proposed project in carefully selected areas of the Kaya,
Koupela and Ouagadougou ORDs.
3.07      The proposed project would provide for engineering design services,
skilled craftsmen's services including an initial ploughing by tractor,
equipment, building supplies, and construction supervision to develop 640 ha
using simple bunds and a further 240 ha of improved bottomland areas; improved
designs would need the approval of a panel of experts to be set up under the
project (para 3.18) and HER would directly supervise the construction of
improved bottomlands. A typical bottomland site would be between 10 and 20 ha
with individual parcels of 0.2-0.6 ha; in all some 4,400 families would benefit
from such works. A major improvement in design apart from the incorporation
of such sites in watershed planning schemes (para 3.05) would consist in
adding a perpendicular "wing" to the end of each bund, which slopes down and
away from the main structure, so that excess water flows at a slower pace from
one bund to the next, lower one. It has been demornstrated that this would
greatly reduce breaches. In addition, the pre-appraisal socio-economic survey
(para 4.03(c) would be used to examine the land-tenure situation rigorously
and eliminate those sites where cultivation rights for farmers contributing
iat;.- t ck.riEtruction are not assured. In particular, the preappraisal would
exa:2,ne and evaluate to the cohesiveness of informal groups organized for the
purpose of cultivating improved lands by evaluating the source of authority
that the leadership of such groups lay claim to (para. 4.03). There is a
clause in existing laws governing land ownership which vests lands improved
with public funds in the Government. During negotiations Government gave a
formal undertaking to enforce such laws more rigourously and, in particular,
that it would formally transfer ownership of such developed land to farmers
particiDating in construction.
3.08      Small Irrigation Perimeters.   Under the two preceding projects some
260 ha of small irrigated perimeters (gravity and pumped) were developed and
contrary to experience with similar projects financed by voluntary aid agen-
cies, for example, the percentage of the area which was still under cultivation
3 years after construction and the cropping intensity are both very high, 75%
and 130%, respectively. An initial survey conducted jointly by HER and ORD
staff in the Kaya and Ouagadougou ORDs has identified several very promising
sites out of which it is proposed to developed 160 ha spread over about 10
sites and cultivated by individual farmers each with a plot of about 0.2 ha.
The project would provide for the necessary technical advice, skilled craftsmen
and equipment, including pumps for irrigation sites requiring them. Spare
parts for such pumps and construction material and tools and equipment required
for maintenance would be sold for cash (para 4.03). Construction methods and
responsibilities would be slightly different from those which were used in the
previous projects. Design, survey and construction supervision would be
undertaken by HER, not, as previously, by ONBI. Further, a panel consisting



- 15 -
of 2 engineers and one economist chosen from qualified professionals resident
in Upper Volta--the University of Ouagadougou, the International Center for
Hydraulic Studies (CIEH) and the Pan-African Institute of Development all have
suitable staff for this purpose--would approve all designs for irrigation
works and improved bottomlands proposed by HER before they are included in
RDF-s annual work program. Agreement was reached with Government during
negotiations that it would nominate people with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to IDA to serve on this panel. Government also gave undertakings
with regard to cultivation rights in irrigated perimeters similar to those
described in para 3.07.
3.09      Support to ORD services.  Full benefits from land development
schemes (above) are obtained only to the degree that such investments are
accompanied by improved cultivation practices at the farm level. To ensure
that ORDs can effectively provide advice on such improved practices, funds
would be made available to strengthen the operations of the four central
plateau ORDs in three key areas: (i) training; (ii) credit administration and
input supply; and (iii) trials and demonstration.
3.10      Training.  The European Development Fund (EDF) is currently financing
a training program--buildings, equipment, staff salaries and operating costs--
in the Ouahigouya ORD. A similar program with funding from EDF is expected to
commence soon in the Koupela ORD. In the Ouagadougou and Kaya ORDS, however,
although training units exist in organization charts, there is no training
activity aside from those which have been financed and organized by the
present RDF project in connection with its investment programs in these two
ORDs. The proposed project would finance vehicles, equipment and initial
operating costs to enable the training units in the 2 ORDs to function. The
priority action of such units would be the organization of in-service training
for existing extension staff. The project provides for one-day training
sessions each month for the 200-odd extension agents and about 20 sector
chiefs who would be involved in training farmers on land development schemes
to be financed under the project (para 3.05). Other training is provided
under the project for: tractor drivers (22 drivers in 10-day sessions during
the first two years of project execution); farmers through visits to demon-
stration sites (in groups of 30 and on 10 occasions a year for each of the 4
ORDs); agricultural technicians at the intermediate level (3 students would be
financed for the 4-year cycle intermediate technicians course at Matourkou).
A senior training specialist is included in the technical assistance team
which is to be provided by UNDP to RDF for the duration of the proposed
project (para 4.08). Further details of the training program are in Working
Paper 3; costs are in Annex 2.
3.11      Credit and Supply Offices.  ORD staff are still responsible for
day-to-day credit operations (para 1.13). In the four ORDs of the central
plateau where project actions are concentrated, the credit and supply bureaus
are undermanned and lack operating funds; this has not been a major obstacle
in the past when credit operations were modest and RDF staff were available
to lend a hand (para 1.13). The proposed project provides for medium-term
credit for animal traction equipment to be administered by CNCA using these
bureaus; they would consequenty need to be strengthened. In the third project



- 16 -
year, the volume of such credit sales is high enough that an 8% mark-up would
be adequate to cover their estimated operating costs (Working Paper 4). The
project provides funds for the financing of operating costs during the irlitial
two years. Agreement was reached with Government during negotiations that it
would require the credit and input supply offices of the ORDs in the Project
Area to charge a mark-up of not less than 7% on credit sales of animal traction
equipment handled by such offices and that the level of this mark-up would be
reviewed and adjusted as necessary in order to ensure that revenues thus
procured would be sufficient to cover the operating costs of such offices by
the third year of project operations. Further details are in Working Paper 4.
3.12      Applied Research and Demonstration.  The links between research and
extension are weak even though there is a central service (DSA) in MDR which
is responsible, among other things, for ensuring that information on more
productive technologies reach farmers through ORDs. Under the current project
the foundations of an agricultural demonstration system have been laid in the
form of the "zones pilotes". These are village communities in which farmLers
are encouraged to try new techniques with incentives being offered in the form
of credit for ox-cultivation equipment, project-financed village storage sheds
and water points. The results have been encouraging and farmer groups, aLfter
visiting such villages, have been convinced enough to start erosion control
schemes and construct commonly owned storage facilities. The proposed project
would help install a systematic trial and demonstration program based on the
"zones pilotes". Specifically the project would finance the equipment and
operating costs of 16 trial and demonstration points (15 on the central plateau
and 1 in Dori) as well as providing the means for extension staff to run such
demonstration points. Responsibility for trial design and supervision would
remain with RDF with technical support from ICRISAT (para 1.12) but DSA would
nominate an agricultural officer to collaborate with RDF who would provide
the officer thus nominated field allowances and the transport necessary to
participate in field supervisions. ORDs would nominate a field trials officer
to take responsibility for day-to-day operations and the project would provide
each with a vehicle and field allowances. Further details are in Working
Paper 3.
3.13      Credit.  Animal traction has been shown to improve soil permeability
and reduce labor bottlenecks. Demand for such implements is high where credit
is available. In the four ORDs of the central plateau, however, it is reliably
estimated that only about 30% of the area with soil erosion schemes was
ploughed with animal traction equipment in 1979/80. As the sample represents
more progressive farmers, the overall use of animal traction equipment is
probably no more than 10%. According to appraisal mission calculations up to
50% of farmers participating in erosion-control works can use and can pay for
a set of such implements (Working Paper 2). The project would provide funds
to be administered by CNCA and made available for the purchase on credit of
animal traction implements and oxen. Funds would be available each year for
up to 1,800 sets of ox equipment and half the cost of a pair of oxen for each
set and up to 400 sets of equipment suitable for donkeys. These figures are
the equivalent of less than 25% of the total number of farmers expected to
participate in soil erosion control and bottomland development projects under
the proposed project.



- 17 -
3.14      A full set of ox-drawn implements costs about CFAF 53,150 (US$197)
and a set of equipment suitable for donkeys costs about CFAF 35,500 (US$130).
Credit terms would be those currently applied by CNCA. Interest would be at
the rate of 11% per annum on outstanding principal, the preferential rate
accorded to loans to the rural sector under existing Government policy.
Although until recently this was about equal to the annual inflation rate in
Upper Volta (the average for the 5-year period ending in 1979 was just about
11%), reliable projections of local inflation through 1985 are somewhat
higher (12% falling to about 9% by 1985). Consequently, Government agreed
during negotiations that the whole question of interest rates for rural sector
loans with a view to adjusting them to take account of inflation as well as
the operating costs of CNCA, required further study. Repayment is in four
equal instalments, after one year's grace on principal. Thus, after paying
interest and the mark-up of 7% (para 3.11) in the first year, a farmer who
has borrowed money for ox-drawn implements would have a debt burden of about
CFAF 17,200 (US$64) annually; farmers acquiring donkey equipment would need to
pay CFAF 11,430 (US$42). About 25% of project area farmers with landholdings
up to 7.0 ha would be the potential buyers of such equipment. Their gross
revenues on the 4.0 ha of dry land protected by erosion control works would
be about CFAF 220,000 (US$815) which would be sufficient to enable them to
service such debt. Credit administration would be under the day-to-day
control of ORDs who will be supervised by CNCA. Repayments of outstanding
loans made under the ongoing project for animal traction equipment would
continue to be made to RDF which would account to CNCA each year and pay to it
sums received in this connection. Such amounts would then be available for a
second round of loans under the proposed project. A protocol has been signed
by both CNCA and RDF which sets out the terms of their cooperation including
the progressive transfer from RDF to CNCA of credit funds repaid under the
ongoing project. Further details of credit arrangements for animal traction
are in Working Paper 4.
3.15      RDF would continue to manage credit made to informal farmers'
groups for the acquisition of small rice dehullers, small grain mills and for
initial stocks of cereals and general merchandise for cereal banks and village
merchandise stores. These loans represent only a part (about 45% of the total
cost of buildings plus equipment or merchandise) of a larger program which
includes construction of village stores (para 3.19) and which requires more
technical and managerial supervision than CNCA, with its limited mission (para
1.13) can adequately handle. Rice dehullers, grain mills and cereal banks
would also be closely linked with the promotion of model villages in the
demonstration program (para. 3.12); the supervision of the complete program by
a single agency (RDF) is indispensable at this stage. Interest and repayment
terms are identical with those applicable to loans for animal traction equip-
ment. In addition a down payment of 20% would be required for these credits.
RDF supervision would include both distribution of such items sold on credit
and the collection of repayment and would be undertaken in the course of its
supervision of the "zones pilotes" program.
3.16      The proposed project also makes provision for a line of credit to
the Rural Equipment Support Fund (Fonds d'Assistance a l'Equipenent Rural-FAER)
which is responsible for operating a network of animal traction implement
manufacturing and assembly workshops in Upper Volta. The fund was set up to



- 18 -
promote animal traction use. Grants from bilateral aid sources (Federal
Republic of Germany, U.K., the Netherlands, USAID and Switzerland) have been
used to establish a manufacturing plant to produe animal traction equipment
in kit form (2 plants) and an assembly unit in each of nine ORDs, and to train
users of such equipment both at ORD level and at an experimental farm. Under
the RDF 2 project currently under execution some 75-100 sets of such equipment
have been sold each year on credit to farmers essentially in model villages
but demand has consistently outstripped supply, an experience shared by two
IDA-supported agricultural projects in the West Volta and Bougouriba areas.
Since its inception, FAER's operations have not been subjected to strict
financial accounting; the nature of its sources of financing and the loose
control exercised by an overburdened Secretary-General in MDR are largely
responsible for this. The result is that both technical and financial manage-
ment have proved deficient and production and distribution have not kept pace
with demand. Production costs are only rough estimates and a reconstructed
balance sheet as at the end of September 1980 showed accumulated losses of
CFAF 110 million (US$407,000) and accounts receivable (mostly from ORDs and
therefore of doubtful quality) of CFAF 185 million (US$685,000). These
have been largely financed by accumulating arrears with suppliers and other
creditors--CFAF 170 million (US$630,000) and bank overdrafts of CFAF 120
million (US$445,000). Its goods-in-process inventory meanwhile stood at CFAF
485 million (US$1.85 million), about equal in value to total sales in the
preceding 36 months. Details on FAER operations are in Working Paper 5.
3.17      During negotiations agreement was reached with Government on the
measures which need to be taken to place the production of animal traction
equipment on a viable basis. These include:
(a) a financial restructuring of the enterprise;
(b) the transfer of overall management of FAER to a suitable agency
with statutes and operating regulations acceptable to IDA; and
(c) the appointment of management staff acceptable to IDA and with
demonstrated skills in inventory control, production planning and
cost accounting. UNDP, which has provided technical assistance to
FAER under a program financed by Denmark, is willing to finance such
technical assistance personnel.
3.18      With effective action along the lines discussed above (para 3.17),
FAER can be restructured both financially and organizationally in order to
ensure the availability of animal traction equipment, the use of which is a
critical first step in the modernization of Voltaic agricultural production.
If such measures were taken, FAER would need financial assistance of at least
CFAF 230 million (US$0.9 million) in the two-year period 1982-1983 to accom-
modate the expected increase in its sales volume with only a slight improve-
ment in shortening the average collection period for sales. The project
includes provision for such financing providing that the conditions stated
above can be met by Government before credit disbursements. Depending on the
results of the financial restructuring exercise, Government, may use the
IDA/Dutch funds either to increase its equity holding in FAER or have such



- 19 -
funds loaned to FAER on its behalf and for its account by CNCA. CNCA would be
required to examine any application for loan financing from FAER using strict
commercial criteria. Eventual repayment to CNCA would be earmarked by Govern-
ment for expanding credit available through CNCA for animal traction equipment.
The timing and scope of these measur^s and the conditions governing the
management of this line of zredit by CNCA on behalf of Government were a. 1
agreed during negotiations.
3.19      Village Stores:  Under the present project, RDF has financed a
model village program (zones pilotes). Villages have been selected on the
basis of agricultural potential, an existing and functioning farmers' group
and the possibility of establishing a variety of actions in the same community
including demonstration plots (para 3.12), stables for manure production, and
village cereal or merchandise stores. In each case, the principle has been to
support the farmers' group which undertakes to provide free labor for the
construction of such structures and to borrow money to purchase the initial
stock of cereals or general merchandise as the case may be. RDF finances (in
the form of a grant) the cost of building materials (roofing sheets, cement
and building poles) as well as the necessary skilled labor and also the credit
funds required for purchasing the initial stock of merchandise to be traded.
The program has proved to be very popular. It has increased the availability
of basic goods and staple foods to rural communities who have demonstrated a
willingness to pay the necessary price and thus provide the means to repay
borrowed funds. Its incentive effect on the zones pilotes program has been
an important factor of success. Under the proposed project the HER would
continue to provide building materials and skilled labor with grant funds
channelled through RDF for the construction of about 75 storage units in
about 40 selected villages in the project area. In addition some 30 input
and equipment storage sheds would be constructed under the project. Their
operation would be the responsibility of the ORD sector chief. As in the
case of community-owned merchandise stores, free construction labor would be
provided by local farmers.
3.20      Village Reforestation:  Swiss and Dutch Aid have financed a village
reforestation program since 1978 in 5 ORDs (Volta Noire, Kaya, Ouagadougou,
Ouahigouya and Fada) with the dual objectives of increasing wood production
both for fuel and construction and as a soil conservation measure. Under
this program, 20-30 villages are selected each year on the basis of priority
according to the degree of reduction of forest cover. In these villages a
one-hectare community woodlot (on a plot chosen in agreement with an informal
group of villagers) and an equivalent area in family compounds are planted
with suitable tree species. The program is administered by the Forest Manage-
ment and Replanting Department (Direction d'Amenagement Forestier et du
Reboisement - DAFR) of the Ministry of Tourism and the Environment. DAFR
manages nurseries, distributes planting material through ORD staff, and
supervises plantation establishment and maintenance. Training and monitoring
services are provided under contract by the West African Center for Economic
and Social Studies based in Bobo-Dioulasso. Under the present RDF project,
funds have been provided for the establishment and maintenance of seven
nurseries in areas (2 sectors in each of Kaya and Dedougou ORDs and 3 in Kaya
ORD) not covered by the Swiss or Dutch-financed programs but which are on the



- 20 -
list of priority zones requiring reforestation. Under the proposed project,
RDF would provide grant funds for the maintenance of six out of the nurseries
established (the seventh is to be taken over by the Forestry Department);
seedlings and technical advice for planting up to 400 ha, divided about
equally between block plantings (both individual and communal) and on family
compounds; and seedlings and technical advice for tree planting on erosion
control sites. The project would furnish logistical support to DAFR to enable
it to give the necessary extension, nursery maintenance and technical advisory
services required for the execution of the program.  Responsibility for the
maintenance on block plantings would lie with the head of the informal group.
Some 80 villages within a reasonable radius of the six nursery sites would be
affected. Seedlings would be sold at the same prices and on the same terms as
in the IDA-assisted Forestry project (para 6.04). Technical aspects of the
village reforestation program are discussed in Working Paper 6 and cost
details are in Annex 2.
3.21      Village Water Supply:  The availability of clean and permanent water
supply is cited as the first priority by a large majority of rural inhabitants
in almost every survey conducted in the Upper Volta. The number of artisanal
wells constructed by villagers themselves outnumber, by an estimated 3:1,
wells and boreholes created by Government or NGO-sponsored programs. As part
of a larger national rural water supply program financed in different locations
by bilateral and multilateral aid sources (para 1.05), the proposed project
would finance the construction of 60 new wells, the deepening of about 200
wells, the construction and equipment of about 150 boreholes all in the West
Central ORD, and two rural water supply maintenance brigades, one based in
Koudougou (West Central ORD) and the other in Kaya (North Central ORD) where
wells and boreholes were financed under the preceding projects.
3.22      In order to improve further the performance of the water supply unit
within HER, several important changes would be undertaken. First, all bore-
holes would be contracted out to private operators of which several are active
in Upper Volta. HER would concentrate on planning, programming and providing
technical control in the execution of such contracts, and on maintenance,
including training its own staff and village-designated volunteer mechanics
and supplying needed spare parts at cost to village communities. Provision
has been made for three-months training courses for three mechanics in neigh-
bouring countries with adequate facilities and for the training of a total of
200 village mechanics nominated by traditional chiefs and paid by voluntary
contributions by villagers and 200 women volunteers for health education. All
of the initial project year would be devoted to planning the program including
the carrying out of geohydrological studies, test drillings and the preparation
of tender documents for the boreholes program. An experienced rural water
supply engineer would be recruited to direct the program and to help HER's
water supply division to make the transition from being involved mostly in
direct construction activities to taking on a major role in planning and
maintenance; consultant services would be provided for initial studies and for
yearly evaluations of the performance of the program. Specifications for
pumps to be procured under the project would be based on the preliminary
results of a UNDP study currently underway (para 1.05). Government has given
an undertaking that it would submit to IDA for comment, proposals for a
national system of user charges for village water supply which would, at a



- 21 -
minimum, provide sufficient revenue to cover the maintenance costs of such
water supply facilities; Government has also agreed to put such a system into
effect by December 31, 1982. Further details of the 'village water supply
program are in Working Paper 7.
D.   Cost Estimate
3.23      Cost Estumares.  Total project costs for the four-year investment
period are estimated at CFAF 7,800 million (US$28.9 million) with a foreign
exchange component of 59.0%. These costs exclude import duties and excise
taxes from which Bank Group financed projects are customarily exempt (as
confirmed by Government during negotiations). Costs include physical con-
tingencies of 15% on civil works, and nursery and forest gallery establish-
ment and 10% on operating and maintenance costs. An allowance of 20%-30%
of the base costs of vehicles and equipment has been included to finance
spare parts. Costs have been based on prices prevailing in March 1981 and
price contingencies have been calculated by compounding the following expected
rates of local and foreign inflation:
Local Costs    %      Foreign Costs   %
March 1981-March 1982 1/          12                       8
1982-83                           12       (18.7)          8       (12.3)
1983-84                           12       (33.0)          8        (21.3)
1984-85                           11.5    (48.6)           7.5      (30.7)
1985-86                           11       (65.3)          7        (40.2)
1/   Expected date of Credit approval.  Effective compound rates
in brackets.
Such price contingencies amount to some 22.5% of base cost plus physical
contingencies. A summary of project costs is in Table 1 and detailed cost
estimates are in Annex 2.
Table 1: PROJECT COST SUNMARY
-----CFAF Million----  -----US$ Million-----    % of
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Base Cost
1. Land Development         1,191   1,268    2,459    4.4    4.7        9.1        41
2. ORD Support                 53       71      124    0.2    0.3       0.5         2
3. Credit                     357     843    1,200    1.3    3.1        4.4        19
4. Village Stores              39       71      110    0.1    0.3       0.4         2
5. Village Reforestation       51       57      108    0.2    0.2       0.4         2
6. Village Water Supply       241     609       850    0.9    2.3       3.2        14
7. Project Management         282     270       552    1.0    1.0       2.0         9
8. Unidentified               266     380       646    1.0    1.4       2.4        11
9. Total Base Cost          2,480   3,569    6,049    9.1   13.3    22.4          100
Physical Contingencies   131       187       318    0.5    0.7       1.2
Price Contingencies        588     845    1,433    2.2    3.1        5.3
Total Project Costs    3,200   4,600    7,800   11.8   17.1    28.9
%                        41.0    59.0        100



- 22 -
E.   Proposed Financing
3.24.     In addition to the proposed IDA credit of US $16.0 million equiva-
lent, financing for the project would be completed by a Dutch Government
grant of US$7.8 million equivalent; a loan from the West African Development
Bank (BOAD) equivalent to about US$3.7 million; and Government's own funds
amounting to US$1.4 million equivalent. The BOAD loan would be at an effec-
tive interest rate of 8%, since it would benefit from an interest subsidy
grant available for rural operations; repayment of interest and principal
would be in ten equal annuities commencing after an initial grace period of
3 years.  The Dutch grant will be administered by IDA under the terms of an
agreement between IDA and the Dutch development aid agency. The proposed
financing plan, which is set out in Table 2, provides for:
(a) 100% financing by the BOAD loan of the cost of vehicles and equip-
ment, technical assistance personel and civil works required
for the village water supply program (US$3.2 million), complemented
by Government funds of US$0.6 million equivalent for local salaries,
studies, training and the cost of the maintenance brigades.
(b) Pari-passu financing by the IDA credit and Dutch grant in the
proportion of 67:33 of the total cost of:
(i)  civil works:  including a headquarters building for RDF;
construction materials and supplies for land development
works, village storage sheds, and buildings required for
ORD training programs; and materials required for establish-
ment and maintenance of tree nurseries and forest planta-
tions (US$5.3 million);
(ii) vehicles and equipment required for: land development works,
ORD support services, rural forestry and overall project
management by RDF (US$2.2 million);
(iii) operating costs of ORD support services, HER technical services
and RDF project management services (US$1.6 million);
(iv) salaries and allowances other than for extension staff (US$2.4
million); and
(v)  unidentified projects (US$2.4 million).
These funds would be non-reimbursable grants to be administered by RDF.
(c) The IDA and Dutch grant to finance pari-passu in the same pro-
portions as under (B) above, credit programs under three main
headings:
(i) oxen and animal traction equipment loans to individual
farmers to be administered by CNCA (US$3.0 million);



- 23 -
Table 2: PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
A.   RURAL WATER SUPPLY                               IDA/DUTCH  BOAD  GOVT  TOTAL
1.   Vehicles and Equipment                                        0.4          0.4
2.   Technical Assistance                                          0.4          0.4
3.   Civil Works                                                   2.4          2.4
4.   Salaries, Maintenance, Studies and Training                         0.6   0.6
B. OTHER COMPONENTS
1. Civil Works:
(a) Office Building - RDF                           0.9                   0.9
(b) Construction Materials and Supplies
(Land Development Works)                       3.6                    3.6
(c) Construction Materials and Supplies
(Village Storage Sheds)                        0.5                    0.5
(d) Materials and Supplies for Buildings
(ORD Support Services) and for Nursery
and Forest Establishment and
Maintenance                                     0.3                   0.3
2. Vehicles and Equipment for:
(a) Land Development Works (HER and ORDs)           1.8                   1.8
(b) RDF and ORD Support Services                    0.4                   0.4
3. Operating Costs of:
(a) Land Development Works (HER and ORDs)           0.8                   0.8
(b) RDF and ORD Support Services                   0.8                    0.8
4. Salaries and Allowances:
(a) Extension Staff                                 1.2             0.6   1.8
(b) Land Development Works (HER and ORDs)           1.6                   1.6
(c) RDF and ORD Support Services                   0.8                    0.8
5. Credit for:
(a) Oxen and Animal Traction Equipment              3.0                   3.0
(b) Cereal Dehullers; Initial Stocks for
Village Stores                                  0.5                   0.5
(c) FAER                                            0.9                   0-9
6.   Unidentified Projects                               2.4                   2.4
7.   Unallocated                                         4.3       0.5   0.2   5.0
TOTAL                                              23.8      3.7   1.4  28.9
%                                                  82       13      5   100



- 24 -
(ii)  loans to farmers groups for the purchase of cereal dehulling
equipment, and for initial stocks of cereals and general
merchandise foe village stores, to be administered by RDF
(US$0.5 million) and;
(iii)  term financing for FAER to cover working-capital required for
the manufacture of animal traction equipent with such funds
to be managed on behalf of Government by CNCA (US$0.9 million).
Satisfactory terms and conditions of onlending to be applied to these credit:
programs have been agreed with Government during negotiations and are in-
corporated in the legal documents.
(d)  Extension staff salaries would be financed by the IDA credit
(US$770,000 or 37%) the Dutch grant (US$380,000 or 18%) and from
Government-s own contribution to project financing (US$0.6 million
or 45%) with the latter to be provided at an increasing annual rate
over the four-year life of the project. To ensure this, disburse-
ments out of the combined IDA credit/Dutch grant against this
category of expenditures would have an absolute monetary limit for
each year in addition to specified percentages of total expenditures.
The rest of project financing represents unallocated funds from the IDA credit
and Dutch grant (US$4.3 million), the BOAD loan (US$0.5 million), and Govern-
ments contribution (US$0.2 million).
3.25      Under the ongoing project, Government has encountered difficulties
in prefinancing project expenditures which are subsequently reimbursed by the
IDA credit. Government has therefore requested that an amount of US$750,000
(CFAF 203 million) representing three months expenditures on salaries and
operating costs and purchases of materials and supplies required for civil
works done on force account (all eligible for financing from the combined IDA
credit/Dutch grant) be advanced out of the porposed credit and grant to
establish a working fund. To this end, RDF would open an account (Special
Account) with a commercial bank; this would be a condition of effectiveness
for the proposed credit. During negotiations, Government undertook to ensure
that the Special Account would be operated according to procedures set out in
a supplementary letter and which provide inter alia that: (a) reimbursements
after certification of the eligibility of the expenditures concerned, would be
made directly to this account; (b) reimbursement requests would be accompanied
by a statement of the movements in the account since the preceding applica-
tion, certified by the bank in which the account is maintained; and (c) any
ineligible expenditures would promptly be made good by Government.
3.26      The IDA credit would thus finance 55% of the total project costs,
slghtly less than foreign exchange percentage of 59%. Combined external
financing (IDA credit, Dutch grant and BOAD loan) would cover all of the
foreign exchange costs plus 88% of local costs. Government's contribution to
project financing would be 5% of total project costs and local farmers would
provide labor for construction whose value, at the opportunity cost of labor
used in the economic analysis of the project, is estimated at US$300,000
equivalent.



- 25 -
F.   Procurement
3.27      The construction contract for RDF's headquarters building (worth
about US$0.9 million) would be awarded after competitive bidding in accordance
with local procedures acceptable to IDA. Such tenders invariably attract bids
from enterprises in the sub-region as a whole, including representatives of
several firms with worldwide operations. Orders for tractors, vehicles and
equipment (except animal traction equipment) and for construction materials
and supplies (with an estimated total value of US$ 6.6 million) would be
grouped whenever possible and any such grouped purchase order with a value
in excess of CFAF 25 million (US$93,000) would be let after international
competitive bidding following IDA guidelines. Other such tractors, vehicles,
equipment, materials and supplies would be procured after competitive bidding
in accordance with local procedures acceptable to IDA for orders valued
between CFAF 5.0 million (US$18,000) and CFAF 25.0 million and through local
competitive shopping for orders with a total value under CFAF 5.0 miliion.
Animal traction equipment worth about US$3.0 million would be supplied by FAER
which produces competitively priced equipment suited to local conditions, oxen
will be purchased by local farmers from traditional traders and credit would
be accorded only after a satisfactory health inspection by local veterinary
officers. In principle, goods and services (including those required for
unidentified projects) with a total value of US$9.9 million are liable to be
procured under ICB or local procedures with virtually the same effect; this
amount represents some 42% of the combined IDA credit/Dutch grant.
3.28      Construction of land development works and village-storage sheds,
and establishment and maintenance of tree nurseries and village forest
plant^ations would be done cn force account, with skilled labor and supervisory
personnel from technical departments (HER, DAFR, and ORDs) and unskilled
labor provided by beneficiary families. Total costs of such force account
works in the form of salaries and operating costs of the concerned technical
departments, is estimated at US$2.4 million. The rest of the combined IDA
credit/Dutch grant would finance other salaries and operating costs US$2.8
million) and credit for village groups (US$0.5 million) and FAER (US$0.9
million); a further US$4.3 milion would be unallocated. Procurement of goods
and services to be financed under the proposed BOAD loan would follow the
procedures described in para 3.27 applicable for similar goods to be financed
by the IDA credit/Dutch grant; and the contract for the construction of fully
equipped boreholes (US$1.3 million) would be let after international competi-
tive bidding. Contracts for technical assistance personnel required for the
rural water supply component, worth an estimated, US$0.4 million, would be
awarded in accordance with the procedures of BOAD which has however agreed to
give IDA staff the opportunity to comment on the experience, qualifications
and terms of reference of eligible candidates before the contract is finalized.
Using the procurement arrangements described above, prior review of contracts
for goods and services eligible for financing out of the combined IDA Credit/
Dutch grant would cover goods and services with an estimated value of US$13.8
million (71% of the total IDA credit/Dutch grant when unallocated funds are
excluded).



- 26 -
G.   Disbursements
3.29      The IDA credit and Dutch grant would be disbursed pari-passu, and
would cover expenditure items in the amounts and proportion of total cost
set out below.
Table 3: DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES AND AMOUNTS
US$         SDR        % of Total
Category and Description                  Equivalent  Equivalent  Expenditures
1.   Construction of Office Building - RDF       900,000       770,000       100%
2.   Construction materials and supplies
for land development works, village
storage sheds, buildings for ORD
support services and for establish-
ment and maintenance of tree nurseries
and forest plantations:                   4,100,000    3,480,000        100%
3.   Salaries and Allowances:
(a)  Extension Staff 1/                   1,100,000       940,000        55%
(b)  Other                                2,200,000    1,870,000        100%
4.   Financing for FAER                          900,000       770,000       100%
5.  Animal Traction Equipment and
Credit for Purchase of Oxen               3,000,000    2,550,000       100,%
6.   Cereal dehulling equipment
and initial supplies for
village group stores                        500,000       430,000       100%
7.   Vehicles and Other Equipment              2,200,000    1,870,000        100%
8.   Operating Costs                           1,500,000    1,280,000        100%
9.   Unidentified Projects                     2,400,000    2,040,000        100%,
10.  Working Fund (Special Account)              750,000       640,000
11.  Unallocated                               4,250,000    3,560,000
Total                              23,800,000   20,200,000
In light of experience under the ongoing project, it is expected that the
credit would be fully disbursed over a five and half year period (annexe 2,
table 2), or one year earlier than the average experience. The average
reflects delays experienced in start-up of new as distinct from follow-up
projects.
I/   These would be disbursed as follows:  90 percent of total expenditures
in PYI up to a maximum of CFAF 130 million; 80 percent in PY2 up to a
maximum of CFAF 120 million, 60 percent in PY3 to a maximum of CFAF 110
million, and 30 percent thereafter.



- 27 -
Applications for withdrawals from the credit account would be fully docu-
mented, except for local staff salaries and allowances, operating costs and
minor civil works, which would be submitted with certified detailed statements
of expenditures, whose supporting invoices would be retained for verification
by the project auditors and for inspection in the course of project supervi-
sion.
H.   Accounts, Auditing and Reporting
3.30      At present RDF keeps its accounts in conformity with the system
recommended for use by non-revenue earning enterprises in the six countries
of the West African Monetary Union. The system is satisfactory and RDF
accounts are, with a slight exception, very well kept. The one exception
relates to the way it accounts for credit operations: because RDF reimburses
ORDs globally for all operations carried out by them on RDFs behalf, out-
standing credit amounts due to FDR are deducted from amounts due to ORDs
on account of other operations. Thus the impression is created that RDF-
administered credit has a perfect repayment record. Under the proposed
project, RDF would be required to keep supplementary accounts showing the real
state of repayment by farmers to ORDs. RDF's accounts would be audited by
independent auditors with experience and qualifications and under terms of
reference acceptable to IDA. Certified copies of the audit and the audit
report, including an evaluation of the appropriateness of the accounting
system and internal controls, the use of the IDA credit for the purposes
intended, and the accuracy of summary statements of expenditures, would be
sent to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year. For reporting
purposes, RDF would be required to submit periodic reports to IDA, modeled on
present practice, as follows:
(i)  quarterly reports based on the progress reports submitted
to RDF's director by the projects supervision division which
focus on specific implementation problems and suggested
improvements (para 4.03 g);
(ii)  annual reports based on the continuous monitoring and
evaluation of a sample of subprojects chosen from each
year's annual work program (para 4.03 h); and
(iii)  the annual work program including selection criteria upon
approval by the IMTC (para 4.05).
In addition, at the conclusion of the fourth year-s investment program RDF
would be required to produce a project completion report. During negotiations
agreement was reached with Government on the accounting, auditing and other
reporting procedures described above.



- 28 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.   Subproject Selection Criteria and Project Cycle
4.01      Subproject Selection Criteria.  The success of RDF as a channel.
of funds for small-scale rural development projects depends on its ability to
select such projects according to principles which ensure their technical. and
organizational feasibility and their economic efficiency. To this end, it
has developed training manuals for use by ORD staff responsible for initial
project identification in which clear directions are given for the conduct of
a preappraisal. These good intentions have not always been realized partly
because the information demanded of ORD staff is frequently unavailable but
also because the work involved has been both materially and conceptually
beyond the capabilities of such ORD staff. Frequently, also, not enough
attention has been given to social factors such as land tenure arrangements.
The result has been that some subprojects which seemed faultless on paper have
turned out to be failures, the abandonment of developed bottomlands being the
most striking example. Under the proposed project, identification and apprai-
sal procedures for subprojects would be simplified and the use of selection
criteria would be the main mechanism of control during the preappraisal
phase.
4.02      The selection criteria would remain as under the two earlier projects,
viz:
(a) need as evidenced by a request from potential beneficiaries;
(b) effective demand as evidenced by a willingness on the part of such
beneficiaries to contribute in kind or in cash to the investment;
(c) technical feasibility which implies a design simple enough to be
realized by local farmers under the technical supervision of staff
of executing agencies (ORD, HER, DSA, DAFR);
(d) economic efficiency, which is deemed to be satisfied by a minimum
economic rate of return of 12% on productive projects and, for
infrastructure investments by a design judged to produce the lowest
cost per beneficiary; and
(e) social acceptability, which requires RDF to examine proposed
subprojects taking account of the larger social context to ensure
their acceptance by target populations.
To ensure that these conditions are met, RDF would redesign its identification
and preappraisal checklists to put more emphasis on social factors and to
obtain summary, verifiable information. Sample checklists have been developed
for land development works (Working Paper 1). RDF would also organize, at
least two times per year, training seminars for staff of executing agencies on
appraisal and supervision procedures. IDA supervision missions would, as far
as possible, be programmed to coincide with such training sessions.



- 29 -
4.03      Project Cycle.  For identified projects, the responsibilities of
RDF and executing agencies would remain unchanged except for the introduction
of a preappraisal phase:
(a)  Identification.  It is expected that there would be an increase
in the trend towards identification by potential beneficiaries.
They would seek the help of the executing agency to put the request
for RDF financing in a standard form which is currently used by the
RDF Project Coordinator in each ORD. For land development schemes
and village stores, ORD staff would be required to identify by name
the members and leadership of the group making the request and the
availability of affected land for cultivation by the members so
named. Similarly, for reforestation schemes, availability of
suitable land and the right of access of individuals to village
block plantings should be ascertained by DAFR and ORD staff.
For water points, it would be important that women are associated
with the request since they are the most frequent users. It is not
expected that this would create any social discord especially in
villages with demonstration activities where women have actively
participated in the choice and location of cereal dehullers.
(b)  Preparation, design, engineering.  On receipt of requests and
after putting such requests in standard form, ORDs would submit
the requests to technical services--DAFR for reforestation, HER for
water points, small irrigation, improved bottomlands and village
stores--who would proceed to detail the tasks required, bills of
quantity, construction methods, suitable species, etc. The detailed
reports would be sent back to ORDs with copies to RDF. For small
erosion works and simple bottomlands, the preparation task would
be the responsibility of ORDs themselves who have the staff with the
necessary experience.
(c)  Preappraisal.  This consists in executing agency staff (principally
the RDF Project Coordinator in the ORD and the sector extension
agent) rediscussing the technical design, construction methods and
social feasibility with potential beneficiaries and checking to see
that, e.g., topographical and hydrological conditions are as assumed
in the detailed design blueprints or that there are no impediments
to free access to developed lands or village woodlots for any group
of villagers. The object would be to obtain confirmation of the
commitment of potential beneficiaries and of local leadership struc-
tures both traditional and modern to the original request after it
has been given concrete form. ORD staff would be responsible for
this phase, but would call for the participation of technical serv-
ices staff (HER, DAFR) where there are particular technical difficul-
ties indicated. ORDs would send the complete documentation consisting
of the original demand, the technical preparation report and a report
of the preappraisal to RDF.  For irrigation perimeters and improved
bottomlands, HER would also at this time, submit copies of its
design for approval by the Panel set up for this purpose (para 3.08).



- 30 -
(d) Appraisal. RDF staff would be responsible for appraisal which would
be on the basis of samples drawn from the mass of requests for (each
kind of subproject and per ORD. Appraisal would involve visits to
sites of the selected sample, discussions with potential benefici-
aries, collection of data and detailed economic and financial analy-
sis of the sample of subproject types on the basis of the data col-
lected. For infrastructural projects (village input stores and
wells) a simple measure of the cost per beneficiary would be enough.
A work program per ORD and per subproject type, indicating execution
tasks both geographically and over time would be prepared from the
subprojects meeting the criteria discussed in para 4.02 along with
execution contracts. RDF would prepare work programs in conjunction
with executing agencies.
(e) Financing Approval. Annual work programs are submitted to the 'Inter-
ministerial Technical Committee (para 4.05) which gives its approval
with modifications as necessary. Work programs thus approved carry
with them the authority for RDF's director to disburse funds in
accordance with the terms of the execution contract.
(f)  Project Execution would be supervised by ORDs for soil erosion work,
simple bottomlands, village stores and reforestation and by HER and
ORD for improved bottomlands and small-scale irrigation. Technical
support in the form of periodic visits in the course of project
execution would be provided to ORDs by DAFR for reforestation and by
HER for land development works and village stores. For village
water supply points, all boreholes would be executed by contractors
under HER's technical supervision. Simple wells would be dug using
voluntary labor by villagers under direct HER supervision and with
the assistance of skilled masons under contract with HER.
(g) Supervision. Works would be commissioned by RDF with the assistance
of HER (boreholes, wells, village stores and land development
schemes) and DAFR (village reforestation blocks).  Project super-
vision would be the joint responsibility of RDF and ORDs. While ORD
staff would be responsible for seeing to it that assets created with
RDF financing are used in the best conditions, RDF itself would
confine its supervision activity to detailed examination of a major
problem (or a set of problems) encountered in the operation of
subprojects. This would be done selectively and the object wouLd be
to suggest practical improvements to ORDs and to ensure the carrying
out of such improvements. A priority area for study in the first
year of project execution would be land tenure security on irrigated
perimeters and improved bottomlands. RDF staff responsible for
supervision would also ensure that spare parts and small tools mnd
equipment required for some subproject operations are available for
purchase by village communities.



- 31 -
(h) Evaluation. RDF staff would be responsible for evaluating the
impact of project actions on the basis of continuous monitoring
of the sample of subprojects chosen at the appraisal stage (4.03 d).
For this purpose, it would design single-paged questionnaires for
each subproject which would seek to measure the evolution of the key
parameters underlying its appraisal. Such questionnaires would be
administered by ORD staff who would receive a briefing from staff of
RDF's Studies and Programming Division (para 4.04) both before and
after they are supposed to fill in the questionnaires.
B.  RDF Organization and Staff
4.04      Under the proposed project, RDF would be operating under revised
legal statutes which provide it with the legal authority to act as an autono-
mous institution under MRD supervision. Its major function would continue to
be the management, on behalf of Government, of funds destined for investments
in small-scale rural projects. The new statutes would also allow RDF to
provide appraisal, supervision and monitoring services for other such projects
sponsored by independent voluntary organizations, especially foreign based
non-government institutions which have a large volume of activities in this
domain in Upper Volta. RDF would be entitled to charge fees for these
services. Government would also empower RDF to ensure that such small-scale
rural investments are carried out under conditions which promote Government's
development objectives or at any rate do not contradict such objectives. To
this end, Government gave undertakings during negotiations that it would use
its influence to encourage independent agencies planning small-scale rural
projects to submit their plans to RDF for its comments. To provide back-
ground on the institutional evolution of RDF, Annex 1 analyzes alternative
institutional forms and the desirable characteristics which justify the form
ultimately chosen.
4.05      As at present, RDF's effective Board of Directors would be the
Interministerial Technical Committee (IMTC) chaired by the Minister of Rural
Development (or his representative) and including eleven other members repre-
senting key agencies. This committee is responsible for giving broad policy
guidelines to RDF and would continue to do so under the proposed Third Project.
In addition the new statutes also provide for a Standing Committee (SC) of IMTC,
consisting of representatives of the departments of DSA, HER, DAFR, CNCA and
RDF which would meet more regularly than IMTC--at least four times a year--and
which would be responsible for ensuring the most practical way of carrying out
IMTC's broad policy guidelines and also act as a tender board in the awarding
of contracts following guidelines required by external financing agencies.
4.06      There are, at present, four divisions in RDF which report directly
to the Project Manager:
(a) Studies and Programming which is responsible for appraising sub-
project proposals, preparing annual work programs and monitoring
the impact of RDF subprojects. It is currently staffed by three
expatriates: a rural engineerfinanced under a FAO project, a
Dutch Aid financed economist and a sociologist also provided
under Dutch Aid funds.



- 32 -
(b) Project Supervision headed by an expatriate rural engineer follows
up on all RDF financed projects. The division is made up of 2
teams, each composed of an agro-economist and a technical specialist
(agronomist or rural engineer). Project management has divided ils
geographical zone of operation into two halves for purposes of
project supervision.
(c) Training and Special Projects. In addition to organizing farmers'
and extension agents' training programs, this division also has
special responsibility for supervising development programs in
demonstration zones (zones pilotes). It is staffed by an agronomist
aided by a senior agricultural technician.
(d) Finance, Credit and Accounting which does RDF's budgets, keeps
accounts, prepares disbursement requests to external financing
sources and processes disburseamnt requests from executing agencie.s.
In addition, it keeps credit accounts for the pilot credit opera-
tions undertaken under the Second Project. This division is fully
staffed by Upper Volta nationals.
4.07      Under the proposed project, these four divisions would be streamlined
into three by the dissolution of the training and special projects unit. Its
training function, described in Working Paper 3, would be taken over by ORD
training units (para 3.10) aided by a training specialist in RDF project super-
vision division (para 4.08) and the supervision of demonstration and trials
under the proposed project would become part of the normal work of the same
division but with the technical support of DSA which would be given essential
logistical support to accomplish its task (para 3.12).
4.08       Existing technical assistance positions in FDR would continue to
be financed by France, the Netherlands and UNDP/FAO. The positions involved
are Senior Rural Engineer, Economist and Sociologist in the Studies and
Programming Division; and Agro-Economist, Agronomist, Rural Engineer and
Training Specialist in the Project Supervision and Monitoring Division.
Government has received agreement in principle from bilateral and multilateral
aid sources to provide such technical assistance and it is expected that such
personnel would be on duty by October 1, 1982. Should such technical assis-
tance not materialize, funds in the financing plan proposed in this report
under the categories of unidentified and unallocated would be sufficient to
enable suitable staff to be financed. For all these positions, Voltaic
nationals are either actively understudying the incumbent with the objective
of taking full responsibilities in the course of the execution of the proposed
project or have been identified as suitable potential replacements and are
being trained with funds provided under the present project which would be
supplemented under the proposed project. Only two expatriates are expected
to be operating in RDF in the fourth project year. Overall, there will be
only two more professional staff required for the proposed project compared
to RDF 2 in spite of the increased volume of activity.



- 33 -
V. TECHNOLOGICAL AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
A.   Investment Phase
5.01      The simple design and construction methods used for soil erosion
bunds and development of simple bottomlands have evolved from the experience
of the two earlier projects. The length of contour bunds does not exceed
200 m for erosion control or 300 m for simple bottomlands. At erosion control
sites, spacing of bunds varies between 10 and 50 m, depending on slope, with
the objective of achieving a 0.5 m difference of level between consecutive
bunds. Waterways between bunds are between 10 and 15 m. The design modifica-
tions (para 3.07) introduced for bunds at bottomland sites would be systema-
tically applied. Bunds and waterways would be planted with appropriate
perennial grasses and bushes to fix the structures. There is very little
purchased construction material used in such bunds. For improved bottomlands,
reinforced spillways and better designed intake structures would complete the
bunding system of a simple bottomland site for better water control. The
design of irrigated perimeters would depend on the topography and would also
be vetted by an independent panel of engineers and economists (para 3.08) to
ensure low cost and technical feasibility. Village storage sheds would be
built to standard specifications successfully used in the past. For village
water supplies borehole construction, requiring the use of sophisticated
drilling equipment, would be let on contract to private firms operating in the
country. For simple wells, concrete lining would be fabricated on site using
standard molds. Details are in Working Paper 1.
B.   Operating Phase
5.02      Yield increases predicted for erosion control schemes are not
predicated on the generalized use of purchased inputs (fertilizer, especially)
since this is justified only under favorable conditions, expected to be no
more than 50% of total area developed. A lower rate of fertilizer use would
have only a marginal impact on predicted economic results since without-
fertilizer outcome is still a high proportion of with-fertilizer results
(Working Paper 2). Fertilizer recommendations under such conditions would be
100 kg/ha of NPK (14.23.14). The demonstration program would test an alter-
native fertilizer dressing consisting of 450 kg/ha of rock phosphate every
fourth year supplemented by a 50 kg/ha application of urea as top dressing.
The basic increases in production, however, would derive from improved cultural
practices after bunds are constructed: seed dressing, timely sowing in line,
weeding and ridging. Two cereal varieties have shown promising results in
research station tests and would be tested at farm level under the trials and
demonstration program, one for the southern parts of the central plateau and
another for the drier northern zones. For maize composites, short-duration
varieties suitable for the intermediate zone between lowlands and dry slopes
would similarly be tested at farm level. For rice, suitable varieties exist
for flooded, rainfed and irrigated cultivation conditions and would be recom-
mended under the proposed projects. The total amount of seeds to be distri-
buted is modest (less than 25 tons per year on average) and would be exchanged
for farmers' harvested produce. These varieties respond very well to ferti-
lizer (100 kg/ha of NPK and 50-100 kg/ha of urea) which would be available



- 34 -
through the improved ORD credit and input supply bureaus to be financed under
the proposed project. Nursery and transplanting techniques for rice would be
tested in the trial and demonstration program. Labor availability would not
be a constraint: a recent study of a neighboring, similar ORD, shows peak
labor demand using improved practices to be less than 60% of available labor.
A summary of key technical parameters in land development schemes is in Table
4 and input recommendations, expected yields and output are summarized in
Table 5.
C.   Yields and Output
5.03      Yield predictions have been based on recorded experience in similar
schemes in the central plateau. The data currently available show very
large ranges for yield increases (e.g., in cereals after erosion control the
range is 25%-65%). Although the yield predictions used in this report are
based on the lower end, it is likely that improved availability of inputs and
a better organization of extension services would have the effect of increasing
average yields above the predicted figures. Increases in yield are expected
to be progressively attained as shown in Table 5, although 100% of areas
developed would be cultivated in the season following the completion of the
development works, as has been the experience. Total incremental output from
land development schemes is also shown on Table 5. Further details on
inputs, yields and other agricultural aspects are in Working Paper 2.
Table 4: KEY TECHNICAL PARAMETERS--LAND DEVELOPMENT SCHEMES
Erosion    Simple      Improved       Irrigation
Control  Bottomland  Bottomland  Gravity        Purap
Area (ha)                         25        10           20          20         5
Area per Family (ha)               1.5       0.2          0.2         0.2       0.2
Length of Contour Bunds (m)    200         300          300
Length of Canals (m/site)          -         -            -         200        50
Drainage Canals (m/site)           -         -           50          70        20
Concrete/Masonry Structures (m3) 0.1         0.2        120         950       15
Earthworks (m3)                3,750     2,250        3,000       2,200       800
Voluntary Labor
(man-days/site)              550        700       4,000       6,000    1,500
Hours of Tractor/Other Heavy
Machinery (total)             25         70        2,500       1,200       60
Direct Investment Cost
(CFAF/ha) 2/              47,000   161,000      840,000       2.20M    1.96M 1/
Cost per Farm Family
(CFAF) 2/                 70,500    32,200      168,000    440,000  392,000
Cropping Intensity                90%       85%         120%        145%     145%
Total No. of Beneficiary
Families                  13,400      3,200        1,200         400      400
1/   Includes pumping station equipment and protection structures.
2/   Civil works, topographic survey, design and supervision of construction.



- 35 -
Table 5: PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS; YIELDS; OUTPUT
------Rice (Paddy)--
Coarse   Bottomlands  Bottomlands                 Ground-       Vege-
Cereals  (simple)       (improved)   Irrigated   nuts         tables 6/
Seeds: kg/ha    16         80            80            80           100           6/
variety           1/    IR20/C74/    C74 &           IR1529-        1/
IRAT 10       VIJAYA        680-3
Fertilizer 2/  100 kg    100 kg          100 kg        100 kg       100 kg   50-300 u/ha
complex   complex +    complex +    complex +   complex  ea.of NPK
60 kg urea   100 kg urea  100 kg urea              depending
on crop
------------------------ (kg/ha) -------------------       -Mt/ha-
Yield
Ref yr    450         300            800            --        450          --
Y1      610         980         1,620         1,750        625         5.2
Y2      650       1,200         2,000         2,630        675          7.8
Y3      650 3/   1,500          2,500         3,500        675        10.4
--_________________------(mt)----------- -------
Incremental 4/
Output PYl        520          --            --            --         80          --
PY2     1,190         110             70            70       190           --
PY5     2,720         600           380            430       430          810
PY8     2,720 5/      700           450            530       430       1,450
1/   Initially local varieties, improved varieties under test.
2/   Compound NPK is 14.23.14.  Project will test use of local rock phosphate
and urea in place of compounds for cereals and rock phosphate for ground-
nuts. Fertilizer applied to 50% of cereal and groundnuts area and 100%
of paddy and vegetables.
3/   Assumes fertilizer need on up to 50% of area by third year of development
in yields of a site.
4/   Incremental output is after allowing for post harvest losses of 15% coarse
cereals, 10% paddy and 5% groundnuts.
5/   In addition erosiion control wold arrest present decline in yields
estimated at 5% per year on unprotected sites; effect of erosion control
measures would be to check losses equivalent to about 2,300 tons cereals
by year 8.
6/   Vegetables would be a mix of potatoes, green beans, onions, tomatoes and
cabbage according to area and market; seed rates vary from 0.34 mt/ha
tomatoes to 1.7 mt/ha for potatoes.



- 36 -
VI. DEMAND, MARKETS AND PRICES: FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Demand, Markets and Prices
6.01      Demand and Markets.  With the major exception of rice and vegetables,
most of the output from the agricultural production programs included in the
proposed project is expected to be consumed by producing families themselves.
The Central plateau region is, in general, a net importer of basic food stapLes
(millet and sorghum) in a normal year. In addition to rainfall conditions,
the low cereal output per capita is also caused, in part, by the migration of
the active male population leading to a high dependency ratio. The promotion
of village cereal banks would contribute to the development of alternative
market opportunities for such staples since village groups would have both the
financial means and the storage facilities to compete with private buyers soon
after the harvest. Rice and vegetables produced under the project would be
destined for population centers where demand is very high for both. Marketing
of local rice has been more difficult largely because it is available to
private purchasers in the form of bulky paddy which has to be transported and
milled in urban centers where imports (sometimes in the form of food aid sold
at lower than their value in international trade) offer severe competition.
Paddy farmers under the proposed project would have the possibility of offering
milled rice for sale thanks to the provision of rice dehullers on credit to
village groups; such milled rice also stores better, enabling sales to be
spread over a reasonable period. Total rice production under the project is,
in any case, a very small proportion of annual imports, less than 5%. In all,
project agricultural output would be disposed of without any major problems.
6.02      Prices.  Farmgate prices used in the financial analysis of project
results have been based on official prices for cereals and for others on
observed prices in Ouagadougou and regional markets with allowances made for
intra-seasonal fluctuations and marketing costs. These prices are compared in
Table 6 with official prices, recorded prices in Ouagadougou for February
1981, and the economic values calculated for tradeable outputs. As the table
makes clear, marketing is competitive enough that actual prices are usually
above official prices. These prices are judged to give adequate incentives.
Table 6: FARMGATE PRICES, MARKET PRICES, AND ECONOMIC VALUES (F/kg)
Economic
Crop                   Farmgate        Market  1/        Official      Value
Paddy                         63             97.5              63            106
Millet/Sorghum                50             77.5              50             90
Groundnuts (shelled)          54            133                54             65
Onions                        40            100               183  2/         40
Tomatoes                      40            156                79  2/         40
Green Beans                   90            150               120  2/         90
Potatoes                      75            125               n/a             75
Cabbages                      45            n/a               n/a             45
Fuelwood                       6             13               n/a               6
1/   Recorded data for Ouagadougou market, February 1981.
2/   UVOCAM prices in 1980 for vegetables; Ouagadougou.



- 37 -
B.   Financial Results
6.03      Farmer Benefits.  At the farmgate prices quoted in Table 6 and
on the basis of the yield and output projections in Table 5, farm and crop
budgets have been worked out for the agricultural production subprojects.
Results of the detailed calculations in Working Paper 2 are summarized in
Table 7.
Table 7: SUMMARY FARM BUDGETS
(CFAF)
Erosion Control         Simple        Improved         Full
A  I/   B  2/        Bottomlands   Bottomlands   Irrigation
Area (ha) 3/      1.5       1.5           0.2            0.2             0.2
Gross Return
Ref. Year       26,400    26,400           700          4,100             n/a
PY 5           32,300    44,400         14,500         51,400          84,900
Net Return
Ref. Year       24,400    24,000           450          3,500             n/a
PY 5            30,300    35,400        12,000         35,600          52,300
Increase over
Ref. Year        5,900    11,000        17,550         32,100             n/a
Labor Input
(man-days)
Ref. Year          105       105             5             12
PY 5               122       139            25             58              82
Incremental
Income per
man-day            347       324           578            698             638 4/
1/   Erosion works and no purchased inputs.
2/   Improved:  erosion works plus fertilizer.
3/   Areas harvested are smaller.
4/   Average return/man-day.
These results indicate increases in family incomes from project activities
ranging from 25% over without-project income for erosion control works with
no fertilizer use to 25 times without-project incomes on simple bottomland
development works. The absolute increase in incomes, while small in relation
to average family incomes in the central plateau, would still be considerable.
It is estimated that an average family in this zone earns the equivalent of
CFAF 30,000 (US$110) per year of which some CFAF 10,000 (US$37) is from



- 38 -
non-agricultural employment. This is about 65% of the national average. Such
a family, if it benefits from erosion control on half of its total dryland
holdings of about 3.0 ha and farms another 0.2 ha in simple bottomland devel-
opments, would increase its income by about CFAF 17,450 (US$65) or about 30%
at full development for an increase in labor input of about 35 days. Families
with larger holdings (about 7 ha) and a cash crop such as cotton on at least 1
ha (about 5% of expected project participants) would be able Lo do better with
increases in income of up to 60%. This is because they tend to have larger
holdings in bottomland areas. Per capita incomes would not, however, vary
much between families because of the positive correlation between family size
and size of holding.
6.04      Cost Recovery.  The financing of recurrent costs has been a major
problem especially in the rural sector (paras 1.16 and 1.18). The proposed
project addresses this issue by incorporating arrangements for user charges
in those instances where Government agreement has been obtained for such
charges in comparable circumstances in earlier Bank Group projects. In one
instance, rural water supply, the project would initiate a national policy of
user charges which would be amended in the light of the results of the study
now being undertaken with UNDP financing (para 1.05). Cost recovery arrange--
ments involve:
(i) Irrigated perimeters: Government is required, under the terms of
Credit Agreement governing the Niena Dionkele Project (Cr. 1013-UV
of 1980, Sec. 4.04) to establish water charges on water control
development projects nationally by December 31, 1981; to set such
charges at a level which fully covers maintenance costs and such
proportion of investment costs as is financially feasible for
farmers; and to review such charges annually. In the case of
irrigated perimeters in the proposed project a charge of CFAF
20,000/ha/year covers maintenance costs fully.
(ii) Village reforestation: National policy, confirmed during the
negotiations of the Forestry Project (Cr. 982-UV) calls for the
sale of seedlings at prices ranging from CFAF 100 for local varie-
ties of fruit trees to CFAF 200 for improved varieties; seedlings
for plants not producing fruit are to be sold for CFAF 10 each. A
stumpage fee of CFAF 200/m3 is also levied on transporters of
fuelwood into urban markets. Under the proposed project seedlings
would be sold and stumpage fees charged in the same manner and at
the same rate as for the forestry project; and
(iii)  Village water supply:  The study referred to earlier is expected
to lead to the elaboration of a national policy on user charges.
Without prejudging the results of this study, an estimate was
made during appraisal of the maintenance costs of a village water
supply system on force account. Under reasonable assumptions, a per
capita charge of CFAF 175/year would be sufficient to cover mainte-
nance costs fully.



- 39 -
During negotiations, assurances were given by Government that it would,
in the case of village perimeters and village woodlots, enforce the national
policy on cost recovery as agreed in previous Bank Group supported projects
and as outlined above, and, for village water supply, institute a system
of user charges in consultation with IDA and which would recover at least the
maintenance costs of such water points, at the latest by December 31, 1982.
The impact of the project on Government finances (para 6.05) takes into
account revenues derived from water charges on irrigated perimeters and from
seedling sales and stumpage charges.
6.05      Financial Impact on Government.  Project supported agricultural
activities do not, in general, give rise to crops which can be directly taxed
by Government. Furthermore, the expected use of fertilizer on part of the
land to be developed under the project would result in subsidy obligations for
Government. On the other hand, most expenditures financed under the project
are for creation of physical assets whose subsequent maintenance would be
borne by beneficiaries. The only expenses beyond the four-year development
period at the charge of Government which can be attributed to the project are
expenditures to keep ORD support services for training, demonstration and
nursery maintenance and on incremental extension service costs to complete the
training of farmers on land development schemes (para 3.05). The financial
burden (including debt service) for Government on the basis of these assump-
tions is presented in Annex 2, Table 3 which shows an annual deficit of about
CFAF 65 million (US$0.2 million) in PY 1 which increases to about CFAF 362
million (US$1.3 million) in PY 5 and stays around CFAF 265 million (US$1.0
million) for another eight years as Government repays the BOAD loan. There-
after, the annual deficit is about CFAF 125 million (US$0.5 million).
VII. BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.   Major Benefits and Benefit Distribution
7.01      The central benfit of the project would be to complete the develop-
ment of an institutional capability within Upper Volta for making sound
investment decisions for the promotion of small-scale rural projects and for
managing investment funds intended for this sector. The possibilities for
such investments have been revealed to be very large in the course of the two
preceding projects and their small size and simple design have ensured a very
high level of participation by beneficiaries. It is very likely that, given
the country's relative poverty, the existence of such a mechanism would
accelerate the flow of official development assistance.
7.02      The subprojects which have been identified in the course of prepara-
tion and appraisal would also have substantial material, if not always quanti-
fiable, results. Thus, village stores and associated credit for working
capital (para 3.15) would reduce the dependence of poor rural populations on
private traders and the parapublic marketing agencies. The village reforesta-
tion program would have a real, although non-quantifiable effect on the



- 40 -
preservation of the natural environment (para 3.20). The 410 water points to
be provided under the project (para 3.21) would respond to a basic need of
rural populations in that part of the country. Some 60,000 villagers would
have access to clean drinking water with consequent improvements in health and
about 17,000 families would benefit from land development works.
7.03      The distribution of benefits among villagers under similar programs
has generally been even; the major exceptions have been developed bottomlands
and village woodlots. Under the proposed project, the preappraisal stage
will particularly focus on the possibility of access to both village woodlots
and developed bottomlands for all persons providing voluntary labor in their
creation (para 4.03). Most project participants have family incomes below
the national average which is itself very low (para 1.01).
B.   Economic Rate of Return Calculation
7.04      Economic rates of return have been calculated for all land develop-
ment subprojects on the basis of prototype models (Table 4) and for the
village reforestation program as a whole. Direct investment costs based
on standard specifications have been compared with incremental output from
a typical land development site. Basic assumptions are: (a) 10-20 year
economic life depending on type of development and no residual values;
(b) villagers' voluntary labor for construction and maintenance costed at
CFAF 145, the estimated opportunity cost of labor; (c) full costs of required
extension advice as discussed in para 2.11; and (d) a 10-20% charge for design.
On these bases, economic rates of return for individual types of subprojects
are satisfactory as summarized in Table 8 and detailed in Working Paper 8.
The weighted average ERR for the land development subprojects is about 14
percent.
Table 8:  SUMMARY RESULTS OF ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN CALCULATIONS
Subproject                   Rate of Return
Base Case       Costs + 20%  Economic Life-33%
1.  Erosion Control               13               7               4
2.  Simple Bottomlands            60              49              55
3.  Improved Bottomlands          12               8               6
4.  Irrigation                    12               9              11
5.  Village Reforestation 1/    15                 -               -
1/   The whole program at an assumed price of 6 F/kg for firewood compared to
Ouagadougou market prices of around 13 F/kg equivalent.
Land development programs and village reforestation subprojects account for
70% of all project costs. No rate of return was calculated for village water
supplies, for which there is no accepted methodology; and unidentified
projects, whose economic benefits are expected to be similar to those for
identified subprojects.



- 41 -
C.   Risks
7.05.     The technical risks associated with the proposed investment program
under a third phase project are minimal largely because they involve well-
known and successfully tried techniques in both the investment and operating
stages. The major risk derives from the possibility that assets created
during the development period would be inadequately maintained either because
funds for such maintenance are not provided by Government (the village water
supply program) or because beneficiaries lose interest (as has happened in the
past with bottomlands). Several measures are envisaged which would reduce
this risk under the proposed project. First, works would be designed in such
a way that maintenance would not require skills, materials and tools not
readily available at the village level. For water points, financing is
provided under the project for the training of village artisans in the simple
repair and routine maintenance of pumps (para 3.22) and spare parts and tools
would be readily available for sale to villagers (para 3.03 d). Secondly,
instances of intended beneficiaries losing interest in a subproject because
they are denied their fair share of benefits deriving therefrom (village
woodlots and developed bottomlands) would be reduced by ensuring that no
investments would be made unless all participants in the creation of such
assets have fair and equal access to the ensuing benefits (para 4.03 c). In
general, the location of investments would be guided by the past record of
local populations in maintaining similar assets created during the first and
second projects. Tests on the rates of return show that if one reduces the
assumed economic life of project-created assets by one third, the rate of
return for the most sensitive subproject (erosion control) falls to about 4%;
for all others rates of return exceed 6%.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, Government gave formal undertakings on the
following major points:
(a)  credit for animal traction equipment for the purchase of cereal
dehullers, and of initial stocks of cereal and general merchandise
for village-group owned stores would be on the terms and conditions
sanctioned by the Central Bank, including interest at not less than
11% (paras 3.14 and 3.15);
(b)  water charges on irrigated perimeters and for village water supplies
would be levied in accordance with national policy. For village
water supply, Government would submit its proposals on user charges
to IDA with a view to ensuring that such charges are adequate to
cover at least the maintenance costs of such installations and
that an acceptable system would be put into effect by December 31,
1982 at the latest (para 6.04);



- 42 -
(c) title to lands benefitting from water control works financed
under the project would be transferred to farmers (or groups of
farmers) who have contributed in kind to the construction of such
work (para 3.07);
(d) a panel of three persons with experience, qualifications and
terms of reference acceptable to IDA would be nominated at the
latest by October 1, 1980 who would serve as a referee panel to
approve designs submitted by HER for improved bottomland works and
irrigated perimeters before such works are included in each year's
work program (para 3.08);
(e)  the credit and supply bureau of the ORDs in the project area would
charge a mark-up of not less than 7% of the value of animal traction
equipment sold on credit and that these markups would be reviewed as
necessary to ensure that they procure enough revenues to cover the
operating costs of such bureaus by the third year of project opera-
tions (para 3.11);
(f) steps and measures judged satisfactory by IDA would be taken
by Government which, inter alia, ensure the financial solvency
of FAER; provide FAER with legal statutes which would enable it to
function as an independent profit-making enterprise and ensure the
employment of suitable management staff (para 3.17);
(g) RDF would employ auditors with qualifications, experience and under
terms of contract acceptable to IDA and certified copies of the
reports of such auditors, including their evaluation of the appro-
priateness of the accounting system and internal control mechanisms,
of the use of the proceeds of the IDA credit for the purposes
intended, and of the accuracy of summary statements of expenditures,
would be submitted to IDA at the latest within six months of the
end of RDF's fiscal year (para 3.30);
(h) RDF would submit to IDA: quarterly and annual reports at the latest
3 months after the end of the period in question, and annual work
programs at the latest by November 15, of each year (para 3.30);
(i) RDF would prepare a completion report to be submitted to IDA at the
latest six months after the closing date of the proposed credit
(para 3.30).
8.02      It would be a condition of effectiveness for the proposed credit
that Government has opened a bank account for a working fund which would be
operated in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA (para 3.25).
8.03      It would be a condition for disbursements out of the IDA credit
for the working capital loan to FAER to be channelled through CNCA, that
Government has taken appropriate steps to improve the operations and manage-
ment of FAER along the lines discussed in para 3.17.



- 43 -
8.04      Providing that such assurances and conditions are obtained, the
project would be suitable for a credit of US$16.0 million on standard IDA
terms.
l



- 44 -                              ANNEX I
UPPER VOLTA
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.        In Upper Volta, small rural projects encompassing the physical
creation and efficient operation of both productive assets and rural infra-
structure, are sponsored (identified, planned for, financed and executed) by a
wide variety of agencies. In 1978/79, it was estimated that at least 16
non-governmental organizations (NGOs such as Caritas, Save the Children Fund
and Oxfam) and bilateral aid sources were planning to spend in that year alone
some CFAF 2.2 billion (US$8.1 million) 1/ on small rural projects ranging from
irrigated market gardening to village dispensaries. The conditions governing
the financing and operations of such projects vary considerably, as can be
imagined. Wells and pumps on some irrigated perimeters are given as outright
grants while on some perimeters they are given on credit, again under differing
terms and almost always with poor repayment records. In the construction
phase, some projects require beneficiaries to provide free labor while others
offer payments in cash and in kind. Most of such projects are not subjected
to a systematic appraisal of their technological, financial, economic or social
feasibility. Above all, with the exception of small projects financed under
the Second RDF Project, there is no attempt made to follow-up and monitor
projects beyond the period of disbursement of project financing.
2.        An implied objective of both RDF I 2/ and RDF II was to improve
the planning system applicable to such small rural projects, and to provide
better financial control during the investment and subsequent operations
phases. Indeed, the achievement of the physical objectives of the two pro-
jects, i.e. increases in agricultural production and the rural standard of
living in general, depended on the evolution of a rational planning system and
an efficient financing mechanism; this is recognised explicitly in both
appraisal reports (paras 5.08-5.12 for the First Project, which discusses
subproject selection procedures and criteria, and Annex 9 for the Second,
which deals with the same subject). Already under the First Project, there
was a recognition that such improvements should apply to all small rural
projects and the Bank had obtained vague assurances from Government to this
effect (para 5.18 of Appraisal Report). Finally, tha completion report on the
First project in its last paragraph (47) summarized the main issue posed by
the project:
1/   This is the equivalent of 48% of the Government's capital budget in
1977/78. Total NGO aid was CFAF 3.2 billion (US$11.9 million).
2/   When used with a Roman numeral prefix, refers to project, otherwise
the institution is intended.



- 45 -                              ANNEX I
(a) "should the organizational structure of the Rural Development
Fund be strengthened and should it be given autonomy .......
(b) "or should the functions temporarily assumed by RDF be transferred
to already existing institutions which would then be reorganized and
reinforced".
3.        A major objective of the proposed Third project would be to accom-
plish the first of the two alternatives posed above and to expand RDF's
responsibilities to include performing all or any of the following functions:
appraisal, financial control and monitoring for small rural projects spon-
sored by NGOs and bilateral aid. The rest of this Annex will consider, in
turn, alternative institutional forms for RDF; its present organization,staff-
ing and operating procedures; proposed changes and overall management proce-
dures for RDF 3; and the cost and financial implications of these changes.
B. RDF: "AUTONOMOUS INSTITUTION OR PROJECT"
4.        The opportunity for development through investments in small
scale projects in Upper Volta is adequately testified to, not only through
the success of the first and second RDF projects but also by the volume
of such activities undertaken with financing provided by NGOs and bilateral
aid sources (para 1 above). The level of economic development justifies
it: with Upper Volta's limited natural resource base, it is essential that
the contribution of its human resources should be maximized. Since the
bulk of this population is rural and possesses a generally low level of
education, small, simply-designed rural investments have the best chance of
ensuring high levels of participation by this population. In the specific
case of the central plateau, with its high population density (44 inh./km2
compared to the national average of 20 inh./km2) and its rapidly deterior-
ating soils, it is particularly urgent to pursue a program of small-scale
rural investments since no reliable technical solutions are available which
can be applied under a mass action program. The question then is not whether,
but how, such investments should be planned and managed.
5.        At present, the three alternative ways of organizing the planning,
financial management and monitoring of small rural projects are:
(a) a special service in the Ministry of Rural Development: If the
problem of the persistent lack of operating funds for Government
departments could be overcome, and if the functions were to be
confined strictly to the formulation of policy, and project
appraisal and monitoring this would be the ideal. Policy formula-
tion rightly belongs in the Ministry. The skills required for
project appraisal and monitoring are needed not only for small-
scale rural projects but for all agricultural and rural sector
projects and should be centralized as far as is possible. But by
far the most important function of the kind of organization proposed
is the management of investment funds. And this, Government depart-
ments are notoriously inefficient at doing. Autonomy, flexibility



- 46 -                             ANNEX I
and an ability to respond rapidly to changing conditions are neces-
sary conditions for the successful management of such projects. The
appraisal mission is fully persuaded that no conceivable reorganiza-
tion of the Ministry of Rural Development will ensure that any of
its centralized services would have these characteristics.
(b)   a "Project":
It was presumably to ensure that these same characteristics were
maintained that the Government and the Bank Group agreed in the
first instance to create an "ad-hoc" entity, the Rural Development
Fund, to manage the first project. In the beginning, because it was
attached to another body which had a legal existence, namely the BND
(The National Development Bank), there was no ambiguity in the
status of RDF: in effect a special department was created within aLn
existing bank to manage a series of investment activities. It was
clear even then that this could only be a temporary solution. The
situation now is that RDF is not part of BND, contrary to the
requirements of the Credit Agreement of the Second project (Section
). The project director is responsible to a committee nominally
chaired by the Minister of Rural Development. Since it has as yet
no statutes, it would need to be "created again" theoretically, on
each occasion that it is called upon to manage investment funds
either local or foreign. This is unnecessarily cumbersome. Already,
the implied threat of the imminent disappearance of the institution
diminishes its effectiveness in dealing with other public agencies.
It is also possible that potential external donors, in search of
efficient and reliable local institutions which can manage their aid
funds, have been deferred by the notion that RDF is only a project
whose continued existence is not guaranteed.
(c) An autonomous Institution
The case for an autonomous body rests on the assumption discussed
above (para 1), that small rural projects constitute an essential
part of any development strategy for Upper Volta, and that such
specific actions, limited in time and geographically scattered, will
continue to be needed. The regional development agencies (ORDs) are
executing agencies which do not have much capacity for carrying out
their assigned duties; it is even less likely that they can assume
more responsibilities for planning and project monitoring. It is
also inconceivable that they themselves could have administered the
lines of credit that they have used so effectively under the first
and second RDF projects. Only an autonomous body, as RDF in its
present form of an autonomous albeit ephemeral instituiton has amply
demonstrated, can have the attributes - flexibility, rapid response
capability, financial independence - which are necessary for the
successful management of a program of investments whose exact
content, size and location cannot be predetermined with precision.
The ultimate responsibility of such an institution to MRD can
be maintained side-by-side with a large degree of freedom of
manoeuvre in its day-to-day operations within a clearly defined
framework established in advance.



- 47 -                              ANNEX I
C. PRESENT ORGANIZATION
6.        RDF's present internal organization and staffing are dictated
by the requirements of the Credit Agreement governing the second project
and such modifications as have subsequently been agreed between the Bank
Group and project management. There are at present four divisions which
report directly to the Project Manager:
(a)  Studies and Programming which is responsible for appraising sub-
project proposals submitted by ORD and HER (the Department of
Rural Engineering) and preparing annual work programs in agree-
ment with ORD directors for the geographical zones concerned.
It also has responsibility for monitoring the impact of RDF sub-
projects and preparing annual reports. It is currently staffed
by three expatriates: a rural engineer financed under a FAO project,
a Dutch-aid financed economist and a sociologist, also provided
under Dutch-aid funds. This group was largely responsible for
putting together the preparation report for the proposed third
project;
(b)  Project Supervision headed by an expatriate Rural Engineer follows
up on all RDF financed projects, including the commissioning of
works, logistical support to ORDs and the preparation of progress
reports. The division is made up of 2 teams, each composed of an
agro-economist and a technical specialist (agronomist or rural
engineer). Project management has divided its geographical zone of
operation into two halves for purposes of project supervision;
(c)  Training and Special Projects.  In addition to organizing farmers'
and extension agents training programs, this divison also has
special responsibility for supervising development programs in
demonstration zones, (zones pilotes) which are in effect selected
villages where new techniques are tested and which because of the
combined effect of the variety of progress undertaken, serve as the
point of training for other farmers in the general area. It is
staffed by an agronomist aided by a senior agricultural technician;
and
(d)  Finance, Credit and Accounting which does RDF's budgets, keeps
accounts, prepares disbursement requests to external financing
sources and processes disbursement requests from executing agen-
cies. In addition, it keeps credit accounts for the pilot credit
operations undertaken under the Second project. This division is
fully staffed by Upper Volta nationals.



-48 -                               ANNEX I
D. EVOLUTION OF MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
7.         Institutional changes:  If RDF were to have its role expanded
along the lines described below, it would be desirable to establish it
legally as an independent public body under the supervision of the Ministry of
Rural Development. The formalization of RDF's legal basis for existence in
this manner would essentially remedy an anomaly whereby RDF, unlike numerous
and diverse organizations under the "tutelle" of MRD (e.g. CNCA, A.V.V.,
UVOCAM) operates with outdated legal statutes. The legal instrument embodying
the establishment and operations of RDF should deal, inter alia, with:
(a)  responsibilities:  Apart from confirming the legal authority
of RDF to accept, on behalf of Government, and manage funds intended
for small-scale rural projects' RDF would also be given (non exclu-
sive) legal authority to ensure that such projects planned for
execution by other agencies meet Government's broad development
objectives. To fulfil this objective, Government would use its
influence to encourage sponsors of such projects to use the services
of RDF for some or all of the functions of appraisal, financial
control, and monitoring and supervision that their projects might
require. In particular all non-governmental organizations with
operations in Upper Volta would be required to solicit RDF's comments
on their planned operations before they commence. Such plans wou:Ld
be presumed to have the approval of RDF eight weeks after their
submission unless RDF responds otherwise in writing before the
expiry of this period. RDF's suggestions for modifications in
any such small-scale project would not be binding on the sponsoring
body. RDF would, however, report any gross departures from national
development priorities and objectives in a quarterly report to MRI).
(b)  finances:  Apart from investment funds from whatever source which it
would manage, RDF would receive Government budgetary allocations to
cover (i) the salaries of confirmed civil servants on its staff (as
is the case at present), (ii) normal operating costs of RDF inclucing
the services of an independent auditor (see 7e below), and (iii)
Government's contribution to projects managed by RDF and co-financed
from other sources. It would also be empowered to receive fees from
agencies which request and use its services for project appraisal,
supervison, monitoring and evaluation or for management of investment
funds.
(c)  relationship with executing agencies:  RDF would rely on existing
Government agencies and voluntary associations (e.g. cooperatives)
for the execution of all investment programs under its management.
For this purpose it would sign contracts of execution with the body
concerned which would set out the obligations of both parties and
specify the amounts and payment arrangements applicable to the funds
required for carrying out the contract. Some contracts, such as
with ORDs for the promotion of anti-erosion works development, would
cover several years, with annual amounts to be agreed upon at the
beginning of each year.



- 49 -                              ANNEX I
(d)   governing body:  As at present, the effective Board of Directors
would be the Interministerial Technical Committee (IMTC) chaired by
the Minister of Rural Development (or his representative) and
including eleven other members representing key agencies. 1/ This
committee is responsible for giving broad policy guidelines to RDF
and would continue to do so under the proposed Third project. In
addition a Standing Committee of IMTC would be created, consisting
of representatives of the departments of Agriculture, Rural Engineer-
ing and Forestry, CNCA and RDF which would meet more regularly than-
IMTC - at least four times a year - and which would be responsible
for ensuring the most practical way of carrying out IMTC's broad
policy guidelines and act as a tender board in the awarding of con-
tracts following guidelines required by external financing agencies;
and
(e) audit: RDF's accounts would continue to be audited by independent
auditors.
Draft statutes are under preparation; they would be discussed during negotia-
tions and it is expected that satisfactory legal instruments providing for the
establishment and functioning of RDF along the lines described would have been
enacted before Board presentation.
8.        For the execution of the proposed Third project, FDR's existing four
divisions would be streamlined into three, by the dissolution of the training
and special projects unit. Its training function, described in Working Paper
3, would be taken over by the project supervision and monitoring division.
The demonstration and trials begun under RDF II would be continued under RDF
III but would become the direct responsibility of the Agriculture department
(Direction des Services Agricoles) in MRD which would be given essential
logistical support to accomplish its task (Working Paper 3).
9.        Existing technical assistance positions in FDR would continue to
be financed by France, the Netherlands and UNDP/FAO. The positions involved
are Senior Rural Engineer, Economist and Sociologist in the Studies and
Programming division; and Agro-Economist, Agronomist and Rural Engineer in
the Project Supervision and Monitoring division. For all these positions,
Voltaic nationals are either actively understudying the incumbent with the
objective of taking full responsibilities in the course of RDF 3, or have
been identified as suitable potential replacements and are being trained with
funds provided under RDF II which would be supplemented under RDF III. Only
two expatriates are expected to be operating in RDF III in the fourth project
year. Overall there will be only two more professional staff required for
RDF III compared to RDF II in spite of the increased volume of activity.
1/   Plan, Finance (2), Public Health BND, CNCA, the University, the Secre-
tariat General of MDR, the Agriculture and Rural Engineering departments
in MDR, and the Forestry Department in the Ministry of Tourism and
Environment.



-50 -                               ANNEX I
E. EXECUTING AGENCIES
10.       Physical implementation of identified sub-projects would be the
responsibility of existing Government departments which would be given
logistical support where it is required for carrying out the assigned task.
11.       HER - the Rural Engineering Department of MDR would have a major
role both in the rural water supply and land development sub-projects. For
water points HER would be responsible for planning, programming and technical
control.  In addition, it would directly carry out well maintenance activities
and deepen some 200 wells using force account. A greater emphasis would be
placed on advisory functions than on executive ones. Thus HER would be
responsible for contracting for hydrogeological studies in advance of the
establishment of each year's construction program, preparing tender documents
and evaluating bids for the construction of boreholes by private contractors,
training its own and village mechanics, and providing technical guidance to
contractors.
12.       For the land development sub-project, HER would be responsible for
engineering and design work as well as for technical supervision of irrigated
perimeters. It would continue to provide technical support to ORDs and
help RDF to commission all finished structures. In the Dori area, where
an experimental wind erosion control program is planned, HER staff would
supervise closely both the construction and operational phases. The role
of HER in implementation of land development works under RDF III would be
much more active than before largely because of the introduction of watershed
planning methods (see Working Paper 1). As a consequence, the topographic
brigades (2 teams) in HER financed under RDF II would be maintained at least
through PY3. Otherwise, it is not intended that HER should have an active
role beyond the engineering and design stage and in the course of project
supervision special attention would be given to the division of labor in land
development works between HER andthe individual ORDs.
13.       ORDs:  As under RDF II, ORDs would be responsible for supervising
land development works, construction of village stores and cereal banks,
credit distribution and recovery, woodlot planting and maintenance, farmer
training, and demonstration of new technology. In each of these areas,
they would be supervising work done by farmers based on technical "blueprints"
produced by the central services of MDR. These centralized services would
also provide periodic technical supervision as appropriate: HER for land
development; DSA for trials and demonstration; the Forestry Department for
nursery establishment and woodlot plantation; and CNCA for credit operations.
All this would be based on the practices and procedures fully tested under
RDF I and RDF II. In the area of initial sub-project identification, for
which ORDs have had and will continue to have, the major responsibility,
stricter criteria would be introduced through the use of pre-appraisal check-
lists which would require ORDs to list and evaluate the major factors which
need to be considered before the investment decision is made. A model check-
list has been developed for land development sub-projects and is at Working
Paper 1. Similar check-lists would be developed gradually during the project
investment period for all sub-projects. This should greatly simplify the



- 51 -                              ANNEX I
appraisal task which RDF would undertake each year prior to establishing its
annual investment program; it would also greatly increase the chances of
picking successful projects, especially bottomland development works.
14.       CNCA:  would keep credit accounts for animal-traction equipment
loans and supervise the work of the ORD credit units which would be reinforced
under RDF III (Working Paper 4).
Costs
15.       Annex 1 presents the details of project management costs which are
summarized below:
CFAF Million
Construction of RDF Headquarters                     209.7
Vehicles and Equipment                                59.5
Salaries and Allowances                              171.2
Other Operating Costs                                111.0
551.4
16.       At price levels expected to prevail in PY4, the recurrent costs
associated with project management would be about CFAF 110 million or about
6% of total funds disbursed in an average year.



- 52 -
UPPER VO0'A                                                        ANNEX 1
Table I
THIRD RIURA  DEVELLORHE   FUND PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Management Costs
(CFAF 'OOO)
Monthly Unit Cost/    PY 1             PY, 2          PY 3           PY 4             Total
CoOt unitaire          AP I           AP 2            AP 3           A? 4
mensuel
A.     Salaries/Allowances
A.1    Director General
Director FDR  (1)                                        380             4,656         4,656         4,656           4,656            18,624
Personnel Officer (1)                                    110             1,320          1,320         1,320          1,320             5,280
Executive Secretary (1)                                  150             1 800          1,800         1.800          1,800             7,200
Telephone Operator (1)                                    50               600            600           600            6W0             2,400
Messenger (1)                                             37               444           444            444            444             1,776
Watchmen (2)                                              37               888            888           888            888             3,552
Laborers (3)                                              37             1,332         1l332         1,332           1,332             5,328
Driver   (1)                                              50               600           600            600            600             2,400
Subtotal                                                                11,640        11,640        11,640          11,640            46,56(
A.2    Studies and Programming Division
iEconomist (1)                                           270                -          3,240         3,240           3,240             9,720
Rural Engineer (1)                                        PM                -             -             -              -                  -
Sociologist (1)                                          270             3,240         3,240         3,240           3,240            12,960
Secretary (1)                                             85             1,020         1,020         1,020           1,020             4,t8CI
Driver (1)                                                45               540            540           540            540             2.16Q
Subtotal                                                                  8,040        8,040         8,040           8,040            28. 92C
A.3    Project Supervision Division
Rural Engineer (1)                                        PM                -             -             -              -
Agriculturalist (1)                                      270             3,240         3,240         3 240           3,240            12,960
Agricultural Economist (1)                               225             2,700         2 700         2,700           2,700            10,800
Rural Engineer (1)                                       225             2,700         2.700         2,700           2,700            10,800
Secretary (1)                                             85             1.020         1,020         1.020           1,020             4,080
Drivers (2)                                               45             1,080          1,080         1.080          1,080             4 320
Subtotal                                                                10.740        10.740        10,740          10,740            42,960
A.4    Flhance Credit Accounting Division
Chief of Division (1)                                    220             2.640         2.640         2,640           2,640            10,560
Accountant (BEP)  (1)                                    135             1.620          1,620         1,620          1,620             6,480
Accountant Clerk (2)                                     130             3,120         3,120         3,120           3,120            12,480
Credit Supervision (1)                                   120             1.440         1,440         1,440           1,440             5,760
Supply Officer      (1)                                  110             1,320         1,320         1,320           1,320             5,280
Secretary (1)                                             85             1,020         1,020         1,020           1,020             4,080
Storekeeper (1)                                           30               360            360           360            360             1,4440
Drivers (2)                                               45             1,080          1,080         1,080          1,080             4,320
Watchman (2)                                              25               600            600           600            600             2.400
Subtotal                                                                13,200        13,200        13'200          13,200            52.800
Total Salaries                                                          40 380        43-6p0        43 620          43,620           171,240
B.     Vehicles and Equipment
Directors Car                                          3,500   (1)        3,500                              (1)    3,500              7,000
Station Wagon                                          2,500   (2)       5,000                  (1)  2,500  (1)    2,500              10,000
Light Sedan                                            1,500   (1)       1,500                               (1)    1,500              3,000
Pick-up                                                1,850   (2)       3,700  (1)   1,850   (2)  3,700  (2)    3,700                12,950
4 Wheel Drive                                          3,000   (1)       3,000                                                         3,000
Airconditioning Units                                     pm             1,580                                                         1,580
Office Equipment                                          pm             6.000                        3,000                            9,000
Spares                                                    pm             5,500            700        2,500           4,300            13,000
Total Vehicles and Equipment                                            29,780         2,550         11,700         15.500            59,530
C.     Operating Cost
Vehicles                                               45-75F/km        14 250         15,375        14,000         12,625            56,250
Utilities                                                  pm            6.190          6,190         6,190          6,190            24,760
Materials/Supplies/Maintenance                             pm            7,500         7,500         7,500           7,500            30,000
Total Operating Costs                                                   27,940        29.065        27,690          26,315           111,010
D.     Civil Works
Headquarters Building                                    250F/m2                      187,500                                         187,500
Store                                                     30F/m2                      15,000                                          154,POO
Shed                                                      18F/m2                       7.200                                           7,200
Total Civil Works                                                                    209,700                                         209700
Grand Total                                                              98,100      284.93'5        83,010         85,435           551,480



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
UIpPR VOLTA                                                                 Table I
THllD  RURAL DEVII0  FUNP   PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Project Costs
(CFAF '000)
PY I       PY2        PY3        PY4         TOTAL      P.E.         (N)
A.   Land Development
i                            a.  Civil Works                                         208        210        218       216           852        682          (80)
b.  Vehicles end Equipoent                              302       103         35         58          498         423         (85)
c.  Salaries and Allowances                             222       237        225        221          905          -
d.  Oper-ting Costs                                      49        51         51         53          204         163         (50)
TOTAL A                                       781       601        529        548        2.459       1.268
B.   ORCR  Support Services
Bi   Trainine
a.  Civil Works                                         1.0       I.0         -                      2.0         1.0         (50)
b.  Vehicles and Equipeent                              4.7         -        0.5        3.7          8.9         7.6         (85)
c.  Salaries and Allowances                            5.0        5.0        4.7        4.6         19.3          -            -
d.  Operating Costs                                     6.1       6.3        5.4        5.6         23.4        15.2         (65)
Subtotal                                          16.8       12.3       10.6      15.9         55.6        25.8
B2   Credit Adoinistrstion
a.  Vehicles and Equip=eet                             7.4        1.4         -          -           8.8        7.5          (85)
b.  Operating Costs                   S.2                         3.2         -          -           6.4         4.2         (65)
Subtotal                                          1o.6        4.6                              15.2        11.7
:3   Trisis and D-sonntrations
a.  Vehicles and Eqnip,eent                             9.6       o.6                   7.4         17.6        14.9         (85)
b.  Salaries and Allowances                             1.4       1.4        1.4        1.4          5.6          -            -
c.  Operating Costs                                    7.9        8.1        8.0        8.0        31.9        20.7          (65)
Subtotal                                          15.9       10.0        9.4     16.8          55.1        35.6
TOTAL B                                           46.5       26.9       20.0       50.7       125.9        71.1
C.   Credit
a.  FAER Credit Line                                 236.1         -          -          -        238.1        190          (80)
b.  CNCA - Adoinistered                              147.1      186.3      265.4      222.4       821.2       533            (65)
c.  RDF - Adnisistered                                79.1       47.5       18.3        1.5        140.7       120           (85)
TOTAL C                                          458.5      233.6      284.2     225.9      1,200         845
D.   Village Stores
a.  Civil Works                                       27.5       27.5       27.5       27.5        11D.5       71            (65)
TOTAL D                                           27.5       27.5       27.5      27.5        110.0        71            ---
E.   Rural Forestry
.   Nursery Establishment                               8.0       8.0        6.4        8.7         33.1        21.5         (65)
b.  Plantation Establishoent                            5.8       9.0       12.4       13.3         40.E        26.3         (65)
c.  Vehicles and Equipsent                              3.4         -         -         1.8          5.2         4.4         (85)
d.  Salaries and Allowances                             5.3       5.3        5.3        5.3         21.2          -            -
e.  operating Costs                                     1.9        1.9       1.9        1.9          7.6         4.9         (65)
TOTAL E                                           24.4       24.2       28.0       51.0       107.6        57.1
P.   Rural Water SUDPly
a.  Civil Works                                        12       212.5      212.5      120          557.0       390           (70)
b.  Vehicles and Equipoent                             23.1      35.6       35.6         -          94.3        8o           (85)
c.  Salaries and Allowances                             s.6       7.5        7.5        7.5         28.1
d.  Technical Assistance                               16        30         30          4           80.0        hO          (106)
e.  Maintenance Brigades                               6         18         18         12           54.0        35           (6E)
E.  Other Operating Costs                             15.1        7.5        7.5        6.9         57.0        24           (65)
TOTAL F                                           77.8      311.1      511.1      150.4       850.4       609
G.   Proiect Manacemest
a.  Civil Works                                          -      210.0         -          _         210.0       147           (70)
b.  Vehicles and Equipnent                            30.0        2.5       12.0       15.5         60.0        51           (8E)
c.  Salaries and Allowances                           40.4       43.6       43.6       43.6        171.1                       -
d.  Operating Costs                                   27.9       29.1       27.7       26.3        111.0        72           (65)
TOTAL C                                          198.5      285.2       93.5      85.4        552.2       270
H.   Unidentified Pra)ect                                  1958.3    1'2.6      162.6      162.2        646.i       391.2
Total Base Cost                                     1,671.9   1,672.1   1,445.7  1,259.7    6,049.2    3,i69.0               (59)
Physical Contingencies   1)                            51.0     114.2       83.8       69.1        318.1       157.7
Price Contingencies        2)                        164.3      363.7      415.3      489.8       1,433.1      845.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                            1,887.2   2,150,0   1,944.8   1,818.4          7,800.0  4,602.2           (59)
1)  15 % on Civil Works. N-rsery and Plantation Establish-ent Costs; 10% or. Operating Costs, including cost of Well Maintenance
Brigades. An allowance of 1O0%- 25% of initial u-it costs have been included in bane cost of vehicles and eqciplent to
account for spares.
2)   For local Costs cbopounded inflation rates are: pv 1: 18.7%; PY 2: 33%; PY 3:  45.t and PY4:63.3%.
For foreign costs the c-rresponding rates are 12.3%; 21.3%; 30.79 and 40.2X.



Annex 2
9'ble 2
UP! VOLTA
TRE1D ENDL DEVLOPBWM FUND PRWT:.-
STAFF APPRAISAL EEPOET
Financing Plan and Diebursment Schedule
(CPUY lEAio.)
Pfl          PY2           PY3             PY4            TOTAL
I.  FIIUCII  PLS tCFAF  illio.)
A.   Baa wter SaWly
1.  Vehicles nd   uiTpment                               40.9         47.6          47.6            12.0           148.1
2.  kaheicel Aseiatance ad Consultants                   22.8          30.0         30.0             4.0            86.8
3.  CAvil WUrk                                           13.8        244.4         244.4           138.0           640.6
Fdmin.d by SOAD (100%)                        77.5         322.0        322.0           154.0            875.5
4.  Tom, Salaries, *erating Cnts
Staff Training N0ovt.100%)         19.2          23.9          23.9           23.3             90.3
B.   All Otker C     ents
1.  Civil Works
(a)  FnF Office Building                             -         241.5            -              -             241.5
(b)  Construction Materials and Suppliea          287.8        293.9         306.2          305.3          1,193.2
2,   !ielS S   d  Equip-t                               357.1         107.5         47.5            86.4           598.5
3.  qpevtiDg Cost,                                      105.6        109.5         103.4           104.3           422.8
4.  Credit
(a)  Anixal Tractin Equipment and Oxen            147.1        186.3         265.4          222.4            821.2
(b) Cereal procesBing equip. and initial
trading atncks-villsge groups               73.1          47.3         18.8             1.5            140.7
(c)  FAER                                         238.1           -             -              -             238.1
5.  Salaries and Alnwancee (other than
extension staff)           153.2        171.0         161.1           164.8           650.1
6.  Unidentified Proejcts                               158.3        162.6         162.6           162.6           646.i
SUB-TOTAL                  1,520.3       1,319.6       1,065.0        1,047.3          4,952.2
Flnomed by 100% by IDA    (67%)                  1,018.6         884.1        713.5           701.7         3,317.9
and buteb  (33%)                   501.7         435.5         351.5          345.6          1,634.3
7.   rteacnim Salaries                                  120.9        121.3         116.9           111.1           472.2
Financed by 1DA                                  72.9          65.o         47.8            22.3           208.0
Dutch                                35.9          32.0          23.5           10.9            102.3
Govt.                                12.1          24.3         47.6            77.9            161.9
Total Bae Cwts                                   1,737.9      1,786.8       1,529.8         1,335.7         6,390.2
Plus. Unallcated (Representing
Price Contingencies)            164.3         363.7         415.3          489.8          1,433.1
Of Wbich financed by IDA                              -            -             -               -            794.1
r Ditch                         -                                                        369.4
BOAD                             -            -             -              -             124.5
Govt.                            -            -             -              -             145.1
TOTAL I. TJEl COST                                    -            -             -               -          7,823.3
Bounded to                                                                                    7,800
TI.  DTIhAI   SCREWL  OF DIUSRShSES (IDA Credit and Dutch Grant - US$Millicc)
Calendar Tr.                   9                                                                                    1985                 1986                 1'987
Qsrter                   3            4          1      2        3     4       1    2    3    4            1      2       3    4    1   2    3   4              2     3   4
A,sout                 0.5           0.5        1.0   1.0       1.0   1.0    1.25  1.25  1.25  1.25        1.5   1.5    1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5  1.0  1.0   1.0  1,0   0.S  0.3
Cuyla1tive Dish.                     1.0                              5.0                      10.0                           16.0                 21.0                  23.8



UPPER VOLTA
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GOVERNMENT CASH FLOW
(CFAF MILLION)
P11        P12          PY3           P14           P15           PY6          P17            PIN          P19         P110O          PYLL          FY12          P113
A. OUTFLOWS...
1. Project Costs 1/                      1443.9        1916.9)      1660.9        1601.6         ------
2. P081-project Admin. 2/--                                           --                            45.0         47.3        49.7           52.1         54.7         57.4          60.3          63.3          66.5
3. Capital Renewal 3/----                                                                           28.7         28.7        28.7           28.7         28.7         28.7          28.7          28.7          28.7
4. Additional Extension Costs 4/           -                                         -97.0                       66.3        42.8           23.5        --
5. Fertiliser Subsidies 5/                 19.4          40.8         53.5          63.4           43.0          23.1        ---                                     -
Total Outflows                1463.3        1957.7       1716.4        1665.0          213.7         165.4       121.2          104.3         83.4         86.1          89.0          92.0          95.2
B. INFLOWS...-
1. External Financing .1/                1396.2        1831.9       1547.4        1440.9
(IDA)                       . (875.0)         (994.1)      (801.0)       (845.4)a
(Dutch)                         (429.4)       (484.2)      (388.3)       (398.9)....
(BOAD)                           (91.8)       (353.6)      (358.1)       (196.6)..                                                                   .--
2. Water charges 6/.                       -0.8                         1.6          2.4             3.2          3.2          3.7           3.2          3.2           3.2          3.2           3.2           3.2
3. Expenditure Taxes 7/.                     1.3          3.5           7.1         11.1            15.2         17.9         19.9          21.4         22.5          23.6         24.8          26.0          27.3
Total Inflows                 1397.5        1836.2       1556.1        1454.4.           18.4         21.1        23.1  ;        24.6         25.7         26.8          28.0          29.2          30.5
OPERATING DEFICIT 8/                   65.8        121.5         160.3        210.6           195.3         144.3        98.1           79.7        57.7 ;        59.3          61.0         62.8          64.7
(Before Debt Service........
C. -DEBT SERVICE                                        .-......
1. IDA Credit 1/                                          6.6          14.0         20.0            26.4:         26.4:       26.4           26.4:        76.4'       26.4          61.3          61.0         60.8
2. BOAD Loan 9/---157                                                                                                   140.; 106 146      .      143.:    94.f      149.6~        140.6         140.6         140.6
Total DbSevc-66                                             140         135.7           167.0.        167.0.      167.0  -       167.0:       167.0:      167.0   :     201.v   :    201.6          201.4
D. NET CASH DEFICIT                              65.8         128.1        174.3         346.3           362.3        311.3.       265.1 -       246.7.       224.7:       226.3         262.9  :     264.4         266.1
1/Excludes funds for credit operations but includes all contingencies.                                  6/ At CFAP 20 000/ha/year on irrigated perimeters
2/ For ORD Training and Research/Demonstration activities as at P14 level                               -71 15 4 on consumption expenditures equivalent to 25 7. of
with price increases compounded at S %< p.a.                                                            value of increased production.
3/ 25 7. of cumulative purchases in PYI-PY4 for aOR  activities as above.                               8/ For PYl-PY4, equivalent to Government contribution to
-4/ Numbers as per  14P3 Table 2 at CFAF 600 000 p.a. per extension worker                                  project financing less expected revenues from irrigation charges
plus CFAF 12 000 for supervision 1.                                                                     and general expenditure taxes as per Pn 7 above.
5/ Subsidy decreasing successively from PY1 level of 697. to, respectively                              9/ At 8 %/ per annum repayable in 10 annuities of principal and
60. 50, 40, 30. 20 and 0 in PY7.                                                                        accumulated interest after 3 year-grace period.



UPPER VOLTA
RID RURAL DEVELOI3FENT FUND PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Ecoomeic Rate of Return Celculation-
((FA2 '000)
---------------- A. ERlOSION CONTROL ----________               ------------- B.  SIMPLE BOTLADS ----------------                ------------- C.  IMOVED BOTTORANDS  __________-_                 --------- D.  TREIGATED PRODUCTION  ---------------
(0T25 -he)                                                         (1-0 -has                                                       ('20 h.)                                                       (20 h.)
ye-r          Construction      Extension      Maintenance       Net           Constrcti-n       Entens-ion    Msintnnceo        llnt          Costruc-tion       Eot-ntion     Msintenance       Net            Coltruotton       Extension      Mainten e         Net
Costs          Costs            Costs       Be                  Costs Costs  -nitt  -t  C ost s   C-t       B fenefit            Cn-tn            Costs           Cots       3enefits            Costt             Co.ts          Cots         B-enefits
I               1,1i4.7          169.3             8.-j         170.6            1,013.5           67.7            10.5                           16,004.0          507.9            110             -            37.423.2         1 015. 3         136.4           0
2                 '               84.6             8.7          210.5             '                33.l3           10.5      513.3                  '               338.6            110       2,240.3              -                6,77.2         136.4      2,684.6
3                -                56.4             8.7          244.6             -                22.6            10.5      688.9                                 253.9             110       2,985.9              _                707.8          136.4    14,597.2
4                                 4 42.3         118.7          281.5                              i 16.9         127.9      928.4.                 _               169.3            636       3,977.3              -                338.6        2,017.3      6,510.0
5                _                42.3             8.7          316.0                              16.9            10.5      928.4                  _              169.3             110       3,977.3              _                330.6          136.4      6,510.0
6                 --                               0.7          346.08                               -             10.5      920.4                                     -             110        9,977.3             --136.4                                    6,510.0
7                                                  8_  _  0.7   377.8             -                  -             10.5      9280                  _                                 110       3,977.3                                              i _  136.4  6,510o0
8                _                  _            118,7          40o.4             _                  -            127.9      928.4                  _                  _             636       3,977.3                              _             2,017.3      6,510.0
9                _                  _              0,7          405.4             -                  -             10.5      928.4                                                   1 _  110  3,977.3              -                               136.4      6,510.0
10                                                  8 _  0.7    465.4              _                  -             10.5      928.4                  _                  _             110       3,977.3              -               _               136.4      6,510.0
-         -             ~~~~      ~~~~~110  3,977.3     --136.4                                    6,5io.o
636       3,977.3                                             ,017.3      6,510.0
_                  _             110       3,977.3              -               -               136.4      6,510.0
-         -             ~~~~      ~~~~~110  3,977.3     --136.4                                    6,510.0
-     112        3,977.3                                              1  36.4    6,910.0
-       -             ~~~~~~~2,017.3  6,510.0
-   -           136.4      6,51o.o
-       -               1~~~~~~~36.4  6,510.0
-       -               1~~~~~~~36.4  6,510.0
-  .    -               0~~~~~~36.4  6,51o.o
_EM   Y RESULTS
ERR (t)                                                       12.8                                                         59.7                                                                 11.6                                                            12.2
SEtie.hlg Valoe-  (sO L -     Vst5t rnte
C-n,truetinn C., -                                         - +  9.7                                                 -F  245.8                                                              +  8.9                                                         +  14.9
Be.efit.                                                   - 8.8                                                      - 71.1                                                                 - 8,2                                                          - 12.9
Net Present VPaie (at 12% discount rats)
CFAF '000                                 159.7                                                      3,088.3                                                              1,534.3                                                         5,808.7
N            _       - % ef Pest Tests                          9.7                                                        247.2 0                                                                  9                                                             4 9



W  _                  l                                            ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.  N. _GER_ 
UPPER  VOLTA                                                                                                                     M A I
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT                                                                      -                                                                      d  ( N,.o
~~iK  UPPER    LT      IGERI
FUND  PROJECT                                                                                                                    - L ,RY
moS     HELNCeYOAST  K    t L
~~~~sso  Bobo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ib
Banfoo                   b  H   A   N    A                                          Third  ural DevelopmenFudProectAreaDor I  f v
14 l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O Mopt/     7/   /e
\AT ENGA   y                       r-,5                                                                   2
r >       hO~~~uahlgouya                                                     o          ts
K ABonforo, rY=<z>/   1  g5  G    H  A   N                         IAG   E        R ter Suppl  Maienanc  Briae
<   j    )  >   \~~~~~~~~~~ S   tGoouo}                                                          \.               I~~~~~~~~~~~-  sohyets, in mnillimneters
._.ug^n ,Kaya BX                                                                                 A/\ain Roads
@  B AfN  F O R A  g   C      A                                ~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS                               -      npaved                              o
MTo Ab,o o                                                                 0          50        100        150        200             /             Railway
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~e the. redrsohereotow,ch 2t a atihe   Te doorna,n  Jse  ~v  te                                      Rivers                                  -
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bs ar,eTsoBouna Os t ( h,s oap do st osetpiart,Z: Os th  prrat Ttoef the World fask asd ,to    -   OR D    Bonare
Ij V     l O J R Y     f       ST*                           asoaptaeoe of sooh bousdort,05 lttsofntettoantdtsXno                        International Boundaries       ~        
Io.                                        w2                                                                0v                                              2     aP f



