Document of             FILE Copy
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3233-UV
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TC THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
FOR A
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
March 9, 1982
Western Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - CFA Franc (CFAF)
SDR 1.00   =   US$1.18       CFAF 319
US$1.00    -   CFAF 270
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton    -  0.98 long ton (2,205 lbs)
1 hectare (ha)  -  2.47 acres
1 kilometer     -  0.62 mile
1 meter         -  3.28 feet
ABBREVIATIONS
AVV:        Volta Valleys Development Authority
BOAD:       West African Development Bank
CNCA:       National Agricultural Credit Bank
FAER:       Rural Equipment Fund
HER:        Water Supply Division
MDR:        Ministry of Rural Development
OFNACER:    National Cereals Agency
ORD:        Regional Development Organization
RDF:        Rural Development Fund
SOFITEX:    Voltaic Textile Fiber Company
FISCAL YEARS
Government: January 1 - December 31
Project:     October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UPPER VOLTA
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      The Republic of Upper Volta
Amount:        Special Drawing Rights 20.2 million (US$23.8 million equiva-
lent, of which US$7.8 million equivalent would be provided
under a participation arrangement with the Kingdom of the
Netherlands.)
Terms:         Standard
Project
Description:  The main objective of the proposed project is to follow the
successful process pursued under the preceding two projects in
further supporting and strengthening a well-managed and cost-
effective institution, the Rural Development Fund (RDF)--
responsible for organizing, managing and supervising small-
scale rural investments. The project would be executed in a
four-year period (1982-86) and contain funds for the following
sub-projects: (i) land development, comprising anti-erosion,
bottomlands, and small scale irrigation works; (ii) support to
the Regional Development Organizations (ORDs) for training,
credit and input supply administration and trials; (iii) credit
to farmers and farmers groups; (iv) storage sheds; (v) water
supply; (vi) tree plantations; (vii) project management offices;
and (viii) funds to finance small-scale rural projects to be
identified during project execution.
Benefits:     Beneficiaries of the investments are primarily the rural
populations i.e., (i) about 17,000 families will benefit from
the land development works, (ii) some 60,000 villagers will
have access to clean water with consequent improvements in
health and (iii) the village stores and associated credit
programs will complement the land development works to increase
agricultural production. A further principal benefit of the
project would be to complete the development of an institutional
capability within Upper Volta for effectively channeling and
managing funds affecting small-scale rural development projects.
Risks:        Technical risks of the proposed investment program are minimal
because it involves well known and successfully tried tech-
niques in both the investment and operating stages. Risks
derive from the possibility that assets created during the
development period would be inadequately maintained either
because funds for such maintenance are not provided by Govern-
ment or because beneficiaries lose interest. Several measures
are envisaged which would reduce these risks. Works would be
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
designed in such a way that maintenance would not require
skills, materials and tools not readily available at the village
level. The project provides for training of village artisans in
the simple repair and routine maintenance of pumps. Spare parts
and tools would be readily available for sale to villagers. In
addition, no investments would be made unless farmers partici-
pating in the creation of such assets have fair and equal
access to the ensuing benefits.
Estimated Costs (net of taxes and duties):
Local       Foreign        Total
…--------US$ Million----------
1.   Land Development              4.4           4.7           9.1
2.   ORD Support                   0.2           0.3           0.5
3.   Credit                        1.3           3.1           4.4
4.   Village Stores                0.1           0.3           0.4
5.   Village Reforestation         0.2           0.2           0.4
6.   Village Water Supply          0.9           2.3           3.2
7.   Project Management            1.0           1.0           2.0
8.   Unidentified                  1.0           1.4           2.4
Total Base Costs
at 1981 Prices             9.1          13.3          22.4
Contingencies
(i)  Quantity                0.5           0.7           1.2
(ii)  Price                   2.2           3.1           5.3
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS          11.8          17.1         28.9
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign      Total      Percent of
--------US$ Million--------       Total Cost
IDA (including Dutch
participation)         9.0        14.8        23.8         82
West African                1.4        2.3         3.7          13
Development Bank
Government                 1.4         -           1.4           5
TOTAL                11.8        17.1        28.9         100



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88
-    ----…--US$ Million----…   -- 
Annual                         3.0      4.5     5.5      6.0     4.0      0.8
Cumulative                     3.0      7.5    13.0    19.0    23.0    23.8
Rate of Return:      14 percent
Appraisal Report:   No. 3621-UW
Map:                 IBRD 16064






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA FOR A THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Upper Volta in an amount equivalent
to SDR 20.2 million (US$23.8 million equivalent), US$16.0 million of which are
on standard IDA terms and US$7.8 million equivalent would be provided on grant
terms under a participation arrangement with the Kingdom of the Netherlands to
help finance a Third Rural Development Fund Project. The West African Devel-
opment Bank (BOAD) would finance on a parallel basis US$3.7 million equiva-
lent at a subsidized interest rate of 8.0 percent payable in seven equal
installments after a five year grace period.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum; Upper Volta"
(2146-UV) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 14, 1979.
Information from that report, together with information obtained during
economic missions in June 1980 and May 1981, is incorporated in the paragraphs
whiih follow. Annex I contains country data.
Socio-Economic Background
3.        With a per capita GNP of US$180 in 1979, Upper Volta is one of the
poorest African countries and is classified among the 29 "least developed
countries" by the United Nations. The economy is overwhelmingly rural. Total
land area is 274,000 km2, of which 194,000 kmZ can be used for agriculture.
The physical constraints to development of the economy include extreme vari-
ability of rainfall, generally poor and easily eroded soils, few exploitable
minerals, and the country's landlocked position.
4.        The uneven distribution of population and severely underdeveloped
state of human resources pose major additional constraints to the country's
economic progress. Almost two-thirds of the resident population of 5.7
million (1979) is concentrated on the central plateau, which comprises one-
third of the arable land. The pressure of population on the plateau has led
to extensive degradation of soils in that area, resulting in persistently low
crop yields, and has given rise to large migration to the more fertile south-
west and to neighboring countries. Approximately 1 million Voltaics--over
half of the male labor force--is estimated to be working abroad, mainly in the
Ivory Coast. The 1 percent annual outflow of migrant workers has reduced the
net population increase to only 1.6 percent over the past two decades despite
consistently high birth rates. While resettlement to the wetter regions of the
country and emigration represent important means of improving incomes for many
individuals and should be encouraged, Upper Volta will continue to face a
difficult, long-range development challenge to raise the productivity of food
production on the central plateau where most of the population will continue
to live. Enhancing the economic opportunities for the population as a whole



- 2 -
will also require an accelerated development of human capital, including
particularly an expansion of primary education, which presently serves only
17 percent of the school age group. 1/
Performance of National Output
5.        Recent economic work has determined that real output of the primary
sector, which contributes almost 40 percent of total value-added, increased
by about 1.5 percent annually during the past decade, roughly equivalent to
the rate of population growth. This performance although modest, is better
than that of many low-income countries in sub-Saharan Africa over the period.
Cotton production expanded rapidly in response to the development of extension
and provision of inputs. Food output per capita declined slightly over the
decade. Because of the progressive loss in fertility of the central plateau,
the country has only been able to maintain approximate food self-sufficiency
through increasing reliance on the southwest, which has limited the resources
available in that region for greater cultivation of higher-value export crops
(mainly cotton). The livestock subsector suffered a severe setback as a
result of the major drought in 1974. An upward trend in production has been
apparent since 1975; however, the sector overall has shown no real growth in
value-added over the 1970-79 period.
6.        The official data on industrial production have recently been
revised and estimates of the trend in total output are still incomplete, but
the information available suggests that the industrial sector, which accounts
for 12-14 percent of GDP, grew no faster than population during the past
decade. The main sources of growth in the economy were construction, commerce,
and other services, with the greatest expansion in these activities reflecting
the substantial increase in externally-financed development projects which
followed the drought in mid-decade.
7.        In sum, the Voltaic economy held its ground during the 1970s and
some increases in per capita income were obtained from the tertiary sector.
However, the dominant features of the Voltaic economy -- continued overcultiva-
tion of soils under traditional methods, a predominantly illiterate work
force, extreme vulnerability to climatic variation and to international price
movements -- make it evident that the country still has a very weak basis for
sustained economic growth.
Balance of Payments
8.        Upper Volta's trade balance has deteriorated since the early 1970s
as the growth of exports, which consist almost entirely of agricultural and
livestock products, has failed to keep pace with the growth of imports.
Factors enlarging the deficit have included credit expansion and rising
domestic investment, which enhanced the demand for capital goods, coupled with
the rising cost of fuel and related imports. Until 1975, however, private
1/   As compared to over 50 percent in all low income countries in sub-Saharan
Africa. See Annex 1.



transfers, especially workers' remittances, and increasing aid flows kept the
overall balance of payments in surplus. From 1976 to 1978, the deficit in the
external account widened annually as the trade gap grew faster than the inflow
of official aid. The external account showed a temporary surplus in 1979 as a
result of loans received to pay off budgetary arrears and a buildup of external
funds in certain project accounts, but a substantial shortfall reappeared in
1980.
Public Finance
9.        Prior to 1975, the Government's conservative fiscal policies
enabled it to accumulate large budget surpluses which were reflected in
an accumulated cash balance of CFAF 9.3 billion (US$39.6 million) in 1974.
This pattern of tightly restrained expenditure changed in 1975 with an in-
creased commitment to investment and heightened spending on defense, personnel
and administration. Despite a doubling of government current revenues from
about CFAF 16 billion (US$60.0 million) in 1975 to CFAF 31 billion in 1979
(US$115.0 million), an overall Treasury deficit of at least CFAF 2 billion
(US$7.5 million) has appeared each year since 1976. This imbalance reached
CFAF 7.6 billion (US$28.1 million) in 1979.
10.       The sources of this increasing deficit in Treasury operations are
multiple: expanded investment expenditure, increases in public sector wages,
a slowdown in tariff receipts, and weaknesses in tax collection. The deficit
has been financed largely by drawing-down deposits with the Central Bank,
external borrowing (including assistance from the IMF and commercial banks)
and an accumulation of payment arrears to domestic suppliers, many of which
were cleared in 1979. The financial situation of the Treasury is complicated
considerably by the lack of coordination between investment planning and the
programming of budgetary expenditures. Moreover, the Government suffers
from generally weak financial controls as evidenced by a proliferation of
extrabudgetary accounts in the Treasury, the lack of centralized reporting of
foreign assistance receipts, and an inadequate review of budgetary requests.
The Government and the IMF are presently discussing an adjustment program
for 1982, the conditions of which include measures to strengthen the financial
situation of public enterprises, limitations on civil service salaries and
recruitment, and improvements in tax administration.
Foreign Assistance and Investment
11.       Gross domestic investment, which averages about one quarter of GDP,
is financed almost entirely by foreign official inflows. The planning of
development expenditure has consisted largely of compiling projects for which
donor financing is assured or likely. Although three development plans have
been prepared, the latest covering the 1977/81 period, the process of formu-
lating the investment programs has involved little evaluation and selection of
projects by Government based upon economic criteria and development priorities.
In cooperation with the IMF, the Bank has discussed with the Government needed
reforms of the financial management and investment planning process and a tech-
nical assistance project to implement them is presently under preparation.



- 4 -
12.       Despite the absence of a distinct investment program, foreign aid to
Upper Volta has continued at a high level, with both commitments and disburse-
ments of official inflows exceeding total budget revenues throughout most of
the 1970s. Most of this aid is on highly concessional terms. The principal
foreign donors are France, the European Development Fund, Canada, the Kingdom
of the Netherlands, Germany, the United States, the Association, and the UNDP.
13.       Foreign capital and technical assistance clearly have a vital role
to play in the development of Upper Volta. In view of the country's poverty
and limited resources, it is appropriate for external lending agencies to
continue to provide assistance on highly concessionary terms and to finance
a high proportion of project costs, including a substantial amount of local
costs.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UPPER VOLTA
14.       The Bank Group's investments in Upper Volta, as of September 30,
1981, amounted to US$145.6 million equivalent and cover twenty-one IDA
credits. IFC has one investment. About US$83 million have been disbursed.
The IDA projects include ten agriculture, four transportation (including one
supplementary credit), two education, two telecommunications, one small- and
medium-scale enterprise, and one urban development project. The IFC invest-
ment is for plastic production. Of total IDA lending, the agriculture and
transportation sectors account for 56 and 20 percent, respectively. Annex II
contains a summary statement of IDA credits and IFC commitments as of Septem-
ber 30, 1981.  It also includes information on the status of ongoing projects.
15.       A few projects have experienced implementation delays and world
price inflation has led to a number of cost overruns, necessitating supple-
mentary financing (the First Road Project, Credit 316-WV, US$4.1 million,
June 1972) or eliminating lower priority components. Financial control on
some projects has been weak. Future projects will address this issue by the
provision of further technical assistance and training. On the whole, how-
ever, past project performance has been satisfactory given the environmental,
institutional and managerial constraints within the country.
16.       The Bank Group's lending is in line with the Government's priori-
ties as expressed in its Third Development Plan, and will continue to support
the Government's efforts to: (a) increase productivity in agriculture, from
which most of the population derives its livelihood; (b) strengthen basic
infrastructure facilities through road construction and maintenance; (c)
improve the human resource base; and (d) mobilize resources from co-donors.
17.       In the near term, (FY82-83) Bank Group lending for Upper Volta will
include second phase agricultural development projects for both food and cash
crops for the West Volta ORDs of Hauts-Bassins and Volta Noire and a pilot
agricultural development project for the ORD of Koudougou. A second rail
project is envisaged to be executed with the Ivory Coast. Further envisaged



projecLs are: a hydroelectric power project, a third telecommunications
project and a technical assistance project to strengthen the Government-s
development investment planning, budgetary programming and control procedures.
In the long-term, an evolution and intensification of Bank strategy toward
Upper Volta proposes to combine our present commitment to the promotion of
food and export crop production with a new emphasis on agricultural research
and, development of human resources through basic education and health and
through the strengthening of aid coordination.
18.       Upper Volta's external public debt at the end of 1980 amounted
to US$508.0 million (including US$185.0 undisbursed) of which IDA credits
accounted for about 25 percent. The ratio of debt service to exports of
goods and services was 7.6 percent in 1980. Since most loans to Upper Volta
have been made on concessionary terms and a number of donors have recently
converted their outstanding loans into grants, the debt service ratio is not
likely to increase significantly over the next several years.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Sector Background
19.       Economic growth in Upper Volta is necessarily closely linked to
progress in the agricultural sector. Agriculture is the most important
sector, employing 80-90 percent of the population and comprising about one-
third of GDP and almost all exports. Yet the country is constrained by poor
agricultural resources. Rainfall is low and uncertain; soils are poor and
the potential for irrigation is economically limited, requiring costly invest-
ments to develop.
20.       Almost 90 percent of cultivated land is devoted to cereals.  Agri-
cultural production over 1961-79 has performed as well as could have been
expected given the severe constraints, but performance must be improved
given the growing population needs. Food crop areas, except for sesame,
have increased less than the 1.4 percent net annual growth in rural popula-
tion. Sorghum yields have, however, improved, reflecting in part the residual
effects of cotton fertilizer in crop rotation, as well as direct fertiliza-
tion. Consequently, sorghum production has grown more rapidly than popula-
tion, in contrast to the declining or stagnant output of maize, millet, paddy
and groundnuts--yet with marked regional differences. Cotton acreage expanded
rapidly until 1968 but has since then changed very little. However, cotton
yields have risen markedly, due to cultivation shifting to more fertile
areas and to the use of fertilizers and insecticides, coupled with extension
programs.
21.       Nevertheless, the country still satisfies all but a anall share of
its consumption of food crops from local production in years of normal rain-
fall. But this has only been achieved through increasing dependence on the
southwest as a source of food surplus, which tends to limit the resources
available in that region for export crop production.



22.       Irrigated production in Upper Volta lags behind its potential due
to the following constraints: high investment costs; inadequate price and
marketing arrangements for irrigated crops, principally rice; and lack of
experience in planning, executing and maintaining major irrigation works.
There is, however, a growing demand, both locally and in nearby export
markets, for rice, and a highly motivated agricultural labor force which
has demonstrated its adaptability to the rigorous discipline required for
irrigated crop production. Further development in the sub-sector will be
based largely on the result of pilot projects and on a master plan for the
Black Volta and Sourou basins which is nearing completion.
23.       Provision of rural water supplies is quite inadequate in most
regions of Upper Volta. Basic requirements are met for only 15 percent of the
rural population. A national water supply strategy states that some 6,700
water points need to be drilled or deepened to meet basic water requirements.
The main issues in this subsector are: (i) the high cost, fragility and
multiplicity of pumps currently in use or proposed for Upper Volta; (ii) inade-
quate maintenance; (iii) the financial inability of Government to provide water
at no charge to users; and (iv) inadequate attention to parallel efforts in
health education. In the absence of a national policy for the subsector the
rural water supply component of the proposed project can only address some
of these issues. UNDP has financed two studies which will, respectively,
determine optimum performance criteria for pumps and examine user charges.
IDA staff have been closely following both studies. Further sector work,
focussing especially on maintenance, is to be undertaken by IDA staff in the
coming months.
Principal Sectoral Institutions
24.       The Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) is responsible for agricul-
tural and livestock planning, organization and national support services.
It oversees several parastatals and the eleven Regional Development Organiza-
tions (ORDs), decentralized public agencies reporting to the Secretary-General
of MDR and supervised by Boards of Directors representing the local administra-
tion and population. The ORDs cover the entire country except for the areas
adjacent to the three Volta rivers, largely depopulated mainly due to river-
blindness, which are the responsibility of the Volta Valleys Development
Authority (AVV). The ORDs carry out a wide range of activities, such as
extension services, input supply, construction of small rural works, women-s
programs, cooperatives and community development. They rely on central public
services for technical activities, such as construction of feeder roads,
buildings, wells and irrigation works, which are, however, not always forth-
coming due to lack of central staff and inadequate operating funds. The ORDs
are also responsible for day-to-day agricultural credit operations, and will
continue this function while the newly created National Agricultural Credit
Bank (CNCA) will set credit policy, manage and control credit funds and assist
in training.



25.       The four ORDs (Centre, Centre Nord, Nord et Centre Est) covering the
central plateau, where most of the activities under the proposed project would
be carried out, are among the weakest in Upper Volta. Apart from investment
funds available under the second RDF project, their only other major source of
financing has been government budgetary grants which cover only salaries of
civil servants. In addition, lack of funds cause extension workers to receive
little logistical support and training. Government has recently received the
report of a national commission set up to study the functioning and financing
of ORDs. Its major recommendations are to (i) have the ORDs concentrate more
on increasing agricultural production and (ii) to institute a tax on all
agricultural exports and imports to provide ORDs with operating funds.
26.       Marketing of cereals is carried out by a large number of private
traders and by the National Cereals Agency (OFNACER), which has been estab-
lished with the objectives of assuring producer incentives, protecting
consumer income, and promoting regional equity. The agency's present opera-
tions are handicapped by a rigid policy of uniform pricing and of annual
buying and selling quotas; as well as by insufficient financial resources,
which make it unable to carry out its floor pricing policy and have led to its
almost complete reliance on food aid. While OFNACER has done well in distri-
buting food aid in drought-induced emergencies, its ability to regulate price
fluctuations between harvests has been quite poor. It buys only a small
proportion of marketed output; has high storage losses and ORDs, which act as
buying agents for OFNACER, lack transport and storage facilities. Without the
incentive of reliable markets and prices high enough to justify cash outlays
for inputs, the modernization of cereal production will continue to be slow.
One possible solution is to promote a more active role for farmers' groups in
crop storage, processing and marketing. Based on pilot actions begun under
the Second project, the proposed third project provides for the construction
and operation of village cereal banks and small cereals dehullers to further
this objective. Cotton marketing is satisfactorily handled by SOFITEX, a
joint private/public enterprise.
Sectoral Development Strategy
27.       The Government-s strategy in agriculture gives priority to national
self-sufficiency in fooderops by (a) improving the productivity in rainfed
agriculture through the ORD structure by provision of extension services and
inputs; (b) promoting migration from the densely populated and relatively
infertile central plateau to the more fertile and less densely populated areas
in the west and southwest and (c) gradually expanding irrigation and swampland
production schemes. In line with this strategy, Bank Group lending for Upper
Volta emphasizes modernization of dryland agriculture for food and cash crops
and land development schemes to expand the agricultural production base.
Bank Sectoral Experience
28.       Since 1970, IDA has financed ten projects in the rural sector of
which five have been completed. The Cotton Project (Cr. 225-LW, US$6.2
million, 1970) and the First Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project



-8-
(Cr. 496-UV, US$8.0 million, 1974) supported Government's effort to expand
food and cash crops. The Cotton Project demonstrated that an improved tech-
nology, within the means of small farmers, could be spread widely and rapidly.
The project's Audit Report noted substantial improvements in farming practices
and yields. The First Bougouriba Project after a slow start also achieved
satisfactory results. The Project just recently closed (December 1981). A
Project Completion Report has not yet been issued.
29.       The three other completed projects are the Drought Relief Project
(Cr. 442-WV, US$2.0 million, 1973) and the First and Second Rural Development
Fund Projects (Cr. 317-UV, US$2.2 million, 1972 and Cr. 640-UV, US$9.4 million,
1976). All aimed at financing small discrete works and physical assets using
the RDF to channel funds and control works and expenditures for activities
carried out by existing government services. The Project Audits described the
Drought Relief and First RDF projects as highly innovative and successful in
implementing diversified and scattered subprojects. The second RDF project
was completed in December 1981. It continued the development of bottomland,
wells and anti-erosion work.
30.       The remaining on-going IDA assisted operations in the rural sector
include follow-up projects: West Volta (Cr. 706-TN, US$3.6 million, 1977)
and Bougouriba II, (Cr. 1097-TN, US$16.0 million, 1981), both of which are
making good progress and explicitly promote rural development on a broad
front rather than focussing on specific commodities. Other agricultural
devnlopment projects are dealing with irrigation (Niena Dionkele, Cr. 1013-TN,
US$6.5 million, 1980); livestock (Cr. 557-TN, US$9.0 million, 1975); and
forestry (Cr. 982-TN, US$14.5 million, 1980). The Livestock Project is making
good progress in improving animal health. Due to organizational and other
problems, however, the number of ranches the project was to establish for
pastoralists has been cut from nine to three and the amount of the Credit
reduced by US$3.0 million. The Niena Dionkele Rice and Forestry Projects are
being implemented satisfactorily, although the swamp drainage component of
Niena Dionkele has run into serious technical problems of rice varieties.
Conclusions
31.       In assessing Upper Volta's agricultural development strategy,
sectoral constraints and the Association's experience, one can identify
three major issues which need to be taken into account in further developing
the sector:
(i)  Expanding productive potential by improvements in farming
systems and in the agricultural resource base:
Primary emphasis must be given to rainfed cultivation, and its
development demands investments in water and land conservation to
enable farmers to realize the latent potential of improved inputs
and husbandry practices;



- 9 -
(ii) Increasing the economic efficiency of food production:
More adaptive agricultural research is required to develop
economically attractive technical packages that can intensify
cereals production in parts of the country (central plateau) with
an unfavorable endowment of agricultural resources relative to
population; and
(iii) Improving Government's ability to maintain agricultural
investments and services:
To ease the recurrent cost burden of on-going and completed agricul-
tural projects, improved cost recovery and sharing programs must be
introduced.
32.       The Association has begun to address these issues through a number
of projects, e.g., the Cotton project introduced a tax on cotton, the Niena
Dionkele Rice Development project proposes to charge farmers for land develop-
ment, the Bougouriba and West Volta projects resulted in substantial improve-
ments in farming practices and yields and the Second Rural Development Fund
Project successfully addressed water and land conservation problems. To be
noted in this context, however, is the heavy cost of maintaining the present
ORD structure which can only be justified for those areas where economical
technological packages exist readily usable by farmers--such as are available
in the southwest ORDs where most of the Association's projects are located.
In other ecological zones such as the Mossi plateau the ORD structure is
probably premature since no readily usable technological packages exist which
can modernize production on a broad front. Government has begun to address
the ORD organizational and financial problems and with the Association's help,
is attempting to develop a suitable technological package through future
projects, as for instance with a Koudougou pilot and an Agricultural Research
Project. In the meantime, there is room for promoting productivity-increasing
investments which, through their simplicity of design and reduced scale, can
be brought within the management and maintenance capacity of rural communities
located on the Mossi plateau.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       The proposed project would follow the successful process pursued
under the preceding two projects in further supporting and strengthening a
well managed and cost-effective institution, the Rural Development Fund
(RDF)--responsible for organizing, managing and supervising small-scale
rural investments which because of their small size and scattered location,
would otherwise not be suitable for conventional Bank Group lending.
34.       The project was prepared in 1980 following Government's request
for continuation of the Association's financial participation in the Rural
Development Fund. It was appraised in March 1981. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. from December 16 to December 22, 1981; the Upper Volta



- 10 -
delegation was led by H.E. Tiemoko Marc Garongo, Ambassador of Upper Volta to
the United States. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Third Rural
Development Fund" No. 3621-UV dated February 24, 1982 is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Supplementary project data is con-
tained in Annex III.
Description
35.       The project would be executed in a four-year period (1982-1986)
and contains funds for the following sub-projects which have been largely
identified and which would be confirmed annually in reviewing RDF's work
program:
(i) Land Development, comprising engineering design services, equipment
and supervision for construction of (a) anti-erosion bunds to
protect about 20,000 ha. of dry land farms; (b) simple bunding on
640 ha. bottomlands to provide partial flood control; (c) earth dams,
intake structures, spillways and dykes to provide for complete flood
control and supplementary irrigation on 240 ha. of existing bottom-
land developments, and (d) small-scale irrigation works to provide
full water control irrigation on 160 ha. downstream of existing
reservoirs or from ponds and shallow wells.
(ii) Support to ORDs, for three key activities: (a) training of exten-
sion staff and farmers; (b) credit and input supply administra-
tion; (c) research and demonstration.
(iii) Credit, to Farmers and Farmer groups, for ox-drawn implements, oxen,
small rice dehullers, grain mills and initial stocks of cereals and
general merchandise for group-owned and operated village stores; and
to the Rural Equipment Fund (FAER) to finance working capital
required for the manufacturing of animal drawn implements.
(iv) Village Storage Sheds, for inputs or implements (ORD operated) and
for traded cereals or general merchandise (village group operated).
(v) Village Water Supplies, including 60 new wells; deepening of
about 200 existing wells; drilling about 150 boreholes; provision
of equipment and operating funds for maintenance brigades and a
stock of spare parts for pumps, which would be sold for cash to
villagers.
(vi) Tree Plantations, investments in 6 nurseries; in about 400 ha. of
trees to provide fuel wood, fruits and fodder; and the equivalent of
a further 160 ha. in trees to conserve bunds on soil erosion sites.
(vii)  Project Management, consisting of a headquarters building for the
RDF and other costs associated with managing the investment program
outlined above.
(viii) Funds to finance small-scale rural projects to be identified during
project execution.



- II -
Earlier Projects
36.       Like the proposed third intervention, the objectives of both previ-
ous projects were essentially similar--financing of small diversified and
scattered productive rural projects--but each subsequent project built on the
successes and failures of its predecessor. The Association's first project
(RDF I) showed the need to strengthen staff in the technical and executing
agencies, the need to assure maintenance of assets (especially wells and
feeder roads) and the necessity of providing credit to farmers. RDF II thus
included funds for credit and training programs and the creation of a well
maintenance brigade, but excluded feeder road maintenance for which a more
competent national body had been created with the support of the Associa-
tion's Rural Roads Project. Technical assistance funded by UNDP and the Dutch
Government under RDF II will continue under the third project. Implementation
problems encountered with the second project such as land tenure and land
development design difficulties are addressed in the proposed third project.
Special Features
37.       Under the previous projects some problems were encountered in the
design and operation of land developments (principally poor design of bunds
and dams which are easily breached and land tenure problems leading to aban-
donment of bottomlands by farmers who have contributed to construction but
are subsequently denied cultivation rights by alleged landowners). To reduce
such land tenure problems, assurances were given by Government that it would
formally transfer ownership of such developed land to farmers participating in
the construction (Section 3.04 of Credit Agreement). To counter design
difficulties, a small panel of experts would approve all designs for proposed
small-scale irrigation works and certain types of bottomlands (improved
bottomlands) before their inclusion in RDF-s annual work program. The panel
would consist of two engineers and one economist chosen from qualified profes-
sionals resident in Upper Volta. During negotiations Government gave assur-
ances that it would nominate people with qualifications and experiences
satisfactory to IDA to serve on this panel (Section 3.05 of Credit Agreement).
38.       Credit.  Demand for credit is high, but especially so for oxen and
animal traction implements. Funds would be administered by CNCA, to provide
credit to farmers for the purchase of animal traction implements and oxen, and
by RDF to provide farmers groups with credit for small rice dehullers, grain
mills and stocks for cereal banks and village merchandise stores. In the case
of CNCA, the funds would be administered for the Borrower in the form of a
revolving fund under a separate account; CNCA would retain a commission of 3
percent to cover its costs. RDF would similarly manage the funds on behalf of
the Borrower in the form of a revolving fund under a separate account; costs
would be covered under its operating budget. Credit would be granted under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.11 of Credit
Agreement). Interest would be 11.0 percent on outstanding principal, the
existing government rate accorded to loans in the rural sector as compared
to     recent local inflation of about 12 percent, but projected to decline
to about 9 percent by 1985. During negotiations Government noted the Asso-
ciation's concerns regarding the necessity of having interest rates cover
inflation, risk and administration costs and agreed that the issue needs
to be studied. The study is currently being undertaken by the French Caisse
Centrale (CCCE) under terms of reference approved by IDA.



- 12 -
39.       To help increase production, the proposed project also makes pro-
vision for a financial participation (line of credit or equity) to the Rural
Equipment Fund (Fonds d'Assistance a 1Equipement Rural - FAER), responsible
for operating a network of animal traction implement manufacturing and
assembly workshops. The fund was created with the help of bilateral aid
grants to promote animal traction use. Since its inception, FAER's operations
have had both technical and financial management problems. Preliminary
analyses indicate that FAER would need at least CFAF 230 million (US$0.9
million) in financial assistance as well as a new capital structure and
improved management. UNDP has already indicated its willingness to finance
the required technical assistance and the project proposes to assist FAER
financially and to use CNCA as the financial intermediary. Government
agreed during negotiations, as a condition of disbursement, to (i) undertake
steps, satisfactory to the Association, to ensure the efficient operations
and financial viability of FAER; (ii) appoint qualified management, and
(iii) establish FAER as a legal autonomous entity functioning as a com-
mercial enterprise (Section 3.07 of Credit Agreement).
40.       ORD Credit and Supply Offices.  Since the proposed project also
provides for credit for animal traction equipment, the ORD Credit and Supply
Offices need to be strengthened. Although an 8 percent mark-up on farmer
purchased inputs and equipment would be sufficient to cover ORD supply
and credit office operating costs, once full credit operations commence, the
volume of credit activities would initially be too low to generate financing
of 1.1 operating costs. The project therefore provides financing for part of
the operating costs during the first two years of operation. Assurances were
given by Government that an initial mark-up of 7 percent would be charged for
credit sales of animal traction equipment handled by such offices and that
the level of this mark-up would be reviewed and adjusted as necessary to cover
the offices- operating costs beginning in the third year of the project
(Section 3.06 of Credit Agreement).
41.       Cost Recovery.  The financing of recurrent costs has been a major
problem especially in the rural sector. The proposed project addresses this
issue by incorporating arrangements for user charges in those instances where
Government agreement has been obtained for such charges in comparable cir-
cumstances in earlier Bank-Group projects. In the Niena Dionkele Project
where Government was to establish and collect charges for water control
development projects by December 31, 1981, the Association has only recently
received (February 1982) and is now reviewing Government's proposals regarding
cost recovery mechanisms on a national basis. For the rural water supply
sub-sector, the project would initiate a national policy of user charges
which would be amended in the light of the results of a study now being
undertaken with UNDP financing. Without prejudging the results of this
study, an estimate was made of the maintenance costs of a village water supply
system on force account. Under reasonable assumptions, a per capita charge of
CFAF 175/year would be sufficient to cover fully maintenance costs. During
negotiations, assurances were given by Government that it would, in the case



- 13 -
of irrigated perimeters, enforce the national policy on cost recovery and, for
village water supply, institute a system of user charges acceptable to IDA
which would recover at least the maintenance costs of such water points, at
the latest by December 31, 1982 (Section 4.02 of Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
42.       The main institutions involved in executing the previous RDF project
have been (i) the Rural Development Fund (originally a unit in the National
Development Bank--BND), established to manage the Funds and to appraise the
suitability of sub-projects for financing; (ii) specialized departments within
the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR), responsible for planning, designing
and constructing sub-projects; and (iii) the ORDs, responsible for identifying
and preparing potential sub-projects and for their subsequent management once
constructed. All three institutions will continue to play the same roles
under the proposed third project. However, under the proposed project the RDF
would be operating under revised legal status under MDR supervision which
provide it with legal authority to act as an autonomous institution with
overall responsibility for coordinating and managing all small-scale rural
investments.
43.       Project Costs and Financing.  The cost of the project is estimated
at US$28.9 million net of taxes with a foreign exchange component of US$17.1
million (59 percent). During negotiations, Government affirmed that it would
exempt the project from taxes. A detailed breakdown of costs is shown in
the table of the Credit and Project Summary. The proposed IDA credit of
SDR 20.2 million (US$23.8 million) would finance 82 percent of project costs.
Of this US$23.8 million, US$16.0 million would be financed by an IDA credit
and US$7.8 million under a participation arrangement with the Kingdom of the
Netherlands. The West African Development Bank (BOAD) agreed to finance, on a
parallel basis, investments for the rural water supply component equivalent to
US$3.7 million (13 percent of project costs). Upper Volta's contribution of
US$1.4 million, equivalent to 5 percent of project costs would mainly cover
extension agents salaries. All foreign exchange and 88 percent of local
costs would be met by the IDA credit, the participation by the Kingdom of the
Netherlands and the BOAD Loan.
44.       Because Upper Volta has difficulty in prefinancing expenditures,
an amount of SDR 0.64 million (US$0.75 million) advanced from the IDA Credit,
would be deposited in a special bank account under the joint control of the
Director of the Rural Development Fund and the Chief Accountant of the proj-
ect. As with previous Upper Volta projects, disbursements would normally be
made in local currency from the special account and reimbursement made by the
Association to this account. Should any disbursements be made for expendi-
tures not allowable under the IDA Credit, the Government would redeposit into
the special account the corresponding amount (Section 2.02(b)-(f) of the
Credit Agreement). The opening of the account would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of the Credit Agreement).



- 14 -
Procurement, Disbursement and Audits
45.       The following procurement procedures, similar to those satisfactorily
used for the preceding projects, would apply:
Project Element                         Procurement Procedure
(i) RDF office building,
(US$0.9 million):                   (i) Local competitive bidding
(ii) Construction materials and         (ii) International competitive bidding
supplies, vehicles, tractors,           (ICB) for contracts greater than
and equipment except for                CFAF 25 million (US$93,000); local
animal traction equipment               competitive bidding for contracts
(US$6.6 million):                       between CFAF 5 million (US$18,500)
and CFAF 25 million; and local com-
petitive shopping for items under
CFAF 5 million.
(iii) Animal traction equipment,        (iii) Supplied by the Rural Equipment Fund
(US$3.0 million):                       (FAER) which produces competitively
priced equipment suited to local
condition.
(iv) Construction of ORD buildings,   (iv) Force Account, with a large input of
land development works,                 voluntary labor.
storage sheds, tree nurseries
and forest plantations
(US$2.4 million):
(v) Extension staff salaries,           (v) Items to be purchased for sale on
operating costs, credit to              credit would follow procedure (ii)
farmers  groups and to FAER,            above.
(US$4.2 million):
(vi) Unidentified projects,             (vi) Depending on allocation,  but would
(US$2.4 million):                       follow either (i), (ii), (iii) or
(iv) above.
(vii) Unallocated (US$4.3 million):   (vii) -



- 15 -
46.       The IDA credit will be disbursed on the following basis
Project Element                           Disbursement Percentage
(i)  RDF-Office building                   (i) 100 percent.
(US$0.9 million):
(ii)  Construction materials and           (ii) 100 percent.
supplies for land develop-
ment works, storage sheds,
ORD buildings, tree nurseries
and forest plantations,
(US$4.1 million):
(iii)  FAER financing (US$0.9 million):  (iii) 100 percent.
(iv)  Extension agents' salaries and       (iv) 90 percent of total expenditures
allowances, (US$1.1 million):             in PYI up to a maximum of CFAF 130
million; 80 percent in PY2 up to
a maximum of CFAF 120 million
and 60 percent in PY3 up to a
maximum of CFAF 100 million, and
30 percent thereafter.
(v)  Other salaries and allowances,        (v) 100 percent.
(US$2.2 million); animal traction
equipment and credit for oxen
(US$3.0 million); vehicles, other
supplies and equipment, (US$2.7
million); and operating costs,
(US$1.5 million):
(vi)  Unidentified, (US$ 2.4 million):   (vi) 100 percent.
(vii)  Special Account, (US$ 0.7           (vii)  -
million):
(viii)  Unallocated, (US$4.3 million):   (viii)  --
All disbursements from the credit account would be fully documented except
for local staff salaries and allowances, operating costs and force account
works which would be against certified statements of expenditures to be
reviewed during IDA supervision missions.
47.       The Government has agreed to select an independent auditor satis-
factory to the Association to prepare annual audits of the RDF's accounts and
financial statements (Section 4.01(b) of the Credit Agreement). In addition,
RDF would be required to submit the following reports to IDA: (i) quarterly
progress reports; (ii) annual evaluation reports; (iii) the annual work
program; and (iv) at the conclusion of the fourth year's investment program a
project completion report. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the above reporting requirements would be met (Sections 3.03(b) and (e) of
Credit Agreement).



- 16 -
Economic Evaluation Benefits and Risks
48.       The weighted average economic rate of return for the land develop-
ment programs is about 14 percent. Individual sub-projects show the following
rates of returns: erosion control 13 percent, simple bottomlands 60 percent,
improved bottomlands 12 percent, irrigation 12 percent and village reforesta-
tion 15 percent. Other project elements are village water supply for which
no acceptable rate of return methodology exists and for unidentified projects,
where economic benefits are expected to be similar to those shown above.
49.       Beneficiaries of the investments are primarily the rural population
e.g. (i) about 17,000 families will benefit from the land development works,
(ii) some 60,000 villagers will have access to clean water with consequent
improvements in health and (iii) the village stores and associated credit
programs will complement the land development works to increase agricultural
production. A further principal benefit of the project would be to complete
the development of an institutional capability within Upper Volta for managing
funds affecting small-scale rural development projects. The possibilities for
such investments are quite large as experienced in the two preceding projects.
Their small size and simple design have ensured a very high level of partici-
pation by beneficiaries.
50.       Associated technical risks of the proposed investment program with
a third phase project are minimal because they involve well known and success-
f 'ly tried techniques in both the investment and operating stages. There is
a risk that assets created during the development period would be inadequately
maintained either because funds for such maintenance are not provided by
Government (the village water supply program) or because beneficiaries lose
interest (as has happened in the past with bottomlands). Several measures are
envisaged which would reduce these risks. Works would be designed in such a
way that maintenance would not require skills, materials and tools not readily
available at the village level. The project provides for training of village
artisans in the simple repair and routine maintenance of pumps. Spare parts
and tools would be readily available for sale to villagers. In addition, no
investments would be made unless all participants in the creation of such
assets have fair and equal access to the ensuing benefits.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Upper Volta and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
52.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
53.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 17 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
54.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 9, 1982






-18-                                                 Annex 1
TABLE 3A                                           Page  1  of  5
UPPER VOLTA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
UPPER VOLTA                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AlRAGES
LAND AREA (TIIOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                       - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)E
TOTAL             274.2                                 MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      193.9               1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMsATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    70.0       100.0      180.0                 238.3                   794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        5.3         15.0      29.1                  70.5                    707.5
POPULATIUN ANlD VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  4164.0        4887.o    5642.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 4.7            6.8        8.3                  17.5                    27.7
POPIJLAIION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         9.8
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          28.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        15.2         17.8      20.6                  27.7                     55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      22.0         26.0      28.6                   73.7                   130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.8         43.9      44.6                  44.8                     46.0
15-64 YRS.                          54.3         53.2      52.6                  52.4                    51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.9          2.9       2.8                   2.9                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9          1.6/c      1.6/c                2.6                      2.8
URBAN                               5.7          S.3       3.8                   6.5                     5.1
CRUDE 4IRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      48.5         48.0      47.8                  46.9                     46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      26.5         23.7      21.4                   19.3                    15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2          3.2        3.2                   3.1                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          101.0        102.0      97.0                  89.5                    89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    86.0         84.0      79.0                  90.2                    92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           66.0         65.0      60.0                  52.7                    52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        18.0         18.0      16.0                  17.8                    16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      41.0         34.7      31.3                   27.3                    20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.2          40.4      43.0                   45.8                    50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           263.0
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        12.0      25.0                  23.9                     27.4
URBAN                                *          35.0      50.0                  55.0                    74.3
RURAL                                ..         10.0      23.0                  18.5                     12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          4.0       4.0                  26.2
UREAN                                ..         49.0      47.0                  63.5
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..                 20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          81647.1      84258.6   49805.6               31911.8                 13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      4090.0/d    3839.0    4508.8                 3674.9                  2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1801.0/d    1518.2    1506.8                 1238.8                  1028.4
URBAN                             204.o7-      259.4     288.0                 272.8                   423.0
RURAL                            1264.07d    2350.2    2366.2                 1745.2                   3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..       31.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               7.5e          ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOIAL                                ..           ..        ..
UREAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..



-19-
Annex 1
TABLE 3APae2o                                                              
UPPER VOLTA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                   Page  2  of  5
UPPER VOLTA                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV;RAfLES
- MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)G
NDST RECENT            LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH Of SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  8.0        12.0       17.0                  56.4                    73.7
MALE                  12.0        16.0      21.0                  70.7                    96.8
FEMALE                5.0          9.0      12.0                  50.1                    79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  0.5         1.0        2.0                  10.0                    16.2
HALE                   1.0         2.0       3.0                  13.6                    25.3
FEMALE                0.3          1.0       1.0                   6.6                    14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (S OF SECONDARY) 21.0          15.0       16.0                   8.0                     5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            47.0        44.0       52.0                 46.5                    36.2
SECONDARY                          20.0        23.0       20.0/h               25.5                    23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         1.5/f       5.0/1       *-                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.4         1.3        1.8                   2.9                   32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.7        17.8       20.1                  32.8                   69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.1/0       1.1        1.0                   1.9                     8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..         0.3        0.3                   2.8                    20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          0.2         ..                   1.2                    0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      2379.9      2678.5    2972.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   47.1        46.8      46.6                  34.1                    36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              92.0        87.0       82.5                  80.0                    56.6
INWSTRY (PERCENT)                   5.0         8.0       12.4                   8.6                   17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                57.2        54.8       52.7                  41.7                    37.2
HALE                                 60.8        58.8       56.8                  54.3                   47.1
FEMALE                               53.5        50.9       48.6                 29.2                    27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.8         0.9        0.9                   1.2                     1.3
INCONE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      164.0                136.0                   381.2
RURAL                                *-          *-      105.0                 84.5                   156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..                 99.1                   334. 3
RURAL                                ..           ..      53.0                 61.2                   137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                 39.7
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..                 68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betwen 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Due to migration population growth rate is lowjer than rate of natural increase;  /d 1963;  /a 1964;
/f 1962; Li 1972; /h 1975.
May, 1981



-20-                                                                       Annex 1
page 3 of 5
ZflCTITlMS OP IOCLIOI INDICATXOR
1tsaga Aiaeugh tho dtc. ace dron ftro ourue. generally judged the ne.t ouchoritative end reliable, it hbould aleo he noted that they ee nut be lacer-
etieoally nO.pcoble beceacg of the leck of eeedordised deftintie. And concepts teed by differeot -ootrimm tn collecting the date.  The data Are,noe
theleac, ceef.1 to deeceha order  of  egictde. in.dinate trnde, end cbreccaino certain  -aJor differoncen betweeec cour.tci.e.
The reference   ..op  eon (1) the  -f  nouocy grep of the e.objenc ..-nry ned (2) a .o.-cry group with eoaewha  higher ew-roge income than the country groop
of the eabjec rot"oe  (-.rpt for 'topical trpleoo  il fep-rtare  greop wher  niddle moosea North Atri.e end Mtddle tE.t"- te ohoe   becuoce of etroger
eocnto-onterel effieltien).  In the reference. grop deco the ateage  Are population weighted enitheetio atoe. fun each  Wiedctor And ehon only Vben
ajerity of ehe catneeinn L. o group hen dete for thec indicator.  Since the onverege of coo-trims  maon  the indiocaore depend. on the eweilabilicy of date
gad la ec ogifee, octio. set he men-eried in. relating  v Seoe  of on   Wiedictar to enocher   Th.ce everg.. eon only ucefu1 toci                  prn   the mbal  of
awe indicetor et a tlne emnog the nustry eed referenc  groupe.
MR  A!A (cheaued oq.he.)                                                                          Popeletiot ear NoRitel ned - total, robot., and rural  - Popolotiao. (tecui,
jLoca t-Total e,ufao  areacegs eieland area an  inland eate..                                     urbee. end rual), dividd by thier reepoctive nubhe  of hoepita1 hade
oettatral _ etinat  of ugriulcura.  erms need tempo-rarly or perenetly                       avatebl  to polic, anod private general end  ehc.ted   opite1 andre
nt crope, peetoren, sacht and kitchen gardeec or to lie follow; 1978 daeo                      baititati   onn.ter.  Otupitele ar  eetbhliehaonte permnentlyca staffd
by on leant one physician. Estahlishmente providing principally coeto-
PU_ C_ ITA (0s9    GNtP par ..pito nomt.ece  at currmot market prtee ...a.l-                      dial crareer  cot i-olded.  Soral honpitole, h.weve, inclufo health
ouleced by ease cnw     mio  ethed 00 World Booh Atlec (1977-79 hosie) ; 1960,                    And endteal caentoontot poreonatly staf fed by u phy.itino  (but by
1970, and 1979 data.                                                                             endicol.. onetacoc  toee, nidoif. a,0.) which off-n in-patient cc
dotion and proide a linitd o-ngo of msedical facilitine.  For etate-
UU1Mt  CWOfPInPu CAPITA - Aeca u1              otto  of commearcia1 energy (teal                    ticel  -pupo.. urban hoepitola include WHOe.onialgnoihospital,,
end lignite,patroleen, ntocal P.oaend hydo-, aci.ent end geotherml  Ile-                    and runc1 huepitcal  local o0 rura  hoapitals and nedical and maternity
triLtoy) in kilogroe  of cool equivalent pun capite; 1960. 197i, and 1979                        ocota-e   Specialined hospionic ara included only under tonal.
data.                                                                                          Adeicatona Per  oeoi ta led - Total nuber nf adnicin  to or dischargee
foot bopicele didd by the cotte  of bode.
Total  Annlatien   STAd-Tea  IhCS cd   -A. of fuly 1; 1980. 1970. end 1979                 8OUS1Nr
data.                                                                                        Avro  tn    f Oooeod(cre  ear bh,,hld  -talurban. And rura-
OranPnuate  macn   ftotal) -Rgtio of urban to total population;                                  A'hrehl  coceao; ru   fidvda .tn hare living quacor
diferntefniton  of urbn  rea yfec  cueparabtldty of data                                     enfhirmi tl.Aboarder or ledger say o  may not he inclded in
eeg  coutrieo; 196i, 1970, end1979 dote,                                                       tb.he .. booeld for sataistical pu-pccnc.
Ponulatine Proinctinne                                                ~Averoconha  cf oar...a oar roo           tt-cal. urbu,, en u        -AverAge no-
Populatio  i         1yar 0f0 - Curret populotin proJncticee at. bated ow 1980                  he   fpaen  prtuti   l  orhon,nd,rura   ocuidaconoetinl
total Popoletio  by age and eo  and choir eoteltty And fertility ratna.                      delliaga. reapectivaly.  leallinga anclde aon-pewenet atruccore  And
Projesotion paretetra f.ecwrtality raee  ooepriee of thin   l.ovla aceo-                    unoccpied porte.
tog life anpeota..cy at birth i-mrening cith couccry'a pat capita inuoe                    A....e 00 Elactnicity  (pretrat of deIli.at  - total, urba.  and rural -
leve, and f-nlo life enpecctny atahiliniog ot 77.5 yoera.  The pura-                         Convetiona  doellige etch eleotricty t  living qu_rtore ac Percentage
eanar. for fertility reoc alao bavo ohrm. level  ouiuc dnclice in                            of totul.  rbao, anod ruro1 donlliogaa-p-ctiv-ly.
fertility accoding tc incea 1val and Pact fatly Planning parforecc..
teh country is thc ..a..ignad one of choa nine coehiceti.nt  of  -rtlity                 rDUCA7IOO
anId fertility eranda fcc projection purpca.                                               Adlueted Enrolleo.o t utico
.cetio_ne        .t_      I.         t   .ry oouolnIc ico P.populclo  chore ia or er-th  i.ce  riar-y orcc  -  utatl. eale and fetlo-ira  tco             aeood tfeul
the birtraeioql to the  outh cute.  and alec cho cge e1truc.r  to-onolloc  of                                           Itcoe     the prioury levl enperccntng  of repertiv-
saaionan.Thai  arhloved only oftrr fertility rtna. deolino to                                  prunury nohool-an   popolutiono; occoly ic-lodee childcon egod 6-il
the reploronot levo  of unit net r-pred-tioc, rune,  hco ouch ge...rntion                      yor  hut odjoetod f or dif foroct longtha of prlry, oducotioc; fur
of wonn  raplacco itarlf onocly.  The stationary pupulutiur nine oe                            rotc i-ithuivru  odoouticc  -cr11-et ny e..r.ed lIdO p-roct
atiteacd cc the bocia or the Projeted  hoarto-ristice of tho populncioc                         i.ro acne popilo are b.loc co  bohc   ho offiriu1 schocl ag.,
io tho year 2000, and thn rote of declion of fertility rate to rapI..-.c.dacacen  "Sttu.eludftl- ConPuted me above; eecndory
mant loe.ed-tOcourec   actu  yeun.:o,f oppcovd prin..ry ineitoocOc;
Year atationary, oopulatioo In rearhd - Tha pour oho  notlenu..ry ycpolnocprvioa                           cecerel, vocotionol, or Io.ucher training cetorc.icc. for poPlb
isee baa bean reached.                                                                        ocull  cf 12 cc 17 ycars of aeItcepnanecvrn   r  a...erolly
uoinDmametic                                                                                   olodad.
Per en. t. - Mid-you  pepoI.iacc  par equat  kileen.. t.(103 h-tccuroel of                      -oceionl erolenu          lrrcc  cf -accderv) - Vuc.utiocn  inati-tuticu
totalara  1960,17   n   9197  ducn.                                                            inc~~1.luetaohnicul, ind.Etria1, toIohe  Progran  ohbc oporote indopad-
Peea.  he.  nric-Ic-a land - Cputed cc chur  fur agricultura  land                               anyc   edpcnnec   ecdr   n titoin.
only; 1960, 1970 acd 1970 data.                                                              Poril-ceoc.h..reoto. - priea.o. and aocWerr-runeil -cd-cc acrl1led in
P-ro1ationAe  Structur  (ocrat - Children (0-14 . yera).  ntkiug-ege (15-                          primary and eoc-dAry levoe divided by nuebere of teachera in the
864 yer), end retrad (5year. and uv-r) ac percentaega  cf tid-yaco pup-                          c..ore Eudo   lvel..
lacion  1960, 1970. and 199dco                                                                 Aut -ltoec  rota (prerr.t) - Licareta Idul te (able to reed and w-ite)
,porl.tion ironch fete fPerc..ot - total - Annua  groth  ano  total eld-                            cepercentage cf total adult popolatict aged 15 yearn endovc
year population  fer 1950-60. 1960-70, and 19 70- 79. r...o
?oulocioo Gronth tote (-arcot) -  rban -gAnnul growth rote, or uobco p.po-                   COSolTOtNc
latieafr13-c  19070  od1970_79Poncr Crn (Cor thuceend cclto)-  tne                                                                                     ov   oytetuto
CuElitta fte O(,oa  ch...ed) - Aanuu  ILIve hirche par thooncd ofidel-your                    rceeern   mncte   ight pareee.o              lue   eolec,hern   n
Cpepution; 1960,_19t70,_end 1979 da.                                                            nilitoryoeitoe
Coodo Peach feeP a tf,ueadl- Annua doatha par thannnde cf eid-year                             Radior teceilvr  (pr thbo.aand pcrolutioul - All typon of r-rio-ro  for radie
po.vpolo    _i.Rt                                                                                 .  -i  o-.do Itico; 1960, 1970, ned 1979 data.  hcdettocnrlPuhlic  a  throdc  Population; noclode on-
trea  oRrdtinfc-A..ag   umberof deughtere a nect  ti  hear in                                   Ii..c.o :rnivr  inooatriceoand in yeara than raoatrctioc of rdio
he"nreal -p-rd-ctve purid it eho oup.ri-ca  proan  ag-e..             fi  for-               octec-  in offoot; dcte for rma-en  yerar  ny cct ho cepacabln ainc
001c yrt oa  un ly f to- y-  everuce  ending in 1960, 1970 , nod 1979.                         ecet ccutrioo abolished lico...io.g
PaIyP=ania rceore.l. Aneoul (thou...oda  - Annual  oehe   f eccepoor.                     TVicavc (oa  tbouca!d _onulaicel - TV roce.ivoat  fur broeduec.t ic
uf birth-conrol devic..odor -sapite. of cation...   enfily plu..cing prcgree.                 &annerulpubli  por ooad pepulctioo; e-rldee onlicensed TV  -eciv...
Penily PIaen  -  ere (Pcrat of nerried  onan) - Pecnae  fnrid                                   ic  rooe  and in ya..ce =he reitration of TV  at   o  in off-nt.
etnof chi1d-benrig age (1-6  yer)n    n               bc-ocrl  dovcan                     Nowenarr Cic nie1c  tce rIolatien) - Shan   heoerg  vr
al__riodse   in  en  aarop.                                                                  catienCef 'doly general intera-   oeppr.deflead aaperiodical
publicaion devoted primarily 0. ....urding general n-. it i. c..naidered
POOt AND NrUTRIION                                                                                  to be "doily" if itapur  at eat f cu  ti .e A  ..eb
Inden of food Prodoction oar Caica   619-71-100) - le  cf pur capita annua                     Clues Annual Attandoeve oar Capita oarfroar - Sa.ed no the neehat of
producio  calfudc edin, Prutonaclodse aced and fend and                                        tichete cold doring the yaac, locluding: edeeirni..  to driv-in elnenee
ia on calendar your basia.  C-sditioc covr prleary good. (.gS. eugorcan                        und ncbile onit..
toetead of augr) which Are edible and.. tuecic cutrienca (e.g. coffee and
ten Are eacludad).  Aggegat  p'nductioc ei -.ch co-try in b hoe   cc                       LAlOt P9CE
antionl aegeProducer price waighta; i961-65. 1970, and 1979 dcta.                            Toccl Labor1 Prrn  thc...unde) - Ec-noel-lly active peceene, incleding
per capita Iurol of alerioe(noc   freornoe    Coptd fr                                          red feocr  cod cnployd buy o..cldiug boeoivo,  tdene   c
argy equivlalet of net rood aupplinef urnial  ioconry Per cPleceie ct.cc   tal   ge   D.cncoeI   aln   onto   0
per fey.  Available, eupplian roaprli.  domentir production, inpctt  bee.                    not  -cp-bcle; 1960,f1970 cod 179 do.
-Perte. end  hbangae ic atck.  Mec euppliea  orlode onicAl tend, anedo,                    rondo  (P.r..nt) - Pneola labo   force .a pretage of total labor form..
quatitioeuend in fond Pr-ocoening, Acd lo-a  ic diotriul. Roqoire-                         Acrlcrlturc (norrt) - Labor foor  ic f-ring, feratry, hunting9 and
et.ntn-aotiottd hy PAO h.and co phyaiclaicl ..oode tot ..-Ia cci-                            .lhic ag    P-ccetcge  of tcon1 labor force;160. 1970 ad  9197  data
vty and hcalth cnidnoicg  -i-vlroenta1 toupeucoro, body noighta, age                      Induory (r--tc    - Labor fcrco ic aining,   cacctln    anciaceriog
and son diecclbutioc of popolacico, an.d ul11-ing 10 Pnrce.nt fcwor c  a..  t      and elotririty, .noor and gon on per-acrge of totol labor furro;1960,
M.nebod inve; 1961-3  1070, ace 1977 dace.                                                   1977 nod 1979 dc.-
Per canto coocly of oretri  co    o  day) - Pom            cetccfpot ccpicu                  Io'iipciotoo  r             tc,c  -   "ccl. eala..edcno- Participation nor
cotelply of fond pac day.  no .epply of f,ed in dfined on!b uhv .It-                        rtilvtyrateorrn otd ons tctal, nab  andf fael  lobon forren
quirmenute, fcc all cconirlr  ectbliehad by USDA0 provide for eici-                          pocuuo1f oa,el  ond fonal  populationc   all ago  rapectiv-ly;
allooc  orcf 60 greee of tcta1 protein per day nod  217 gree  of uninalnd                    1960, 1970, ond 1979 data, h amea  co  baeod on tLO'a porticiputoLocrato
polso Protccin, of wich 1 If eea et-Id ha unleu  pcotoic.  Th.a.nuond-                       aflecoin   g ce-en   -coc-r  of the' .popeltio, and long tio coad.A
ords cr. Icrthen those of 75 greae of totol protein cod 23 ar-e  of                          fan  Intiatn  ur  fro- etlci a..uIc.....
onfel proclot on an cr..rege for nIt, erld, propoaI  by Ie   t oh         I Third.r..cir  Oodnncy hoctic - hocic of pcpuleoioc coder 1S and (S and o
Word   _d Se_,e; 1901-05, 1970cod 1977 dta,                                                  cc  cho  _ore  lcboc forc..
Per capita oruoi au-l iron notl and ..1.. - Pro coin eryply of foc  de-
rived ftr.. anInoeand po1e.. ic greas Per day; 1961-65, 1970 cod 1977~dcta.              rNCOup DISTRIcLttION
Child (enoa 1-4) Mortality fete (pe th ..oand) - Ancool d-hcl  Per th ..o.nd in                 ecc co.rcc  In-c   loch to  va ood Iic                      - cRn..iced hy rioc-
oae,  rory 1-4 yeane, to, chOldrou in thla 0g0 gc...P; for not d-clcpiog ccc-                  Iprotcrhoo  20 prot,hora  70 p                       Ico,an   ecn        er
cro    aad-ri-d icon life tahles; 1960, 1970 and 1070 face.                              of bo_orhodo..   t0p et               tt2         .t
.ifr Epecta..cy at girth (y -ore-) -tAvocage nbho  of yo-ofec  litte reniinig                  Tho folloin  etarlatee are tory epprcuincto m uoaf poccty lerel.,
at birth; 1960, i97fand 1979 dat.                                                         nod ahood be iutopretod viuh c..aidrabe cction.
Infoot Mortality Rate (mrl tbooandl   Annual denot  of infou-e-d-c coo yoar                    EtniaEd.talr PoccyIc-l              toe (7$m  c   ie  orbanL.udroo -. 
ofeg  per tha..eund live birnhs.                                                              0.1          rt     .     11i   ti-
....t. sf.   t..  perent  f Pp gt..     -.1 hen7            - N-notritiotlly  adequate diet ply  essential nan-food -eqeiomacnat  (a not
bec of p-ple  (total. crbae, and roo) elth ...a..oh.aaccoa   te safe                                 .b.
eate  eu.pply (ieclodea trented  -ef.a co  at-e  or  crntedhrot uncootaeciatd                  cf.ftrdabl t-n.yI..                   -       ( I      i.   -ob.  n         .
wetere..ch at that fron protnotad ber..boles, apringa, oud. eaity eal   a                       ota.l.raltive poverty income lovol in  n-ibid of oveoga Per cepito-
parcentagee of their reepacci-e popu1atica.  lo an  eb.e area u poblic                          eenlmo    ftecuty   Urba  leei                    adeiesre  b   u
foonain  r *acdynt  ocatd ot ar   the Il enare  rona boe        be      eve  eith adjuatat for higher cos t of llivig in  -bhen aca..
cuetliderd ne being itloI ro....e.1blo...ea  of thao bolee   Inturalaraa
raancebl. ..c..a  -uId imply ohoc the houswin  s0enher  of the hoeaetold                     cerimated Porfeio  no    nout  oet Icem  level    ....nt) - urban
fo at h.ve to spend . di.prcpcrtioant. port of the day in ftetcicg the                         _v1ua     Prnoo  popolatioc (ur'bonendTr-ra) who are "a.be               a
fatly' ncarcn am.O..r
A....e cc fecceta Di 2oal lo-art of npaio-tea..uban, and raral1
fash, of People< (totl, orbuc, and o-ca) coned by ...cota diapo..aI Ac
p-aretagan of chair  -ep-ole ppulationa.  tEcrata diepo...Iney include
the collection an -dtp l  with or otchat t-reanteo, ef ueana encreto                                                                tnE-eio and gooiOl laoa Diviic
.cd  wcewtrby eator-borne apearna or the ran of pit pnvnaad tini                                                                cntonir, Analysis and Prejaori... Department
lnc iatllatione.
Po-ulatio ee Pv-icin  -P Pr1pciecI    divided by creha  of Poacticica phyci-                                                                         My18
cia.S qualified irona  ma-di.a     be  an univarnity lard.,
PouainorOrien Parcc- ;Pepulatona dividd b  ouer of pnatciein
ale cad female graduate arcane * ~P!racIca  mune, and e-nitantnre.



-21-
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - UPPER VOLTA - GNP PER CAPITA
IN 1979 US$ 180
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979
US$ MILLION              %
GNP at Market Prices                                   1019.3              100.0
Gross Domestic Investment                               250.6               24.6
Gross National Savings                                   45.1                4.4
Current Account Balance                                 205.5               20.2
Exportsof Goods, NFS                                    142.1               13.9
Imports of Goods, NFS                                   404.6               39.7
OUTPUT AND ECONOMICALLY ACTIVE POPULATION IN 1979
Value Added-/             Economically Active Population-/
US$ million      %             (1000)             %
Agriculture                                             331.4    38.4             2472             83.0
Industry                                                171.1    19.8              357             12.0
Services                                                360.1    41.7              149              5.0
Total                                                   862.6   100.0             2978            100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government
CFAF billion                    % of GDP
1978         1979               1978    1979
Budget Revenues                                      30.3         34.0                16.2    16.6
Budget Expenditures                                  30.5         40.9                16.4    20.0
Budget Surplus or Deficit                            -0.2         -6.9               -0.2    -3.4
Net Treasury Operations                              -1.6         -0.8                -0.9    -0.4
Overall Balance                                      -1.8         -7.7               -1.1    -3.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                             1975       1976       1977       1978       1979
(CFAF billion at end of year)
Money and Quasi Money                                24.32      31.55      35.58     42.52      48.11
Bank credit to Public Sector                         -4.90      -6.95     -7.74      -3.29       0.26
Bank credit to Private Sector                        21.59      32.41     45.75      54.81      56.03
PERCENTAGE OR INDEX NUMBERS
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                    19.2       22.7       21.2       22.8      23.5
Low-Income Price Index (1958 = 100)                 222.6      203.9      265.8     286.9      329.8
Annual percentage changes in:
Low Income Price Index                                          -7.0       30.4        7.9      15.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector                                   -41.8     -11.3       57.5      107.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector                                   50.1      41.2        19.8       2.2
1/ Provisional
2/ Estimate for 1976-79
October 1981



-22-
Annex 1
Page 5 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - UPPER VOLTA
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
(In millions of current US$)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS               19781/    1979-/    1980-'!/    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS"-
Exports of Goods, NFS             122.5      142.1      159.3
Imports of Goods, NFS             360.9      404.6     457.6
Resource Gap (deficit - -)       -238.4    -262.5    -298.3       (Average of 1978 - 80)
Workers' Remittances (net)         45.6       61.5       70.6     Livestock            43.1       44.6
Other Factor Payments (net)         9.4       -4.6       -4.0     Cotton               27.0       28.0
Net Transfers                      32.2       44.0       50.6     Oilseeds             14.7       15.2
Balance on Current Accounts    -151.2    -161.6    181.1          All other            11.8       12.2
Total               96.6       100.0
Direct Foreign Investment (net)   -            4.0       4.5      EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1980
Official Capital Grants            65.3,      89.2    102.8
Net MLT Borrowings                 39.1       64.1      53.3      Public Debt, incl.
guaranteed                 508.0
Disbursements                     (44.3)    (68.5)   (60.2)       Non-guaranteed Private
Repayment                         (-4.6)    (-4.4)   (-6.9)          Debt
Total Public Debt
2/                                                     Outstanding and disbursed  323.0
Other.items 2                      11.2       21.6      13.1
Change in Reserves (increase)    35.0        -17.3       7.4                                   1/
3/                                                DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980-
Memo:  Imports,-  c.i.f.          226.3      292.1    338.9
of which:  Petroleum       21.1       34.0      45.7      Total Public Debt
Outstanding and disbursed    7.1
IBRD/IDA LENDING December 1980
Outstanding and
Disbursed                     77.2
Undisbursed                     52.6
Outstanding incl.
Rate of Exchange                                                    undisbursed                  129.8
1973:   US$1.00 = CFAF 222.70
1974:   US$1.00 = CFAF 240.50
1975:   US$1.00 = CFAF 214.32
1976:   US$1.00 = CFAF 245.00
1977:   US$1.00 = CFAF 245.00
1978:   US$1.00 = CFAF 220.00
1979:   US$1.00 = CFAF 212.72
1980:   US$1.00 =CFAF 211.30
1/  Provisional
2/ Including errors and omissions
3/ Official trade only
4/ Ratio of Debt Service to Esports of Goods and non-factor services
not available
October 1981



-23-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UPPER VOLTA
A.   Statement of IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1981)
(US$ million) a/
(less cancellations)
Number   Year      Borrower          Purpose                IDA     Undisbursed
Ten Credits fully disbursed                                50.7            -
557-UV    1975   Republic of   Livestock Develop-           6.0           1.71
Upper Volta   ment Project
579-UV    1975   Republic of   Rural Roads                  7.5           1.02
Upper Volta
640-UV    1976   Republic of   Rural Development            9.4           1.15
Upper Volta   Fund II
706-UV    1977   Republic of   West Volta Agricul-          3.6          0.40
Upper Volta   tural Development
744-UV    1977   Republic of   Railway                     5.2            1.97
Upper Volta
759-UV    1977   Republic of   Small & Medium               4.0          2.68
Upper Volta   Scale Enterprise
766-UV    1978   Republic of   Urban Development            8.2          6.04
Upper Volta
956-UV    1979   Republic of   Education II                14.0         12.29
Upper Volta
982-UV    1980   Republic of   Forestry                   14.5          13.16
Upper Volta
1013-UV   1980   Republic of   Niena Dionkele Rice
Upper Volta   Development                6.5           6.08
TOTAL                                               129.60
of which has been repaid                            0.05
TOTAL now held by IDA a/                            129.55
TOTAL undisbursed                                                  46.50
B.   Statement of IDA Credits expressed in SDR (as of September 30, 1981)
(SDR million)
(less cancellations)
1097-UV   1981   Republic of   Second Bougouriba
Upper Volta   Agricultural Develop-
ment Project             12.40 b/      12.40
1981   Republic of   Fourth Highway Project  37.70 c/         37.70
Upper Volta
a/   Prior to exchange adjustment of US$0.2 million.
b/   Not effective.
c/   Not yet signed.



-24-                           ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
C.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1981).
Amount in US$ millions
Year    Obligator      Type Business      Loan      Equity           Total
1978    Sovoplas          Plastic           .41      .13              .54
D.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION (as of September 30, 1981) 1/
Credit 496:    Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project.  US$8.0 Million
Credit of July 19, 1974; Effective Date: July 18, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
EEC Special
Action
Credit 50:     US$1.5 Million Equivalent; Credit of February 8, 1980;
Effective Date: July 30, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project aims to develop the natural and human resources of the
Bougouriba ORD. Implementation of the livestock and infrastructure (wells,
roads, buildings) components has been successful, with appraisal targets
achieved for the most part, although with some delays and cost overruns. In
its fifth year (1979/80), the project achieved incremental production of
2,700 tons of cotton (145 percent above 1976/77), 3,600 tons of cereals, 270
tons of groundnuts, 60 tons of paddy, and 160 tons of meat. The rate of
return is estimated to be 15 percent compared with the appraisal estimate of
68 percent, now seen to be overly optimistic. Credit 496-UV is fully
disbursed, and interim financing is being provided by the EEC Special Action
Credit.
Credit 557:    Livestock Development Project.  US$6.0 Million Credit of
June 18, 1975; Effective Date: November 24, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is assisting cattle production in the Dedougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso ORDs through group ranch development, improvement of veteri-
nary services, livestock marketing and meat processing facilities and the
provision of technical assistance. The first ranch was completed at the end
of 1979, and the second and third ranches are progressing satisfactorily.
Inscription of cattle has accelerated now that tsetse infestation has been
temporarily brought under control. Despite the reprieve, a longer term
program for tsetse control should be initiated. It had been foreseen that
livestock owners take management control of the ranches at advanced stages,
however at recent discussions with owners, continuation of assistance was
requested.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors on the pro-
gress of projects in execution, and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-25-
ANNEX II
a-ge3 'of 7
Credit 579:    Rural Roads Project.  US$7.5 Million Credit of August 13,
1975; Effective Date:  February 11, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project will improve and subsequently maintain 1,200 km of
rural roads. Maintenance will also be provided for 2,100 km of additional
rural roads, institutional support is given to the road organization,
highway equipment has been procured, and a study is being carried out to
assess the impact and effectiveness of road components included in agricul-
tural development projects financed by the Association over the last five
years. Despite an eighteen month delay in project start-up, the rate of
project implementation now matches appraisal estimates: two-thirds of the
improvement program has been completed and annual light maintenance corres-
ponds to appraisal targets. Bridge and culvert construction is being carried
out by force account due to lack of satisfactory response from local contrac-
tors. Activities of the first phase would be continued under the proposed
fourth highways project.
Credit 640:    Rural Development Fund II Project.  US$9.4 Million Credit
of June 21, -1976; Effective Date: January 24, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project provides a line of credit to the Rural Development
Fund for investment in small-scale rural projects, the main purpose of which
is to increase crop production and improve village water supplies. The
investment program includes: bottomland development (2,700 ha); erosion
control works (9,200 ha); small-scale irrigation and improved bottomland
development (500 ha); construction of 520 wells, 180 tubevells, 400 village
warehouses and 20 village centers; provision of medium-term credit for
agricultural equipment and unidentified projects. The project is well
managed and is making good progress in implementing its components. Not all
appraisal targets may be reached, however, because Government priorities and
farmers' expectations have led project management to put more emphasis on
well construction and erosion control works and less on bottomland develop-
ment and small irrigation projects. To allow RDF to maintain its present
rate of activities until the proposed third phase project is approved, the
Government has obtained additional funds from the Netherlands.
Credit 653:    Third Highway Project.  US$20.0 Million Credit of July 15,
1976; Effective Date: December 15, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
EEC Special    US$3.5 Million Equivalent;  Credit of January 11, 1980;
Action         Effective Date:  July 30, 1980;
Credit 38:     Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
The project consists of: (a) reconstruction of the Banfora-Bobo-
Dioulasso-Hounde road (183 km); (b) procurement of vehicle weight control and
traffic counting equipment; (c) road maintenance study; (d) preinvestment
study of the Ouagadougou-Kaya-Dori road; (e) technical assistance to the
Department of Transport (DOT); and (f) technical assistance to the domestic
contracting industry. The Bobo-Dioulasso-Hounde section was completed in June
1978, and the Bobo-Dioulasso-Banfora section in May 1979. Equipment for



-26-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
vehicle weight control and traffic counting arrived in November 1979. The
technical assistance to the DOT has been in place since January 1977. The
Road Maintenance Study has been completed by BCEOM and reviewed, and is the
basis for the Fourth Highway Project. Arrangements for providing technical
assistance to domestic contractors are being finalized. In view of a project
cost overrun due to currency realignments and the need to reconstruct four
bridges, initially not included in the project, supplementary financing of
US$3.5 million is being provided through the EEC Special Action Account.
Credit 706 and  West Volta Agricultural Development Project.  US$3.6 Million
706-S            (IDA) and Can$3.0 Million (Canada) Credits of May 23, 1977;
Effective Date: December 28, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
EEC Special     US$3.0 Million Equivalent (EEC); Credit of February 8, 1980;
Action           Effective Date: September 3, 1980, Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Credit 49
The project strengthens the ORDs of Bobo-Dioulasso and Dedougou
through provision of technical assistance and equipment; establishes a
Financial and Administrative Unit to assist project accounting and financial
control; finances a ginnery and training facilities for project extension
workers; supports an annual extension program; develops low cost irrigation
schemes; implements a pilot settlement component and a pilot women-s component.
Aided by favorable weather, incremental cotton production in 1979/80 (19000
tons) was double the appraisal estimate. Cereal production is difficult to
assess with accuracy; means of improving monitoring of cereal output are
being discussed. The extension service, which is adopting the training and
visit approach, is improving in efficiency. The low cost irrigation schemes
and women's activities have fared poorly so far, and no action has been
taken on the pilot settlement project. The Financial and Administrative
Unit has established project accounts and updated cost statements and
budgets aimed at keeping future project expenditures in line with available
funds.
Credit 744:    Regional Railway Project in the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta
US$5.2 Million Credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
December 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project finances priority items of the 1978-1979 portion of
the Regie Abidjan-Niger (RAN) 1977-1982 investment plan. It includes track
alignment and renewal of track material in the Ivory Coast; track improvement
in Upper Volta; procurement of locomotives; freight cars and track maintenance
equipment, provision of training facilities and consulting services for
technical training and management improvement and to carry out feasibility
studies. Major civil works are expected to be completed by end September
1981. All other physical components are being implemented but have experienced
delays due to administrative problems. Late contract awards have caused slow
execution of sleeper renewal and embankment construction. Ballast production
is also behind schedule. Some progress has, however, been noted with recent
improvements to RAN performance and services giving rise to increased freight
traffic. An Organization and Methods Unit will soon be operable to devise
transport plans for freight traffic and passenger traffic. Cost overruns of
about 20 percent are envisaged with RAN to cover the shortfall from its own
resources.



-27-
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Credit 759:    Artisan, Small and Medium Scale Enterprise Project.  US$4.0
Million of January 12, 1978; Effective Date: April 12, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project provides a line of credit to the National Development
Bank (BND) for small and medium scale enterprises; technical assistance,
project preparation and follow-up and training for the National Center for
the Promotion of Rural Artisans (CNPAR) and the Organization for the Promotion
of Upper Voltan Enterprises (OPEV); technical assistance to the BND; a study
on industrial incentives; and a training program at the Department of External
Debt at the Treasury. The technical assistance financed by the IDA credit
has had little impact on the evolution of BND as a financially sound and
well managed institution and the Association is currently discussing with
Government the best use of the remaining line of credit to BND. OPEV and
CNPAR activities are progressing satisfactorily and funds allocated to them
will likely be used within eighteen months.
Credit 766:    Urban Development Project US$8.2 Million of March 23, 1978;
Effective Date: February 2, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project consists of upgrading of approximately 7,000 plots in
Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso; preparation and servicing of 1,100 lots in
Bobc,-Dioulasso; water supply facilities for an additional 2,500 families in
Ouagadougou who are not living in areas to be upgraded; housing construction
and improvement loans; community facilities, social services and technical
assistance to the municipalities of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso and the
Department of town planning. Project start-up activities were financed
under two Project Preparation Facility advances and the budget of the Ministry
of Public works. Surveys and detailed engineering proceeded very slowly due
in part to the Ministry of Public Works tendency to shift away from previously
agreed upon design standards.  An agreement was reached at end 1979:   a) to
proceed on a pilot basis with the upgrading in the Cissin neighborhood with
particular attention being paid to affordable standards, minimizing demolition
and relocation, and community participation and b) to hire a municipal engi-
neer as Deputy Project Director. Community consultation in the area began in
March 1980. The project has been slow to attain the hoped for momentum and
should still receive close supervision.



-28-
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Credit 956:   Second Education Project.  US$14.0 Million
Credit of November 15, 1979; Effective Date:
July 30, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
An extension of the First Education Project, the project would
expand the rural education system to youth who formerly had no access to
primary education through expansion, repair and equipping of physical
facilities, and training and management support. It would also provide
training for three categories of workers presently in short supply in Upper
Volta; agriculture project managers, building construction foremen, and road
and equipment maintenance personnel. Despite a six month delay in credit
effectiveness, some initial implementation activities have been carried out
through an advance from the Project Preparation Facility. The project has
had difficulties in organizing coordination among the Government agencies
involved. It is fairly complex, having thirteen components and requiring
close cooperation of seven different agencies. Close supervision of the
administrative aspects will be required.
Credit 982:    Forestry Project.  US$14.5 Million Credit of April 7, 1980.
Effective Date: December 31, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1984.
The project provides a comprehensive program to strengthen the
operational capacity of the Forestry Administration with staff and equipment
to carry out its assigned functions of protecting, developing and exploiting
the country's forest resources within the framework of the national forestry
plan. The project will also establish 1,600 ha of rainfed tree plantations
and 325 ha of rural woodlots in the Bobo-Dioulasso area, manage on a pilot
basis 1,000 ha of natural forest in the Maro-reserve and maintain previously
established rainfed tree plantations. A Project Preparation Facility advance
financed preliminary works begun in 1979, including a pedological study and
aerial survey of the Maro reserves and plantation maintenance and protection
works.
Credit 1013:   Niena Dionkele Rice Development Project.  US$6.5 Million
Credit of May 8, 1980; Effective Date: December 4, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project is a pilot phase of a possible three phase program to
convert swampland to more productive use. The main objectives of this phase
would be to test key assumptions regarding future development of swamp areas
and to address price structure, marketing and economic issues of the rice
subsector. The project will also assist Government to promote institution
building in the subsector, define a national rice policy, create a market
structure to ensure farmer confidence in rice production and train future
rice industry managers. Full scale project start-up is expected to be under-
way soon; minor activities were financed by the Project Preparation Facility.



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Credit 1097:      Second Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project:
US$16.0 Million Credit of March 6, 1981; Effective Date:
: Closing Date: September 30, 1986
An extension of the First Bougouriba Agricultural Development
Project (Credit 496-UV), the project aims at further increasing agricultural
and livestock production in the Bougouriba ORD. Attention will be concen-
trated on the technical management of rainfed agriculture by improved orga-
nization of training, extension, input distribution and credit. The project
also provides for the implementation of modest animal husbandry practices and
increased use of animal traction. Emphasis will be on increasing yields of
main food crops (millet and sorghum) together with recommendations for cash
crops (yams, groundnuts and cotton). The project includes small programs to
encourage more fruit and fuelwood tree planting, and erosion control.
Credit      :    Fourth Highway Project:  US$46.0 million Credit of
Effective Date:            Closing Date:
The main objectives of this project, which has not yet been signed,
are to improve the Ministry of Public Works institutional capacity for mainte-
nance operations and to provide better access to rural areas. The project
consists of: (i) the renewal of the maintenance equipment fleet; (ii) the
construction of workshops and office building; (iii) the incremental costs of
fuel, spare parts and materials for routine maintenance; (iv) the costs of
fuel, spare parts and materials for the periodic maintenance of about 450 km
of gravel roads; (v) the rehabilitation of about 280 km of gravel roads;
(vi) the resealing of about 320 km of paved roads; (vii) the construction
and initial maintenance of about 1,640 km of new and existing feeder roads;
and (viii) technical assistance, consultants, training and scholarships to
help overcome personnel constraints.



-30-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Identification Mission: During supervision of RDF II,
August 1979.
(b)  Project preparation agency:  Government/RDF/RMWA
(c) Appraisal Mission: March-April 1981
(d) Negotiations: December 16 to December 22, 1981
(e) Target effectiveness: June 30, 1982
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) To reduce land tenure problems, Government is to formally transfer
ownership of developed lands to farmers participating in the con-
struction (para. 37);
(b) To counter land development design difficulties Government is to
appoint a small panel of experts who would approve all designs for
proposed small-scale irrigation works and certain types of bottom-
lands (improved bottomlands) before their inclusion in RDF's annual
work program (para. 37);
(c) Credit to farmers would be granted under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association (para. 38);
(d) Government is to charge a minimum mark-up of 7 percent for credit
sales of animal traction equipment handled by the ORD Supply and
Credit Offices (para. 40);
(e)  Government should, in the case of irrigated perimeters enforce the
national policy on cost recovery and, for village water supply,
institute a system of user charges acceptable to IDA which would
recover at least the maintenance costs of such water points,
at the latest by December 31, 1982 (para. 41);
(f) Accounts to be audited annually (para. 47);
(g) Government to submit periodic status reports and a project
completion report (para. 47);



-31-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(h) In order to put FAER on a sounder financial basis, Government is,
as a conditional disbursement, to (i) undertake steps, satisfactory
to the Association, to assure the efficient operations and financial
viability of FAER; (ii) appoint qualified management staff; and
(iii) establish FAER as a legal autopomous entity functioning as a
commercial enterprise (para. 39);
(i) The opening of the special account and notification by the Kingdom
of the Netherlands of their participation would be conditions of
effectiveness.



20                                           0
UPPER  VOLTA                                                                       /                                            ~A I                   Na5GER
~I~PPERV®OLTA.J.'
THIRD RURAL DEVELOPMENT
FUND   PROJECT                                                                                                                                 A N AAHEL   Io/> Ioi NpGERIA
, Jo oDjibo ~~~~~~~~~~~~Dori                                    140   ' 
-14-                                                   To  4_op_.__                                                                                                       _   _   _   _   _
\YATENGA                                                                                                 '.....     2°
rN^ Quohigouna   /;: \ wAgR
To TSird Rral Deoo A Y A                                                                                    \                              N         I  G   E  R
Kaya            Bogande     ~         Wtr  upl   aiteace~tgd
M A  L I                      >9<>(   5gne\v 
Jo DedougouS 0 i9/,///S4//d/ bX / t] \ FAvDA                                                                                 ,0
o .k |duro  K                                                                                    ET                                 /             Unpaved n
. CL,g'w'., ~~~~bo:OO.pNtrep ared h,>t°r/. OU 0UG, \re Teankodtt                              ot               0      c     -    OR / aitl
p Bnport i i *iird Rank an                                        oundaroes Ar    e     a
.tatos of rerrtrr or arj endormenN'G Ur
.> ~ ~ IV         R            CO        S                                     ofoc -  oirodar*oInternaSuonly Blounainesoc    2r0
T B            B'  Q FL   -      r          A.>                                                                                       oe
Di;sObun                                                                                                                                        ,       ?boudlas s  7B  E' N   I  fiN  Wc    RDBudre 
,   I V  O   R Y  C  O   A  S  T   .\   acctlptante ttsuch tolxndants                                     -.~~~~~~~A   - Inernotionly Mintnane ri gade <>



