Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15868
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SECOND PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(PERAL II)
(LOAN NO. 3556-AR)
JUNE 21, 1996
Public Sector Management and
Private Sector Development Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Argentinean Peso
Exchange Rate
I US Dollar = I Peso
(Since April 1, 1991, the exchange rate has been established by law)
GOVERNMENT OF ARGENTINA FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND) ACRONYMS
AFNE        Astilleros y Fabricas Navales del Estado
AMC         Area Material Cordoba
AHZ         Altos Hornos Zapla
DDSR        Debt and Debt Service Reduction
DGFM        Direccion General de Fabricaciones Militares
ECA          Fabrica Militar de Vainas y Conductores
Electricos
EFF          Extended Fund Facility
FM           Fabrica Militar
FMAS         FM de Acido Sulfuirico
FMRT         FM Rio Tercero
FMSF         FM San Francisco
FMSM         FM San Martin
FMTS         FM Tolueno Sintetico
HIPASAM    Hierro Patagonico de Sierra Grande S.A.M.
MV           Monomeros Vinilices
PBB         Petroquimica Bahia Blanca, S.A.
PE           Public Enterprise
PERAL       Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan
PEREL       Public Enterprise Reform Execution Loan
PGM         Petroquimica General Mosconi, S.A.
PRT         Petroquimica Rio Tercero
SECAL       Sector Adjustment Loan
SEGBA        Servicios Electricos del Gran Buenos Aires
SIGEP        Sindicatura General de Empresas Publicas
SOMISA      Sociedad Mixta Siderurgia Argentina
TAMSE       Tanque Argentino Mediano
YPF          Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
SECOND PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(PERAL II)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PR1EFACE .........................................................                                           ii
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ........................................................                                iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .............................1
A. GENESIS OF THE LoAN ..........................................................1
B. LOAN OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION                       .........................................................2
C. LOAN IMPLE          NTATION ..........................................................3
D. RESULTS   AND ASSESSMENT .........................................................     .7
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ..........................................................8
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .........................................................9
G. SUSTAINABILITY .......................................................9
H. FuTuRE OPERATION ........................................................9
I. LEssoNsLEARNED .........................................................                                10
PART H: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .............. 13
Economic Framework .....................................................                                13
Steel Sector ...................................................... 14
Other Defense Companies .....................................................                           15
PART m1: STATISTICAL TABLES ........................................................                       20
A. Summary of Assessment
B. Related Bank Loans
C. Project Timetable
D. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
E. Project Financing
F. Tranche Disbursements
G. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
H. Bank Resources: Missions
Vice President:         Shahid J. Burki
Director:               Gobind T. Nankani
Division Chief:         Paul Meo
Task Manager:   Anil Kapur
Ths document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SECOND PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(PERAL I)
LOAN 3556-AR
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Public
Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan (PERAL II) to the Argentine Republic, in the amount
of US$300 million. PERAL II (Loan No. 3556-AR), a quick disbursing sector adjustment
operation, was designed to support privatization of the Argentine Government's military-
industrial complex enterprises. The Loan was approved on January 5, 1993 and closed
on December 31, 1995. It was fully disbursed in two tranches -- the first, released on
effectiveness and the second on December 31, 1994. The Export-Import Bank of Japan
(JEXIM) co-financed PERAL II.
This ICR was prepared by the Public Sector Management and Private
Sector Development Division of Country Department I of the Latin America and the
Caribbean Regional Office. The ICR is based, inter alia, on the Initiating Memorandum,
the Report and the Recommendation of the President, the Loan Agreement, mission and
supervision reports, correspondence between the Borrower and the Bank, internal Bank
memoranda, and other background papers and reports.






- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SECOND PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(PERAL m'
LOAN 3556-AR
EVALUATION SUMMARY
i.    The US$300 million PERAL II Loan to the Argentine Government, approved on
January 3, 1993, was designed as an integral component of public sector reform efforts for
sustained fiscal improvements. PERAL II supported the Government's scheme to extend
its program of privatizing public enterprises to encompass defense industries.  The
underlying aims were to: (a) end Government budget relief of these enterprises' losses and
debts plus their indirect subsidies; (b) improve the environment for private sector
competition; and (c) reduce and maintain military expenditures at 2% of GDP. It was the
first Bank loan to address the privatization and conversion of defense industries.
ii.    The Bank's role was to provide the necessary financing and technical assistance
that enabled the Government to undertake the defense reforms. The resources from
PERAL II and the complementary US$200 million loan from the Export-Import Bank of
Japan (JEX[M) permitted the Government to replace domestic borrowing (on onerous
terms) with foreign loans. It used the counterpart from the loans to indemnify workers
displaced by the defense enterprises' restructuring, consolidate or close some of the firms,
and carry out environmental clean-ups. Further, US$100 million each of the IBRD and
JEXIM loans were used as set-asides for the Government's simultaneous debt and debt
service reduction operation.
iii.   PERAL  II was the fourth adjustment operation directly supporting the
Government's reform  programs for the public sector.  It was complemented by
independent technical assistance operations, i.e., the Public Enterprise Reform Execution
Loan (PEREL) for US$23M, and a Japanese Grant Facility for US$1.8 million equivalent.
These operations helped finance consultants and other advisors to assist in the
implementation of the defense reform program supported under PERAL II.
iv.   PERAL II was disbursed against import receipts following prevailing guidelines in
two tranches. The first tranche was made available at the time of loan effectiveness; the
second was available for release when specific conditions were met. All but one of the



- iv -
latter conditions were satisfied, permitting the second tranche to be released on December
31, 1994. The condition for the sale of Petroquimca Bahia Blanca (PBB) was waived by
the Board, though the Government did privatize PBB later the next year.
v.    Overall, the Government more than achieved the objectives set forth under the
loan. For instance, the Government sold or closed more PEs than were previously
included under the loan; has capped defense expenditures at 2% of GDP; and exceeded
the level of reduction for the "military staff' under the program. In addition, the loan was
also conditioned on evidence of progress on the macroeconomic program, and the
attendant macroeconomic indicators were strong. The authorities similarly were successful
in rationalizing fiscal incentives for steel producers and in advancing environmental audit
and remedial improvements in selected PEs that were closed;
vi.   These achievements were reached despite continuous organizational changes in the
Ministry of Defense, relatively weak technical depth in the counterpart teams and poor
financial conditions. In large part, the success of the loan can be attributed to the strong
political commitment of the Government and the heavy utilization of Bank resources. In
addition to financing, the Bank continuously coached and guided the Government's teams
on the restructuring and privatization process in the Defense sector and provided for the
necessary analytical underpinnings for the reform in the steel sector by undertaking a steel
sector report (that was not published at the Government's request). Without these
conditions, it is doubtful that the project would have achieved the objectives under the
loan.
vii.   A few governmental actions were less than fully satisfactory. First, due to lengthy
arbitration disputes between the upstream and downstream producers and the unfavorable
global conditions prevailing in the petrochemical industry, the Government was unable to
sell Petroquimica Bahia Blanca (PBB), a relatively small-scale petrochemical plant, in a
timely manner. This loan condition was waived by the Bank's Board in December 1994, in
view of the overall progress made by the Government. PBB was in fact sold, though after
the loan closed. Secondly, although the Government satisfied the second tranche condition
of submitting satisfactory legislation on competition policy to the Congress, this proposed
law still remains pending in the legislature. And finally, due to the absence of the
proposed law for competition policy, SOMISA (the large steel manufacturer) was sold to
a consortia of regional steel producers. Addressing these problems was difficult because
of repeated organizational changes and inter-ministerial jurisdictional difficulties which
obstructed the privatization process and its enforcement.
viii.  The project's successful structural reforms helped improve the fiscal balance
through reductions in parastatal deficits and staffs along with the proceeds of asset sales.
Moreover, military expenditures were kept at the reduced level. While it is too early to
determine if the industrial sectors involved are definitively more efficient and profitable
post-privatization, preliminary data shows that average labor productivity and capacity
utilization in steel increased considerably in 1990-93. The consortium that purchased



SOMISA expects a positive net income from the steel plant in 1996. Also, the civilian
industrial component of Argentina's defense complex has been transformed.
ix.    As a result of the strong vested role of the Argentine military and the Bank's
limited historic involvement in the defense sector, this program had to be innovative and
creative to succeed. There are few examples of its kind in the world and therefore,
comparative lessons learned are not easily available. However, the single most important
factor was the strong personal comrnitment of President Menem, without whom these
reforms might not have taken place. In addition there were some specific lessons from the
Ministry of Defense experience. These had to do with the special complexities of
addressing civilian tasks under often dissimilar military administrative rules and systems.
Addressing these aspects under project preparation is key when designing defense reform
programs.






ARGENTINA: SECOND PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM ADJUSTMENT
LOAN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. GENESIS OF THE LOAN
1.    While Public Enterprises (PE) in Argentina did not account for a disproportionate
share of the economy compared with other Latin American countries, their inefficiencies
and heavy losses had a profound economic impact. Furthermore, during the past 50 years,
government policies created uncertainty as they varied -- from nationalization, creation,
growth, to an eventual reduction of the public sector. The PEs under the ownership of the
Federal Government were concentrated in three major activities -- Hydrocarbons and
Energy, Transport and Communications, and the Industrial and Service sectors. The PEs
in the last category were principally under the Ministry of Defense due to their perceived
strategic importance and the evolving role of the past military governments.
2.    In the mid- I 980s, after the election of the first democratic government, the
Ministry of Defense had on a number of occasions announced the privatization of its two
biggest defense enterprises -- Sociedad Mixta Siderurgia Argentina (SOMISA) and
Petroquimica Bahia Blanca (PBB), years before a broader privatization program became
successful. Due to numerous changes in the Ministry, lack of political commitment and
inertia, and strong labor union opposition--especially in the steel sector-- there were a
number of false starts. The early defense teams' reform programs, which had launched the
privatization effort, lay dormant until the early 1990s.
3 .    However, periodic fiscal crises, continued bouts of hyperinflation and inefficient
expenditure programs, shifted the focus of reforms from the military to economic sphere.
This change was primarily due to the PEs' increasing burden on the economy. In 1978-
91, PEs' overall financial balances (before budget transfers) were consistently negative
(reaching as high as -4.9% of GDP), requiring Government financing that averaged 2.5%
of GDP. When the Menem Government took control in 1989, PEs had an operating
deficit of US$3.8 billion and were increasingly being criticized for waste and poor
services.
4.    In response to the severity of the economic situation, the Menem Administration
implemented the divestiture of nearly all its PEs at a record-breaking pace. It moved first
on the largest PEs in order to quickly reap the biggest potential welfare gains and
demonstrate its commitment and seriousness. It sold the major national airline and
telephone company (efforts initiated under the previous government), followed by similar
sales of the state's petroleum, power, and railroad industries. Simultaneously, the



- 2 -
administration eliminated PE price setting and deregulated the supply of numerous goods
and services. These measures were fortified by the "Convertibility Plan," which converted
the Central Bank into a virtual monetary board, and killed inflationary expectations
rapidly.
5.    After putting some key economic reforms into place, President Menem transferred
the then Minister of Economy and his team to the Ministry of Defense in early 1991, with
the mandate to implement badly needed reforms in the defense sector. Close prior working
relationships with the Bank, proven credibility in implementing reforms and the Bank's
institutional and sector knowledge was among the principal factors that contributed to the
genesis of the Bank's first loan directed to defense reforms.
6.    Of the 45 PEs under the ownership of the Ministry of Defense, the Bank's loan
focused on 23 industrial PEs (1 PE was subsequently dropped from the original list),
which accounted for more than 90% of the Defense complex's economic activity in terms
of employees, assets, and sales. The remaining PEs were excluded from Bank support due
to past liquidation actions and their defense orientation (in which the Bank did not have a
comparative advantage). Amongst those PEs covered under the Bank's loan, the PEs in
the steel and petrochemical sectors were the most important and complex, in terms of
labor unions, vested private sector interests, and sector policy distortions.
7.    At the end of 1991, PEs under the Ministry of Defense accounted for losses of
almost US$478 million, over 16% of total government borrowing needs. The new team
set out to stem these losses, cutting defense expenditures and thus reducing the role of the
military. The Government decided to sell or otherwise dispose of 23 of the 45 enterprises
within the Defense Ministry complex. These PEs, in terms of their economic importance,
were led by steel companies, followed by petrochemicals, shipyards and other
manufacturing enterprises. Less than a third of these PEs were profitable; they were
generally not subject to the rigors of the marketplace; and most of their senior managers
were not commercially oriented.
B. LoAN OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
8.    PERAL II was the fourth adjustment operation in support of the Government's
public sector reform program. The Loan sought mainly to assist in privatizing/
restructuring Defense PEs (excluding purely military plants) and improving the
environment for private sector competition.
9.    These goals were part of a broad World Bank effort to help sustain the 1991-92
Argentina's major structural adjustments. PERAL II aimed at ending Government budget
relief of the Defense PE losses and debt obligations plus their indirect subsidies. It was
also intended to support the Government's attempt to reduce and maintain military
expenditures at 2% of GDP.
10.   The arrangements for the US$300 million loan called for a first tranche of US$200
million to be made available at effectiveness, with a second tranche of US$100 million.



- 3 -
The Export-Import Bank of Japan cofinanced the project with a US$200 million loan. The
first tranches of both loans included US$ 100 million set-asides in support of a Debt and
Debt Service Reduction (DDSR) operation. The remainder of the loans was to finance
general imports except those defined by the usual small negative list of ineligible items.
Their local currency counterpart proceeds were to finance severance payments of
displaced workers, the closure of facilities, consolidation of plants and environmental
clean-ups.
11.   The macroeconomic underpinning for PERAL II was elaborated in close
coordination with an IMF Extended Fund Facility. A medium-term framework and
financing plan were agreed with the Government, predicated on the assumptions
underlying the DDSR loan (presented to the Board on the same date). Specific policies
and performance monitoring criteria were spelled out in the agreed Letter of Development
Policy, with special attention to sustaining open trade policies.
12.   Moreover, for enhancing private sector development, PERAL II's emphasis was on
supporting the revision of the anti-trust legislation in order to bolster competition
incentives. The market share of both the petrochemical and steel plants to be privatized
was large enough to have led to oligopolistic distortions without a clearer anti-trust policy.
Other provisions included the pursuit of a stronger deregulatory framework, lower import
barriers for steel products and removal of entry barriers. Further, the project plan called
for rationalization of fiscal incentives to steel producers in the interests of leveling the
playing field for private and public agents alike. Another focus was on improved
environmental safeguards, for which there were to be enterprise audits and clean-ups.
13.   In addition, PERAL II supported privatizing or closing all three steel PEs (notably
SOMISA, which had about 60% of the country's total capacity), the two most important
petrochemical enterprises (PGM and PBB), and eleven other industrial companies. It was
likewise agreed that seven defense-related companies would be converted to civilian
purposes. These collectively accounted for 97% of all Defense Ministry sales and 91% of
its employment.
14.   The Loan was prepared with the help of a Japanese Grant and the Public
Enterprise Reform Execution Loan (No. 3292-AR). In addition, the Defense Ministry (the
executing agency) needed technical assistance to carry out the scheme in the light of its
managerial deficiencies. Accordingly, the project plans envisaged the employment of a
substantial number of consultants for advising on and helping carry out the privatization's.
However, the Loan did not contain provisions for such assistance, relying instead on the
projected availability of a second Japanese Grant and the further reallocation of proceeds
under another ongoing Bank loan.
C. LOAN LMPLEMENTATION
15.   The Government's strategy for this operation called for the privatization--sale or
closure--of all PEs within the Ministry of Defense's purview. The then newly appointed
Minister of Defense delegated day-to-day management responsibility to the Secretary of



- 4 -
Defense Planning, the former Vice Minister of Economy. His office was assisted by the
Office of the Under-Secretary of Restructuring and Asset Control (IJRA) and a small
inter-disciplinary team of advisors, financed under available technical assistance funds. In
addition, the Minister of Defense appointed "Interventors" (trustees) to oversee the
restructuring and privatization efforts in some of the more important PEs; e.g., SOMISA
and PBB.
16.   In spite of these efforts, the project unit was relatively weak with limited technical
ability to undertake complex and broad-based restructuring and privatization programs..
This, coupled with the lack of cooperation at the PE level, the poor financial performance
of most PEs and their relative unattractiveness, made for a difficult, challenging working
environment. However, strong commitment and technical support (provided mainly by the
Bank) resulted in considerable up-front actions taken towards achievement of the project's
goals. Before Board approval, the Government had passed enabling legislation,
promulgated a deregulation decree for the steel sector, sold one of the steel PEs, and
closed the biggest provincial steel PE under difficult political circumstances. Prior to
privatization, the Government restructured SOMISA -- reduced the labor force from
14,500 to 5,500, rationalized the product mix from international to the domestic market,
and closed certain unprofitable product lines --based on the Bank's recommendations as
detailed in a sector report. In addition, the PEs' sales memoranda were well advanced for
SOMISA, PBB and PGM, and five other PEs had been divested and another closed. In
all, nine of the 23 targeted PEs were sold or closed and advancements were undertaken in
the sales process in a number of others by this early juncture. On the sectoral framework,
the authorities drafted revised anti-trust legislation and issued a decree eliminating fiscal
incentives for steel firms. In addition, Argentina and it's MERCOSUR partners had
effected two regional tariff cuts in compliance with the Loan's macro-economic
objectives. This impressive record permitted the release of the loan's first tranche
immediately after effectiveness.
17.   However shortly afterwards, a number of politically motivated reorganizations in
the Ministry of Defense and the replacement of the Secretary of Defense Planning, slowed
the impetus for concerted change. As a result of these changes, the closing date of the
loan ultimately had to be extended by one year and the Bank needed to allocate additional
supervision resources to ensure that the actions in the remaining PEs were undertaken
according to Bank procedures. Despite these circumstances, almost all the actions under
PERAL II were completed. 22 of the targeted 23 companies were sold or closed and
many of the sectoral policy actions identified under the loan were also completed
satisfactorily.
18.   In the case of the last remaining PE--PBB-there was less progress. Its sale was
persistently delayed. At the outset, this was mainly caused by the enterprise's contractual
disputes with downstream firms. Unsuccessful arbitration of these differences set back the
Government's initial sales efforts in 1992. Due to economic policy and legal issues
surrounding PBB, the Ministry of Defense transferred the privatization responsibility to
the Ministry of Economy. Subsequently, the legal and economic issues were resolved and
the Government retained a merchant banker to conduct the sale. In view of this and the



- 5 -
overall progress on other aspects of the loan, together with the sector liberalization that
put PBB into a more competitive market situation, the Bank ultimately waived the
requirement for its sale. PBB was eventually sold in late 1995, almost a year after the
waiver. In hindsight, PBB's privatization could have been expedited if its sale had been
undertaken jointly with the gas conversion plant of General Serri (the sole provider of
ethane to PBB).
19.   In addition, the Government perceived that, for some PEs and industries it needed
to take complementary policy measures for averting or minimizing monopoly
concentration and otherwise obtaining greater competition. Argentina's market
mechanisms had many distortions because of unduly rigid rules governing labor markets,
oligopolistic producer pricing and retailers' mark-ups, etc. These concerns were especially
relevant for the Defense complex's largest industries, particularly those in the increasingly
concentrated steel sector.
20.   At this time as well, Argentina's fiscal position was still fragile, suggesting the need
to buttress the "Convertibility Plan." The economic team consequently set out to press the
new privatized enterprises to achieve more efficient production by stimulating greater
competitiveness in the economy. It decided to supplement the constructive steps already
taken for this purpose by further opening of the trade regime and deregulation. Similarly,
it committed itself to strengthening the anti-trust legal framework since the existing law
enforcement machinery was inadequate.
21.   During this period, moreover, the Government launched a campaign for reducing
its external debt interest obligations to commercial banks to levels sustainable with its
projected fiscal performance. Although Argentina was only paying 28% of interest due,
debt service encumbered public finances. The economic team thus set out to obtain debt
and debt service reduction, and it requested IBRD, IDB and IMF assistance for this
effort'.
22.   While generally rapid, Argentina's privatization process was uneven and
occasionally marked by delays. In addition to some PEs not being very commercially
attractive, there was limited interest in their purchase because of the prevailing perception
among foreign investors of high country risk . Unfortunately too, these constraints were
exacerbated by persistently thin Defense Ministry implementation capability and the lack
of enthusiasm for privatization among some enterprise managers. There were furthermore
progressive weaknesses in the executing agency's direction of the project, especially with
the departure of its main sponsors.
23.   URA's small staff encountered difficulties, therefore, especially in contracting and
supervising of the substantial, diverse experts engaged in preparing and assessing many
bidding documents. This was compounded by the over one year delay in the
Government's approval of a Japanese Grant designed to mobilize substantial technical and
1  ICR Report No. 13885, dated January 20, 1995 (Loan 3555-AR, Debt & Debt Services Reduction)
details the DDSR loan and process, as well as evaluated the Bank's performance.



- 6 -
administrative support for the executing agency. Even after that action was completed,
the Defense Ministry was frustrated by delays in paperwork processing, mainly within the
Ministry of Economy, which hampered employment of the needed advisors.
24.   In the important SOMISA case, the management of the process also suffered from
excessive pressure for rapid progress vis a vis careful screening of alternative sales
strategies. The merchant bank charged with preparing and processing the sale first was
given very limited time to prepare the bidding documents. It also was later directed to
proceed on a "one option" basis, at variance with instructions. These contributed to the
eventual presence of a single bidder (Propulsora Siderurgica S.A., a consortium led by
Argentina's largest steel company).
25.   Other problems reflected larger policy issues, notably the compatibility of the sales
with the desire for a more competitive business environment. Most of these issues also
centered on SOMISA. Early on, the authorities were mindful that opening the larger
Defense industries to private sector ownership made it important to block moves from
interested firms which could cause even more industrial concentration. The Loan
arrangements therefore included provisions to incorporate the general principles of the
Government's competition policy in the sales memoranda for privatization of the PEs. The
Government also promptly began defining how to strengthen the anti-trust law.
Moreover, the Presidential Decree that accompanied the SOMISA sales memorandum
prohibited major local producers from jointly participating in the privatization.
26.   However, SOMISA's fast pace towards privatization indicated that the new
legislation could not be in place before the sale. The Bank therefore cautioned the
authorities that this circumstance could interfere with the application of the desired
competition policy. But despite these efforts, none of these would-be safeguards proved
to be effective. After SOMISA's sale, there was a purchase of minority shareholdings (7%)
by another major local steel company, effectively linking the two largest Argentine steel
companies in the new operation. The Bank questioned this action on the grounds of
incompatibility with the sales memorandum's aforementioned ban on such collaboration. It
also noted that the Letter of Development Policy had stated that the Government would
avoid the transfer of public to private monopolies.
27.   After examination, the Government concluded that it lacked the authority to forbid
such events, i.e., there was then no legal barrier to "inside trading" among private groups.
Following its own review, the Bank agreed with that judgment on the limitations of the
existing legislation. It also concluded that the sale was consistent with the agreed bidding
documents and there were inadequate grounds for demonstrating that the 7% share
purchase had effectively produced a monopoly. The Bank therefore acquiesced in
SOMISA's sale.
28.   In this connection, the Development Policy Letter stated that the Government
"..intends to improve the existing competition law to avoid undue ownership
concentration and be more proactive to ensure a dynamic and competitive private sector."
The submission of agreed new anti-trust legislation to the Congress was a second tranche



- 7 -
condition. However The admrinistration requested the Bank's comments on the text of the
new competition law only after it had been passed, and the Bank found it faulty.
Subsequently, after the incorporation of -&mendments incorporating some Bank
sugges :ons, the erec 'tive bra; . h sent a later version to the Congress. This satisfied the
trancht-e oonditio.. altho-ugh the iriproveA text still provides only a limited autonomy and
authority for the oegulaltory agency.
29.    On other project aspects, the Government successfully rationalized its fiscal
incentives for steel p'oduce.rs. ft issued tax credits to the new private companies (after
they had undergone tax audits), and later eliminated future investment tax credits in the
sector. The plareA e-nvironimental diagnoses and clean-ups were performed satisfactorily.
I}. PESIJLTS AND ASSESSMENT
30.    T'he execution of the project resulted in the attainment of a considerable part of its
goals. After a relatively brief operation, the civilian industrial component of Argentina's
defense complex was radically trafnsformed. The Argentine state has completely departed
from both steel and petrochemical production. Overall, the targeted enterprises were
mostly closed or their asstets sold
31.   In the process, there was a large impact on public finances, with favorable long-
term effects fromr. reductions ;n Pt-, deficits (more than offsetting reduced income from
their operations). Another importanit consequence has been the reduction in public
employment by aboitr I ,000. The privatization's also generated over US$1.0 billion in
asset sales, one third. 0$ which h!elped the Government directly to reduce its public debt.
(The actual enterprise sales however were generally closer to 10% of original book value
rather than the 20-30% that was considered possible earlier). Moreover, military
expenditures were kent to the targeted reduced level. All these provided welcome
breathing room in con olidatir'g putblic finances, at the heart of Argentina's successful
adjustment program2.
32.    An ancillary qiuestion is whether the privatized enterprises substantially improved
and have provided better services and products. It is too early to make any detailed
judgments on increases in p!roduction efficiency, financial profitability, improvements in
the quality o-f services, etc However, some partial, short term data is noteworthy. A
Bank-commissioned study oni labor markets and productivity in Argentina reported that
average labor productivity in the steel sector grew at 12.0% p.a. in 1990-93 for crude
product, and 22.1% for laminates (the latter practically doubling productivity in the three
years). During the same period, capacity utilization in steel production increased from 53
to 60%, and in laminates fromn 60 to 79%. Further, a Bank assessment of productivity
trends during 1991 -94 reported a 13.9% rise in ethylene output. Its cost meanwhile fell by
over one third as a result of lower producer prices and the greater opening of the
economy. I'he consortion that. purchased SOMISA reported operating profits in 1995,
and has so far (i.e., in 1 996) reported positive net income for a complex that in the 1980s
had required major subsidies simply to stay open.



-8 -
33.   The project was less successful though from the standpoint of the management of
the privatization transactions. It did move the Government's processes for developing and
directing these activities forward, and thus helped set the stage for further programs of this
type. However, the Bank's assessment of project risks had underscored the need for
ensuring transparency and objectivity in the process. It cannot be said that the
Government's institutional capacity to meet these essential criteria were strengthened
through the project.
34.   The same applies to the goal of transforming the rules of the game in Argentina so
as to establish meaningful norms and enforcement machinery for a more competitive
business environment. To be sure, this was a difficult and delicate matter for the
authorities under the political conditions that then obtained. However, with the limited
legislative action taken, the Government achieved considerably less than its intention "...to
avoid the transfer of public to private monopolies... (and) undue ownership concentration"
(Letter of Development Policy).
35.   Moreover, the privatization program in fact increased the concentration of asset
ownership. But this was not surprising as, in fact, the Government had relatively low
expectations about the prospects of selling all the targeted PEs. Further, it certainly
would have been difficult to carry off the program without Argentine entrepreneurs'
participation. On balance though, while these conditions mitigate what occurred, the
resulting condition is undesirable and remains to be remedied.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
36.   The operation was notable for the Bank's strong and close participation with the
Government at very detailed levels, which entailed a major resource allocation. In the
process, the Bank effectively brought together and monitored on a timely basis a large
array of technical, legal and financial specialists. These services were incalculable in the
vacuum within and instability of public sector management at the time. The Bank staff
became the "memory" of the Government, as well as technical advisers to frequently
changing officials. These accomplishments incidentally were influential in leading the way
to the subsequent request for IBRD counsel on rationalizing other military complex
activities (airports).
37.   Another impressive Bank Group contribution resulted in the sale of the Altos
Hornos Zapla steel plant within a record 9 months and with a three-fold rise in the sales
price from the successful purchaser's original bid. This was largely the product of the
IFC's active promotion of the sale under its advisory services to the Government (although
fear of competition among the bidders was also a factor). As a result of this work, IFC
was asked to, and also successfully, managed the privatization of Defense's electric
equipment manufacturer cable plant (Fabrica Militar de Vainas). Close Bank-IFC
collaboration helped ensure consistency and transparency in the process.



- 9 -
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
38.   Nevertheless, this close and detailed Bank assistance ultimately reduced the
ownership of the reform within the Ministry of Defense and led to a dependency on Bank
staff and advice that contrasts poorly with other collaborative reform approaches with
other Ministries.
39.   The Government's performance was exceptional at the outset but diminished in
quality during the remainder of project implementation. It's substantial "up front" actions
were commendable, reflecting strong political will combined with managerial drive and
technical competence. And the administration merits praise for meeting most of the Loan
conditions with a high level of commitment. However, the latter waned rather rapidly.
This was most significantly manifested in the after-the-fact consultation with the Bank on
the revised anti-trust legislation and the administration's failure to win it's Congressional
endorsement later.
40.   There also were equally serious institutional shortcomings. These were mainly
manifested in the lack of resolution of the inter-ministerial differences that deprived the
executing agency of badly needed services and support. These shortcomings were
inconsistent with the Government's strong political commitment to and the imperatives of
the privatization program. Greater managerial discipline was needed in order to obtain the
requisite collaboration.
G. SUSTAINABILITY
41.   The privatization program of the seven-year Menem administration remains in
force and has encompassed most other areas of the public sector. It's more recent aspects
included reductions in the state's role in the nation-wide banking sector and additional
asset sales of federal power and transportation systems. There have moreover been
widespread privatization measures at the provincial level as well. Officials at both levels
are now planning still further actions in addition, accompanied by initiatives in
strengthening regulatory frameworks. Regarding only the project's achievements, the
transformation and closure of the former Defense Ministry PEs appear irreversible, with
no foreseeable development threatening alter their new status. Memories of hyperinflation
and the PEs' degradation make it unlikely that public perceptions would change so
drastically as to undermine the reforms of the failed parastatals. Thus, the PE privatization
achievements have robust chances of being fully sustainable.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
42.   The Government has moved to deepen privatization reforms, including remaining
federal and provincial public enterprises and is acting more decisively in other key areas
such as privatization of public banks. Bank dialogue with the government on these
matters has been continuos and is ongoing. Bank assistance to Argentina has been, and is
projected to continue, strongly focused on consolidating structural reforms, including



- 10 -
substantial operations with sub-national governments in pursuit of further privatization
activities. This is intended to meet the Government's requests for still broader application
of Argentina's privatization program and its refinement for additional maximization of the
project and its similarly oriented predecessors' benefits. With regard to the ex-Defense
PEs, the success of their future operations will hinge largely on the success of the
Government's plans to strengthen economic reforms. Beginning in mid-1994, officials
implemented a major reform of the national social security system. Provincial reforms --
privatization of banks, utilities, etc. as well as fiscal downsizing-- accelerated in 1995. It is
now undertaking additional efforts directed at reforms of labor and financial markets, as
well as health financing, and the transfer of provincial pension systems to the national
system, mostly with Bank support.
1. LESSONS LEARNED
43.   Argentina is the only country in the hemisphere, and among only a handful of
countries in the world, which has undertaken a major reform covering its defense
complex. As a result of its uniqueness, the strong vested role of the Argentine military,
and the Bank's limited historic involvement in the defense sector, the PERAL II program
was innovative and creative. There are few examples of its kind in the world and
therefore, comparative lessons learned are not easily available. However, the single most
important factor was the strong personal commitment and support of President Menem,
without whom these and other reforms might not have taken place.
44.   There have been many lessons learned, both by the Government and the World
Bank, from the Argentine privatization process. Some of these lessons are common to the
overall approach (as documented in the World Bank publication entitled, "Argentina's
Privatization Program: Experience, Issues, and Lessons" dated 1993). Others are more
specific to the institutional arrangements, and privatization techniques used and process
undertaken by the Ministry of Defense (the focus of this ICR).
45.   The lessons learnled from the privatization of defense industries in Argentina can be
grouped under two broad areas:
Di)    Institutional Aspects:
The privatization niomentuin peaked while the defense reform program
was still underway. Argentina's privatization program peaked in 1992 while
the defense initiative was still underway. In late 1993, the Office of the
Under Secretary for Privatization (the central coordinating body within the
Ministry of Economy) was dissolved. This, coupled with continues
reorganizations in the Ministry of Defense, left a major coordinating gap
within the Government to ensure consistency and continuity of the process.
As a result, a number of sales transactions within the Ministry of Defense were
delayed, set off-track, and lost their inertia. The resulting lesson is that
significant achievements should not be expected --and perhaps large



- I l -
privatization investments not launched--after the Government's focus on key
management has shifted.
A key requirement of the privatization process for oligopolistic industry
is the enforcement of laws that effectively promote competition and
protect consumer rights. Although these laws existed, there institutional and
enforcement capability was minimal. With this inadequate framework, it was
almost impossible to intervene solely through bidding documents. Therefore,
there was further concentration in asset ownership, especially in the steel and
petrochemical sectors. In retrospect, this was probably to be expected, since
it stemmed from the speed of the privatization effort, the limited interest of
prospective international bidders, and the desire to prequalify bidders on their
financial soundness. Nevertheless, one of the conditions of this loan was that
the Government submit a proposed competition and consumer protection law
(which would overcome some of the institutional and enforcement
shortcomings) to Congress. This was undertaken subsequently by the
Executive Branch, but a year and a half later, and has not yet been approved
by both houses of Congress. The lesson is that statements of competitive
principles in sales memoranda may not be appropriate in enforcing anti-
monopolistic behavior during the privatization process. Therefore, strong
laws and institutions need to be wvell in place.
Managing cross-ministerial relationships and multiple objectives are
complex under a single loan. This loan's principal objective was to privatize
PEs under the Ministry of Defense. However, since a large number of PEs
were in the tradeable sector, there was a need to modify the prevailing laws
for competition policy and consumiier protection, which was the primary
responsibility of the Ministry of Economy. As the proposed loan did not
provide direct incentives for the latter Ministry and large vested groups
lobbied against passage of the new law, the result was a lack of cooperation
within the Executive Branch for the proposed reforni. In retrospect, this
condition would have been better served if such general policy aspects were
more directly charged to the agency responsible for overall regulatory issues.
* The appointment of Interventors and their results were mixed for
Defense PEs. The larger PEs entering the privatization process had
"Interventors" (appointed trustees) whio had full executive power-s to operate
the company until the privatization was completed. The appointment of these
interventors helped, in principle to expedite the privatization process, but
offered limited incentives to improve the operations of the PE during the
interim. In the case of SOMISA, after the appointment of three interventors
in a period of one year. the management finally focused onlv on the sales
process; its chief goal was speed  Unlike restructuring specialists, an
interventor focuses largely on the speed of transfer. As a result, knowing that
the company would soon be under different managemenit, there was limited



- 12 -
incentive to take decisions or embark on new initiatives during the interim
sales phase. In the case of smaller PEs, where there was a need for such an
interventor, the Government could not fill their appointments due to limited
management and privatization depth. The lesson is that arrangements to
expedite privatization's through the appointment of special executives need to
be accompanied by well designed provisions for managing enterprises
efficiently during the interim.
(ii)    Techniques and Process Aspects:
* The successful sale and/or the transfer of selected defense industries is
generally more prone to private placement as opposed to international
competitive bidding procedures. There are few potential defense industry
players, especially those who are permitted to operate overseas, and therefore,
competitive bidding may not always be either feasible or desirable. In many
cases, in spite of international and local sales efforts, the Argentine
government could not find any prospective private buyers. For instance,
Domecq Garcia, an assembler of deep sea submarines, could not be sold
without the participation and involvement of Thyssen Industries, the original
manufacturer. However, current Bank procedures require a lengthy and
sometimes expensive process that fosters only international bidding. The
lesson is that these procedures may not be universally suitable, and need to be
altered for the particular context of the country and industry.
* A number of potential sales transactions may not be successful due to
enterprises' small sizes, unattractive market and financial conditions, and
environmental unsoundness. Unattractive public enterprises, especially in
military industries (e.g., which are relatively small, operating poorly,
functioning for "strategic" more than productive purposes) might better be
closed rather than subjected to privatization efforts. The lesson is that greater
focus should be devoted to developing prior analyses of small PEs, whose
privatization could prove to be unviable from economic, financial, and
environmental aspects.



- 13 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SECOND PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM ADJ1USTMENT LOAN
(PERAL m)
LOAN 3556-AR
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
46.   Within the framework of the State Reform Program undertaken by the Argentine
Government, agreement was reached on February 2, 1993 between the Argentine
Republic and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the Second
Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan (PERAL II). The objective of this Loan was
to assist the Borrower in carrying out the reform of state enterprises under the
responsibility of the Ministry of Defense, in order to reduce the State's financial deficit and
improve the conditions for private sector activity and investment and for the
implementation of the Debt Reduction program.
47.   In order to evaluate the proposed objectives and the achievements reached in
Project implementation, the completed actions and those arising from Schedule 5 of the
Loan Agreement are described below.
Economic Framework
48.   The proposed objectives under this point consisted of reducing inflation and
stimulating growth as well as achieving a public spending program that was consistent
with income and with the potential to obtain loans.
49.   In this regard, it should be noted that the actions carried out include: (i) approval
of the Consumer Protection Law by the Executive Branch, with the agreement of the
National Congress; and (ii) the issuance of fiscal credits to the steel sector following the
corresponding audit by the General Tax Bureau, whereby this sector's tax system was
consolidated.
50.   Another relevant issue under this point is the environmental audit carried out in the
former METEOR factory and in HIERRO PATAGONICO DE SIERRA GRANDE
S.A.M. As a consequence of the high level of toxicity contained in the sulfuric acid waste
accumulated in the building, the Argentine Government ordered an environmental
assessment of the former factory's installations and on the grounds of HIPASAM.
51.   AMBIENTAL S.A. was selected for this purpose. The environmental audit was
completed in July 1993 but, due to the high risk stemming from harmful residue, the



- 14 -
Terms of Reference were expanded so that the consulting firm could assist the Ministry of
Defense in preparing the technical specifications for residue removal.
52.   Consequently, the firm TECNICA Y SERVICIOS S.A. was hired under Ministry
of Defense Resolution N 1338/93 to clean the building. The firm has recently completed
the environmental clean-up of the former METEOR factory.
Steel Sector
53.   When the Project began, the proposed objectives were to reduce the State's role in
this sector, on the one hand, and to improve the sector's competitiveness, on the other.
The actions carried out refer to the following companies:
SOCIEDAD MIXTA SIDERURGICA ARGENTINA (SOMISA) (Argentine
Steel Joint Venture)
This company was declared subject to privatization by Law N 24.045; the General
Bidding Conditions were approved by Ministry of Defense Resolution N 1054
dated July 10, 1992.
Only one bid was submitted, that of bidder PROPULSORA SIDERUJRGICA S.A.
that offered US$140 million in cash and US$12.1 million in public debt notes.
Once awarded to this company, the name was changed to ACEROS PARANA
S.A.
As stipulated in Ministry of Defense Resolution N 546 dated August 9, 1993,
SOMISA was declared to be in a state of liquidation in accordance with the
regulations of Law N 19.550 and its respective amendments.
Finally, responsibility was ordered to be transferred to the Subsecretariat of Asset
Regulation, under the Secretariat of the Treasury of the National Ministry of
Public Works and Services.
HIERRO PATAGONICO DE SIERRA GRANDE (HIPASAM) (Patagonian
Ironworks of Sierra Grande)
The Ministry of Defense transferred the assets of this company, whose production
was suspended, to the Province of Rio Negro which agreed to comply with the
provisions of Laws N 23.696 and N 24.045.
The Transfer Contract was ratified by the Executive Branch under Decree N
2007/93.



- 15 -
Responsibility for the residual entity was transferred to the Subsecretariat of Asset
Regulation, under the Secretariat of the Treasury of the National Ministry of
Public Works and Services.
Other Defense Companies
54.   Continuing the objectives proposed in the above points, the following companies
were privatized, liquidated or transferred to other jurisdictions:
PETROQUIMICA GENERAL MOSCONI (General Mosconi Petrochemical
Company)
As stipulated by Ministry of Defense Resolution N 1283/92, P.G.M. was
transferred to YPF S.A. for US$10.2 million.
On March 31, 1993, a contract was signed with YPF S.A. for the purchase and
sale of certain assets and liabilities belonging to Petroquimica General Mosconi
that basically constituted the Industrial Complex located in the city of Ensenada,
Province of Buenos Aires.
Thus, P.G.M. S.A.I. y C. is now comprised of only a few assets such as buildings,
DMT - PET equipment and credits with the General Tax Bureau. In addition,
liabilities are basically comprised of debt to the D.G.I. stemming from the granting
of promotional benefits in accordance with Executive Branch Decree N 1156/88
and allowance for lawsuits; most of this debt may be consolidated.
PETROQUiMICA BAHIA BLANCA (Bahia Blanca Petrochemical Company)
This company was declared to be subject to privatization by Executive Branch
Decree No 1398 dated July 27, 1990, approved by Law N 24.045.
On January 12, 1994, and under Ministry of Defense Resolution N 29,
authorization was granted for the transfer from P.B.B. S.A.I.C. to the Banco de la
Naci6n Argentina of ownership of 17% of the equity shares owned by said
Ministry, in order to partially cancel the debt arising from advances of funds made
under the Financial Assistance Contract signed with said entity on January 14,
1992.
Executive Branch Decree N 1318/94 ordered the transfer of responsibility to the
Ministry of Economy and Public Works and Services in order to carry out
privatization management.



- 16 -
FORJA ARGENTINA S.A. (Argentine Foundry)
Ministry of Defense Resolution N 381 dated March 16, 1993 declared the
company in a state of liquidation due to its technical, operational, economic and
financial status. The company was unable to operate normally and its accumulating
losses were leading it to a state of virtual cessation of payments.
On August 11, 1993 the Forja C6rdoba factory was sold; a bill of purchase and
sale was also signed for the factory's machinery and furniture. On August 24 of
the same year, a bill of purchase and sale was signed for the offices in the Federal
Capital.
Joint Resolution N0 116 of the Ministry of Economy and Public Works and
Services and N0 1499 of the Ministry of Defense ordered the transfer of Forja
Argentina S.A. (e.l.) to the Subsecretariat of Asset Regulation; the Transfer
Certificate signed on May 11, 1995 and the Supplementary Transfer Certificate
signed on June 7, 1995 made the transfer effective.
CARBOQUIMICA ARGENTINA S.A. (Argentine Carbon Chemical Company)
Ministry of Defense Resolution N 880 dated July 3, 1992 authorized Local
Competitive Bidding for the company. Two bids were submitted, one by
PITTMETAL S.A., and the other by SAFETY S.A. together with PROCAMET
S.A.
Based upon the bids submitted, the contract was awarded to SAFETY S.A. -
PROCAMET S.A. after S.A.I.C. RAGOR, the major private shareholder, was
informed so that it could exercise its right of pre-emption.
SAFETY S.A. - PROCAMET S.A.'s bid consisted of US$331,500 in cash,
US$425,425 in internal debt notes, and US$348,075 in external debt notes.
ASTILLEROS Y FABRICAS NAVALES DEL ESTADO S.A. (State
Shipyards and Naval Factories)
The Ministry of Defense transferred to the Province of Buenos Aires the assets,
staff and third-party contracts that were in the process of being implemented. This
act was carried out in order to ensure the preservation of sources of employment
and the continuity of ongoing contracts, as well as to take advantage of the
geographic conditions of the location of these installations through the creation of
a free trade zone.
The Province of Buenos Aires assumed the commitment of carrying out the
privatization process as stipulated in Laws N 23.696 and N 24.045, and of
maintaining the continuity of production until the moment of definitive



- 17-
privatization, thereby providing a harmonious solution to the complex social and
economic interests involved.
AREA DE MATERIAL CORDOBA (C6rdoba Material Area)
Law N 24.045 declared this company subject to privatization. Ministry of
Defense Resolution N 1364/93 transferred all of the company's assets, liabilities
and contracts from the Argentine Air Force to the Ministry of Defense.
In view of progress in the privatization process being undertaken for the C6rdoba
Material Area, and under the framework of the provisions of the State Reform
Law, several invitations were sent in December 1993 to the principal international
firms involved in this field so that they could express their interest in this
privatization. Of the ten companies invited, only LOCKHEED AIRCRAFT
SERVICE CO. (LAS) expressed its wish to participate in the privatization process
of the C6rdoba Material Area.
In addition, during the selection process conducted by the Ministry of Defense and
the Argentine Air Force for the purpose of reconditioning and modernizing 36 A-
4M airplanes purchased by the Argentine Republic from the United States Navy,
LAS was the only qualified company that expressed interest in handling the A-4M
Program and in reconditioning fifty percent of said planes in the C6rdoba Material
Area, as well.
On April 19, 1994, the Ministry of Defense and LAS signed a letter of intent in
which LAS agreed to submit or obtain a proposal for the A-4M Program together
with a long-term financing proposal for said Program, contemplating that the
reconditioning and modernization of half of the above-mentioned A-4M airplanes
would be performed in the C6rdoba Material Area, as well as a plan to privatize
and revitalize this Area.
The countersigned Contract between the Argentine Republic and Lockheed
Aircraft Co. became effective on July 1, 1995; under the Contract, this company is
in charge of operating the C6rdoba Material Area for a period of 25 years.
PETROQUIMICA RiO TERCERO (Rio Tercero Petrochemical Company)
After the competitive bidding carried out in compliance with the provisions of
Decree N0 1385 dated July 23, 1990, dealing with the transfer of the company's
Government-owned shares owned, was declared void due to lack of bidders, a new
invitation to bid, without a cost estimate, was issued by means of Joint Resolution
N0 1262 of the Ministry of Defense and N0 626 of the Ministry of Public Works
and Services dated October 9, 1990.



- 18 -
The same was ordered by Joint Resolution N 1306 of the Ministry of Defense and
the N 635 of the Ministry of Public Works and Services dated October 16, 1990.
On December 6, 1991, the only bid submitted, that of EGERTON FINANCE
S.A., was declared admissible and was awarded for a total amount of
US$7,300,000, including notes and cash.
FABRICA MILITAR SAN MARTIN (San Martin Military Factory)
Ministry of Defense Resolution N 1795/92 ordered the privatization of this
factory for US$8.5 million. Later, Ministry of Defense Resolution N0 463 dated
April 2, 1993 ordered that the International and Local Competitive Bid be awarded
to TALLERES SUDAMERICANOS S.A.
Joint Resolution N 974 of the Ministry of Defense and N0 783 of the Ministry of
Economy and Public Works and Services ordered the transfer of this military
factory's residual assets to the latter Ministry.
FABRICA  MILITAR  DE ACIDO  SULFURICO  (Sulfuric Acid Military
Factory)
Ministry of Defense Resolution N0 1280 dated August 29, 1992 ordered a new call
for International and Local Competitive Bidding, with a cost estimate, for the sale
of assets of the Fabrica Militar de Acido Sulfurico, attached to the General Bureau
of Military Manufacturing. Said Resolution also approved the General Bidding
Conditions.
Ministry of Defense Resolution N0 384 dated March 16, 1993 awarded the
Competitive Bid for the sale of the factory to MASPRO S.A. for US$1.6 million.
Joint Resolution N 974 of the Ministry of Defense and N0 783 of the Ministry of
Economy and Public Works and Services ordered the transfer to the latter Ministry
of this military factory's residual assets.
FABRICA  MILITAR  DE  TOLUENO  SINTETICO  (Synthetic Toluene
Military Factory)
Ministry of Defense Resolution N 1190/92 ordered the sale through Local and
International Competitive Bidding, with a cost estimate, of the assets of the
Fabrica Militar de Tolueno Sint&tico, attached to the General Bureau of Military
Manufacturing. Said Resolution also approved the General Bidding Conditions.
Ministry of Defense Resolution N 163 dated February 9, 1993 awarded the Bid to
RUTILEX HI[DROCARBUROS ARGENTINOS for US$2.6 million.



- 19 -
Joint Resolution N 974 of the Ministry of Defense and N 783 of the Ministry of
Economy and Public Works and Services ordered the transfer to the latter Ministry
of this military factory's residual assets.
FABRICA MILITAR DE VAINAS Y CONDUCTORES ELECTRICOS
(ECA) (Military Factory for Electrical Sheathing and Conductors)
Resolution N 1523 dated October 1, 1992 ordered the sale through Local and
Competitive Bidding, without a cost estimate, of the assets of the Fabrica Militar
de Vainas y Conductores Electricos "ECA".
Since there were no bidders, Resolution N 2117 dated December 29, 1992
ordered a second a call for Local and International Competitive Bidding, with a
cost estimate, for the sale of ECA's assets.
Ministry of Defense Resolution No 243 dated February 22, 1993 awarded the Bid
to the METACAB Consortium, comprised of the firms GUILLERMO DECKER
S.A.I.C.A.F.I., METALURGICA E INDUSTRIAL S.A. and INDUSTRIAS
ELLECTRICAS DE QUILMES S.A., for US$15 million.
Joint Resolution N0 974 of the Ministry of Defense and N0 783 of the Ministry of
Economy and Public Works and Services ordered the transfer to the latter Ministry
of this factory's residual assets.
FABRICA MILITAR PILAR (Pilar Military Factory)
Ministry of Defense Resolution N0 1131 dated July 28, 1994 awarded this
company to Industrias Argentinas de Material Pirotecnico S.A. (IAMP), under the
terms of the General Bidding Conditions that governed the call for competitive
bidding ordered by Ministry of Defense Resolution N0 971 dated October 25, 1993
for the company's privatization. The bidding price was $2,820 million.
55.   Now that the Project is concluded, the Ministry of Defense is pleased to state that
PERAL II has been of fundamental importance in the achievement of the objectives
proposed at the beginning of the Project and which implied significant progress in the
State Reform Program implemented by the Argentine Government.



- 20 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SECOND PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(PERAL II)
LOAN 3556-AR
PART mI: STATISTICAL TABLES
Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial     Neali-ible    Not applicable
(*)            (*)           (*)              (*)
Macroeconomic policies                        *
Sector Policies                               *
Financial objectives                          *
Institutional development                                     *
Phvsical objectives
Poverty reduction                                                                           *
Gender concerns                                                                             *
Other social objectives                                                                     *
Environmental objectives                                      *
Public sector management                      *
Private sector development
Other (specify)
Competition Policy
B. Project sustainability                  Likely         Unlikely      Uncertain
N~~~~~~~~~~~
*
C. Bank performance                        Highly        Satisfactory    Deficient
satisfactory        (*)           (*)
(*)
Identification                                *
Preparation assistance                        *
Appraisal                                     *
Supervision                                   *
D. Borrower performance
Preparation                                                   *
Implementation                                                *
Covenant compliance                                           *
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of outcome
*



-2 1-
ARGENTINA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM ADJIUSTMENT LOAN
PERAL II (LOAN 3556-AR)
PART Iml: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A.    Related Bank Loans
(in US$ millions)
Loans approved prior to or concurrent with Loan 3556-AR
Loan #    Fiscal                 Purpose                 Amount Less  Undisbursed
Year                                           Cancelations
3015     1989      Tax Administration TAL I                  6.5          0.00
3280     1991      Provincial Development                  200.0        110.75
3291     1991      Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment     300.0          0.00
Loan (PERAL)
3292     1991      Public Enterprises Reform Execution      23.0          0.14
Loan
3362     1991      Public Sector Reform TA (PSRTAL)         23.0           1.00
3394     1991      Public Sector Reform Loan (PSRL)        325.0          0.00
3460     1992      Tax Administration TAL II                20.0          2.80
3555     1993      Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan    450.0          0.00
Total                           1,347.5        114.69
Loans approved after Loan 3556-AR
3558     1993      Financial Sector Adjustment Loan        400.0          0.00
3709     1994      Capital Markets                         500.0        500.00
3710     1994      Captal Markets TA                         8.5          7.18
3836     1995      Provincial Reform Loan                  300.0        200.37
Total                           1,208.5        707.55



-22-
B.    Project Timetable
Stage of Project Cycle    Date Planned            Date Actual
Identification                              March 1991
(First IBRD Mission)
Appraisal Mission     March/April, 1992     March 23-April 6, 1992
Loan Negotiations     July 1992             July 13, 1992
Board Approval        January 1993          January 5, 1993
Loan Signature                              February 2, 1993
Loan Effectiveness    March 1993            February 16,1993
Loan Closing          June 30, 1994         December 30, 1995
Loan Completion       December 31, 1993    April 14, 1995
C.    Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year           FY93         FY94         FY95
Appraisal Estimates       200              300      0
Actual Disbursements      200              0        300
Actual as % of Estimate   100              0                        l
Date of Final Disbursement: April 14, 1995; but only a residual $25,984 that
remained in loan balance.
D.    Proiect Financing
Source           (US$ million)
IBRD               300.0
Export-Import      200.0
Bank of Japan
Total              500.0



-23-
E.   Tranche Disbursements
Tranche |BRD                              Export-Import Bank of
.._________________ _ ..Japan
US$ million      Date        US$ million      Date
First      100.0        Feb. 24, 1993   133.3         Apr. 1, 1993
100.0       Mar. 25, 1993
Second    100.0        Dec. 31, 1994     66.7        Dec. 31, 1994
F.    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(in staff weeks)
Stage of     FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    Total
Project Cycle
Preparation    3.1      51.9                                 55.0
Appraisal               13.8                                 13.8
Negotiations                     26.2                        26.2
Supervision                       4.2    9.8       2.2       16.2
Total          3.1      65.7     30.4    9.8       2.2      111.2



-24-
G.    Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of       Date       No. of      Days in the      Specialization     Performance
Project Cycle               Persons       Field 1/         Represented      Rating Status
Preparation       6/91          5             16          a,b
9/91          4             16          a,c,d
12/91         5             18          a,c,e,h
1/92         1.5            7           a,f
Appraisal         3/92          9             16          a,c,e,f,g,h,j
through           5/92          1              3          f
Effectiveness     6/92          1              7          a
9/92          2              4          a,c
Supervision      4/93           1              2          f                 -
5/93          1             10          a                  1
6/93          1             10          a                 2
9/93          6             12          a,h,i,j           2
10/93         1             10          e                 --
1/94          1             8           a                 2
5/94          1              7          a                  --
11/94         1              8          a
I/ Refers to Task Manager/Mission Leader.
-- Not Available.
a. Task Manager
b. Industrial Specialist/Economist
c. Lawyer/Legal Specialist
d. Economist
e. Environmentalist
f. Division Chief
g. Macro Economist
h. Regulatory Framework Specialist
i. Private Sector Development Specialist
j. Reseacher/Consultant



ARGENTINA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PERAL 11 (LOAN 3556-AR)
STATUS OF ACCOMPLISHMENT OF POLICY MATRIX
ACTIVITY                       ACCOMPLISHED BY BOARD PRESENTATION   SECOND TRANCHE CONDITIONS    SECOND TRANCHE CONDITIONS
1. ECONOMIC FRAMEWORK                                                                                                       ACCOMPLISHMENTS
A. Macroeconomic Program        Agreed to 3-year macroeconomic program and           Maintenance of 3-year macroeconomic      Govenmment continued maintaining agreed
external financing plan in context of EFF and       program, including fiscal targets, open  macroeconomic framework and financing plan.
adjustment lending programs, reviewed public       trade policy, and agreement on use of
expenditure program.                                privatization sales proceeds.             Counterpart proceeds from privatization of defense
enterprises was used for voluntary staff retirement and l
Agreed to maintain open trade policies.                                                     debt reductions.
B. Sectoral Economic Reformsl
B petoai Eonoi R               Issued decree on deregulatory framework; import      Forward satisfactory Competition         Law for Competition Policy forwarded to Congress.
Competition Law               barriers lowered for steel products, barner to entry  Legislation to Congress for approval.
removed.
Submitted analysis to Bank of steel and petrochemical
structures.
Submitted to Bank consultant's study on Draftl
Competition Legislation.
Establish transparancy of fiscal   Developed program for the issuance of the fiscal  Issue tax credits to steel producers after  Tax audit of SOMISA, AHZ, and HIPASAM were
Egishin steel sector,         bonds for steel PEs in accordance with Industrial   accounts have been audited by Direccion   undertaken, future investment tax credit eliminated and a
regime m steel sector.         Promotion Control Program.                           General de Impositiva (Tax Office).      final credit to newly privatized firns were issued. Later,
all investment tax credit aimed at industrial promotion
were eliminated.
Environmental Assessment       Sent letter of invitation and TORs to consultants for  Commence work on environmental clean-    Environmental diagnostic study of METEOR and
site clean-up of two closed PEs.                    up of closed PEs.                        H[PASAM were undertaken. The clean up of the former
- For closed PEs, i.e.,                                                                                                     had commenced and the latter did not pose an
METEOR, HIASAM                                                                                                               environmental issue.
- For PEs to be sold.          Incorporated environmental clauses in sales memoranda
- Distribution                 of selected PEs to be sold.
- Generation                   Sold distribution facilities.
Sold Central Puerto and Costanera generation centers.



ARGENTINA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PERAL 11 (LOAN 3556-AR)
STATUS OF ACCOMPLISHMENT OF POLICY MATRIX
ACTIVITY                     ACCOMPLISHED BY BOARD PRESENTATION                          SECOND TRANCHE                SECOND TRANCHE
11. STEEL SECTOR                                                                         CONDITIONS                    CONDITIONS
ACCOMPLISHMENTS
A. Privatization of Steel PEs:
SOM1SA                       Downsized SOMISA and issued sales memorandum cosistent with open   Sell and/or otherwise dispose of    SOMISA was sold to a
competition strategy.                                      SOMISA's assets.              consortium of steel producers.
Two steel PEs
- Altos Hornos Zapla (AHZ)    Sold AHZ.
- HIPASAM                     Closed HIPASAM.



ARGENTINA
1MPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PERAL II (LOAN 3556-AR)
STATUS OF ACCOMPLISHMENT OF POLICY MATRIX
ACTIVITY                                      ACCOMPLISHED BY BOARD                         SECOND TRANCHE                    SECOND TRANCHE CONDITIONS
mII. ALL OTHER PEs WITHIN DEFENSE             PRESENTATION                                   CONDITIONS                        ACCOMPLISHMENTS
COMPLEX
A. Privatization of PEs
*PGM/PBB                                       Issued PGM's sales memorandum; prepared        Sell PGM and PBB.                PGM was sold to Yacimientos Petroliferos
draft sales memorandum for PBB consistent with                                  Fiscales (YPF).
competition policy.
Requirement for PBB's sale was waived.
Eleven other PEs in industrial sector (Polisur,  Sold six PEs (Polisur, Inductor, Petropol,                                   Carboquimica, FM Acido Sulfurico, FM
inductor, Petropol, Monomeros Vinilicos,      Monomeros Vinilicos, Tandanor, and                                              Tolueno and FM Pilar, which replaced FM   i 
Tandanor, Petroquimica Rio Tercero,           Petroquimica Rio Tercero).                                                      Rio Tercero, were sold. Forja was closed
Carboquimica, Forja, FM Acido Sulfurico, FM                                                                                   and its assets liquidated.
Tolueno, and FM Rio Tercero).                  Issued sales memoranda for three PEs; and      Sell/close five PEs.
evaluated bids from private investers.
B. Convert Defense Activities to Civilian Use                                                                                  ECA and San Martin were sold and
TAMSE and Domecq Garcia closed.
AMC; AFNE; Domingo Matheu; TAMSE; FM          Signed decrees for AMC, TAMSE, Domingo         Sell/close at least five PEs    Moreover, DGFM sold six military
San Francisco; FM San Martin; and ECA         Matheu and AFNE for legal conversion from     (including ECA).                  properties for commercial uses.
defense to civilian use; issued sales memoranida
for ECA, San Francisco and San Martin.
Source: PERAL 11, President Report (# P-581 I-AR); and Memo on PERAL 11 Release of Second Tranche, Dec. 23, 1994.









IMAGING
Report No:       15868
Type: ICR



