Page  1
March 6, 1993
Mr. Domingo F. Cavallo
Ministro de Economia y Obras
  y Servicios Publicos, and
Mr. Antonio Erman Gonzalez
Ministro de Defensa
Buenos Aires, Argentina
      Re:   Loan 3556-AR (Second Public Enterprise Reform
            Adjustment Loan)
            Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Messrs. Cavallo and Gonzalez:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated February 2, 1993 for the above 
referenced Loan (the Loan Agreement) between the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) and the Argentine Republic.
In response to your request and the discussions between our respective 
representatives, we are pleased to inform you that the Bank agrees to amend the Loan 
Agreement to include cofinancing with the Export-Import Bank of Japan.
Accordingly, the Bank proposes hereby to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.
The Preamble to the Loan Agreement is amended by deleting the word "and" at the 
end of paragraph (C) thereof, relettering paragraph (D) as paragraph "(E)" and 
inserting the following new paragraph (D) thereto:
"(D) on February 17, 1993, the Borrower contracted from the 
Export-Import Bank of Japan (EXIMBANK) a loan (the EXIMBANK Loan) in an amount 
equivalent to two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000) to assist in 
financing imports required during the execution of the Program on the terms 
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement) entered 
into 
between the Borrower and EXIMBANK; and".
2.
Section 4.01 of the Loan Agreement is amended in its entirety to read as 
follows:
"Section 4.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, 
the following additional events are specified:
(a)
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that 
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
(b)
the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective 
by March 31, 1993, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, 
however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the 
Program are available from other sources on terms and conditions consistent 
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement; and
(c)
(i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of 
any loan made to the Borrower for the financing of 
the 
Program shall have been suspended, cancelled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms 
of the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement, or
(B)
the EXIMBANK Loan shall have become due and payable 
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
Page  2
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such 
agreement; and
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement."
Please indicate your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing and dating 
the duplicate original of this letter enclosed herewith and returning the same to us.
This amendment shall take effect as of the date of this letter upon receipt by 
the Bank of the countersigned copy.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ping-Cheung Loh
Director
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED:
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Dr. Antonio Erman Gonzalez              
Authorized Representative
By /s/ Dr. Domingo Felipe Cavallo 
Authorized Representative
Date:
