Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13107-LA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
DECEMBER 5, 1994
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 1994)
Currency Name   -   Kip
Currency Unit   -   Kip
US$1.00         -   719 Kip
Kip 1.00        -   US$.0014
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 square meter (m2) - 1.2 square yards
1 kilometer (km)    - 0.62 miles
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB      -  Asian Development Bank
CCA      -  Committee of Control and Audit
CDL      -  Common Drug List
CIT      -  Central Implementation Team
DAC      -  Drug Administration Committee
DH       -  District Hospital
DHMT     -  District Health Management Team
DTC      -  Drug Therapeutic Committee
EPI      -  Expanded Program of Immunization
GNP      -  Gross National Product
ICB      -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA      -  International Development Association
IDHMT    -  Interdistrict Health Management Team
IEC      -  Information, Education and Communication
IHE      -  Institute of Health Education
IMPE     -  Institute of Malaria, Parasitology and Entomology
IMR      -  Infant Mortality Rate
LAO PDR  -  Lao People's Democratic Republic
LCB      -  Local Competitive Bidding
MCC      -  Malaria Control Component
MCH      -  Maternal and Child Health
MOH      -  Ministry of Health
NCO      -  Non-governmental Organization
PCU      -  Project Coordination Unit
PHMT     -  Provincial Health Management Team
PIT      -  Provincial Implementation Team
SOE      -  Statement of Expenditure
TA       -  Technical Assistance
TFR      -  Total Fertility Rate
UNDP     -  United Nations Development Program
UNICEF   -  United Nations Children's Fund
UNFPA    -  United Nations Population Fund
VHC      -  Village Health Communicator
WHO      -  World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30



LAO PDR
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
Table of Contents
L4ag
DEFINITIONS    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  iv
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . .v
I.   SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A.  Demographic and Socioeconomic Overview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Population    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    1
Fertility                           .1
Education .
Economic Development                      .1
B. Health and Nutrition Status .2
Health Status .2
Nutrition Status .4
C. The Health System                         .5
Health Sector Organization.                                        5
Health   Manpower  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    5
Health Services Delivery.                                          6
Private Sector Activities .6
Malaria Control .6
Health Sector Financing .7
Pharmaceuticals                        .8
D. Sector Issues                           .8
E.  Government PHN Policies and Sector Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Health Policy .10
Population Policy  .................10
Nutrition Policy ..................10
F.  Rationale for IDA Involvement . . . . . . . . . . . .11
II.  THE PROJECT
A.  Objectives and Scope  . . . . . . .11
B.  Project Description . . . . . . . .12
The report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
the Lao PDR in October 1993. Appraisal team members included Mr. W. De
Geyndt (Task Manager and Principal Public Health Specialist), Dr. J. L.
Lamboray (Senior Public Health Specialist), Dr. 0. Echeverri (Senior Public
Health Specialist), Ms. Shiyan Chao (Health Economist), and consultants Mr.
W. Verniers (Health Planner), Dr. Chanpen Choprapawon (Health Educator), Dr.
W. Van Lerberghe (Primary Health Care Specialist), Dr. Mongkol Na Songkhla
(Essential Drugs) and Mr. J. Storey (WHO Malaria Specialist). Dr. P.
Carlevaro (UNICEF Essential Drugs Specialist) and consultants Dr. D. Patte,
Mr. R. Welter, Mr. W. Wieniawski, and Dr. Suwit Wibulpolprasert participated
in earlier missions. Peer reviewers were Dr. A. Measham (Public Health),
Dr. B. Liese (Public Health) and Mr. J. Martins (Financing). Ms. Catherine
Fogle contributed to preparation of the report and Ms. Lorena Wilmot and Ms.
Gbangi Kimboko to its production. The Division Chief is Mr. J. Shivakumar.
The Department Director is Mr. Callisto Madavo.



- ii -
III.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A.  Costs   .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .   20
B.   Financing    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   22
IV.   PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.  Project Implementation Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
B.  Procurement    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  27
C.  Disbursements    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  .    .    .  30
D.  Accounts and Audits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
E.  Monitoring, Reporting and Supervision . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
F.  Impact   on  Women    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  32
G.  Environmental Aspects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
H.  Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
V.     PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.   Benefits    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    ...     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   33
B.   Risks  .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .   34
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
VII.  TEXT TABLES
Table 1:          Health Expenditures in Selected Low-Income Countries                 7
Table 3.1:        Summary of Project Costs by Component . . . . . . . . . . 21
Table 3.2:        Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure . . . 21
Table 3.3:        Financing Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Table 3.4:        Counterpart Funds by Expenditure Category and by Year . . 23
Table 4.1:        Procurement Arrangements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Table 4.2:        Disbursement Categories  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
VII.  ANNEXES
ANNEX 1:      Description of Basic Health Care Provinces   . . . . . . . 37
ANNEX 2:      Population, Provinces, Districts and Villages . . . . . . 38
ANNEX 3:      Investment Planning Flow Chart   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
ANNEX 4:      Component A:  Population Parameters . . . . . . . . . . . 40
ANNEX 5:      Component A:  Health Care Profiles   . . . . . . . . . . . 41
ANNEX 6:      Component A:  Health Financing Strategy . . . . . . . . . 46
ANNEX 7:      Component A:  Training Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
ANNEX 8:      Component A:  Investment Implementation Plan  . . . . . . 48
ANNEX 9:      Component B:  Implementation Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
ANNEX 10:    Component B:  Malaria Control . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
ANNEX 11:    Component B:  Implementation Guidelines . . . . . . . . . 55
ANNEX 12:    Component B:  Human Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
ANNEX 13:   Component B:  Training Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
ANNEX 14:   Component C:  Activities and Tasks   . . . . . . . . . . . 68
ANNEX 15:   Componenc C:  Short-term Training . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
ANNEX 16:   Component C:  Fellowships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
ANNEX 17:    Component C:  Study Visits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
ANNEX 18:   Component C:  Health Education Programs . . . . . . . . . 72
ANNEX 19:    Component C:  Civil Works and Equipment . . . . . . . . . 73
ANNEX 20:    Foreign Technical Assistance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74



- iii -
ANNEX 21:   Project Costs by Component  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
ANNEX 22:   Ministry of Health Organizational Chart . . . . . . . . . 78
ANNEX 23:   Civil Works Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
ANNEX 24:   Disbursement Profile  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
ANNEX 25:   Performance Indicators  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
ANNEX 26:   IDA Supervision Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
ANNEX 27:   Implementation Schedule of Key Activities . . . . . . . . 85
ANNEX 28:   Selected Documents Available in the Project File  . . . . 87
Ha~  IBRD Number 25864






- iv -
DEFINITIONS
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate   The percentage of married women of
reproductive age who are regularly using a
modern method of contraception.
Dependency Ratio                  Population 14 years or under and 65 years of
age or over as percentage of active
population (aged 15 to 64 years). Indicates
proportion of population that needs economic
support.
Incidence Rate                    Number of new cases of a specific disease
during a given year divided by the estimated
population at mid-year times 1000.
Infant Mortality Rate             Annual number of deaths of infants per 1,000
live births during the same year.
Low Birth Weight (LBW)            Infant weight at birth less than 2,500 grams.
LBW may be associated with either pre-term
(less than 37 weeks gestation) or full-term
but small for dates (38 weeks or more) of
gestation.
Maternal Mortality Ratio          Number of maternal deaths per 100,000 births
attributable to pregnancy, childbearing, or
puerperal complications (i.e., within six
weeks following childbirth).
Morbidity                         Any departure, subjective or objective, from
a state of physiological or psychological
well-being. In this sense, sickness,
illness, and morbid conditions are
synonymous.
Prevalence Rate                   The number of cases present at a given time
divided by the estimated population at the
same time times 1000.
Risk                              A probability that an unfavorable outcome
related to morbidity or mortality will occur
within a stated period of time or age.
Total Fertility Rate              The average number of live children that
would be born per woman if she were to live
to the end of her childbearing years and bear
children according to a given set of age-
specific fertility rates. The Total
Fertility Rate often serves as an estimate of
the average number of children per family.






LAO PDR
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Lao People's Democratic Republic.
Guarantor:               Not Applicable.
Implementing Agencv:    Ministry of Health (MOH).
Beneficiary:             Not Applicable.
Poverty:                 Program of Targeted Interventions.
Amount:                  SDR  12.9 million (US$19.2 million equivalent).
Terms:                   Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity and 10 years of
grace.
Commitment Fee:          0.5% of undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:         Not Applicable.
Financing Plan:          See Para. 3.6
Net Present Value:       Not Applicable.
SAR No.:                 13107-LA
Map No.:                 25864






LAO PDR
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. Demographic and Socioeconomic Overview
1.1       Population.  The 1991 estimated population of 4.2 million persons,
is distributed over 236,800 sq. km., giving Lao PDR a low average population
density of 17.7 persons per sq. km. Lao PDR has a young age structure, with
44% of people below the age of 15. Females constitute 51% of the population
and 45% of them are between the ages of 15-49. The sex ratio shows more
females than males in all age groups after the age of 15; the imbalance is
most pronounced in the age group 15-24, which suggests an out-migration of
male workers and an attendant increase of the work burden on women.
Population distribution is very uneven, with 65% of the population
concentrated in the seven riverain provinces in the sloped basin of the
Mekong. About 85% of the population lives in rural areas in some 11,500
villages, many of them inaccessible during the rainy season. The crude birth
rate of 42/1,000 and the crude death rate of 16/1,000 in 1990 gives an annual
population increase of 2.6%, well above the average for low-income countries
(1.9%).
1.2       Fertility.  The total fertility rate (TFR) of 6.8 children per
woman of reproductive age in Lao PDR is among the highest in the world. Women
marry very young, with the mean age at first marriage for females being 15-16
years. At the same time, one third of all births occur to women past the age
of 35. This pattern of early, and frequent, pregnancies results in high
levels of maternal and infant mortality. The very high fertility rate also
has serious negative impact on economic development, particularly in the areas
of education, housing, employment creation and food availability.
1.3       Education.  Less than half of the enrolled pupils (three-quarters
of all children) complete primary education. Over 250,000 of the 6-14 year-
olds have no schooling at all. School facilities, poor nationally, are
especially underdeveloped in rural areas where there is a severe shortage of
even basic education materials, such as textbooks and writing implements.
1.4       Economic Development.  Its per capita income of about US$230 in
1992 ranks Lao PDR as one of the world's twelve poorest countries. Among
countries with a similar level of per capita income, Lao PDR has the largest
agriculture sector and the smallest service sector. The structure of
production and employment is dominated by subsistence agriculture, which
accounts for about 65% of GDP and provides about 80% of total employment. The
predominant crop is rice, which takes up more than 80% of the cultivated area.
Coffee is the major cash crop; accounting for 16% of exports during the 1980s.
The industrial sector is small, contributing about 14% of GDP, and consists
mainly of hydroelectric power production, mining, small enterprises processing



local raw materials, particularly food and wood; and consumer goods industries
serving largely the Vientiane area. Commercial and transport activities play
insignificant roles in the economy. The rich natural resources in the
country, such as hydroelectric potential and forestry, have not yet been fully
utilized.
1.5       For its first decade after independence in 1975, the Lao PDR
Government sought to build an economy based on socialist principles, under
which state intervention supplanted market forces, and where the movement of
goods and people was severely restricted. During the period 1985-90, however,
the economy moved from a centrally planned to a more market-oriented system.
1.6       A comprehensive strategy for market reforms, known as the "New
Economic Mechanism" was adopted and the government has successfully managed
many aspects of the reform program. Further progress, however, will require a
stronger institutional basis for economic development than the current one,
which is now hampered by a critical shortage of trained manpower. Lack of
experienced personnel has severely delayed implementation of civil service
reform, public enterprise privatization, and legal reform.   Other obstacles
to growth include: (i) internal fragmentation of the economy due to lack of
reliable roads and telecommunications; (ii) lack of foreign exchange; and
(iii) low level of domestic savings.
1.7       Institutional weaknesses result in: i) the virtual inability of
project implementation units to prepare adequate work plans, budgets and
procurement plans in a timely manner; (ii) a serious shortage of qualified
staff for project management and implementation in the field; (iii)
inappropriate budgetary procedures and unnecessary disbursement delays; and
(iv) incomplete policy and organizational changes.
B. Health and Nutrition Status
Health Status
1.8       Although data on the health conditions of the Lao population are
incomplete, there is full agreement on the scope of its health problems.
Hlealth conditions of the Lao people are acknowledged to be among the worst in
the world. Life expectancy is low (50 years), and the burden of infectious,
communicable and parasitic disease is very heavy, reflecting the pathology
profile of a very poor country at the first stage of the epidemiological
transition.  Children and women are especially vulnerable.   Overall poor
health status is exacerbated by high levels of fertility and malnutrition.
Only 10-15 percent of rural people have regular access to sustainable safe
water supplies and 1-2 percent to latrines, compared with 35 percent and 13
percent, respectively, in urban areas.
1.9       Infant and Child Mortality.  The infant mortality rate (IMR) was
106 per 1,000 live births and the under 5 mortality rate was 156 in 1990, with
considerable geographic variation throughout the country. Babies born in the
urban areas have a better chance of survival during their first year (IMR of
83) than those born in the rural areas of the upland provinces. In some
remote mountain areas, infant mortality rates of one death for every three
live births have been reported. Malaria is the worst single threat to child
health, accounting for some 20% of all deaths in children under one year.



Acute respiratory infections and diarrheal diseases are the next highest
mortality causes. Immunization rates are very low in comparison with
neighboring countries and with even the Swahilian countries of Africa. UNICEF
estimates that less than 20% of children in Lao PDR are fully immunized'.
1.10      Adult Mortality.  No consistent and reliable quantitative
information is available on the level and causes of adult and maternal
mortality. Deaths are not medically certified and no death certificates are
issued. Discharge data from main hospitals in the country show that the main
causes of death for the hospitalized population of all ages in 1990 were
malaria, pneumonia, meningitis, diarrhea and tuberculosis.
1.11      Maternal mortality has been estimated by the Lao Social Indicators
Survey (1993) to be 656 deaths for every 100,000 live births. Comparable
rates for the Philippines and Indonesia are 208 and 450, respectively. Most
births take place at home, often assisted only by untrained traditional
midwives or relatives. In rural Lao PDR, only 19% of expectant mothers
receive any prenatal care and only 15% are vaccinated against tetanus. Lack
of family planning, pre- and post- natal care and obstetrical care services
leads to the high maternal death rate cited above. Fertility levels are high,
and characterized by close birth intervals and very early or late pregnancies.
This in turn carries significant and preventable health risks for Lao women.
One in every 25 women of the child bearing age is likely to die from causes
related to pregnancy and delivery. The health system does not offer family
planning services, and obstetric care services are limited in quantity and
quality.
1.12      HIV/AZDS  The first case of HIV was recorded in 1991 and the
prevalence of HIV appears to be low, based on screening of blood of certain
population groups begun in 1989. As of June 30, 1993, there were 29 positive
HIV tests out of 11,355 samples tested; WHO estimates indicate fewer than 500
HIV cases in the country.   Response to appearance of the epidemic began in
1988 with the setting up of the National Committee for the Control of AIDS
(NCCA), chaired by the Minister of Health, and the drafting of a short term
plan in 1989 with WHO's assistance. A medium term plan was prepared in 1992,
which was designed to extend AIDS prevention and control activities beyond
Vientiane. Much of the activity has focussed on information and education and
screening for HIV in high risk groups. UNDP and WHO have provided program
support, as have NGOs. Lao PDR is included in a proposed regional approach to
the HIV/AIDS epidemic promoted by the Bank.
1.13      Birth Spacing.  Family planning services are virtually non-existent
in most parts of the country. Contraceptive use only became legal in Lao PDR
in 1988, in recognition of the importance of birth spacing to mitigate the
hardships on women from frequent pregnancies, and to reduce the high incidence
of low-birth-weight babies. The training curriculum for physicians, physician
assistants and nurses does not yet include family planning. Two hospitals in
Vientiane provide some family planning services, but their supply of
contraceptives is irregular and services are very limited. When available,
condoms are very expensive. By contrast, demand for information and services
on contraception is substantial, especially among women with high parity. The
Ministry of Health (MOH) estimates of immunization coverage rates for
1990 are DPT3 21%, OPV3 30%, BCG 31% and Measles 29%. These figures
do not refer to fully immunized children, i.e., children who have
received the required dosages according to the recommended schedule
for active immunization of normal infants and children, but rather to
the percent of children who have received at least one dose for one
vaccine-preventable disease.



- 4 -
more affluent have some access to private sector contraceptive services either
in-country or across the border in Thailand, but the majority of women are
poor and have no access to modern methods of fertility regulation.
1.14      Morbidity.  The ecology of the river basin is favorable to
spreading vector-borne diseases. The most prevalent tropical diseases are
malaria, dengue hemorrhagic fever, liver flukes, and schistosomiasis. Malaria
is responsible for about 80% of morbidity in many communities where it is
hyperendemic. Increasingly severe epidemics of dengue hemorrhagic fever have
affected the country in three to five-year cycles. The most recent one caused
about 5,000 deaths and resulted in high childhood mortality, particularly in
major cities along the Mekong River. Due to the lack of medical care,
fatality rates for dengue hemorrhagic fever are very high (about 20%).
Respiratory infections are particularly common in the mountainous regions in
the North, although some are preventable through an effective Expanded Program
of Immunization (EPI). Diagnostic facilities and antibiotics for treatment
are often not available in rural areas. Some antibiotics are available at
private pharmacies but correctness of prescription, drug quality, patient
compliance with prescription and financial affordability are unknown. Because
the EPI reaches so few children, diseases such as measles, tetanus, polio,
diphtheria and whooping cough are still prevalent.
Nutrition Status
1.15      Malnutrition of varying degrees is prevalent in the country.  While
severe malnutrition is reported among 2X of children, the figure is probably
higher given the very high mortality of severely malnourished young children.
Moderate malnutrition ranged from 35% cf the children in Vientiane to 65% in
Bokeo province, with a mean of 49% for all the provinces. Stunting affects
about half of the children, indicating chronic nutritional deprivation.
Wasting, which measures short-duration malnutrition, was observed in 8% of a
study group. Goiter surveys in 1989 and 1990 from five Northern and four
Southern provinces give rates in school age children ranging from 6.6X-46.6%2.
Clinical forms of malnutrition - kwashiorkor, marasmus, anemia, vitamin A
deficiency - have not yet been confirmed but medical personnel report
encountering severe forms of these diseases.
1.16      UNICEF estimates the prevalence of low-birth-weight babies (less
than 2.5 kg) to be 40% of all births. This leads to a moderate to high level
of stunting in children under five and is an indication of poor maternal
nutrition. Inadequate food intake by mothers during pregnancy for fear of
difficult labor and excessive energy expenditure from heavy physical
activities during pregnancy may be the main causes.
1.17      The magnitude of maternal malnutrition has not been determined.
Some studies report frequent anemia among pregnant and lactating women. The
problem deteriorates with each successive pregnancy, due to Lao postpartum
food taboos which prevent mothers from consuming most fruits, vegetables and
meats. A nursing mother may not eat red meat until the baby is 3 months old
and her maternal diet consists mainly of rice-salt-water. Thus, maternal
malnutrition may contribute significantly to child malnutrition. Although
over 92Z of the children are breast-fed beyond the age of 12 months, early
supplementation with sticky rice is frequent. This early supplementation
leads to reduced breast milk secretion and greatly increased risk of diarrheal
disease for the infant.
2    Mission Report on IDD Elimination, Laos 1993, UNICEF New York



1.18      Food Availability.  Rice self-sufficiency was reported to have been
achieved at the national level in 1984. The 1985 paddy production was
equivalent to a per capita rice-derived energy intake of more than 2,500
kilocalories. However, calorie consumption per capita is estimated at 1,840,
well below the minimum. Regional variations and seasonal shortages exist at
different levels, especially in northern provinces which may have as much as
40% food deficit, as past economic policies and poor roads make it difficult
to move food grains from surplus provinces. Differences between provinces in
their capacity to produce rice, poor transportation, and climatic vagaries
mean that certain segments of the population do not have adequate access to
rice. Food distribution and food habits are more important for understanding
malnutrition than the macro-level food situation which is reported by the
government to be generally satisfactory. Child and maternal food security
issues may not be food availability per se, but would be rather due to food
taboos, intra-household food allocation and food storage problems.
C. The Health System
1.19      Health Sector Organization.  The provision of health services is
the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and the provincial health
authorities. Health services are organized into three levels: central,
provincial and district (Annex 1). The central level consists of the Ministry
itself with its departments, various institutions, university of medical
science and hospitals, and of pharmaceutical production and procurement
facilities. Health services at the provincial level were administratively
decentralized during the New Economic Mechanism reform strategy. Under this
system, provincial health authorities must follow national policy and
guidelines but have some decision-making power on the setting of health
priorities and on allocation of health budgets. Below the provincial level,
there are district hospitals (20-25 beds) supported administratively by
district health offices.
1.20      According to government policy, the provincial level should provide
technical and logistical support for the district level. In reality,
provinces themselves are too weak technically and financially to support the
districts. District hospitals are supposed to be staffed by nurses and
physician assistants able to give technical and logistical support to commune
dispensaries and village health posts. Only about 20 out of 117 district
hospitals actually are operational due to lack of money, vehicles, medical
supplies and essential drugs. Geographic isolation, poor transportation and
communication, inaccessibility during the rainy season and lack of electricity
exacerbate the problems. Only a small proportion of Lao PDR's 12,000 villages
(Annex 2) have village health posts. There is no referral system, and the
health network is very limited and has serious quality and efficiency
problems.
1.21      Health Manpower.  In 1991, there were 945 medical doctors and 1 579
assistant doctors in Lao PDR. Over half of the doctors worked in the
Vientiane area where the population per physician was 884, compared to
Phongsaly, where the population per physician was 20,856. After the country's
independence in 1975, an accelerated health manpower training program was put
in place. Under this program, the medical school was expanded, three schools
for physician assistants were established and plans were made for each
province to open a school for nurses. The program also included a provision
which guaranteed government jobs to each graduate. Twenty years later, the
shortcomings of this policy are now evident: training curricula do not match
the health needs of the country; large variations in educational quality and
job qualifications exist between provinces; and funds are not always
sufficient to pay salaries.



1.22      Nursing care in particular has been affected by this policy, as no
standard nursing curriculum was ever adopted. Provincial nursing schools
offer courses varying in length from three months to two years, and often
close temporarily for lack of funding. Despite these difficulties, nurses are
the largest group of care-givers, with about 8,000 reported to having been
trained (a ratio of about 500 people per nurse), or almost nine times more
nurses than physicians. Virtually all nurses are secondary school level
auxiliary nurses. Despite their importance to the national health system,
midwives and laboratory technicians have not been trained for many years. No
clinical supervision is carried out and little or no in-service training is
available for all health staff.
1.23      Health Services Delivery.  Health services in Lao PDR are generally
poor in terms of availability, accessibility and quality. They are mainly
curative and urban-oriented: hospitals in Vientiane and in a few provincial
capitals have been favored with staff, equipment and budget allocation; remote
areas and minority groups have been neglected. Physical conditions of all
health facilities and equipment are poor. Many district hospitals and commune
dispensaries do not have proper walls and most lack water supply and latrines.
Medical equipment is minimal and often not in working condition. Medicines
are in a short supply and restocking is irregular. Lack of equipment,
instruments, medical supplies and pharmaceuticals limits health workers and
constrains the provision of health services to the majority of the population.
Even with health services free of charge, utilization rates are very low.
1.24      Private Sector Activities.  In the last three years, the Government
has allowed the establishment of private pharmacies and the private practice
of medicine. A few diagnostic centers have opened and a small hospital was
installed in a remodeled private residence. In general, however, the
country's impoverished economy severely constrains a rapid extension of
private sector services. On the other hand, despite the fact that no legal
framework exists for these activities, the pharmaceutical private sector has
developed quickly, without regulatory oversight, and many types of drugs in
different doses can be purchased in private drug stores without a prescription
(paras. 1.31-1.32). More than 1,000 drugs are estimated to be on the market,
with less than 200 registered by the Department of Pharmacy af MOH. Work has
now begun on regulating and controlling the quality and sale of drugs with
technical assistance from Sweden. The proposed project would create a
favorable environment for allowing private sector development and would use
the strengths of the private pharmaceutical distribution network to increase
the availability of essential drugs.
1.25      Malaria Control.   Malaria is the most important public health
problem, with 2.5 million people (360,000 families) exposed to the risk of
contracting this disease. In 1991, laboratory confirmed cases numbered 36,672
(21,500 in 1990), and hospitalized cases numbered 28,827. The mortality rate
reported by hospitals due to malaria was 1/10,000 in 1989. About 15% of all
blood smears taken are positive, and about 40% of all reported cases occur in
children less than 15 years old, especially in those 5-9 years old.
1.26      The Institute of Malariology, Parasitology and Entomology (IMPE)
organized a National Meeting on Malaria Control in June 1990, which brought
together malaria workers, politicians and other key interested parties. The
meeting closed with two major policy statements: the first established a
malaria control policy for the country, and the second focused on the need for
early diagnosis and treatment. There is general agreement that the malaria
control program is severely hampered by a lack of trained staff, equipment,
drugs, stains for laboratory diagnosis, insecticides and a supporting health
education program and will require substantial additional support to reach the
control goals set by the Government.



1.27      Health Sector Financing.  The relationship between health sector
spending by the Government and overall public sector spending is difficult to
establish with any degree of reliability as no public sector expenditure
review has taken place. There is nonetheless general agreement that the level
of health financing in Lao PDR is one of the lowest in the world. The World
Bank's 1993 World Development Report estimates US$5 per capita (Table 1).
Results from field analysis puts the figure at US$4 per capita. The
Government spends only about l.0O of the country's GDP on health, a lower
figure than most low income countries. Per capita public sector health
expenditure from domestic resources has decreased sharply since 1986, and in
1992 was only US$0.88. The health sector is severely underfinanced and the
country depends heavily on external aid for its health financing. As a
result, shortages of operational funds and of drug supplies are chronic and
adversely affect health services utilization. Increasing financial resources
for health care is a major issue in the health sector which will need to be
addressed within the context of the macroeconomic country strategy.
1.28      The central Government has little experience in managing public
finance at the provincial level and below. While the Government budget and
Treasury operations are being centralized, provinces are not yet able to
comply fully. As a result, aggregate data on provincial health expenditures
are not yet available. Although no provin'ce-to-province analysis has been
carried out to date, a thorough analysis was done for the province of
Savannakhet. In 1992, its provincial government spent US$0.93 per capita on
health and received a contribution in kind (pharmaceuticals) from the central
government equivalent to about US$0.10 per capita. Thus, in this economically
better-off province, total public spending would have been about US$1.0 per
capita in 1992. Within this small total, the range in health spending between
the poorest district in the mountains and Khanthabouly district (the
provincial capital) has not been quantified but must be very large. In the
poorest districts, the only sources of health care services available to the
population come from foreign NGOs and from herbal and spiritual healers.
Table 1. HEALTH EXPENDITURES IN SELECTED LOW INCOME COUNTRIES
Low Income     Income Per     TotaL Health    Health Expenditures as a X of
Country      Capita (US$)    Expenditures (USS       GDP
___________________  per   capita)
Total       Public
Mozambique           80              5             5.9     4.4
Tanzania             100             4             4.7     3.2
Ethiopia             120             4             3.8      2.3
NepaL                180             7             4.5      2.2
Bangladesh           220             7             3.2      1.4
Lao PDR              220             5             3.2      1.4
Source: World Bank: World DeveLopment Report 1993
1.29      To enhance revenues, public sector health facilities were recently
allowed to collect user fees for drugs, diagnostic tests and treatment
procedures. At present, little distinction is made between public health
services and personal curative health services, nor is the patient's ability
to pay taken into consideration. User fees for drugs, collected by both
public and private providers, represent rising out-of-pocket costs for the
general population. The Government considered adopting both a national fee
schedule to enhance sector revenues, as well as a national social insurance
scheme to help assure equity in access to health services, but presently lacks



the institutional and administrative capacities to implement such policies.
The country's low per capita income level would make implementation of such
schemes very difficult.
1.30      About 42% of health sector financing comes from external aid,
mainly to support capital expenditures which then generate substantial
recurrent cost obligations which the country cannot meet.  With economic
growth, the need for such assistance may gradually diminish, enabling some
operating costs to be absorbed by the government. More efficient program
targeting of the limited available resources, and better coordination of
external aid is needed. In the medium term, recurrent expenditures of the
health sector in Lao PDR will need to be financed by external aid to a much
greater extent than in most other counCries.
1.31      Pharmaceuticals.  The supply of drugs comes from four sources:
about 30% are locally produced, about 40% are imported from Thailand or from
other countries via Thailand, about 10 to 20% are smuggled into the country
and about 10 to 20% are donated by NGOs or international organizations for
their health projects. The Government finances less than 20% of the total
drugs used; the other 80% are financed by the private sector. The country has
five manufacturing drug plants, with the two main ones in Vientiane, and which
process imported raw materials into 100-150 products. Drugs are distributed
through private, public or cooperative pharmacies, few of which have qualified
pharmacists. The centralized distribution system dispatches drugs to the
provinces, and provinces distribute to the districts according to population,
rather than by need or consumption reports. As a result, difficult-to-obtain
drugs such as anti-asthmatics, injectable corticoids and blood substitutes
often expire on the shelves of the district hospitals, despite their need
among the general population.
1.32      Total drug consumption was estimated at about US$8.5 million in
1991, or roughly US$2 per capita. This corresponds to 1% of GNP, a standard
value for many developing countries. The large number of private "pharmacies"
(drugs are also sold in general stores) started in the past few years is also
proof of an increase in direct payments by the population. Some evidence
indicates that drugs consume at least half of the health budget. Despite
this, all dispensaries, district and provincial hospitals decry the shortage
of medicines, a shortage caused by insufficient financing, difficult
transportation and communication between the dispensary and the district
hospital in the rainy season, lack of refrigeration, warehousing and inventory
management.
D. Sector Issues
1.33      Health sector reform and development face major constraints in Lao
PDR. Any strategy for health sector reform must take into consideration the
fragile institutional base, limited resources in an impoverished economy and
critical shortage of qualified personnel. Attempts at sustainable sector
development, and at reforming and strengthening health institutions, must
necessarily be modest at the outset, be flexible by providing opportunities to
make adjustments along the way, adopt a participatory approach and ensure that
the executing agencies have acquired a sense of ownership of the intended
reforms.
1.34      Sectoral health planning and program design would need to take into
account five major sector issues: (i) morbidity and mortality from vaccine-
preventable and other communicable diseases; (ii) an underfinanced health



- 9-
sector; (iii) basic curative care not available and accessible to the majority
of the population; (iv) weak institutional capacity at the national and
provincial levels; and (v) inadequately trained and poorly performing health
personnel.
1.35      Preventable High Morbidity and Mortality Levels.  Lao PDR's infant
mortality rate of 106 deaths per 1,000 live births in 1990 is among the
highest in the world, and its life expectancy at birth of about 50 years among
the lowest. High maternal and infant death rates result from frequent
pregnancies, especially to young or older mothers. Immunization coverage
rates are less than 20 percent. Malaria accounts for about one fifth to one
fourth of infant, child and adult deaths. Diarrheal diseases and acute
respiratory infections also cause a heavy disease burden. About half of the
children are moderately malnourished.
1.36      Underfinancing of the Health Sector.  The Lao health sector is
woefully underfinanced and the country has one of the lowest levels of
aggregate spending (public and private) on health in the world. An estimated
US$4 per capita is spent on health, of which more than half is for
pharmaceuticals. The country depends heavily on external aid, mainly for
capital expenditures, thus aggravating the recurrent cost deficit. There is a
need to increase resources available to the sector from the donor community,
especially for incremental operating costs, and to increase internal revenue
sources, notably from provinces, districts, communities, and user fees.
Neither the Government, nor most other external aid agencies, provide support
for operating costs and maintenance, thus threatening the existing capital
expenditures.
1.37      Lack of Basic Curative Care.  Lao PDR has a very high maternal
mortality ratio, whose determinants include frequent and closely spaced
pregnancies to very young and older women. Obstetric care management and some
other forms of basic curative care available in some facilities are very weak,
due to the lack of basic equipment, trained staff, and pharmaceutical
supplies. Pharmaceuticals of questionable safety and contraceptives of poor
quality are available in private drugstores to people who can afford to pay.
Remote mountain areas and ethnic minorities have no access at all to basic
curative care.
1.38      Weak Institutional Capacity at the National and Provincial Levels.
The paucity of financial resources, a weak administrative infrastructure, run-
down and underfinanced physical infrastructure, insufficient operating funds
for non-salary items (pharmaceuticals, gasoline, repairs, maintenance), and
shortages of qualified and committed managers, result in limited planning and
problem-solving capability. Provincial institutions are not strong enough to
effectively support the weak district institutions; these d'strict-level
institutions therefore have little opportunity to take on their planned role
as the organizational building blocks for the provincial and national health
systems.
1.39      Insufficiently Trained Health Personnel.  Many of the personnel
trained in the last decade were insufficiently trained, have gradually lost
their skills or lacked adequate entry-level qualifications for further
training. Low salaries cause qualified staff to leave the sector for more
gainful employment and those who remain are mainly preoccupied with augmenting
their meager government salaries. Training facilities, teaching methods and
materials need urgent upgrading in both technical content and relevance to
country-specific health conditions.



- 10 -
E. Government PHN Policies and Sector Strategv
1.40      National priorities in the first decade after 1975 focused on
national defense and territorial security. The emphasis in the second decade
has been on development through the promotion of a more market-oriented
economic environment and the encouragement of foreign investment. At the same
time, the Government seeks to alleviate poverty and decrease the disease
burden to improve productivity. Changes in economic policies have positively
affected social policy thinking and health policy.
Health Policy
1.41      Policy decisions have been made recently to legalize the private
practice of medicine, and permit the establishment of private pharmacies.
Other policy changes are being contemplated, including formalizing the current
practice of charging user fees for public sector patients, and developing a
health insurance mechanism. The Government's motivation driving these polic
changes is to: (i) reduce mortality and morbidity from vaccine-preventable and
other communicable diseases by developing an efficient network of basic health
care services accessible to all; and (ii) enhance the resource base for public
health actions. These two policy objectives would be achieved through the
following health sector strategy:
(a)  strengthening maternal and child health services, including birth
spacing interventions and immunization, and expanding the capacity
of the sector to treat the most common diseases, such as diarrhea
and respiratory infections;
(b)  ensuring an adequate supply of essential low-cost quality drugs;
(c)  training and upgrading medical and paramedical personnel;
(d)  conducting epidemiologic research on priority diseases;
(e)  supporting a national program to control malaria;
(f)  promoting health through community participation and self-help; and
(g)  using foreign assistance to build institutional capability and to
develop sustainable sector development programs.
PoRulation Policy
1.42      The government has regarded a larger population to be important for
reasons of national defense and economic development. Hence, population
policy has been pronatalist until 1988 and the sale of contraceptives
prohibited. Recent policy changes acknowledge the negative consequences of
short birth intervals on the health of mothers and children, and the
advantages of safe motherhood programs, including birth spacing, to reduce
deaths of mothers and infants, numbers of low-birth-weight babies, and
malnutrition levels. Programs are now being established in birth spacing and
other related activities.
Nutrition Policy
1.43      The country has not yet formulated an explicit nutrition policy nor
a national food and nutrition plan, other than that of rice self-sufficiency.
Although officials agree that nutrition should be an integral component of a



- 11 -
health program, the Government now views nutrition as primarily the
responsibility of each family, and is not disposed, for fiscal reasons, to
provide supplementary food to high risk mothers and to school children.
Nutritional matters fall under the jurisdiction of the Department of Maternal
and Child Welfare under the Director of Preventive and Curative Medicine in
the Ministry of Health. Further information on nutrition status is expected
from a nutrition survey being carried out with FAO support. The carrying out
of this survey indicates growing Government interest and support for improving
nutritional status.
F. Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.44      The health status of the population in Lao PDR is one of the
poorest in Asia. Severe financial constraints compounded by lack of trained
health manpower and institutional and managerial weaknesses have retarded the
implementation of policies aimed at strengthening the health sector. Donor
agencies and NGOs are assisting health improvement through a series of
interventions. They include UNICEF (immunization), UNFPA (birth spacing), WHO
(technical assistance and training) and ADB (drug supply and expansion of
primary health care). The proposed project provides the opportunity to use
IDA's global experience in strengthening a sector which is of crucial
importance to the country's long-term socio-economic development. It would
build on the sector work carried out by IDA (para. 1.45) and broaden the scope
of external assistance to the health sector. The project would also provide
the opportunity to give direct assistance to women and children, which are
particularly vulnerable groups in Lao PDR. Given the widespread poverty in
the country, the project is bound to make a significant contribution to
poverty alleviation. Furthermore, the project is designed to have a long-term
impact on improving health financing and sector management.
1.45      The Association's proposed involvement is supported by sector work
(Report No. 8181-Lao, November 30, 1990) and by discussions with the
Government on health policies and sector development strategies. This would
be the first PHN sector operation in Lao PDR and it is expected to continue
the policy dialogue at a crucial moment in the country's economic reforms.
Project implementation would continue to assist the MOH in the policy
formulation process and to underpin its capability to research the financial
consequences and health status impact of policy options.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Scope
2.1       Project Objectives: The Project's overall objective is to improve
the health status of the Lao population, and to reduce morbidity and mortality
rates in selected parts of the country. The project's specific objectives
would be to:
(a) improve the quality of basic health care, particularly for infants,
children and women through health system reform for priority health
programs, including family planning;
(b) strengthen the malaria control program in the country;
(c) improve health awareness and health behavior in the population by
strengthening the MO}. Institute of Health Education(IHE) to develop
health education messages;



- 12 -
(d) build the capability of the MOH and of participating health systems
to implement project activities.
2.2. ProJect Scope: To accomplish these objectives, the project would consist
of the following components and sub-components:
(a) Policy Reform including (i) support for the development of basic
health care service packages; (ii) reform in the management and
utilization of essential drugs; and (iii) reform of the hospital
referral system;
(b) Service delivery in the areas of (i) basic health care; (ii)
malaria control through early diagnosis and prompt treatment, and
use of cost effective methods to reduce disease transmission; and
(iii) rehabilitation, upgrading and construction of health
facilities;
(c) Institutional development including (i) information, education and
communication (IEC) programs to improve health awareness and health
behavior in the population; (ii) training to upgrade staff clinical
and management skills; (iii) technical assistance; and (iv) support
to MOH in project management; ..
(d) Community mobilization in vector control activities and in health
education activities.
B. Proiect Description
Component I: Basic Health Services
(US$9.6 million equivalent estimated base cost)
2.3       Component Provinces.  The strategy chosen for this first health
sector project reflects the health system's weak institutional base and
critical shortage of qualified personnel. These factors were taken into
account in designing the project's technical interventions and in determining
its geographical coverage. This component covers the country's most populous
province (Savannakhet) and the newest and poorest province (Sekong) described
in greater detail in Annex 1. Demographic information by province and
districts is shown in Annex 2.
2.4       The project would support the targeting of private and public
resources allocated to health in Savannakhet and Sekong provinces to improve
health outcomes. The project would support development of basic health care
service packages, including immunization, oral rehydration therapy, family
planning, detection and treatment of anemia, diagnosis and treatment of
amoebiasis, and prevention and treatment of malaria and tuberculosis.
Detailed planning for these packages, including financing and implementation
strategies, was done in Savannakhet province by staff of MOH medical, finance,
construction and labor services, and then revised in a series of selected
district workshops. The series of steps followed to complete the provincial
health plans are shown in the flow charts in Annexes 3, 4, and 5.
2.5       A pilot basic health services sub-component in the amount of US$1.6
million would also be supported by the project in two additional geographic
areas, namely the Special Zone of Saysomboune (previously under the
jurisdiction of the Provinces of Vientiane and Xiengkhouang) which is now
under the direct responsibility of the central Government, and an area on the
Boloven plateau in the province of Champassak. Basic health services as
defined in the previous paragraph would be financed and provided. About



- 1 3 -
55,000 people of a variety of ethnic tribes live isolated at a subsistence
level in the forests and villages of the Saysomboune area. About 50,000
people live in part of the Boloven area where small hydroelectric dams are
being constructed. Provision of basic health services would be supported by
constructing and/or rehabilitating 3 district hospitals and about 10 health
centers; procuring equipment, vehicles, and medical supplies; and training
personnel. The pilot component would be prepared during the first year of
project implementation and would use a project design similar in terms of
objectives, strategies and expected outcomes to the one used for the provinces
of Savannakhet and Sekong. A condition of disbursement for civil works and
goods under this pilot component will be receipt by IDA of: (i) a technically
feasible design: (ii) a financially sustainable program: and (iii)
implementation arrangements which are in accord with IDA's resettlement/
relocation, indigenous people and environmental guidelines.
2.6       Civil Works and Ecuipment.  The proposed project would rehabilitate
existing basic health care facilities at the village, district and provincial
levels and build new health facilities at district and provincial levels. At
the village level, no new civil works are proposed, but current non-functional
and scattered dispensaries would be converted into health centers with minimal
equipment and a few inpatient beds where appropriate. These rural health
centers would provide care to an average of 3,400 rural people per center, and
their staff would supervise the village health workers or work directly with
the community in the case of close-by villages. Five rural health centers
each would be built in Sekong's Lamam and Thateng districts. About 40 rural
health centers would be upgraded in the six target districts in Savannakhet.
Eight rural health centers would be constructed in Khanthabouli district of
Savannakhet to handle most of the primary health care functions now being
provided at higher cost by its provincial hospital.
2.7       At the district level, four district hospitals in Savannakhet
province would be rehabilitated and functionally related to the two
interdistrict hospitals of Champone and Phine. The district of Xonbouli was
divided into two in 1978. The new district's hospital would depend
functionally on Champone to make up a service area population of 112,000
people.  The district hospitals of Sepone (pop. 37,000), Nong (pop. 16,000),
and Vilabouly (pop. 25,000) would refer to, and be assisted by, Phine district
and serve a catchment area of 115,000 people. These three districts are
respectively 250, 300 and 270 km distant from the provincial capital. The
majority of the population of Nong district are ethnic minorities and this
mountainous district is among the poorest areas of the country. Vilabouly, a
recently created district, is also very poor and geographically inaccessible
during the rainy season. The Thateng district hospital in Sekong province
would be upgraded and functionally attached to the Lamam interdistrict
(provincial) hospital. Thateng district has a population of 13,000, and with
Lamam district, would constitute a service area of 29,000 people or about half
the provincial population. The districts of Dakchung (pop. 17,000) and Kalum
(pop. 13,000) are part of the provincial long term health investment program
but are not included in this first phase investment.
2.8       The proposed reform of the hospital referral level introduces the
concept of an interdistrict hospital, with broader clinical problem solving
capability (e.g. abdominal surgery, cesarean sections, ectopic pregnancies,
sterilizations) than district hospitals, which provide simpler types of
referral care. Interdistrict hospitals would serve catchment areas of about
150,000 people. The project would support medical equipment, vehicles and
communications equipment.
2.9       At least two interdistrict hospitals in Savannakhet and one in
Sekong would be upgraded. In Savannakhet, the provincial hospital of about



- 14 -
2,800 sq.m. would be rehabilitated and about 3,700 sq.m. of old pavilion-style
buildings would be replaced, reducing the bed capacity from 212 beds to 175,
while emergency care and outpatient care departments would be expanded. The
district hospitals of Champone (pop. 80,000) and Phine (pop. 37,000),
respectively 50 and 150 km from the provincial capital, would be upgraded to
interdistrict hospitals to provide support to neighboring health centers. The
Sekong provincial hospital, located in Lamam district (pop. 16,000), was
recently built but has not been occupied due to lack of equipment and
furniture. Since the quality of construction is poor and the floor plan
unsatisfactory, the project would repair and reallocate space to make it more
functional as a typical district hospital for a population of 59,000.
2.10      Provincial hospitals in both provinces would function as
interdistrict referral hospitals in light of the geography of the two
provinces and the difficult access of most of the population to services. The
functional capability of provincial hospitals would be similar to other
interdistrict hospitals, but would be reinforced in the following areas:
diagnostic imaging, clinical laboratory, testing, outpatient specialty care,
and emergency medical services. Agreements have been reached with the
provincial authorities on the scope of civil works included in this first
tranche of the provincial investment master plan. Preliminary drawings have
been prepared and are acceptable to IDA.
2.11      Epuipmenc lists for each type of health facility have been prepared
with selection guided by the nature of the health problems to be managed at
village, health center, district and interdistrict hospital levels. Equipment
selected is appropriate to each level of care and anticipated ease of
maintenance taken into account.
2.12      Essential druz supplies would be increased in health facilities at
provincial and district levels, and drug logistics systems would be upgraded
through technical assistance and training. Community-level drug funds would
be established at project-supported health centers and hospitals to purchase
and dispense high quality essential drugs to the patients. Rational use of
essential drugs would be promoted through seminars, training, social marketing
and IEC activities for physicians, pharmacists, drug store keepers, and the
general public.
2.13      Both Savannakhet and Sekong provinces would establish Drug
Administration Committees (DAC) for the purpose of preparing a common drug
list, selecting high quality-low cost essential drugs, and reviewing the
common drug list every quarter. Drug procurement lists from provincial health
facilities would be aggregated into a provincial plan by DACs, and drugs
procured according to that plan. Monitoring and evaluation of drug supply
system management would occur regularly. Drug and Therapeutic Committees
(DTC) would be established at each hospital for the purpose of: (i) selecting
from the common drug list the items to be procured for the hospital; (ii)
submitting drug needs to the provincial DAC; (iii) distributing drugs to the
periphery; and (iv) supervising health centers for rational use of drugs. At
negotiations. agreement was reached on the establishment of Drug
Administration Committees and Drug and Therapeutic Committees on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association.
2.14      The provincial governments have agreed in principle that revenues
collected from the sale of drugs will be retained at the point of collection,
thuc creating simple revolving funds whose initial capital would come from the
sale of drugs supplied by the project. The financial management of these
revolving funds would be assigned to a management unit under the Provincial
Health Management Team (PHMT), consisting of provincial and district hospital
managers and health financing experts. Each PHMT would be responsible for



- 15 -
developing pricing structures, payment mechanisms and uniform accounting
systems; setting up procedures for collecting, retaining and reallocating user
fees; developing safeguards at the community level to protect the poorest from
the impact of cost recovery; strengthening managerial capacity at hospital and
health center levels; and developing a monitoring and evaluation system.
Technical Assistance would be provided to train staff in the financial
management of the revolving funds. At negotiations. agreements were reached
that revenues collected from the sale of drugs would be retained at the point
of collection and that each concerned health facility would establish a
revolving fund using these proceeds for further purchase of drugs.
2.15       The project would provide implementation support to the two
provinces to deliver the basic health care packages, details of which are
shown in Annex 5. Each of the two provinces would develop, in addition to the
PHMT, two Interdistrict Health Management Teams - in Champone and Phine
districts, and one District Health Management Team (DHMT) for Khanthabouli
district. The interdistrict management teams would supervise all health units
in their area. Because of its small size, the Sekong PHMT would combine the
functions of both interdistrict and provincial teams. The project would
provide office space for the management teams, equipment and furniture,
vehicles, technical assistance, training, ,and incremental operating costs.
2.16      Since the current freeze on hiring additional civil service
personnel is expected to remain in force in the near future, project
management staffing needs would be filled through reallocating existing staff
and through the yearly automatic addition of new graduates of the medical and
paramedical schools in accordance with the Government's existing program.
Thus the project itself would not generate incremental recurrent personnel
costs.
2.17      The project would support a range of training activities which
emphasize in-service training to upgrade staff clinical and management skills,
encourage use of supervision visits as a training opportunity, and bring
selected clinical specialists to the country to train staff locally. A small
number of physicians would be trained abroad in public health, and study tours
would be organized for decision makers and for health personnel. Annex 7
presents the anticipated training activities and their associated costs.
2.18      Implementing the proposed reforms in health planning, organizing,
delivering and financing health services would involve additional amounts of
technical assistance. A full-time expatriate public health specialist advisor
would be recruited and assigned to the Project Coordinating Unit to assist the
two project provinces for the duration of the project. A full-time expatriate
management specialist advisor would be based in Savannakhet province and would
be available to assist both provinces in project implementation. Short-term
consultancies in procurement, distribution and rational use of essential
drugs, in procurement of civil works and equipment and in health care
financing, for a total of 86 person-months would also be supported by the
project. WHO would supplement the budgeted technical assistance on an ad hoc
basis. Annex 8 provides details on the component's implementation
arrangements.
Component II: Malaria Control
(US$5.9 million equivalent estimated base cost)
2.19      The malaria control component (MCC) is designed to achieve the
following goals by the end of the project period: (a) reduce the 1991 malaria
mortality level by 50%; (ii) reduce the number of severe malaria cases by 60X;
(iii) reduce malaria transmission by 35%; and (iv) strengthen the capacity of



- 16 -
IMPE to formulate national policies and coordinate malaria control measures
and training in the country.
2.20       Geographic Coveraze.  Although malaria is endemic throughout Lao
PDR, the absorptive capacity of the IMPE and project resource constraints make
it necessary to limit initial disease control coverage to 8 provinces (of the
17 total) which were selected according to the following six criteria: (i)
disease prevalence; (ii) ease of communication with Vientiane; (iii) security;
(iv) transport within the province; (v) organizational capacity; and (vi)
support from other agencies. The eight provinces selected are Luang Prabang,
Luang Namtha, Bokeo, Savannakhet, Saravane, Sekong, Champassak, and Attapeu.
Of the 55 districts in the eight provinces, 24 were strategically selected for
strengthening logistical support to field activities, according to three
criteria: (i) accessibility by road or river; (ii) potential as a referral
point from neighboring districts; and (iii) a population of 5,000 or more
inhabitants. In Vientiane, the project would rehabilitate the laboratory and
training infrastructure of IMPE and strengthen its managerial and technical
capacity to set national policy on malaria control and to provide support to
the provinces in implementing the malaria control component.
2.21      Component Activities: The project would support four distinct
approaches to malaria control. First, individual protection would be achieved
through use of pyrethroid impregnated mosquito nets for intradomiciliary
protection, mass drug administration in situations of malaria outbreaks, and
community education for modification in behavior to avoid malaria. Second,
diagnosis and prompt treatment would improve access to malaria diagnosis and
drug treatment at the village, health center and district levels. Third,
selective vector control: after stratification of malaria incidence to enable
selection of the most appropriate measures to reduce contact between the
mosquito vectors and the community by: (i) selective insecticide spraying in
areas of epidemic foci; and (ii) strong promotion of community mobilization in
vector control activities appropriate to the epidemiological situation. In
addition, a small operations research program would be funded to support
entomological studies to identify vector behavior and resistance to
insecticides, mapping of malarial communities, community knowledge, attitudes
and practices towards malaria, and selected trials of therapeutic
interventions.
2.22      In order to carry out these disease control activities, the project
would also support: (a) expanding the network of village-based anti-malaria
posts staffed by community malaria workers; (b) supporting health center and
district malaria microscopists through training of existing microscopists;
(c) strengthening provincial logistical operations (supplies storage and
distribution, transport, and communications) in support of field activities;
(d) improving the IMPE laboratory, training, supervision, and epidemiological
(malariology, entomology) facilities; and (e) promoting agreements with
neighboring countries to develop joint control activities along national
borders.
2.23      MCC Strategv: At the village level, the project would support the
following community mobilization activities: (i) an Information, Education and
Communication (IEC) program promoting the participation of villagers in
controlling malaria; and (ii) a program of innovative activities (IA)
consisting of initiatives proposed by community groups and leaders to reduce
mosquito breeding places, to be financed by a small fund for IA included in
the component. Examples of IA are: conversion of water collection into fish
ponds; housing improvements; and contests for reducing or eliminating
mosquitoes in the locality. Use of the most effective means of communication
(i.e. meetings, pamphlets, fliers, audiovisuals, group dynamics etc.) would be
adapted to each community. Specific training, equipment, audiovisual



- 17 -
materials, and transport would be provided for village, district and
provincial staff to promote community mobilization; IEC and IA would be the
first activities to be carried out jointly by village, district, and
provincial personnel immediately after training has been completed.
2.24      MCC activities at the village level would be organized by sanitary
agents who would be volunteer workers and who would receive some compensation
from the community. The project would train 880 of these agents and provide
them each with a bicycle and a special kit (consisting of two chairs, a table,
a small lock-up cupboard for cotton, slides, lancets, and antimalarial drugs,
and a sign board); this kit will be located in the house of the trained
sanitary agent, or in a room provided by the village. The sanitary agent will
use the kit for early detection of febrile and suspected malaria cases,
systematic collection of blood smears and treatment of presumptive cases. The
project would also test the practice of allowing the sanitary agent to derive
a small income from the sale of antimalarial drugs in order to stimulate
performance. In the case of Savannakhet and Sekong provinces, the duties of
the sanitary agent would be assumed by the village health worker with
appropriate training of supervisory and support staff, as malaria control is
part of the household health care package. The sanitary agent would be
actively involved in community mobilization promoted by district and
provincial staff.  More details on the sanitary agent activities are in Annex
10.
2.25      At the district level, the project would select 24 districts
strategically located in the 8 provinces and provide physical space for
malaria stations in each one (new construction 63m2 each or use of existing
space). These stations would strengthen logistic support for field operations
in the 55 districts and would provide accommodation for 39 district
microscopists, 21 vector control agents, and 37 team leaders, as well as
storage space for field operations (mosquito nets, insecticides, drugs, pumps,
tools for clearing mosquito breeding places, and for income generating
activities). These simple facilities would be attached to, or part of,
existing health facilities (health centers, district hospitals), and would be
able to provide clinical, laboratory, treatment and vector control support to
families living in local and neighboring district villages. A total of 97
district staff would be trained by the project and would be provided with
motorcycles (97) for travelling to villages and health centers to support
sanitary agents in their community mobilization, vector control and treatment
activities. The project would also re-train existing district staff.
2.26      At the provincial level there are about 68 nurses, 33 assistant
doctors, and 8 doctors working in the malaria control program. Their
functions and job descriptions have been redefined, and a training program has
been scheduled to prepare them for their new activities (see Annex 12). The
provincial health directors would form an implementation team to assist in the
administrative and technical activities of the MCC (see Annex 11). The
project would repair and upgrade the provincial malaria stations in Saravane
(150m2) and Champassak (250m2); and upgrade and add storage space (215m2) and
training facilities (400m2) to the provincial malaria stations of Luang
Prabang and Savannakhet to convert them into regional malaria control centers.
In addition, carrying out provincial malaria control activities would require
physical space in existing buildings such as the provincial hospital or newly
constructed buildings (150m2 average) in Bokeo, Luang Namtha, Sekong and
Attapeu. The project would train about 40 professionals, 32 technicians, and
24 auxiliary staff in management, planning, supervision, malariology,
microscopy, and other relevant subjects. At negotiations. assurances were
provided that, by January 1. 1995. the MOH would create, on terms of reference
acceptable to the Association, regional malaria control centers in Savannakhet
and Luang Prabang, under the technical authority of IMPE. It was also agreed



- 18 -
that the two regional malaria centers would accept and follow the malaria
control policy formulated by IMPE.
2.27      At the central level, the project would concentrate on providing
IMPE with institutional and physical strengthening to carry out the national
control programs for malaria and other endemic diseases (dengue, schisto-
somiasis, etc.). The project would provide 98 person-months in technical
assistance for managing the MCC, including procurement, management of the
training plan (available in project files), and short-term consultants for
selected courses. Three IMPE staff would be trained overseas in management,
epidemiology, and research methods. Local staff would be re-trained in-
country together with provincial staff in management, training of trainers,
planning, supervision, etc. (see para. 2.28). The project would repair and
refurbish about 300m2 of IMPE's existing facilities in Vientiane, which would
be used as office space; and replace about 4,000m2 of dilapidated buildings,
as well as with 2,000m2 of new laboratory, training, and warehousing
facilities. At negotiations. assurances were obtained that the MOH would
employ and assign to IMPE qualified personnel on terms of reference acceptable
to the Association. to supervise regional implementation of the MCC.
2.28       The project would provide training support to help build expertise
in the control of malaria and other endemtc diseases. Job descriptions,
curricula, training schedules, teaching resources, location of training, and
costs of training have been developed in detail during project preparation and
are described in a consultant report available in the project files. Eight
core courses were developed for the professional, technical and auxiliary
malaria control workers; these courses cover management/administration,
planning/supervision, microscopy, malariology, vector control, training of
trainers, computer skills, and English. These courses would be taught first in
Vientiane, then in the regional centers of Luang Prabang and Savannakhet, and
then in other provincial capitals and districts. Annexes 9-13 provide
additional implementation information for this component.
2.29       The project would train in-country a total of 1,128 staff,
including 880 sanitary agents (village), 21 vector control agents, 39
microscopists, 37 team leaders (district), 152 provincial level staff
(including 40 higher level staff), 32 technicians, and 24 auxiliaries.
Component III: Health Education
(US$2.0 million equivalent estimated base cost)
2.30      The objectives of this component are to: (i) provide the MOH with
the capability to produce, target, deliver and assess health education
messages; (ii) develop an intra- and intersectoral IEC network; (iii) support
the implementation of the basic health care and malaria control project
components by developing appropriate and effective IEC activities specific to
their activities; (iv) prepare health messages regarding prevention of
sexually-transmitted diseases/HIV for at-risk populations; and (v) encourage
long-term sustainability of the health education program. Annex 14 summarizes
the IEC activities and associated tasks.
2.31       The project would help build the capacity of the MOH's Institute of
Health Education (IHE) and of related departments, institutions and work units
at the central, provincial and district levels to carry out effective IEC
strategies, i.e. the capacity to develop, target, deliver and assess health
education messages. IHE and the embryonic health education units in Sekong
and Savannakhet provinces would be strengthened, and district level activities
would be organized. The proposed developmental program would finance: (i)
short-term training ranging in duration from one week to three months for 244



- 19 -
trainees in Vientiane, Savannakhet, Sekong, Luang Prabang and Bangkok; (ii)
fellowships of one and two years duration in communication, and in utilization
and production of media for seven trainees in Thailand and the Philippines,
and fellowships for ten trainees in foreign languages in Vientiane; (iii)
study visits of seven to ten days for 61 trainees to the North-East region of
Thailand to observe the use of village health communicators, of folk dances
for health education and of mass media; (iv) civil works, vehicles, office
furniture, communication equipment for the IHE and the health education units
of the provinces of Savannakhet, Sekong and Luang Prabang; and (v) IEC
materials (print, radio, video) for IHE. Annexes 15-17 provide further
details regarding short-term training, fellowships and study visits.
2.32      Development of an IEC network requires coordination among multi-
disciplinary experts at the central, provincial, district and village levels.
The project would support development of a plan document for this network
which would document functions, strategies, main activities of existing
organizations and anticipated outcomes and impact of IEC activities. The
document would be distributed widely and would form the basis for discussions
in workshops and seminars. The workshops would bring together staff from
different disciplines to discuss the appropriate mission, structure, and the
implementation of activities of the IEC network. Activities would include:
(i) workshops for policy makers and managers; (ii) biannual IEC seminars and
workshops; (iii) publication of a newsletter; and (iv) attendance at
international seminars to exchange local knowledge within the international
community, to receive new ideas and to promote support from other countries.
2.33      The project would support a range of health education activities
designed to increase health knowledge, adjust attitudes and adopt new healthy
behaviors in regard to basic health programs, malaria control and STD/HIV
prevention. Since these purposes are best achieved at the community level,
the Project includes support for nine separate programs summarized in Annex
18.
2.34      At the national level, the project would support rehabilitation of
about 400 m2 in the offices of the Institute of Health Education in order to
create usable space for developing and producing IEC materials. At the
national level, the project would provide equipment for printing, and for
radio and TV-video program production. The project would also provide office
furniture, basic communications equipment and vehicles for national and
provincial level health education activities (Annex 19).
2.35      Foreign and local technical assistance for health education would
be provided to assist in carrying out programmed activities. Foreign
technical ass4stance would concentrate on training of local staff, design and
supervision of the surveys, design of communication materials and production
of mass media messages. Local assistance would be provided to the provinces,
districts and villages by the IHE staff and by staff from other Ministries and
Institutes. The estimated technical assistance budget for this component is
about US$250,000 and the proposal in the project working file contains the
detailed plan and cost.



- 20 -
Component IV: Project Management
(US $4.0 million equivalent estimated base cost)
2.36      The project includes support for a significant amount of technical
assistance to strengthen the participating health facilities, and improve the
implementation capacity of the central, provincial and district health
management systems. Implementation of the three project components and the
functioning of the PCU would be supported by 72 person-months of long term and
36 person-months of short term technical assistance. Most of this technical
assistance will be provided by Belgium as co-financing on a grant-in-kind
basis and would include a resident team of specialists to support all aspects
of project implementation. Draft terms of references have been prepared.
Technical support is already forthcoming from U.N. agencies, especially WHO,
and from NGOs in areas of common interest such as disease control management.
Further details on technical assistance are given in Annex 20.
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Costs
3.1       Cost Summary.  The total cost of the project, including
contingencies and taxes, is estimated at Kip 17.04 billion or US$24.0 million
equivalent. Base costs are calculated at US$21.5 million equivalent and
contingencies at US$2.5 million equivalent. The foreign exchange component is
estimated at about US$16.4 million or 68 percent of project costs. The
breakdown of the proposed project by component and categories of expenditure
is summarized in Tables 3.1 and 3.2. Detailed costs of the project by
component, categories of expenditure and time are given in Annex 21.
3.2       Basis of Cost Estimates.  Construction costs are based on: (i)
tender prices provided by the Ministry of Construction; (ii) quotations from
local and foreign construction firms active in the country; (iii)
rehabilitation costs for civil works under the First IDA-financed Education
Project (Credit 2001-LA); and (iv) building costs under the Second IDA-
financed Education Project (Credit 2488-LA). Unit construction costs vary as
follows: US$300/m2 for new construction at the Savannakhet Provincial Hospital
and the Institute of Malaria, Parasitology and Entomology in Vientiane;
US$240/M2 for new construction at district hospitals and the Malaria
Provincial Headquarters in Luang Prabang; and US$120/m2 for rehabilitating
existing buildings at district hospitals and health centers. Costs of
professional services for design, preparation of tender documents and
supervision of construction reflect the scale of fees for similar services
provided by local architectural consulting firms. Training costs are about
US$300 per person/month for local (within the country), US$2000 per
person/month for regional (within South East Asia) and US$25,000 per year for
overseas training.
3.3       Customs Duties and Taxes.  Imported goods and equipment for the
project would be free of customs duties and taxes. A 5% tax on local
construction materials and 10% on labor, estimated at US$200,000, would be
financed by the Government.
3.4       Contingency Allowances.  Total contingencies represent 12% of base
costs, or US$2.5 million. Physical contingencies were estimated at 5% for
construction, equipment and furniture, while price contingencies were based on
an inflation rate of 5% for local costs and 2.8% for foreign costs.



-21-
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
LAO POR
HeasLth System Rcform and MaLaria Control Project
Project Cost Summary
Kip                              USS                           X Totat
------    ---------------------------   X Foreign   Bsase
Local   Foreign     Total       Local  Foreign    Total      Exchange     Costs
A . BASIC HEALTH SERVICES
1. Savannakhet                   2044.0    4117.4    6161.5          2.8      5.7      8.6          66.8      40.0
2. Sekong                         241.3     492.6      733.8         0.3      0.7       1.0         67.1       4.8
Sub-Totel                            2285.3    4610.0    6895.3          3.2      6.4       9.6         66.9      44.7
B . MALARIA CONTROL                 1165.4    3089.3    4254.7          1.6      4.3       5.9         72.6      27.6
C . INFO/EDU/COM                     480.9      934.3    1415.2         0.7      1.3       2.0         66.0       9.2
D . PROJECT MANAGEMENT               852.9    1995.5    2848.5          1.2      2.8       4.0         70.1      18.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                 4784.5   10629.2   15413.8          6.7     14.8      21.4         69.0     100.0
Physical Contingencies             128.1     384.3      512.4         0.2      0.5      0.7          75.0       3.3
Price Contingencies                518.8     787.4    1306.2          0.7      1.1       1.8         60.3       8.5
Total PROJECTS COSTS                 5431.4   11801.0   17232.4          7.6     16.4     24.0          68.5     111.8
Values ScaLed by 1000000.0 - 12/5/1994  16:02
Table  3.2:    SUMMARY  OF  PROJECT  COSTS  BY  CATEGORY  OF  EXPENDITURE
LAO PDR
Health System Reform and Malaria Control Project
Sumnary Accounts Cost Summory
Kip                              USS                           X Total
----------------------------    ---------------------------   X Foreign       Base
Local   Foreign     TotaL       Local  Foreign    Total      Exchange     Costs
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                     1778.7    1185.8   2964.5           2.5      1.6      4.1          40.0      19.2
B. EQUIPMENT                          0.0    1931.5    1931.5          0.0      2.7      2.7         100.0      12.5
C. FURNITURE                        146.8       15.9     162.7         0.2      0.0      0.2           9.8       1.1
D. VEHICLES                           0.0     650.7      650.7         0.0      0.9      0.9         100.0       4.2
E. TRAINING LOCAL                   267.7     114.7    382.4           0.4      0.2      0.5          30.0       2.5
F. TRAINING REGENAL                   0.0     349.8    349.8           0.0      0.5      0.5         100.0       2.3
G. TRAINING OVERSEAS                  0.0      39.9       39.9         0.0      0.1      0.1         100.0       0.3
H. TECHNICAL ASSIST. OVERSEA          0.0    1553.0    1553.0          0.0      2.2      2.2         100.0      10.1
1. TECHNICAL ASSIST. REGEN            0.0    409.1      409.1          0.0      0.6      0.6         100.0       2.7
J. TECHNICAL ASSIST. LOCAL           67.4      28.9       96.3         0.1      0.0      0.1          30.0       0.6
K. PROFESSIONAL FEES                 75.9      113.9     189.8         0.1      0.2      0.3          60.0       1.2
L. OPERATIONAL RESEARCH             992.4     466.4    1458.9          1.4      0.6      2.0          32.0       9.5
......... ...............................  ----------------------- ---...-------------....
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             3329.0    6859.6   10188.6          4.6      9.5      14.2         67.3      66.1
....................................---------------------------.  ............................ ... ..  --- --- --- --- ---
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATIONAL COST                 450.7     263.9      714.7         0.6      0.4       1.0         36.9       4.6
B. TRAVEL COST                      362.0      33.8    395.7           0.5      0.0      0.6           8.5       2.6
C. MAINTENANCE                      278.5     615.1      893.6         0.4      0.9       1.2         68.8       5.8
D. DRUGS                            164.6    1481.5    1646.1          0.2      2.1      2.3          90.0      10.7
E. SUPPLY                           199.8    1375.4    1575.1          0.3      1.9      2.2          87.3      10.2
........ ................. .... .......................... ........................................   ....................
Total RECURRENT COSTS              1455.6    3769.6    5225.2          2.0      5.2      7.3          72.1      33.9
............. .. ...............   -- -- ----------              ... .............. .
Total BASELINE COSTS               4784.5   10629.2   15413.8          6.7     14.8     21.4          69.0     100.0
Physical Contingencies           128.1     384.3      512.4         0.2      0.5      0.7          75.0       3.3
Price ContIngencies              518.8     787.4    1306.2          0.7      1.1       1.8         60.3       8.5
..............................     ........................... ................. . .................. ............................
Total PROJECTS COSTS               5431.4   11801.0   17232.4          7.6     16.4     24.0          68.5     111.8
---------     -- .- - ..U-.-.- ..=.-- -- ...... ......          ... a   = .............------
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 -   12/5/1994  15:23



- 22 -
3.5       Incremental Recurrent Costs.  The following have been included in
project cost estimates: (a) per diem allowance for supervision and training;
(b) travel costs for supervision; (c) drugs, medical and office supplies; and
(d) annual maintenance of equipment and vehicles procured under the project
and estimated at 10% of initial purchase prices and 2% of construction cost
for the maintenance of buildings built or rehabilitated under the project.
Since the current freeze on hiring additional civil service personnel is not
expected to be removed in the near future, the project would not generate
incremental recurrent personnel costs. At negotiations. the Government
provided assurances that: (a) the annual budgets for health would include
adeguate resources on a timely basis to finance the non-IDA share of project
incremental recurrent costs: and (b) the province of Savannakhet would make
its share of incremental recurrent costs available on a timely basis.
B. Financing
3.6       The total project cost of US$24.0 million equivalent would be
financed by: (a) an IDA Credit of US$19.2 million equivalent, representing 80%
of total project cost; (b) Government financing of US$2.4 million equivalent,
representing 10% of total project cost, including US$200,000 equivalent of
estimated taxes; (c) a co-financing grant of US$2.0 million equivalent from
the Government of Belgium, which will be administered by themselves,
representing 8% of total project cost; and (d) about US$420,000 from private
sources through cost sharing mechanisms such as drug revolving funds. The
financing plan is presented in Table 3.3 and Annex 6 summarizes the
responsibilities of the various financiers. At negotiations. assurances were
obtained that if the Belgian co-financing for technical assistance is not in
effect by June 30. 1995. this would constitute an event of Credit suspension.
3.7       The Government would make the IDA Credit proceeds available in
local currency to the provinces of Savannakhet and Sekong for implementation
of the Basic Health Services component.   At negotiations. assurances were
obtained that the Governmerut would make the agreed Credit proceeds available
to Savannakhet and Sekong provinces on a timely basis and on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association.
3.8       Proiect Preparation Financing.   Funds from the Policy and Human
Resources Development Fund financed by Japan and, to a smaller extent,
bilateral Trust Funds (Belgium, France) have been used for project
preparation. The first PHRD amount was Yen 28 million and the second amount
was Yen 72.3 million. The remaining balance of the PHRD funds would be used
to finance specific activities to prepare for quick implementation such as:
(i) architectural designs for the rehabilitation of hospitals and construction
of new facilities; (ii) preparation of equipment specifications; (iii)
establishment of the project coordination unit; and (iv) design and
implementation of baseline surveys and studies.



- 23 -
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
(Amounts in USS million, including contingencies)
---------- USS million ----------
Expenditure Category                                                    Estimated
% of IDA
IDA     GOV.    Private  Govt. of   TOTAL  Financing
Belgium
Civil Works              4.7       0.4       -           -       5.1        91.0
Equipment                4.6       -         -           -       4.6       100.0
Training                 1.1       -         -           -       1.1       10a.0
Technical Assistance    1.5        -         -           2.0     3.5        41.0
Operational Research    0.5        -                     -       0.5       100.0
Drugs (Savannakhet)      0.6       0.4       0.4         -       1.4        40.0
Drugs (Sekong)           0.1       0.1       -           -       0.2        50.0
Drugs (pilot zones)      0.2       -         -           -       0.2       100.0
Drugs (Malaria)          1.0       0.1       -           -       1.1        90.0
Medical and Office       2.1       0.7       -           -       2.8        73.0
Supplies
Incremental              2.1       -         -                   2.1       100.0
Operational Costs
0.7      0.7       -           -       1.4
Maintenance
19.2      2.4       0.4         2.0    24.0        80.0
Total Prolect Cost
Note:     a = includes US$200,000 of taxes on civil works.
Table 3.4: COUNTERPART FUNDS
BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY AND BY YEAR
(Amounts in USS million, including contingencies)
1995    1996    1997      1998      1999    2000    TOTAL
Investment Costs
-      0.2      0.2         -       -       -         0.4
Civil Works
Incremental
Recurrent Costs
Maintenance            0.05    0.10      0.10     0.15      0.15    0.15      0.7
Drugs                   -       -        0.10     0.12     0.18    0.21       0.6
Supply                  -      0.06      0.09     0.15     0.18    0.21       0.7
Total Recurrent        0.05    0.16      0.29     0.42     0.51    0.57       2.0
Total Costs            0.05    0.36      0.49     0.42     0.51    0.57       2.4
of which
Savannakhet
Province               0.05    0.20      0.20     0.20     0.20    0.30       1.2



- 24 -
3.9        Cost Recovery.  The project would establish and/or strengthen
revolving funds at health facilities as part of a limited cost-sharing system
to generate additional resources for the health services. Funds collected
from charges for drugs and medical services would be retained at the point of
collection, and would be used to help replenish drug supplies. A number of
health facilities have already begun to charge patients for services and
drugs, but these systems are poorly managed. The project would provide the
initial drug allotment whose sale would provide the initial capital for
revolving funds.   As these funds increase, they would provide funds for
purchasing drugs on a declining basis over the project's implementation
period. IDA support for financing drugs is calculated on the basis of 100%
for the first year, 70Z for the second year, 45% for the third year, and 30%
for the fourth year. IDA financing of drugs would average about 40% of total
costs for drugs, with the balance covered by Government and out-of-pocket
payments. Government would continue to provide funds for drugs, as it is
expected that revolving funds in Savannakhet would cover only 28% of their
drug expenses, or about US$0.20 per capita per year in the covered area.
3.10      The project's cost recovery strategy would be flexible with
differing criteria for financing drugs according to the district's poverty
level. This strategy would recognize that Savannakhet has very poor
districts, comparable to all of Sekong province; in these poor districts cost
recovery would not be a major financing source, and IDA would finance a higher
proportion of drug expenditures. The project would continue to provide funds
for essential drugs during the project period and fees collected from the
provision of health services would be used to improve the quality of these
services as well as worker performiance.
3.11       The public would not be charged for malaria drugs and insecticides,
given the substantial public benefit resulting from their utilization by
individuals. Impregnated bed nets would be sold at less than cost and prices
charged would be prorated based on socio-economic and socio-cultural factors.
3.12      As part of pre-project activities, a health financing survey
jointly sponsored by IDA and UNICEF is being carried out to review and
evaluate existing cost recovery schemes, to assess ability and willingness to
pay for drugs and other medical services, and to evaluate the impact of user
charges on service utilization. The sample has been drawn from three
provinces and covers 720 households. Survey results are expected shortly, and
would then guide project executing agencies in developing cost recovery
policies, methods and regulations, as well as training curricula in financial
management of revolving funds.
IV. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Implementation Arrangements
4.1        Project Coordinating Unit (PCU).  The project would be implemented
by the provincial health departments in Savannakhet and Sekong Provinces and
by two departments of the Ministry of Health, i.e. the Institute of
Malariology, Parasitology and Entomology and the Institute for Health
Education. Overall project implementation would be the responsibility of a
PCU within the MOH. Throughout project implementation, the PCU would be
headed by a project director, assisted by two deputy project directors (one
Lao and one expatriate), an accountant, a procurement manager and appropriate
support staff. At negotiations assurances were provided that prior to
effectiveness the Government would: (a) establish a PCU within the MOH on
terms of reference satisfactory to IDA to be responsible for overall
supervision and coordination of project implementation: (b) appoint a director



- 25 -
and two deputy directors: and (c) maintain the PCU throuzhout project
implementation. Annex 22 provides an organization chart for the MOH.
4.2       The responsibilities of the PCU would include monitoring
implementation progress, ensuring that procurement financed under the project
is carried out efficiently in accordance with IDA's procurement guidelines,
ensuring that proposals for counterpart funding are submitted in accordance
with Government's timetable and local procedures, maintaining project accounts
for the MOH-implemented components, consolidating project accounts for all
components, managing the Special Account, preparing disbursement requests for
submission to IDA and arranging for timely audits of Statements of
Expenditure, project accounts and the Special Account, in accordance with the
requirements specified in the Development Credit Agreement.
4.3       The PCU would also be responsible for developing a project
accounting system for use by the provinces and by IMPE, and for training the
provincial and IMPE staff in its use. Similarly, the PCU would utilize
standard Bank's bidding documents for goods and civil works procurement under
both international competitive bidding (ICB) and local competitive bidding
(LCB) procedures and would be responsible for preparing bidding documents and
issuing invitations to bid. The civil works plan is shown in Annex 23.
4.4       Capacity Building.  To strength'en managerial capacity at the
national and provincial levels, substantial technical assistance would be
provided to transfer knowledge and skills to counterpart staff. Local and
expatriate staff would be recruited to support the functions of the PCU
defined in paras. 4.2 and 4.3. Training in management, foreign languages, IDA
procedures and computer skills would be provided to PCU staff before the start
of project implementation. Promotion of project ownership would be enhanced
by broadening government staff participation and on-the-job training of local
staff. It is anticipated that a total of 108 person-months of technical
assistance will be required as defined in Annex 20. At negotiations,
agreement was reached that the Government would carry out the technical
assistance propram as Planned and budgeted. Assurances were also received
that the project would be implemented in accordance with the Project
Implementation Plan acceptable to the Association (refer to Annexes 7 through
17. 20 and 27).
4.5       Basic Health Services.  The Basic Health Services component would
be implemented in two provinces, Savannakhet and Sekong, by the respective
provincial health services. In each province, a Project Steering Committee
chaired by the Vice-Governor has been established to provide policy guidance
and general oversight on project implementation. Committee membership
includes representatives of the provincial Bureau of Finance, the Bureau of
Construction and the provincial health service. Day-to-day implementation
would be carried out by the responsible units within the provincial health
service. Representatives of the provincial hospital, district health
services, pharmacy, malaria control, primary health care and health education
units will meet periodically as a Technical Support Group to ensure that the
various aspects of project implementation are being appropriately coordinated
within the framework of the provincial health plan. At negotiations.
assurances were provided that the two proiect provinces would each establish a
Project Steering Committee and a Technical Support Group under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association.
4.6       Technical assistance would be provided to the provincial health
services throughout project implementation to assist in implementing their
health service reform programs and in managing project implementation. The
project would finance two public health specialists and a logistics technician
to be based in Savannakhet, but with responsibility for providing technical



- 26 -
assistance to both provinces. Technical assistance would also be provided to
assist the participating provinces to develop health information systems and
set up monitoring and evaluation systems. Accordingly, technical assistance
in the amount of 156 person-months is proposed to benefit both participating
provinces. (Annex 20)
4.7       Malaria Control. The execution of the malaria control component
represents a major portion of IMPE's work program and, as such, would
represent essentially full-time participation by IMPE's director, its four
division chiefs and its administrator. Technical assistance would be provided
to strengthen IMPE's institutional capacity and to support project
implementation. Proposed technical assistance for a total of 120 person-
months is shown in Annex 20.
4.8       The IMPE director would be responsible for implementing the malaria
control component and would report to the Project Director. A Central
Implementation Team (CIT) has been established, consisting of the IMPE
director, the four IMPE division chiefs, the IMPE administrator, the PCU
manager and two expatriate specialists. The CIT would be responsible for the
technical, supervisory, and logistic support required by the network of
provincial, district and village stations. At negotiations. assurances were
received that IMPE would establish a Central Implementation Team with
composition and terMs of reference satisfactory to the Association.
4.9       The two Regional Directors would be accountable to the IMPE
director for the performance of the malaria control program in the provinces
assigned to their regions. Provincial health directors would be responsible
for the implementation of the malaria control program in their provinces, and
would organize a Provincial Implementation Team (PIT). Districts would
provide important support to help assure that work at the village level is
done efficiently and effectively. District-level support include microscopy
facilities for diagnosis of suspected malaria cases, and operational support
to village workers for vector control and early detection of suspected malaria
cases. At negotiations. assurances were obtained that IMPE would aDDoint two
regional directors. one for Luang Prabang and one for Savannakhet. sublect to
aDRroval by the Ministry of Health. and would establish a Provincial
ImDlementation Team in each Proiect province under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association.
4.10      The detailed functions and activities of the CIT and the PIT, and
a plan of operations, including management arrangements, procurement, hiring
of consultants, training plans and special program activities are described in
the Implementation Guidelines (Annex 11).
4.11      Health Education. The health education component would be
implemented by the Institute of Health Education, a department of MOH.
Technical assistance would be provided to strengthen IHE to enable it to
support both the Basic Health Services and the Malaria Control components, and
to improve its capacity to deliver health education throughout the country.
Thirteen person-months of foreign technical assistance would be provided to
IHE for training, survey work and monitoring and evaluation (Annex 20).
4.12      Status of Proiect Pre2aracion.  The project has been prepared with
financial assistance from the PHRD Fund and from other Trust Funds (para.
3.8), and with the technical assistance of UNICEF and WHO.  Early start up
activities have been identified for execution up to Credit Effectiveness.
First year operational plans have been developed by the MOH and reviewed by
the Association.



- 27 -
B. Procurement
4.13      Procurement arrangements would be as follows:
(a)  Civil works totalling about US$5.1 million equivalent.  Contracts
estimated at more than US$100,000 and representing US$3.9 million
would be tendered and awarded on the basis of International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines. Bank
Standard Bid Documents for ICB procedures would be used. Civil
works would include new and rehabilitated buildings: (i) for the
basic health component, at the Savannakhet Provincial Hospital and
Champone, Phine, Xonbouli, Sepone, Nong and Vilabouly District
Hospitals; and (ii) for the malaria component, the IMPE
headquarters in Vientiane and the Provincial Malaria Centers in
Luang Prabang and Savannakhet. From past experience, it is
expected that there would be interest from foreign contractors
already established in the country, or in nearby countries, in
bidding on these contracts; local contracting firms have only
limited experience in these areas, particularly with respect to
construction in the provinces. For the balance of civil works
contracts estimated to cost less.than US$100,000 and representing a
total of US$0.8 million, Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures
acceptable to IDA would be used. This latter category would
include: (i) for the basic health component, limited rehabilitation
of six District Hospitals in Savannakhet and one in Sekong; (ii)
for the malaria component, the construction of a new central
warehouse in Vientiane and new District Malaria Control Stations;
and (iii) for the health education component, rehabilitation of the
offices of the IHE. Bidders for works under LCB would require
pre-qualification. Local contractors under ICB would be extended a
margin of preference of 7.5% in the comparison of their bids with
those of non-domestic contractors. The remaining US$0.4 million of
civil works would be carried out as community contributions to the
rehabilitation of health centers.
(b)  Furniture totalling about US$0.2 million eauivalent.  Most of the
furniture contracts would be procured through ICB procedures. This
would include specialized hospital and laboratory requirements. A
small amount of furniture, estimated at US$30,000 total, would be
procured through LCB procedures acceptable to IDA and would include
basic furniture for hospitals and malaria control stations.
(c)  Equipment totalling about US$3.4 million equivalent.  Equipment
totalling US$2.8 million would be procured through ICB. Most of
this equipment would be specialized medical equipment, and would be
procured in part through UN agencies such as UNICEF and WHO.
Equipment would be grouped into bid packages of at least US$100,000
equivalent. The remaining equipment valued at US$0.6 million would
be procured through LCB procedures acceptable to IDA (17%) and/or
shopping procedures based on written quotations from at least three
local or foreign suppliers.
(d)  Vehicles totalling about US$1.0 million equivalent.  Vehicles (cars
and trucks) totalling US$0.9 million would be procured through ICB.
The remaining US$0.1 million (motorcycles and bicycles) would be
procured through use of LCB procedures acceptable to IDA.
(e) Drugs totalling about US$2.9 million equivalent. All of the drugs
financed by IDA (US$2 million equivalent), would be procured



- 28 -
through ICB. The remaining US$0.9 million equivalent would be
procured through Government and private sources.
(f)  Supplies totalling about US$2.6 million equivalent.  This category
consists of office and medical supplies. The medical supplies
would be procured for the malaria control program, and include
mosquito nets, uniforms for malaria workers, spraying equipment,
insecticides, etc. Supplies totalling US$1.9 million would be
procured through ICB, and the remaining US$0.8 million through
shopping procedures as described in (c) above.
(g) Technical Assistance totalling about US$3.4 million eguivalent.
The Credit would finance US$1.4 million of the services of
international specialists and architectural/engineering
consultants; their services would be procured in accordance with
Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants. Consultant services of
about US$2.0 million equivalent would be parallel co-financed by
the Government of Belgium.
4.14      The Bank's standard bidding documents would be used for procurement
of goods, works and pre-qualification. For goods, a margin of preference
equal to 15 percent of the C.I.F. price of imported goods or the actual
customs duties and import taxes, whichever is less, will be allowed to
eligible domestic manufacturers bidding under ICB procedures. For LCB
procedures, assurances were provided at negotiations that: (a) tender
documents would be made available to IDA in English as well as in Lao: (b)
foreign contractors would be allowed to participate in the bidding and would
be awarded the contract if successful: and (c) foreign contractors would not
be required to be registered in Lao PDR in order to participate in the
bidding.
4.15      Procurement review.  The following procurement review procedures
would apply:
(a) By credit effectiveness, IDA will complete a prior review of
(i) standard bid documents for civil works and goods contracts to
be awarded under ICB and LCB procedures; (ii) letters of invitation
for consultant services, to determine their conformity with Bank
guidelines. These approved documents would be used as master
documents for all future bidding.
(b) Except for those in paragraph (c) below, all contracts valued at or
over US$100,000 would be subject to prior review by IDA, whereas
contracts under US$100,000 in value would be subject to random
post-review;
(c) All studies and consultancy financed by IDA which exceed US$100,000
equivalent for firms and US$50,000 equivalent for individuals would
be subject to IDA review prior to award of contract; and
(d) Training and workshops would be subject to random post-review by
IDA. Procurement by the Government of Belgium would be on a tied
basis.



- 29 -
Table 4.1: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(in US$ Million)
Expenditure Category                      Procurement Methods
ICB      LCB        Other"      N.I.F.       Total
Cost"
1.  Civil Works                  3.9       0.8           -          0.4         5.1
(3.9)    (0.8)          -         (0.0)        (4.7)
2.  Goods
2.1 Furniture                0.22       -            -           -          0.2
(0.2)      -            -           -         (0.2)
2.2 Equipment                2.8b      0.6           -           -          3.4
(2.8)    (0.6)          -           -          (3.4)
2.3 Vehicles                 0.9       0.1           -           -          1.0
(0.9)    (0.1)          -           -         (1.0)
2.4 Drugs                    2.0*       -            -          0.9         2.9
(2.0)      -            -         (0.0)        (2.0)
2.5 Supplies                 1.8b       -           0.8          -          2.6
(1.8)      -          (0.0)         -          (1.8)
3. Consultancies/Services
3.1 Technical assistance       -         -           1.4         2.0         3.4
(1.4)      (0.0)        (1.4)
3.2 Training                   -         -           1.1          -          1.1
(1 .1)       -          (1 .1)
3.3 Studies                    -         -           0.5          -          0.5
(0.5)        -          (0.5)
3.4 Design fees                -         -           0.3          -          0.3
(0.3)                   (0.3)
4. Miscellaneous
4.1 Operations                -         -           2.1          -          2.1
(2.1)                   (2.1)
4.2 Maintenance               -         -           1.4          -          1.4
(0.7)                   (0.7)
Total                           11.6              1.      i         3.3        24.
(11.6)    (1.5)        (6.1)       (0.0)       (19.2)
Notes: Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the IDA credit
N.I.F.- Not IDA Financed.
Other methods include local shopping and consulting services.
vi Includes procurement through UNICEF and other agencies.
"   Including Contingencies
/  LCB Procedures will be used for furniture, up to an aggregate
amount of US$30,000.



- 30 -
C. Disbursements
4.16      The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 12,900 (US$19.2 million equivalent)
would be disbursed over seven years, with disbursements to be completed by the
Closing Date of December 31, 2001. The disbursement profile for all projects
in Lao PDR is eight years (Annex 24). The disbursement profile is two
semesters shorter than the overall profile; these estimates are considered
feasible in view of the advanced state of project preparation. Project
appraisal was delayed in order to better incorporate additional implementation
planning steps.
4.17      Disbursements would be made against: (a) 90% of total expenditures
for civil works; (b) for drugs, equipment, furniture, vehicles and supplies,
100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported goods, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) for locally manufactured goods, and 85% of
local expenditures for other goods procured locally; (c) 100% of total
expenditures for consultancies, audit services, and training; and (d) 80% of
total expenditures for travel, operating costs and maintenance. Disbursements
to be made against the IDA credit are summarized in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES
(in US$ Million)
Expenditure Category          IDA    Percentage of Expenditure to be
Amount  financed by IDA Credit
1. Civil Works                4.2    90% of total expenditure
2.  Goods                     7.8    100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost);
85% of local expenditures for
other locally-produced items
3.  Consultancies, Audit    3.3    100% of total expenditure.
Services and training
4.  Incremental               2.5    80% of total expenditures
Operations & Maint.
5.  Unallocated               1.4
Total               19.2
4.18      Disbursements would be made against Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs) for contracts for civil works, goods and consulting firms less than
US$100,000 equivalent, individual consultants less than US$50,000 and all
auditing services, training and incremental operational and maintenance costs.
Documentation supporting the SOEs would be retained by the PCU and made
available for review by IDA missions. For all contracts above these limits,
full documentation would be required. To the extent possible, withdrawal
applications would be aggregated in amounts of US$100,000 or more, prior to
submission to IDA.
4.19      Special Accounts.  In order to ensure that adequate funds would be
available during project implementation, the Government would open a Special
Account of US$600,000 in the "Banque pour le Commerce Exterieur Lao" in



- 31 -
Vientiane. The PCU at the MOH would control and operate the use of the
Account. The account would be used for expenditures of less than US$100,000
equivalent, both foreign and local under all categories. All other
expenditures above $100,000 would be submitted directly to IDA for payment.
Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted
regularly and preferably monthly with appropriate documentation, or whenever
the amounts withdrawn equal 30% of the initial deposit. The Government would
also establish a Project Account in kip to disburse the Government's share of
eligible project expenditures.
D. Accounts and Audits
4.20      The Government would cause the MOH to maintain separate accounts of
project expenditures in accordance with sound accounting practices. The
project would be subject to the normal Government audit carried out by the
"Committee of Control and Audit" (CCA) which was established in 1985 and which
carries ministerial status. The PCU would submit to IDA the annual audit
report prepared by CCA which would cover: (i) the project account, (ii) the
Special Account; and (iii) Statements of Expenditure (SOE). The report would
be submitted to the Association within nine months of the end of each fiscal
year. The Special Account and SOEs would be audited separately from PCU
accounts. Such an audit would contain a separate opinion as to whether the
disbursements made on the basis of SOEs were used for the purposes for which
they were intended under the project. During negotiations. assurances were
received from Government that audits of MOH project-related records and
accounts would be undertaken in accordance with agreed accounting principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. and that
audited accounts and financial statements, in a format agreed with the Bank.
and including separate audits of Statements of Expenditures, would be sent to
IDA within nine months of the end of each Government fiscal year.
E. Monitoring. Reporting and Supervision
4.21      Implementation Schedule.  The proposed project would be implemented
over a seven-year period, plus six months for the completion of payments and
full withdrawal of Credit proceeds (see Annex 26). The project is expected to
be completed by December 31, 2000 and closed on June 30, 2001.
4.22      Monitoring and Reporting.  The PCU would be responsible for
monitoring and reporting progress in project implementation. Project
reporting requirements would include: (a) semi-annual progress reports; (b)
annual project performance reports; and (c) the contribution of the Government
to the Project Completion Report. The PCU would prepare semi-annual reports
in a simple descriptive and tabular form to compare actual accomplishments
against agreed upon implementation schedules and action plans. Annual project
performance reviews would be conducted jointly by MOH and IDA. At
negotiations. assurances were provided by the Government that progress reports
covering each project component would be submitted to IDA by June 30 and
December 31 of each year, beginning June 30. 1995.
4.23      Performance Targets.  The PCU would use performance indicators to
check and evaluate the progress of project implementation. Basic indicators
are shown in Annex 25. Surveys would be conducted as part of pre-project
implementation activities during calendar year 1994. The Government is
developing its own detailed performance indicators and numeric standards.
This is consistent with the participatory approach followed in the design and



- 32 -
preparation of this project and with the strong emphasis during project
preparation on project ownership. As a condition of Credit effectiveness, the
Government will (a) submit to IDA a Project Performance Indicator Plan, with
performance indicators acceptable to the Association and (b) would agree to
use these indicators throughout the project to measure implementation
progress.
4.24      Proiect Supervision.  Implementation reviews would be conducted
jointly by IDA and MOH and would be planned for every four months in the first
two years, and every six months thereafter (see Annexes 25 and 26). An annual
review, beginning in 1996 would be conducted to assess the performance of the
project in the previous year and to agree on work programs for the following
year. A comprehensive mid-term review would be held in 1998, on the basis of
which implementation targets and project design may be modified as deemed
necessary. During negotiations. assurances were received from the Government
that a mid-term review of implementation progress would be carried out not
later than June 30. 1998.
4.25      Project Evaluation.  Project performance measures for each project
component have been developed and agreed upon with Government. Performance
indicators are grouped by structure, process and impact dimensions. Structure
indicators include physical, financial, and staffing inputs, and refer to the
related organizational arrangements; process indicators seek to measure what
is done and how the inputs are being used; and impact indicators measure the
effects on the health conditions of the population. Annex 25 shows an initial
set of performance indicators to be measured at three points in time: at the
beginning, at the midpoint and at the end of the project.
F. Impact on Women
4.26      Lao women suffer from extremely high levels of mortality and
disability, due in large part to the high number and close spacing of their
pregnancies, and the number of pregnancies to very young, and to older women.
The project would promote birth spacing, supply contraceptive services,
improve management of obstetric complications and increase accessibility to
obstetric care services. With support from the Lao Women's Union and from
UNFPA, the project would provide health education to increase women's
knowledge of desired health behaviors and encourage utilization of maternal
and child health services.
G.  Environmental Aspects
4.27      The proposed project would have no significant impact on the
environment.  DDT for malaria control would be used inside dwellings in
concentrations that do not pose a public health threat, and used only when an
epidemic outbreak has been detected in order to reduce the number of
mosquitoes. Project activities will not result in the involuntary
resettlement or displacement of any persons.
H. Sustainability
4.28      Cost for the Basic Health Services Component are estimated at
US$9.6 million (including contingencies), which represents a per capita cost
of US$2.3 for the project period (US$1.50 for investment and US$0.80 for
incremental recurrent cost). Expected beneficiaries would be 17% of the
country's population. Contributions from Government and out-of-pocket user
payments are estimated to amount at most to 20% of the component's cost. As
part of its contribution, the province of Savannakhet would pay about half of



- 33 -
the incremental recurrent project cost, or slightly less than 10% of its
annual health budget. The Malaria Control Component would cover 8 provinces,
or 59% of the country's population, at an average cost of US$0.43 per capita
per year. The Government would provide US$0.6 million in counterpart funds
for the malaria control program, or 10% of its cost.
4.29        Sustainability in a poor country like Lao PDR cannot be narrowly
defined as the Government's ability to finance from its own resources project
activities at the end of a specific project period. Sustainability would be
more correctly defined as the degree to which a project has been able to: (i)
expand the country's organizational and managerial capacity in a given sector,
reducing its dependence on external support; and (ii) mobilize additional
internal and external resources for the sector. The project includes specific
support for capacity building and for ensuring project ownership at all three
levels: national, provincial and district. Participatory and interactive
health planning methods were used to prepare the system reform actions.
During a series of workshops the provinces defined basic health care service
packages to be provided, the financing and implementation strategies, and the
sequencing of investment activities. Active involvement of stakeholders has
resulted in greater project ownership by Government and beneficiaries.
4.30      The health sector in Lao PDR requires and receives substantial
external support and this situation is unlikely to change in the short run.
Cost recovery would help contribute to project sustainability, but Lao PDR's
weak economic status will limit its effectiveness. Beyond the scope of the
proposed project but of great long-term significance is the fact that the
country does not raise, and does not allocate, sufficient revenues to finance
health services adequately. Compared to other low-income countries, Lao PDR
has a very low revenue effort and also underallocates for health. The project
would mobilize incremental external resources to assist the Lao health sector
for at least the next decade. Better Government management of the macro-
economy and greater recognition of the need for increased spending on health
would ultimately substitute for such external flows.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.1       Reforms in financing and delivering primary health care would
improve access to basic health services for the population of 16 districts in
two provinces (one sixth of the country's population), enhance provincial and
district capacity to plan and manage public sector health services, and
improve the efficiency and the effectiveness of health workers. Stronger
institutional capacity and better trained workers would help reduce high
infant, child and maternal mortality rates and the related high fertility
rate. About 60% of the population would benefit from a reduction in disease
and death due to malaria, and this reduction would increase the labor force
productivity. The introduction of user fees for selected health services
would enhance government revenues, thus making possible improvement in the
scope, quality and range of health services. Targeted health education
messages would seek to influence health behavior at the community and
household levels.



- 34 -
B. Risks
5.2       The country's fragile institutional capacity may delay
implementation, especially in the areas of procurement, accounting and
auditing systems. Very low levels of health sector financing may cause
shortages of counterpart funds, difficulties in motivating and rewarding
qualified staff, and may impede long-term project sustainability. A number of
actions have already been taken and others are planned to counter these risks.
First, project preparation has involved the decision makers in order to
achieve greater project ownership within the country. Second, technical
assistance and training account for about 20 percent of total project cost,
including grant co-financing from the Government of Belgium. Third, a PCU
assisted by expatriate technical assistance, would be set up and training in
procurement, accounting, disbursement and auditing procedures would occur
prior to project effectiveness. Fourth, IDA and its co-financing partner
would finance 90% of total project cost, including a substantial share of
incremental recurrent costs. Long-term financial and institutional
sustainability of project benefits would depend, however, on improvements in
the country's macro-economic evolution and on the continued economic
development of project areas; this development would permit financing of
recurrent costs through contributions from the provinces, districts and
service users.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       At negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) the provinces of Savannakhet and Sekong would each establish a Drug
Administration Committee, and a Drug and Therapeutic Committee, on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association (para. 2.13),
that revenues collected from the sale of drugs could be retained at
the point of collection and that each concerned health facility
would establish a revolving fund using these sales proceeds (para.
2.14);
(b) by January 01, 1995, MOH would employ and assign to IMPE qualified
personnel, on terms of reference acceptable to the Association, for
the purpose of supervising overall MCC regional implementation
(para. 2.27);
(c) MOH would agree to establish regional malaria control centers in
Savannakhet and Luang Prabang by January 01, 1995, under the
technical authority of IMPE, and that the two regional malaria
centers would accept and follow the malaria control policy
formulated by IMPE (para. 2.26);
(d) Annual budgets for health would include adequate resources on a
timely basis to finance the non-IDA share of project incremental
recurrent costs (para. 3.5) and that Savannakhet would make its
share of incremental recurrent costs available on a timely basis
(para. 3.5);



- 35 -
(e)  Government would make the agreed credit proceeds available to
Savannakhet and Sekong provinces on a timely basis and on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association (para. 3.7);
(f)  Government would establish and maintain the PCU throughout project
implementation with a director and two deputy directors whose
qualifications would be acceptable to the Association (para. 4.1);
(g) Government would carry out the technical assistance program as
planned and budgeted; and would implement the project in accordance
with the Project Implementation Plan acceptable to the Association
(see Annexes 3, 5-15, 17 and 19); (para. 4.4);
(h) the provinces of Savannakhet and Sekong would establish each a
Project Steering Committee and a Technical Support Group with
composition, structure and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association (para. 4.5);
(i) IMPE would establish a Central Implementation Team with composition
and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association (para. 4.8);
(j) IMPE would appoint two regional directors, one for Luang Prabang
and one for Savannakhet, subject to approval by the Ministry of
Health, and would establish a Provincial Implementation Team in
each participating project province with composition and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association (para. 4.9);
(k) for LCB procedures, tender documents will be available to IDA in
English as well as in Lao, that foreign contractors will be allowed
to participate in the bidding and will be awarded the contract if
successful, and that foreign contractors will not be required to be
registered in Lao PDR in order to participate in the bidding (para.
4.14);
(1) progress reports covering each project component would be submitted
to IDA by June 30 and December 31 of each year (para. 4.22); and
prepare within six months of the Closing Date, a Project Completion
Report.
(m)  The indicators shown in the Project Performance Indicators Plan
would be used to measure implementation progress throughout the
project period; mid-term review of project progress would be
carried out not later than June 30, 1998 (para. 4.24).
6.2       As a condition of credit effectiveness, assurances were obtained
that;
(a)  the Government would submit to IDA a Project Performance Indicators
Plan, acceptable to the Association (para. 4.23).
(b) the Government would establish the PCU within MOH on terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA to be responsible for overall
supervision and coordination of project implementation; (para.
4.1).



- 36 -
6.3       As a condition of disbursement for the pilot component, assurances
were obtained that IDA would receive: (i) a technically feasible
design; (ii) a financially sustainable program; and (iii)
implementation arrangements which are in accord with IDA's
resettlement/relocation, indigenous people and environmental
guidelines (para. 2.5).
6.4       Assurances were also obtained that in the event Belgian grant co-
financing for the technical assistance is not in effect by June 30,
1995, this would constitute an event of Credit suspension (para.
3.6).
6.5       With the above assurances, the Health System Reform and Malaria
Control Project would be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 12.9
Million (US$19.2 million equivalent) with 10 years of grace, to the
Lao People's Democratic Republic.



-37 -                                   ANN rEX 1
LAO PDR
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
Description of Basic Health Care Provinces and Pilot Zones
Savannaketh is the country's most populous province, with an estimated 1993
population  of 690,000 people, or 16 percent of the  total population.   Its
thirteen districts and 1,602 villages are a microcosm of the entire country, due
to a high degree of variation in terms of geography, socio-economic variables and
ethnicity. About 80% of its income comes from agriculture. Western Savannakhet
is part of the Mekong valley; the Eastern part is mountainous with many
inaccessible villages inhabited by ethnic minority groups. Within Savannakhet,
the busy and thriving provincial capital district of Khantabouly (population
about 110,000) contrasts sharply with the poor mountain district of Muong Nong
300 km away, and both differ from the newest district of Vilabouly in the
Northeast corner which is reachable only four months per year.
Sekong has a population of 59,000 (1.4% of total country) and is the least
populated and newest province. Created in 1984, it is accessible by road and it
includes four districts inhabited by 14 ethnic groups, each with its own native
congue. Its estimated per capita income is US$140. Two districts (Dakchung and
Kalumn with 17,000 and 13,000 population respectively) have an average village
size of 133 people, are difficult to access year round and are completely cut off
during the rainy season.  By contrast, much of Lamam district (pop. 16,000),
which includes the provincial capital, and of neighboring Thateng district (pop.
13,000) are accessible the whole year. About 95 percent of the population is
illiterate, putting a severe constraint on recruiting and training local people.
Personnel from other provinces are very reluctant to work in Sekong due to its
remoteness, and turnover is high. A French NGO has been the major provider of
health  services, safe water and sanitation  to the populations of Laman and
Thateng districts with some support from UNDP.
Pilot Zones. Saysomboune, with about 55,000 people, is a special zone
sharing territory in the neighboring provinces of Xienghangh and Vientiane.
The Boloven Plateau, with about 50,000 people is a forest area in the province
of Charnpasak. The populations living in both zones are isolated tribal groups
with one of the lowest living standards in the country, serious health problems
and poor access to health care and other services, including transport.



- 38 -
ANNEX 2
PDR LAO
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
Number of Districts, Villages and Population: 1991
Number of    Number of                   Number of    Number of     Number of
Provinces       Districts    Numbes        Population    Population per  Population per   Villages per
Districts  Villages           ~~~~~~District  Village     District
VT Municipality              7           476      464,000        66,286          976            68
Phongsaly                    6           668       141,000       23,500          211           111
Luangnamtha                  5           528       119,000       23,800          225           106
Oudomsay                    11         1,198      283,000        25,727          236           109
Bokeo                        3           246        64,000       21,333           260           82
Luangprabang                10         1,240      337,000        33,700          272           124
Huoaphanh                    6           891      220,000        36,667           247          149
Sayaboury                    5           368       185,000       37,000          503            74
Xiengkhuang                  6           538       181,000       30,167           338           90
VT Province                  9           608      305,000        33,889           502           68
Borikhamsay                  6           550       143,000       23,833           260           92
Khammuane                    6           870      245,000        40,833           282          145
Saravane                     8          720       225,000        28,125          313            90
Se&wS            -                       342       8- t--00      19'-'t'X'X'''Sj't,','"'-"'"''',"i'''S'........"'E"''0 " 00."''.""'""'"'
Champasack                  10           864      453,000        45,300           524           86
Attapeu                      5           171        79,000       15,800          462            34
TOTAL:       117.00     11,885.00  4,140,000.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
Maximum         11.00      1,607.00    639,000.00    66,285.70       974.80        148.50
Average        6.90        699.10    243,529.40    33,120.70        363.00        99.20
Minimum         3.00        171.00     57,000.00    15,800.00        166.70        34.20
Standard Deviation        2.50        380.60      1,583.50     13,583.50       193.60        31.00
Source: State Statistics Unit, Ministry Finance.



- 39 -                                        ANNEX  3
PLANNING HEALTH INVESTMENTS
POPULATION PARAMETERS
DEFINE HEALTH PROBLE.M14S
- prevenuve & curauve
- frequencyicapit
- number of episodes
- heait care acions
Orgaze heath problems irto:
Hea= Care packages
- Hoasehold
- HealWi Center
- Referral
Caicuate vVorkdoad by
Hearc Care Package
Define inputs
- Staffing
- CW. eqt & veh.
O Drugs & suppties
-O&M
- Traininrn & TA
Train Heatth
Managemem Teams
Calcuiate lnvestmnert &
Recurrent Cost
Oetine Financing Strategy
-Private
-Pubhc
E- Eemal
|Estatbilsh Ir.vesutmerTt Tirretacle 



- 40 -
ANNEX 4
LAO POR
HEALTH SYSE-M REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
COMPONENT A. BASJC HEALTH SERVICES
POPULATION PARAMETERS IN SAVANNAKHET PROVINCE
DENOMINATOR                        PROPORTION          NUMBER
POPULATION PER DISTRICT                                                        47000
NUMBER OF VILLAGES PER DIST; 1CT23
POPULATION PER VILLAGE                                                           388
BIRTH RATE                                        |4                             1880
DISTRIBUTION       0-59 MONTHS                                 16%              752
0-14 YEARS                                 44%              2064
+ 15 YEARS                                 56%
FEMALE CHILD BEARING AGE      !            21%_T             9870
POPULATION OF THE PROVINCE OF SAVANNAKHET                                     690000
POPULATION EXCLUDING THE DISTRICT OF KANTABUU                                 572300
NUMBER OF DISTRICTS (exciudinq KaantafuIi                           |             12
POPULATION PER DISTRICT                                                        47000
NUMBER OF VILLAGES (excuoing Karntaou__                                         1475
AVERAGE POPULATION PER VILLAGE (excluding Kantabuli)                             388



THE HEALTH CARE PROFILE IN A SAVANAKETH PROVINCE DISTRICT
POPULATION  HEALTH PROBLEM             FREQUENCY NUM6ER OF             HEALTH CARE               HOUSEHOLD           PRWVIARY CARE      Ist REFERRAL    2nd REFERRAL    TOTAL ACTIONS
PERPERSO  EPISODES                 ACTION              %of(4)            N    %of(7)        N   %of(9)       N % of(11)       N sum (7).(9).(11).(13)
(1)           (2)                          (3)         (4)                  (5)                   (6)          (7)        (8)     (9)     (10)   (11)       (12)   (13)              (14)
PREVENTIVE
women         pregnancy                      0.0400      1880   Screen                          1.000         1880      3.000    5640     0.000      0     0.000      0              7520
vwomen        pregnancy                      0.0400      1880   Immunize against tetanus        0.000            0      2.000    3760     0.000      0     0.000      0              3760
women         pregnancy                      0.0400      1880   Provide micronutrients          0.000            0      3.000    5640     0.000      0     0.000      0              5640
women         child spacing                  0.0400      1880   Family planning                 0.000            0      4.000    7520     0.000      0     0.000      0              7520
women         demand child limhation         0.0020        94   Sterilisation                   0.000            0      0.000       0     0.000      0     1.000     94                94
children      < age 1                        0.0400      1880   Fultly immunize                 0 000            0      4.000    7520     0.000      0    0.000       0              7520
CURATIVE
all           various pains and complaints   4.0000    188X0    Curative treatment              1.000       188000      0.100   18800     0.050    940    0.050      47            207787
all          fever and neck slifness         0.0025       118   Lumbar puncture                 0.000            0      0.000       0     0.000      0     1 000    118               118
all           meningitis                     0.0050       235   Specific treatment              0.000            0      0.000       0     0.000      0     1.000    235               235
all           periton.,append.,cholecyst.    0.0050       235   Specific treatment              0.000            0      0.000       0     0.000      0     1.000    235               235
all           diarrhea                       1.0000     47000   Oral rehydration therapy        1 000        47000      0.100    4700     0.050    235    0.050      12             51947
all           diarrheavithblood              0.0500      2350   Researchamnoeba                 0.000            0      1.000    2350     0.100    235    0.000       0              2585
all           amoebiasis                     0.0125       588   Treat amoebiasis                0.000            0      1.000     588     0.100     59    0.000       0               646
all           cough' 2 weeks                 0.0300      1410   Ziehl Test                      0.000            0      1.000    1410     0.100    141    0.000       0              1551
all           positive Ziehflest             0.0030       141   TB Treatment                    0.000            0      1.000     141     0.250     35    0.000       0               176
all          injuries                        1.0000     47000   Treatment of injuries           1.000        47000      0.080    3760     0.050    188    0.050       9             50957
all           symptoms of STD                   NS         NS   Syndromic treatment               NS           NS         NS      NS        NS      NS       NS      NS               NS
all           anemia                         1.0000     47000   Detect anemea                   0.000            0      1.000   47000     0.000      0    0.000       0             47000
all           anemia                         0.2500     11750   Trea anemea                     0000             0      1.000   11750     0.050    588    0.010       6             12343   1-
all           hepatitis                      0.0060       282   Treatment                       0.000            0    - 0.000       0     0.000      0     1.000    282               282
women         pregnancy                      0.0400       1880   Test and treat STD             0.000            0      1.000    1880     0.000      0    0.050      94              1974
vwomen        normal pr,-gnancy              0.0300       1410   Assist                         1.000         1410      0.000       0     0.000      0    0.000       0              1410
women         complicated pregnancy          0.0080       376   Assisted delivery               0.000            0      0.000       0     1.000    376    0.250      94               470
women         complicated pregnancy          0.0020        94   Cesarean section                0.000            0      0.000       0     0.000      0     1.000     94                94
women         ectopic pregnancy              0 0020        94   Surgery                         0.000            0      0.000       0     0.000      0     1.000     94                94
adults        fever                          1.0000     26320   Presumptive treatment of malari  1.000       26320      0.100    2632     0.050    132    0.050       7             29090
adults        urinary lithiasis                 NS         NS   Removal                           NS           NS         NS      NS        NS      NS       NS      NS               NS
children      fever                          4.0000     82720   Presumptive treatment of maari  1.000        82720      0.125   10340    0.010     103    0.050       5             93169
children      diarrhea                       4.0000     82720   Oral rehydration therapy        1.000        82720      0.125   10340     0.010    103    0.010       1             93164
children      acute respiratory infections   2.0000     41360   Treatment                       1.000        41360      0.500   20680     0.010    207    0.010       2             62249
' age S       all (')                        0.2000      1504   Detect malnutrhion              4.000         6016      0.000       0     0.000      0     0.000      0              6016
' age S       malnutrition                   0.0200       150   Rehabilitate malnutrition       1.000          150      0.100      15    0.000       0     0.000      0               165
TOTAL EPISODES/YEAR                                    594230
EPISODES PER CAPITAIYEAR                                   13
x>
0
LA



THE HOUSEHOLD tHEALTH CARE PACKAGE
DELNOMINATOR                                 PROPORTION    NUMBER
POPULATION PER VILLAGE                                             38B
BIRTH RATE                                              4%          16
DISTRIBUTION   0 59 MONTHS                             18%          62
0-14 YEARS                            44%          171
+ 15 YEARS                            56%          217
FUMAt E Cli1LD BEARING AGE            21%           81
POPULATION   thEALTlh PROBLEM                 INCIDENCE      EPISODES         HEAI II  CARE ACTION         HOUSEHOLD PACKAGE
RATE       PER VILLAGE                                       % of (4a)       Number
(1)            (2)                                      (3)        (4a)                                            (6a)           (7a)
CURATIVE
all            various pains and complaints         4 0000        1552    Curative treatiment                      1 00          1552
all            dlarriea                              1 0000        388    Oral rehydration therapy                 1 00           388
all            Injuries                              1 0000        388    Treatment of injunes                     1 00           388
women           normal pregnancy                     00300          12    Assist                                   1 00            12
adults         fever               i 4               1 0000        217    Presumptive treatment of Maail           1.00           217
children       fever                                 4 0000        683    Presumptive treatment of malart          1 00           683
children        diarrhea                             4 0000        683    Oral rehydratlon therapy                 1 00           683
children        acute respiratory infections         2 0000        341    Treatment                                1.00           341
< age 5        all ( )                               0 2000         12    Detect malnutrition                      4 00            50
< age 5        malnutrition                          0 0200           1   Rehabiliate malnutrnion                  1 00             1
TOTAL EPISODES/YEAR                                               4278                                                           4315
EPISODES PER CAPITA/YEAR                                             11                                                            11
(a) ASSUME SIMULTANEITY COEFICIENT                                                                                                 1 7
(b) DIRECT ACTIONS (total events/simultaneity coen                                                                               2538
(c) DIRECT ACTIONS PER DAY (300 daystyear)                                                                                          8
(d) TIME IN DIRECT ACTION (including contact health education)                                                                    35%
(e) TIME IN INDIRECT ACTION: including general health education. sanitation, malaria control ..                                   65%
Note: column 1-3 and 5 content identical to Health Care Profile Table
(d) and (e): calculated on 8 hour day basis and 20 min per contact by 1 FTE (Full Time Equivalent)                                           oa x
0
I-n



TI-E IIEALIH CENTRE tEALTH CARE PACtAE
DENOMINATOR
l OPtJI ATION GROUP OF 10 VILLAGE                                3880
NUMBER OF VILLAGES                                                  10
POPULATION PER VILLAGE                                             388
BIRTH RATE                                             4%          155
DISIRIBUIION   0 59 MONTHS                           16%         621
0-14 YEARS                            44%        1707
+ 15 YEARS                            56%        2173
FEMAI E CHILD BEARING AGE             21%         815
POPULATION   HEALTH PROBLEM                 INCIDENCE    EPISODES PER    HEALTII CARE ACTION    PRIMARY CARE PACKAG
RATE           10 VILLAGES                                    % ot (4a)         N
( 1)           (2)                          (3)                   (4a)                (5)                       (8a)      (9a)
PR EVENT l3E
women          pregnancy                            0 0400         155    Screen                              3 000        416
women          pfegnancy                            0 0400         155   Immunize adyiwsl tetanus             2 000        310
women          pregnancy                            0 0400         155    Provide micronutrients              3 000        466
wonmen         child spacing                        0 0400         155    Family lplanning                    4 000        621
children       < ago 1                              0 0400         155    Fully irimniulliz                   4 000        621
CURATIVE
all            various pains and complaints         4 0000      15520    Curative tiel:ment                   0 100       1552
all            diarrhea                             1 0000       3880    Oral Rehydration Therapy             0 100        388
all            diarrhea with blood                  00500          194    Research amoeba                     11000        194
all            amoebiasis                           0 0125          49    Treat amoebiasis                    1 000         49
all            cough> 2 weeks                       0 0300         116    Ziehl Test                          1 000        116
all            positive Ziehi test                  0 0030          12    TB Tiealnicii                       1 000         12
all            Injuries                             1 0000       3880    Treatment of Injuries                0 080        310
all            anemia                               1 0000       3880    Detect anemia                        1 000       3880
all            anemia                               0 2500        970    Treat unemia                         1 000        970
women          pregnancy                            0 0400         155    Test and treat STD                  1 000        155
adults         fever                                1 0000       2173    Presumpive treatment of malar        0 100        217
children       fever                                4 0000       6829    Presemptive treatment of maled       0 125        854
children       diarrhea                             4 0000       6829    Oral rehydratlon therapy             0 125        854
children       acute respiratory infections         2 0000        3414    Treatment                           0 500       1701
< age 5        malnutrition                         0 0200          12    Rehabilitate malnutrition           0 100          1
TOTAL EPISODES/YEAR                                             48689                                                    13742
EPISODES PER CAPITA/YEAR                                            13                                                       4
(a) ASSUME SIMULTANEITY COEFICIENT                                                                                         15
(b) DIRECT ACTIONS (total eventsislmulttnolty coef)                                                                      9162
(c) DIRECT ACTIONS PER DAY (300 daysler)                                                                                    31
(d) TIME IN DIRECT ACTION (percentage use of 1 FTE))                                                                     127%               n
Note: column 1-3 and 5 content Identical to Health Care Profile Table
(d) and (e) calculated on 8 hour day basis and 20 min per contac by 1 FTE (Full Time Equivalent)



Tl1E DISTRICT I IOSPITAL I IEALTI CARE PACKAGE
DENOMINATOR
POPUl ATION OF ONE DISTRICT                                      47000
NUMBER OF VILLAGES PER DISTRICT                                    123
POPULA1 ION PER VILLAGE                                            388
BIRTH RATE                                             4%         1880
DISTRIBUTION   0 59 MONTHS                             16%        7520
0-14 YEARS                            44%       20680
* 15 YEARS                            56%       26320
FLMALE CHILD BEARING AGE              21%        9870
POPULATION   IHEAL TH PROBLEM                 INCIDENCE  EPISODES PER    HEALTH CARE ACTION            RIMARY CAR 1st REFERAAL PACKAGE
RATE        DISTRICT                                   PACKAGE    % of (4")             N
(1)            (2)                                      (3)       (4a)                 (5)                      (9a)     (101)        (Ia)
PR11EVLNTIVE
women          prf gnancy                           0 0400        1880    Screen                                466      0 (00            0
worien         piegnancy                            0 0400        1880   Immunuze agqiuitt I. Iaiius            310      0 000            0
wofmien        pregnancy                            0 0400        1880    Provide micronutr efits               466      0 000            0
women          child spacing                        0 0400        1880    Family Planning                       621      0 000            0
children       < agu 1                              0 0400        1880    Fully IirmunLze                       621      0 000            0
CURATIVE
all            vaiious pains and complaints          4 0000     188000    Curative tredirient                  1552      0 005          940
all            diarrhea                              1 0000      47000    Oral Rehydrallon Therapy              388      0 005          235
all            diarrhea with blood                  0 0500        2350    Research amoeba                       194      0 100          235
all             amoebiasis                           0 0125        588    Treat amoeblasis                       49      0 100           59
all            cough>2weeks                          00300        1410   ZehlTest                              116      0100           141
all             posidive Ziehl test                  0 0030        141    TB Treatment                            12     0 250           35
all            Injuries                              1 0000      47000    Treatment of inlwuues                 310      0 004          188
all            anernia                               1.0000      47000    Detect anemia                        3880      0 000            0
all            anemia                                0.2500      11750    Treat anemia                          970      0 050          588
women           pregnancy                            0 0400       1880    Test and treat STD                     155     0 000            0
women           complicated pregnancy                 0 008        376    Assisted delivery                        0      1 000         376
adults         lever                                 1.0000      26320    Presumptilve treatment of mabld       217       0 005         132
children       lever                                 4 0000      82720    Presumptive Ireatment of malar        854       0 001         103
children        diarrhea                             4 0000      82720    Oral rehydrallon therapy               854      0 001         103
children        acute respiratory infections         2 0000      41360    Treatment                             1707      0 005         207
age 5         nmalnutrition                        0 0200         150    Rehabilitate malnjtnition               1      0000            0
TOTAL EPISODESfYEAR                                             590165                                        13742                    3342
EPISODES PER CAPITA(YEAR                                            13                                            0                       0
(a) ASSUME SIMULTANEITY COEFICIENT                                                                               1 5                   1 33       D
(b) DIRECT ACTIONS (total eventslslmultnelty coot)                                                             9162                    2513
(c) DIRECT ACTIONS PER DAY (300 dayseyr)                                                                         31                       8    4  n
(d) TIME IN DIRECT ACTION: (percentage use of 1 FTE))                                                          127%                    35%      o
Note: column 1-3 and 5 content Identical to Health Care Profile Table                                                                           @
(d) and (e) calculated on 8 hour day basis and 20 mln per contact by 1 FTE (Full Tlme Equivalent)



IILE INTLSDISTRICT HOSPITAL HEALTH CARE P1Qt<QL
DE NOMINATOR
POPI ATION SERVED                                             100000
NUMBER OF L)DISTRCTS SERVED                                        2
POPULtAYION PER DISTIICT                                       4700
BIRTH RATE                                            4%        4000
D1SIFlHBUIK)rt  0 H9 MONt11S                         16%       16000
0 14 YEARS                           44%       44000
* 15 YEARS                           56%       56000
FEMAIE CHILD BEARING AG              21%       210ttO
POPULATION   HEALTH PROBLEM                  INCIDENCE   EPISODES IN           HEALTH CARE ACTION  PRIMARY CARE 1.1 REFERRAL    2nd REF,IRRAL
RATE     CATCHUENT AREA                                PACKAGE        PACKAGE        % o (4.)      N
(1)            (2)                                    (3)        (4a)               (5)                         (Va)         (11)      1123)    (13a)
1PHL%/LNIIVE
women          pegnancy                            0 0400       4000    Scieen                                  466              0     0 o(t         0
women          piegnancy                           00400        4000   Immnurse agas tetanus                    310              0       0000       0
women          piegnanc                            0 0400       4000    ProAde mimunutrertn                     464              0     0 0000        0
wonen          child spaaUng                       0 0400       4000    Family PtanIng                          621              0     0 0000        0
women          d.ermnnd chSd limitatIon            0 0020        200    Sledllisaton                              0              0     0 0000        0
children       ' age 1                             00400        4000    Futtytknm enL                           621              0     00000         0
CURATIVE
all            fafrou pains and complainfa         4 OOOC)    400000   Cujraltve treatmenr                     1552            940     0 0003      100
ON             [ever _d necrk sngr.                00025         250    Lumerr pauncrc                            0              0     1 0000      250
al             meningtIs                           0 0050        500    Speic treatm                              0              0     1 0000      500
am             perilon- append cholecyWl           0 0050        500    Specific treatmefi                        0              0     1 0000      500
ON             diarrtea                            1 0000     100000   Oral Rehytdratton Therapy                388            235     0 0003       25
OR             diarrhet with blood                 0 050        5000    Research aeba                           194            235     00000         0
nl             amoebase                            0 0125       1250    Treat omoeblasla                         49            59      00000         0
am             cough 2 weeks                       0 0300       3000   ZieN Ted                                  116           141     0 0000        0
all            positveeZieiltest                   00030         300   TflTealtnent                               12            35     00000         0
aN             InjurIea                            1 0000     100000   Treatmerwofinude                         310            18e     00002        20
Ot             anemia                              1 0000     100000    Detec1 anemua                          3880              0     0 000         0
an             anemia                              02500       25000    Treat aniema                            970            588     00005        13
aN             hepalltia                           0 0060        600    Treatmert                                  0             0     1 0000      600
women          pregnancy                           0 0400       4000   Test and treat STD                        155             0     0 0000        0
wornen         complicated pregnancy               0 0080        800   AssIsted del                                0           318     00 000        a
woren          compilcated pregnarny               0 0020        200   Cesrean setion                             0             0     1 0000      200
wornen         ectopic pregnancy                   0 0020        200    Surgery                                    0             0     1 0000      200
aduth          lever                               1 0000      56000    PresumptIve trealmeni ofmalana           217           132     0 0003       14
children       lever                               40000      176000    Presurnplvslreatnwrgofmnaarta            854           103     00001        tl
children       dlarrhea                            4 0000     176000   Oral rehydrlkon therapy                   854           103     00ooo         2
cl kdren       acute respiratory hnlectbais        2 0000      88000    Treatmefl                               1707           207     0 0001        4
< age 5        malnritrinlen                       0 0200        320    Rehabllitale malnitrtilon                  1             0     00000         0
TOTAL EPISODES/YEAR                                          1258120                                          13742           3342                2439
EPISODES PER CAPITA/YEAR                                           13                                             0             0                    0
(a) ASSUME SIMULTANEITY COEFICIENT                                                                               110 1 3                            0
(b) DIRECTACTIONS (total evenrs nfrtd neltycoalf)                                                              9162          2513                 2439
(e) DIRECT ACTIONS PER DAY (300 darl/w)                                                                          31             0                    0
(d) TIME IN DIRECT ACTION: (peeerige use of I FTE))                                                            127%           35%                 34%         o 0
Note: column 1-3 and 5 content Identical to Health Core Profile Table
(d) and (e), calLulated on 8 hour day basis and 20 mnn per cortad by 1 FTE (Ful TIw Equhivln) )



- 46 -
ANNEX 0
LAO PDR
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
Component A: Basic Health Services
FINANCING STRATEGY
COST CENTER*
Health     District    Inter       Provincial
Village  Center    Hospital    District     Hospital        DHMT           PHMIT
Hospital
INVESTMENT
Civil Works
New Construction                     NC         NC         EXT         EXT         EXT          NC           NC
Renovation                           NC         EXT        EXT+GOVT   EXT+GOVT   EXT+GOVT   EXT+GOVT    EXT+GOVT
Professional Fees                    NC         NC         EXT         EXT         EXT          NC           NC
Equipment                              EXT        EXT        EXT         EXT         EXT          EXT          EXT
Furnitures                             NC         GOVT       EXT+GOVT   EXT+GOVT   EXT+GOVT   EXT+GOVT    EXT+GOVT
Vehicles                               EXT        EXT        EXT         EXT         EXT          EXT          EXT
Training
Overseas                             NC         NC         EXT         EXT         EXT          EXT          EXT
Regional                             NC         NC         EXT         EXT         EXT         EXT           EXT
Local                                EXT        EXT        EXT         EXT         EXT          EXT          EXT
Technical Assistance
Overseas                             NC         NC         EXT         EXT         EXT          EXT          EXT
Regional                             NC         NC         EXT         EXT         EXT          EXT          EXT
Local                                NC         NC         EXT         EXT         EXT          EXT          EXT
RECURRENT
Operational Cost                       GOVT       GOVT       EXT+GOVT  EXT+GOVT   EXT+GOVT   EXT+GOVT    EXT+GOVT
Travel Cost                           PFRIV       EXT+GOVT EXT+GOVT  EXT+GOVT   EXT+GOVT   EXT+GOVT    EXT+GOVT
EXT + GOVT EXT+GOVT+ EXT+GOVT+ EXT+GOVT+
Drugs                                  PRIV       +PFRIV    PrJV         PREV        PRtV        NC            NC
Supplies                               PRIV       EXT+GOVT EXT+GOVT   EXT+GOVT   EXT+GOVT   EXT+GOVT    EXT+GOVT
Maintenance                            PRIV       EXT+GOVT EXT+GOVT   EXT+GOVT   EXT+GOVT   EXT+GOVT    EXT+GOVT
Miscellaneous                          PRIV       EXT+GOVT EXT+GOVT   EXT+GOVT   EXT+GOVT   EXT+GOVT    EXT+GOVT
SOURCES OF FINANCE:
NC:       No cost
GOVT:     Government
PRIV:     Private
EXT:      External Sources including IDA, othwr donors end NGOc



ANNEX 7
LAO PDR
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
COMPONENT A: BASIC HEALTH SERVICES
TRAINING PLAN
Training Subject              Place          Trainees        Duration      Cost USS \1
Public Health               Overseas            2             1 yr.
50,000
Public Health (MD)          In-Service         34            3 mos.
35,700
Public Health (MA)                             44            3 mos.
46,200
Anesthesiology              Vientiane           2            6 mos.
43560
Laboratory                 In-Service          58            3 mos.
60,900
Radiology (MD)              Vientiane           2              1 yr.
7,600
Nursing                     In-Service         115           3 mos.
120,750
Midwifery                   Vientiane          23            3 mos.
26,220
Village H. Worker         Health Center        400         3 mos. initial         40,000
District Hospital               2 wks. refresher
\1 The Unit cost for overseas training estimated at $25,000 per year per person;
the Unit cost for inservice training is $350 per person-month;
and training in Vientiane is $380 per person-month



- 48 -
ANNEX 8
LAO PDR
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
Component A: Investment Implementation Plan
Year of Start-up
Health Service Packages   Master Plan  Program
Coverage    Coverage    1995  1998 1997 1998 1999 2000
PHMT                              1            1    1
Prov. Hospital                     1           1    1
DHMT Kantabuli                    1            1                       1
Health Center Kantabuli          20            8    2      2    4
IDHMT                             4            2    1      1
IDH                               4            2           1    1
DH                                8            4                 1    2    1
HC                              140           42           2    8    12   13    7
Household                      1480          310          20   70  100   85   35



LAO MALARIA CONTROL OPERATION PLAN 1994-2000
Component B: Implementation Plan
July       July       July        July        July        July
ACTIVITY                                      One 95    Two 96    Three 97    Four 98    Five 99         Six 00
I   Organizational Arrangements
II                                 CIT and PIT appointed
1.2                                 Updated MCC document
1.3                                 MCC Translated
1.4                                 100 MCC printed invitation
workshop
1.5                                 Letter and MCC Doc. sent
1.6                                 CIT PIT announced in
National Malaria
Conference
1.7                                 MCC workshop
2.   Consultants-First Group             Invitation Letten  with
2.1                                    TOR sent
Sections Briefing-
2.2                                    Contract
2.2.1    Architect
2.2.2    Assistant Managcr
2.2.3    Training Manager
2.2.4    Financial Consultant
3.  Training-Frist Group (Vientiane)
3.1                                 English                                                                                                           o 
3.2                                 TOT      Lr_
3.3                                 Computer Literacy                                                                                                 WI___  ____   ____



July       JuiIy       July    -   July       Jully         July
ACTIVITY                                        One 95    Two 96    Tlirec 97 3 Four 98       Five 99       Six 00
4    Procuremeni
4 1                                  Civil Wurks
4.1.1   Bid prep. tendering evalu.
awards of contracts for:
A. Package Nonh: Bckeo, L.
Maisha, L. Viabang
B. Package Center: IMPE
C. Package South: Savanakhet
saravanec Champasak, Sekong.
Attapeu
4.2                                  Goods
4.2.1   Bid Preparation
4.2 2   Package A: Ncts.
Insecticides. worker,
Protecting uniforms
4.2.3   Package B: Drugs
Reagents
4.2.4   Package C: Lab equipment
microscopes                                                                                                   o
4.2.5   Package D: Vehicles,
motor bikes, boats
4.2.6   Package E: Furniture,
Offiec equipment
4.2.7   Package P: Kits for
sanitary agents
4.2.8   Package G: Audio-visual
equip. and off. technology
4.2.9   Package H: Spraying
equipment
4.3                                  Training Consultants
4.3.1   Leaer of Invitation/TOR
4.3.2   Sciection, Briefing,
Contract for:
A. Management/Admin. Trainer
B. Planning/SPN Trainer
C. Community Org. Trainer
D. Microscopy Trainer                                                                                                C m  z
E. Malariology Trainer
p. Vector Control Trainer
__~~~~~~~~~~~____ _,C 
H,



ACTIVITY                                     July       July       July       July        July        July
One 9S     Two 96    Thre 97    Four 98      Five99     Six 00
S.    Training Seoend Group            In Vientiane
5.1                              5.1.1  Managemcnt/Admin.
5.1.2  Planning/SPN
5.1.3  Malariology
5.1.4  Vector Control
5.1.5  Microscopy
5.2                              In Luang Prabang and Savanskht
5.2.1  ManagementlAdmin
5.2.2  Planning/SPN
5.2.3  Malaiology
5.2.4  Vector Contrl
5.2.5  Microsopy
5.3                              In Disricts
5.3.1  Vilage Malaria Control                                             -
0'
6.
Field Activities
6.1 DxiTx Malaria caes
6.2 Mosquito impregnated net
distributor                  (Org ... groups)
6.3 Selective Vector Control
6.4 Promotional campaign
6.5 Community mobilization
6.6 Innovative activities
7.
Monitoring and Supervision
S.    Operational Rescarch                                                                        _ 
S.1  Studies



- 52 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 3
LAO PDR
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
COMPONENT B: MALARIA CONTROL
Community Mobilization
The MCC will promote the participation of villagers in reducing exposure to malaria and in
reducing morbidity and mortality due to malaria.
Reduction of exposure to malaria:
This involves motivation of persons and families to:
(a) participate in peridomestic sanitation works for elimination of mosquito breeding places;
(b) use mosquito bednets impregnated with pyrethroid;
(c) use of flit pumps for indoor spraying;
(d) use of screens in doors and windows;
(e) use protective clothes (i.e. long sleeve shirts) and mosquito repellents, and avoid exposure
to mosquito biting at sunset hours and at other times and occasions;
(f) early consultation for malaria diagnosis when a family member has fever.
The motivation process will consist of informal education using recreation activities, and
economic incentives through access to soft loans for income generating activities (see The Health
Development Fund below). Also, see annex 4 section IV, para A.
Recreative Activities
The MCC will use movies, videos, and slide projections to recreate and educate villagers about
malaria and ways to control it.
It will also promote games, contests with children, schoolers, and adults, to create interest and
willingness to act on vector control activities such as sanitation works, personal protection, and in
early diagnosis and treatment of patients with malaria.
For instance, the district anti- malaria workers (vector control agents, microscopists, and team
leaders) will:
(a) use audiovisual equipment for presenting recreative movies, videos, and slides, as well as
educative ones (with malaria control themes) for attracting villagers to meetings that will be
followed by discussions and action plans to develop recreative and income generating activities
(see The Health Development Fund).
(b) Organize races, festivals, contests etc. using local cultural traditions and holiday
celebrations. The MCC will provide small financial support for these activities in the form of
prizes and awards to winners.



-53 -                                  Annex 10
Page 2 of 3
Reduction of Morbidity and Mortality
The MCC will reduce the number of malaria cases and deaths by complementing the reduction
of exposure to malaria with increased availability of and access to early diagnosis and treatment. This
will consist of:
(a)   provision of new facilities, equipment, transport, and staff for early diagnosis and
treatment at provincial, district and village anti-malaria stations; and
(b)   by maintaining close collaboration with district and provincial hospitals for referral,
diagnosis and treatment of malaria patients.
Vector Control Activities
1.    Many environmental, chemical, and biological interventions are available for reducing vector
reservoirs. Some of them are:
Environmental interventions: drainage, ditching, land filling, clearing of vegetation, land, water,
and irrigation management, etc. can be used to eliminate breeding places in ponds, stagnated
rain waters, creeks and other water sources.
Biological interventions: rearing larvivorous fish in water collections, and use of larvicidal viruses
have been successful in some countries under particular conditions of use.
Chemical interventions: insecticides are widely used with different degrees of success due to
cost, effectiveness, side effects, behavioral variables.
2.   In Laos, some of above measures can not be applied due to constraints in cost, human
resources, and technology. The Malaria Control Component (MCC) will support the following vector
control measures:
Environmental measures: peri-domestic sanitation, small-scale drainage and land filling, and
clearing of vegetation in small water bodies (source reduction). Promotion of screens in doors
and windows, and use of protective clothing;
The district anti-malaria stations will have available a stock of tools for use by community
groups or families to do these environmental activities. Health education and community
participation are key interventions to implement environmental measures (see community
mobilization Program);
Biological measures: promotion of larvivorous fish breeding, in ponds and other community
water sources (reduction of mosquito larvae). This intervention may be difficult to implement
due to technical and behavioral constraints. However it will be attempted by the provincial anti-
malaria stations.
The provincial anti-malaria stations will make available strains of larvivorous fish to villagers
willing to raise them.
Chemical measures: Insecticides will be used onIy in situations of epidemic outbreaks. DDT, and
pyrethroids will be used as residual (long killing action) insecticides in domiciliary sprays
performed by household dwellers, and in epidemic cases, by district vector control agents;
impregnation of mosquito nets; reduction of high densities of adult mosquitoes will be achieved
through ultra-low volume sprays in situations of malaria epidemic outbreaks or high risk of
outbreaks.The provincial and district anti-malaria stations will be provided with the following
insecticides:



- 54 -                                  Annex 10
Page 3 of 3
DDT (75% wettable powder): An organochlorine insecticide, will be used for intradomiciliary
spray onlv if susceptibility tests show its efficacy. Special precautions with handlers (personal
protection) and domestic animals will be taken. About 2gr./m2 of DDT, and about 80m2 of
house surface will be estimated for use in intradomiciliary sprays.
Temefos (concentrate emulsion): An organphospate larvicide, will be used in small water
collections identified as mosquito breeding places. It is a safe substance for humans and other
living species. About 160ml.of liquid abate (temefos) diluted in 81t. of water will be used for
each discharge.
Pyrethroids: a group of organophosphates which will be used for impregnation of mosquito nets
and for ultra-low volume sprays. For net impregnation, Permethrin (50% concentrate emulsion)
seems to be the best choice because its residual action is almost twice as long as the other
pyrethroids, is the safest one (no skin absorption) and is odorless. For ultra-low volume spray,
malathion (40% wettable powder), with a residual effect up to 3 months, is the choice for
reducing high densities of adult mosquitoes when a malaria outbreak or high risk of it exists.
It is bio-degradable and side effects in animal life are negligible. The use of this insecticide will
also reduce, or stop outbreaks of, dengue fever. Diluted 5% malathion T.D. 95 will be used for
sprays.



- 55 -                              ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 10
LAO PDR
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
COMPONENT B: MALARIA CONTROL
IMPLEMENTATION GUIDELINES
The following guidelines are for the CIT to prepare a detailed Plan of Operations to implement
the MCC.
Plan of Ooerations - Key activities and Seauence
I.    Management Arrangements. Formal announcement of the Management Arrangements
spelled out below by the Minister of Health should be done after Credit negotiations
have been concluded.
II.    Hiring of Consultants: Preparation of terms of reference, selection and employment of
long-term and short-term consultants to assist project implementation should take place
immediately after Credit negotiations. See details below.
Ill.   Procurement Arrangements: This activity is critical for the successful operational
implementation of the MCC. Details of these activities are spelled out below.
IV.   Training Plans:  A consultant's report in project files contains the plan to be
implemented for the training of human resources required in the MCC. CIT should use
this report and make adjustments if necessary. Details are suggested below.
V.    Program Activities: Malaria control operations will use community mobilization as the
cornerstone of all program activities. With the assistance of a consultant, the CIT will
prepare, and the provincial and district staff will implement a gromotional campaian for
community mobilization. Training, equipment, audiovisual materials and transport for
carrying out the promotional campaign should have been procured. Key steps are
suggested below.
VI.    Monitoring and Supervision: planning and use of project resources, as well as efficient
and timely production of outputs will monitored. Activities carried out by the staff will
be observed with the purpose of providing continuous education and improving working
conditions.
VIl.   Evaluation will be performed through a series of process, outcome and impact
indicators, selected according to simplicity, reliability, and accuracy.



- 56 -                                 ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 10
I. Manaaement Arrangements
A. MCC Manacement
The IMPE director will be responsible for coordinating with the provinces the implementation
of the MCC and for managing the financial, technical, human and material resources assigned to the
component. He will report to the Project Director on the efficient and timely use of assigned resources.
B. Central Imolementation Team - CIT
A Central Imolementation Team (CIT) will be formed by the IMPE director (who will lead it), the
4 IMPE division chiefs, the IMPE administrator, the PCU manager and advisors in architecture,
management and procurement. Other short-term consultants will be hired according to implementation
needs.
The CIT will be responsible for:
(a)    preparing guidelines and providing technical support to the provinces in the preparation
of the Annual Action Plans (the first Annual Action Plan will be prepared for all
provinces by IMPE, and will be explained in a meeting at the two Regional Coordination
Centers);
(b)    preparing bids for all goods and services for the MCC (all procurement will be
processed by the PCU except that it can be delegated to IMPE when IMPE can do so
more efficiently);
(c)    organizing, coordinating and monitoring the implementation of:
i)    all civil works;
ii)    overseas and local training courses;
iii)   individual protection activities;
iv)    diagnosis and treatment by village, district and provincial anti-malaria stations;
v)    selective vector control activities;
vi)   IEC activities;
vii)   innovative activities;
viii)   operational research activities; and
ix)    inter-country agreements.
(d)    supervising component implementation in the 8 provinces involved; and
(e)    supporting and supervising the work of the short-term consultants.
The CIT should meet at least once a week for programming and coordinating with other MOH
Units and with the PCU the implementation of all above activities. The IMPE director will hold quarterly
field meetings with regional coordinators for review of the Annual Action Plans, and progress in their
execution. He may be accompanied by one or two CIT members.
C. Reaional Coordination Centers
The MCC will establish two Regional Coordination Centers: one in Luang Prabang, for
coordinating MCC activities in the northern provinces and one in Savannakhet for coordinating MCC
activities in the southern provinces.



- 57 -
ANNEX 1 1
Page 3 of 10
The two MCC Regional Coordination Centers will be physically located at the new facilities
constructed for the Provincial Stations of Luang Prabang and Savannakhet. These Centers will play a
key role in logistic support to the provinces in the region, e.g. timely distribution of inputs (mosquito
nets, drugs, insecticides, lab reagents, pumps, etc.), and permanent monitoring of execution of Annual
Action Plans in the provinces assigned to the region.
The appointment of the two regional coordinators will be made by the IMPE Director, with
approval by the Minister of Health.
Each regional coordinator will be accountable to the IMPE director for the performance of the
malaria control program in the provinces assigned to the region.
The regional coordinators will assist the provincial health directors in:
(a) designing and executing the Annual Action Plans according to guidelines provided by IMPE
(the first Annual Action Plan will be prepared for all provinces by IMPE, and will be explained
in a meeting at the two Regional Coordination Centers);
(b) preparing the request of inputs needed for implementing the Annual Action Plans, e.g.
mosquito nets, drugs, insecticides, pumps, lab equipment and reagents, slides, microscopes,
etc;
(c) monitoring the implementation of:
{i) all civil works
tii) all local training courses;
Ciii) individual protection activities;
(iv) diagnosis and treatment by village, district and provincial anti-malaria stations;
(v) selective vector control activities;
(vi) IEC activities; and
(vii) innovative activities.
(d) supervising component implementation in the provinces of the region;
The regional coordinators will invite the provincial health directors to meet every three months
for reviewing progress on implementation of Annual Action Plans. In the first meeting every year, they
will review the Annual Action Plan, and in the following meetings they will review targets achieved,
constraints and solutions to MCC implementation.
D. Provincial Implementation Team - PIT
Each provincial health director will be responsible for the performance of malaria control
activities in his/her province, and will organize an implementation team with the provincial staff.
The provincial health directors will form a Provincial Implementation Team (PIT) with his division
chiefs and administrator to assist him in all administrative, technical and logistic support aspects in the
implementation of the Annual Action Plans.
The main responsibilities of the PIT would be:
(a) the efficient administration of provincial resources (facilities, human resources, inputs for
vector control, individual treatment, and community mobilization);



- 58 -                                  ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 10
(bl the technical, supervisory, and logistic support required by the network of district,
commune, and village posts to carry out vector control activities, early diagnosis and treatment
of suspected malaria cases; and
(c) arranging for the provincial health services to carry out complementary diagnostic and
treatment functions.
The PIT should meet at least twice a month for programming, implementation and review of
all above activities. The provincial director will perform quarterly field visits to the districts for
reviewing progress in malaria control. He may be accompanied by one or two PIT members. Other
PIT members (division chiefs) will program weekly field visits to the districts and to the villages for
monitoring and supporting the activities of district teams and sanitary agents.
E. The District Team - DT
The DT is a technical group, formed by the Team Leader (who will lead the team) the
Microscopist, and the Vector Control Agent. This team would be responsible for reducina the time to
24 hours or less, between blood sample collection and initiation of treatment. It is also responsible for
promoting innovative activities in the commune and villages, including elimination of breeding places,
recreative activities, and income generating activities.
The district is the most important support facility to ensure that the work by the sanitary agent
is done efficiently and effectively.
The technical capacity of the district involves:
(a) microscopy facilities for diagnosis of suspected malaria cases;
(b) operational support to sanitary agents for early detection of suspected malaria cases and
vector control.
F. The Sanitary Aent - SA
Each commune and village will have a sanitary agent in charge of early detection of febrile
cases, clinical diagnosis and presumptive treatment of malaria, referral of blood smears and/or
suspected malaria patients, and simple environmental sanitation measures to avoid mosquito breeding
places. He/she will make a weekly schedule for visits to targeted homes (those with patients under
treatment, and/or with mosquito breeding sources) and for family meetings. He/she will participate in
community mobilization activities together with district staff.
He/she will use the special Kit provided by the MCC for carrying out the above functions. But
most important, he will keep in constant communication with the DT members (team leader,
microscopist and vector control agent) to effectively carry out these functions, and to seek support
whenever he/she needs it. Eventually, he/she will be trained in other health activities to become a
multipurpose sanitary agent.



- 59 -
ANNEX 1 1
Page 5 of 10
11. Hirina of Consultants
The PCU will be responsible for following the Bank's Guidelines for the use of consultants for
the MCC. The CIT will draft terms of reference that will be submitted by the PCU to the Bank for
approval. Such terms of reference will include:
a.    clear and measurable objectives, describing what the specialist is expected to
accomplish;
b.    the scope and timing of services;
c.    the inputs to be provided by the PCU and IMPE;
d.    the output expected from the consultant;
e.    where, with whom, and for how long the work will be done;
f.    language and report writing requirements (how often and what extent of detail).
g.    qualifications of the proposed consultant;
h.    salary and conditions (usually negotiable);
It is Important for CIT to take into account that recruitment of a qualified consultant may take
several months, and, ideally he/she should be extensively briefed soon after taking up the assignment.



- 60 -                                  ANNEX 11
Page 6 of 10
Ill. Procurement Arranaements
The PCU will follow the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and will be responsible for procurement.
The CIT will prepare detailed lists - with technical specifications where necessary - for procurement
of civil works, drugs, impregnated nets, lab equipment, vehicles, audiovisual equipment, spraying
pumps, etc. and submit them to the PCU for action.
Civil Works: Site selection and working drawings for construction of provincial and district
malaria control stations as well as for IMPE, have been completed during project preparation.
CIT will assist the PCU in the preparation of bids, invitations for tendering, and contract
documents. Follow-up and final inspection of completed facilities will be programmed together
with PCU.
Procurement of other Goods: (nets, drugs, lab equipment, microscopes, reagents, vehicles,
furniture, office equipment, insecticides, audiovisual equipment, tools). This activity is perhaps
the most demanding one for CIT. The critical information for implementing this activity is in
the cost tables prepared for each one of the provinces and for IMPE and which are part of
project files. The consultant in management/procurement and the consultant architect will play
a very important role in conducting the CIT tasks for preparing detailed lists and specifications
for purchasing all inputs (mentioned above) required by the MCC.
Commissioning: CIT will have to prepare in advance a plan for inspection, distribution and
installation of all goods and equipment purchased and received. Examination of specifications,
test functioning, understanding of operational manuals, and sources of training and
maintenance of all goods (equipment, buildings, vehicles, etc.) is a vital activity for the CIT.
IV. Trainina Arrancements
CIT will review in detail the 'Training Requirements" Report prepared by a consultant (August
1992). Then it will decide to implement the proposed training schedule summarized in section 4 and
detailed in annex 8 of the consultant's report. CIT will make adjustments if needed. Then, it will hire
a consultant for assisting in the implementation of the training plan.
Local training: CIT will make a calendar of training courses taking into account the projected
completion of civil works (buildings) in Luang Prabang, Savannakhet, and Vientiane. CIT will
assign responsibilities to IMPE and provincial staff for the organization of curricula and syllabi,
and the execution and follow-up of each package of training courses.
Overseas Training: IMPE director, upon advise from the consultant assistant manager, will
select institutions and suitable candidates for overseas training. He will determine the most
appropriate timing for sending candidates abroad.



- 61 -
ANNEX 1 1
Page 7 of 10
V. Program Activities
The already ongoing malaria control activities in the country should continue while the
implementation of the MCC takes place. During the first three years of implementation, central staff
time will be devoted to implementing the training plan, the procurement and the distribution of goods
and the installation of equipment for the component. However, supervision of provincial activities
should not be curtailed. Instead, they should take place jointly with implementation of the MCC.
The following key activities will be developed for controlling malaria in the project area:
A.    Community Mobilization
This is perhaps the most important activity to be implemented in order to ensure successful
malaria control. Hiring of a consultant to assist the CIT in preparing this activity is a critical event.
With the assistance of the consultant, the CIT will prepare, and the provincial and district staff
will implement a promotional campaign first, in the villages with better access, and then in those with
difficult access.  This promotional campaign will use community meetings, pamphlets, fliers,
audiovisuals, group dynamics etc.) to mobilize the community in support of the malaria control
program. Training, equipment, audiovisual materials and transport for carrying out the promotional
campaign should have been procured.
The promotional campaign will explain the malaria control program in general, and will explain
to villagers how the program will support the organization of family aroups that will be entitled to small
financing supportfor carrying out income-generating activities (agricultural production, chicken farming,
etc.) and initiatives proposed by community groups and leaders, to reduce mosquito breeding places.
Examples: conversion of water collections into fish ponds; housing improvements; contests for
reducing or eliminating mosquitoes in the locality etc.. These community-based activities will be
financed by a small fund, the Health Development Fund (HDF), included in the component.
B.    Use of Pvrethroid-treated Mosauito Nets.
This activity will begin only after an intensive promotional campaign about the program has
been carried out, and the organization of family groups has been started.
Impregnation of mosquito nets with pyrethroid will be made by the sanitary agents in their own
villages, in cooperation with the district staff (the team leader, the vector control agent, and the
microscopist), and will be used as a mechanism to attract interest from villagers to form family groups.
Both, the insecticide and the mosquito nets will be brought from the provincial anti-malaria station and
stored at the district stations, for distribution to the villages at the time the impregnation has been
programmed.
The mosquito nets will be sold to the family groups and the proceeds will feed the HDF (see
above). If villagers not belonging to a family group want to buy mosquito nets, they will be able to do
so, and the proceeds will go to neighboring family groups.



- 62 -                                ANNEX 11
Page 8 of 10
C.     Early Diaanosis and Prompt Treatment
The establishment of a network of well stocked village or commune based anti-malaria posts
manned by trained sanitary agents, and the construction and operation of the district anti-malaria
stations manned by the district team leader, the vector control agent and the microscopist, are the
critical events that must take place for ensuring an early diagnosis and treatment of malaria cases. This
is also true for mass chemooroohylaxis in situations of malaria outbreaks. It is clear that training,
construction of facilities, and procurement of diagnostic equipment and drugs have to take place before
this activity is put into effect.
Strengthening of the provincial logistical operations (supplies stocking and deployment,
transport, and communications) will also be critical for the districts and the village anti-malaria posts
to be able to diagnose and treat malaria cases effectively. Likewise, the strengthening of the planning,
administration and management capacity of the IMPE as well as its laboratory, training, supervision,
and epidemiological (malariology, entomology) facilities will be essential for the support of all field
operations to control malaria.
D.    Selective Vector Control
This activity will begin as soon as the promotion campaign for community mobilization has been
carried out. The program will reduce the mosquito vector population by strongly supporting
communities willing to eliminate mosquito breeding places, through 1) making simple tools available
for small works (channeling, ditching, clearing creeks, ponds, etc); 2) selective insecticide spraying of
malaria epidemic foci;and 3) stratification of malarial zones, to fit the best alternatives of action to
specific epidemiologic patterns of the disease in the country.
E.     Operational Research
The CIT will be in charge of approving and monitoring the implementation of research studies.
CIT should promote the presentation of proposals immediately after the Credit has been made
effective.
Studies funded will aim at (a) entomological studies to identify vectors behavior, (exophylia,
endophylia, endophagia, exophagia); (b) resistance to insecticides; (c) mapping of malarial communities;
(d) community knowledge, attitudes and practices (KAP) towards malaria; and (e) selected trials of
therapeutic interventions.



- 63 -
ANNEX 1 1
Page 9 of 10
VI. Monitorina and Supervision
Monitorina is a management tool to know whether a) project resources are being delivered and
used as planned (budget-wise and time-wise); and b) intended outputs are being produced timely and
efficiently. Monitoring is done using data on component implementation.
The following are main indicators to be monitored. CIT will add other indicators as required:
(a) kits for sanitary agents delivered, by place and date
(b) district anti-malaria stations built, by place and date
(c) provincial anti-malaria stations built, by place and date
id) training courses carried out, by number of students, place, and date
(e) goods procured and distributed (mosquito nets, lab equipment, microscopes, reagents,
drugs, insecticides, spraying pumps, vehicles, furniture, office equipment, audiovisual
equipment etc.) by date and place
(f) consultants hired, by type, date, and reports made
(g) provinces with active promotion campaigns for community mobilization by date of initiation,
and villages covered
(h) distribution of mosquito nets by number, locality, price, and date
(i) distribution of anti-malaria drugs by date, facility (including sanitary agents' posts), doses,
price
Supervision is a management tool to know what, who, how, when, and what for, activities
are being carried out by the staff. Supervision is done by observing the staff (ideally in the field) to
carry out the malaria control activities. The most important feature of supervision is that it is an
educational activity linked to the inspection of working conditions, and observation/interaction with
service users. Supervision IS NEVER a punitive activity.
Specific guidelines and forms for supervision will be developed by CIT with the assistance of
the training consultant for the following:
Supervision of sanitary agents
supervision of district anti-malaria workers (microscopist, vector control agent, team leader)
supervision of provincial anti-malaria workers



- 64 -
ANNEX 1 1
Page 10 of 10
VII. Evaluation
The malaria control component will be evaluated in terms of inputs, process and outcome
indicators. The following are main indicators which should be complemented by others suggested by
CIT.
Structure Indicators
A comparison between proposed and achieved implementation targets will be made:
(a)    Facilities (IMPE, provincial, district, village) will built, and equipped, by the end of the
second year of component implementation.
(b)    anti-malaria staff (880 sanitary agents, 39 microscopists, 21 vector control agents, 37
team leaders, 40 higher level staff, 32 technicians, and 24 auxiliaries) would have been
trained and on duty by end of third year of component implementation.
Process Indicators
(a) mosquito nets distributed: 1 5% by end of third year of project implementation
40% by end of fourth year of project implementation
80% by end of fifth year of project implementation
1 00% by end of sixth year of project implementation
(b) community groups formed and active in income-generating, and malaria-control
activities (variable)
(a)   % of villages covered with early diagnosis and treatment facilities for malaria
30% by the end of third year of project implementation
75% by end of fourth year of project implementation
100% by mid-year of fifth year of project implementation
(b)   % of villages actively involved in income-generating activities, and/or malaria control
activities:
1 5% by end of the third year of project implementation
60% by end of the sixth year of project implementation
(c)   % of blood smears taken and read:
50% by end of third year of project implementation
100% by end of sixth year of project implementation
Outcome Indicators
A comparison will be made of the following indicators in 1991 and 3 years after component has
reached full field operations.
(a) % of malaria positive slides. Target: 60% reduction after 3 years after full field operations
(b) % of hospitalized cases of malaria. Target: 60% reduction 3 years after full field operations
Malaria Mortality rates. Target: 50% reduction after 3 years of full field operations



- 65 -                                    ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2
PDR LAO
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
COMPONENT B: MALARIA CONTROL
Human Resources
I. Profile of Personnel. The following profile will be the basis for defining the Job DescriDtion of the
personnel for the village, the district and the province:
Sanitary Aaent: is a volunteer or a remunerated person, trained in clinical signs and symptoms
and treatment of malaria; personal protection; taking a blood sample and preparing a blood slide;
and simple environmental sanitation measures to avoid breeding places. He/she will also will be
able to fill a simple record form (one week training).
Microscopist: is a person able to prepare blood films, use and maintain a microscope for diagnosis
of malaria; establish parasite density in the film exam; and fill simple statistical forms. He/she will
be able to carry out screening for malaria in discrete groups, families, communities, and
participate in mass chemotherapy /chemoprophylaxis activities. (9 weeks of training)
Vector Control Aaent: is a person able to treat mosquito nets with pyrethroid; distribute them to
families at risk; promote in the community simple sanitation works (drainage, ditching,
channeling, etc); use simple tools for sanitation works; use pumps for spraying of houses and
breeding places; promote biological control when possible (i.e. use of fish);and fill simple
statistical forms. (6 weeks of training)
Team Leader: is a person trained to manage the village and district personnel. He/she will be
responsible for ensuring that all resources for field activities (nets, drugs, insecticides, transport,
education materials, etc) are timely supplied to the team. He/she will keep the village and district
staff well informed and trained, and will make sure that the work done by the team is of high
quality. He/she will be responsible for the good performance of the team. Leadership is his/her
essential skill 1 2 weeks of training)
Chief of Field Operations: a professional responsible for implementation of field operations in the
province: individual protection, diagnosis and treatment of malaria; selective vector control;
calculating human resources and supplies for provincial field operations; logistics of field
operations; supervision of personnel, and responsible for warehousing of malaria materials and
supplies. He will have excellent skills in planning, logistics (transport, stocking, distribution of
supplies, etc.)and manpower management. He/she will work closely as a team member with the
provincial staff'in planning, supervision, and evaluation. (14 weeks of training)
Chief of Epidemiologv: a professional responsible for the epidemiological analysis of malaria in the
province, including trends, endemicity, outbreaks, effectiveness of malaria interventions, clinical
malariology, surveillance, operational research and planning. He/she will work closely as a team
member in planning, supervision, and evaluation. (16 weeks of training).
Chief of Vector Control: a professional with basic knowledge of malaria and dengue entomology,
use of insecticides in malaria and dengue control, spray pumps, sanitation works to reduce
breeding places, and community mobilization. He will be responsible for vector control activities
in the province, including community mobilization. He will work closely as a team member of the
provincial staff in planning, supervision and evaluation. (24 weeks of training).



- 66 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2
Provincial Administrator: a professional with accounting and budgeting skills, responsible for
administering the funds, materials, supplies and other resources for endemic disease control
programs in the province. He will be responsible for facilitating and speeding up the use of
resources for timely and efficient malaria and other diseases control operations. He will work
closely as a team member of the malaria provincial staff in planning, supervision, and evaluation.
(10 weeks of training).
Provincial Director: a professional with strong management and leadership skills, responsible for
the execution of the national policies in endemic disease control at the provincial level. He will
have special skills in managing people and teams, as well as financial resources. He should have
decision making skills and ability to seek advice. He should be widely accepted and recognized
in the community as a respected professional.
Driver Assistant: this personnel will have a technical level of training for driving and making
simple repair and maintenance of vehicles. They will receive additional short courses in specific
topics according to the field of work ( vector control, field operations, epidemiology) they will be
assigned as driver assistants (1-3 days of training).
Comoosition of staff at different levels
Village
1 .    Sanitary Agent: one per village (50-300 families): In some villages is a volunteer,
in others is remunerated
District Team
1.     Microscopist: one per 20 sanitary agents or one per 20,000 people in the district
2.     Vector Control Agent: one per 50 sanitary agents
3.     Team Leader: One per 20 sanitary agents
Provincial Staff
1.     chief of field operations
2.     driver assistant of field operations
3.     chief of epidemiology
4.     statistics assistant
5.     chief of vector control
6.     driver assistant of vector control
7.     provincial administrator
8.     assistant secretary
9.     provincial director
10.    director's secretary
11.    staff secretary (for 3 chiefs)
1 2.    staff driver
Note: In addition to the provincial staff for managing the malaria control activities, each provincial capital will have a team for
service delivery similar to the one in a district, and according to the urban population at risk.



- 67 -
ANNEX 13
LAO PDR
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
Component B: Malaria Control
Training Plan
Unit   Boko    Lung    Luang   SVK  Champas Saravan Sokong                     TOTAL TOTAL
Cost           Namtha  Prabang            ak               o                    No.   COST
Training Subject   US$                             Trainees (in person-month)                            USS
T.O.T *           135       3         3       10    14        10       8       5      4    30       87  11745
Management/Pla
nning             295      14        16       20    32        24      20     10      12    60    208  25665
Microscopy        750       3         6        8    13         8       6       3      2    20       69  65250
Malariology       295       7         6       10    14        12      10       5      6    20       90  25665
Vector Control    295       5         4        5      6        4       4       2      2    20       52  25665
Village Malaria
Control            75      45        80      155   275       165    115      50      20    20    925   6525
English           210       2         2        2      2        2       2       2      2      4      20  18270
Computer          210
Sub-Total                  79       117      210   356       225    165      77      48   174   1,451
Seminars ($I             2,400    2,400    3,000  3,000    2,400  2,400            1,200 6,000  22800 45,600
TOTAL                                                                                                 1224385
^ Training of Trainers



- 68 -                                    ANNEX 14
LAO PDR
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
COMPONENT C: HEALTH EDUCATION
COMPONENT ACTIVITIES                          TASKS                        ESTIMATED 
Capacitv Buildina             Training for the IHE                                  155,000
Training for the Province and District Staff           22,750
Study Visits for Province and District Staff           54,761
Fellowships                                            67,640
Civil Works for the IHE and Provinces                 120,000
Vehicles                                              150,000
Office Furniture and Equipment                         57,339
IEC Equipment                                         141,699
Sub-Total                                                     $769,189
Creating an IEC Network       Review and documentation                                7,000
Workshop and seminar                                   76,300
Publications                                           30,000
Attendance at International Seminars                   30,000
Sub-Total                                                    $143,300
Community Activities          Surveys                                                39,460
Village Health Communicators                           52,020
Village Broadcast System                              153,000
Mobilizing Traditional Folk Dance                      27,450
Strengthening Basic Health Care                        53,600
Producing IEC Materials                               180,000
School, Lao Women Union and Monk                     259,920
Monitoring and Evaluation Periodic Survey to          100,230
redesign IEC Program
Design and Implementation of Malaria Control           10,800
Sub-Total                                                    $876,480
Technical Assistance                                 249,560
TOTAL                                                    $2,038,529



- 69 -
ANNEX 15
PDR LAO
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
Component C: Implementation Plan
CAPACITY BUILDING: SHORT TERM TRAINING
CENTRAL LEVEL
TrrLE                      PLACE    TRAINEES    DURATION    COST/DAY    Subtota                TOTAL in USS       PROPOSED TIME
IEC Planning                   VTN           30            1 WK            380         2,280          3,840              Jul. 1995
Communication Rearch                VTN           30           2 WKS            380         5,700           7,260             Jul. 1995
Management                     VTN           30            I WK           380          2,280          3,840              Jul. 1995
Computer Program                  VTN          30           2 WKS            380          5,700          7,260              Jul. 1995
Training for Trainer              BKK           25           2 WKS            514         25,700         42,200             Sept 1995
Printed Material                 BKK           4           3 MOS           1,800        21,600         26,600             Mar. 1996
RAdio Production                 BKK           5            3 MOS           1,800       27,000          32,000            March 1996
TV - Video Production               BKK           5           3 MOS            1,800       27,000         32,000             Aug. 1996
TOTAL                           159                                                      155,000
PROVENCLkL AND DISTRICT LEVEL
TITLE                    PLACE    TRAINEES    DURATION     COST/DAY    Subtotal   Misc.   TOTAL in US$                   PROPOSED
TIME
EEC Strategies and              SVK           20          2 WKS           400          600       1,000        7,000            Nov. 1995
designiig effective             SEX           10                                                                               Nov. 1995
Media                    LUPRA          30           2 WKS           300         4,500     1,000        5,500
Training of Trainers            VTN            25          2 WKS           500         7,500     2,750        10,250            May 1996
TOTAL                          85                                                             22,750
In order to build up and strengthen IEC network, 2 stff from National Mass Communication Authority should be included in a/tnrining program.



- 70 -                    ANNEX 16
PDR LAO
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
Component C: Implementation Plan
CAPACITY BUILDING: FELLOWSHIPS
TITLE              PLACE       TRAINEES       DURATION       COST/pers.   TOTAL in SUS        YEAR
Master in Communication     BKK             2             2 yrs.        21,320         42,640        1995,1997
Utilization and Prodution  Philippines      5            3 wks.         3,000          15,000        1995-1999
of Media
Foreign Language         VTN             10           5 yrs.         1,000          10,000       1995-1999
TOTAL                           17                                         67,640



- 71 -
ANNEX 17
LAO PDR
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
Component C: Implementation Plan
Capacity Building: Study Visits
TITLE            PLACE        Trainees    Cost/Day    Foreign    Total in US$     Year
Travel
Village Health    NE/Thailand       18        10 dys.       1,000         15,214   Oct. 1995
Communicators
Village Broadcast  NE/Thailand        18       10 dys.       1,000         15,214   Jun. 1995
Operators
Folk Dances Exchange NE/Thailand        10        7 dys.        1,800         6,933   Nov. 1995
Programs
Mass Media Programs BKK/NE              15        14 dys.      2,000         17,400   Mar. 1996
in Health
TOTAL                     61                                    54,761



Annex 18
LAO PDR
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
Health Education Programs
The project would support the following health education programs:
(i)     collection of information on health needs, perceptions and beliefs
about illness and disease, including sexually transmitted
diseases/HIV.   Community surveys regarding health knowledge and
beliefs would be conducted in three provinces in support of the
two project components, and nationally in support of the national
AIDS prevention program;
(ii)    development of Village Health Communicators (VHC) as effective
change agents in the villages.  The community surveys cited above
would explore community perceptions regarding the characteristics
of an effective VHC (age, occupation, gender, etc.);
(iii)   establishment of a Village Broadcast System to increase exposure
to health related news and information and to strengthen the role
of the village health communicator;
(iv)    support of traditional  folk dance as an effective medium to
deliver health messages.   Local and national contests would be
broadcast on local radio;
(v)     on-the-job training of health staff to deliver health messages as
they go about their daily work;
(vi)    production of IEC materials in support of basic health services,
malaria control and promotion of rational drug use;
(vii)   mobilization  of  respected  community members  to  increase  the
effectiveness of the basic health services and malaria control
components, including such persons as primary school teachers,
members of the Lao Women Union, and Buddhist monks;
(viii)  design of monitoring and IEC program evaluation, including surveys
at  the  end  of  the  first,  third  and  fifth  year  of project
implementation,   to  measure  beliefs,   attitudes,   knowledge,
behavioral changes, and trends in utilization rates of health
programs. These surveys would permit adjustments to the IEC plan
and redirect refresher training for VHCS and health personnel; and
(ix)    design of a health education program to support implementation of
malaria  control.      The  program  would  include  focus  group
discussions with villagers in three provinces, workshops based on
the results of the focus groups for malaria staff, on-the-job
training for malaria workers and production of IEC materials.



- 73 -
ANNEX 19
PDR LAO
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
COMPONENT C: HEALTH EDUCATION
CAPACITY BUILDING:
Civil Works, Vehicles, Furniture, Equipment
CIVIL WORKS            |      UNIT COST       |      No. of M2     |      TOTAL COST
Expansion
Savannakhet, Sekong, Luang Prabang
IHE (Vientiane) *                            300                   400                   120,000
TOTAL:                                                       120,000
* Should be Indicated and Included in the provinciel plan
*ncluding renting cost during reconstruction
VEHICLES                                                                            COST IN SUS
IHE
3 vans X USS 30,000                                   90,000
6 Motorcycles X USS 2,500                             15,000
Gasoline and Maintenances for 6 years                 44,580
Luang Prabang
1 Four Wheel X US$30,000                              30,000
6 Motorcycles X US$2,500                              15,000
Gasoline and Maintenances for 6 years                 14,860
Total:                                                     209,440
IHE                                                                                       46,925
Luang Prabang                                                                             10,414
Total:                                                      57.339
IEC EQUIPMENT                                                                         COST IN SUS
IHE                                                                                       75,225
Savannakhet                                                                               20,422
Sekong                                                                                     12,530
Luang Prabang                                                                             20,422
5 Provinces in Malaria Program                                                             13,100
Total:                                                      141,699



- 74 -
ANNEX 20
LAO PDR
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PTOJECT
Foreian Technical Assistance
Project Coordinating Unit
L-T         S-T           Cost
(in person months)   in US$ (1.000)
Project Coordination                              72                     504
Financial Management                                          24         336
Procurement                                                   12         168
Subtotal                            1008
Basic Health Services
Public Health Specialist                          48                     336
Hospital Mgmt. Specialist                         48                     336
Technician Logistics                              48                     336
Information/Monit. & Evaluat.                                 12         168
Subtotal                            1176
Malaria Control
Public Health Specialist                          48                     336
Logistics Specialist                              48                     336
Training Specialist                                           12         168
Information/Monit. & Evaluat.                                 12         168
Subtotal                            1008
Health Education
Training Specialist                                            2          28
Mass Media Production                                          7          98
Monitoring & Evaluat. Spec.                                    4          56
Subtotal                             182
TOTAL:       312          85        3374



LAO PDR
Health System Reform and Malaria Control Project
Sunary Account by Project Component
Kip
Physical            Price
PROJECT                   Contingencies       Contingencies
Savannak               MALARIA  INFO/EDU  MANAGEME                    ---------------------------------
het      Sekong    CONTROL    /COH          NT         Total         X      Amount       X   Amount
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                          2053.0      191.0      720.4         0.1        0.0    2964.5         5.0      148.2      8.5      250.5
B. EQUIPMENT                            1250.3      161.3      233.7      272.5        13.7    1931.5         5.0      96.6       5.5      105.4
C. FURNITURE                              22.5       13.7       74.8       41.0        10.8      162.7        5.0        8.1      5.9        9.6
D. VEHICLES                              218.6       46.7      241.6       107.8      35.9       650.7        8.1       53.0      3.2       20.7
E. TRAINING LOCAL                         55.7        6.0      212.8       86.3       21.6      382.4         0.0        0.0      8.4       32.3
F. TRAINING REGENAL                      139.1        2.2        0.0      208.5        0.0      349.8         0.0        0.0     3.3        11.5
G. TRAINING OVERSEAS                      39.9        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       39.9        0.0        0.0      4.3        1.7
H. TECHNICAL ASSIST. OVERSEA               0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0    1553.0    1553.0           0.0        0.0      8.8      136.2
1. TECHNICAL ASSIST. REGEN               125.1       20.9      263.2        0.0        0.0      409.1        0.0        0.0      4.3        17.8
J. TECHNICAL ASSIST. LOCAL                41.4        4.6        0.0       50.3        0.0       96.3         0.0        0.0     5.5         5.3
K. PROFESSIONAL FEES                     179.2       10.6        0.0        0.0         0.0      189.8        0.0        0.0      3.7        7.1
L. OPERATIONAL RESEARCH                    0.0        0.0       13.7      294.8    1150.4    1458.9           0.0        0.0      1.9       27.7
TotaL INVESTMENT COSTS                  4124.8      456.9    1760.1    1061.4    2785.4   10188.6             3.0     305.9       6.1      625.9
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATIONAL COST                      218.7       53.1      169.0       239.4       34.5      714.7        0.0        0.0    14.3       101.9                                            cn
B. TRAVEL COST                           130.6       31.5      204.2        23.3        6.2      395.7        0.0        0.0    17.8        70.5
C. MAINTENANCE                           629.1       82.2       68.7        91.2       22.3      893.6        5.1       45.4    12.8       114.3
D. DRUGS                                 845.8       81.3      719.0         0.0        0.0    1646.1         5.0       82.3    11.8       194.6
E. SUPPLY                                212.4       29.0    1333.7          0.0        0.0    1575.1         5.0       78.8    12.6       199.1
TotaL RECURRENT COSTS                   2036.7      277.0    2494.6        353.9       63.1    5225.2         4.0      206.5    13.0       680.3
Total BASELINE COSTS                    6161.5      733.8    4254.7    1415.2    2848.5   15413.8             3.3      512.4      8.5    1306.2
Physical Contingencies                 272.5       32.3      169.6       31.0         7.0     512.4
Price Contingencies                    575.6       70.5      416.6       97.8       145.7    1306.2         3.3       43.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                     7009.6      836.6    4840.9    1544.0    3001.2   17232.4             3.2      555.6      7.6    1306.2
Taxes                                  122.8       12.2       44.4        7.5        0.6      187.5        4.5        8.4
Foreign Exchange                     4615.2       553.3    3484.3    1005.1    2143.1   11801.0            3.5      412.3
Values Scaled by 1000000.0  12/5/1994  16:02                                                                                                                                            0 
_^ r



LAO POR
Health System Reform and Malaria Control Project
Sumary Acco'snts by Year
Totals IncLuzding Contingencies                                      TotaLs Including Contingencies
Kip                                                                    UsS
1995     1996     1997      1998     1999     2000    Total         1995     1996      1997     1998     1999     2000    Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                       864.8   1151.6    674.3    401.4    141.1    130.0  3363.2             1.2      1.6      0.9       0.6      0.2      0.2       4.7
B. EOUIPI4ENT                        557.3    759.9    569.0      82.7      83.6     81.0   2133.5          0.8      1.1      0.8       0.1      0.1      0.1      3.0
C. FURWITURE                          99.3     43.9      34.4      1.1       1.1      0.6    180.4          0.1      0.1      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.3
D. VEHICLES                          422.2    244.3      24.6     26.1       5.4      1.8    724.4          0.6      0.3      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       1.0
E. TRAINING LOCAL                    136.0    138.2      49.1     29.2      34.7     27.5    414.7          0.2      0.2      0.1       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.6
F. TRAINING REGENAL                  210.0    101.2      24.7     12.3      6.5       6.7    361.3          0.3      0.1      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.5
G. TRAINING OVERSEAS                  27.0      0.0       0.0     14.7       0.0      0.0     41.6          0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.1
H. TECHNICAL ASSIST. OVERSEA         262.S    269.8    277.4    285.1    293.1    301.3   1689.2            0.4      0.4      0.4       0.4      0.4      0.4      2.3
1. TECHNICAL ASSIST. REGEN           141.8    156.6    105.2      11.5      11.8      0.0    426.9          0.2      0.2      0.1      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.6
J. TECHNICAL ASSIST. LOCAL            60.2     25.1       3.2      4.7      4.9       3.6    101.7          0.1      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.1
K. PROFESSIONAL FEES                 115.7     61.3      19.8      0.0       0.0      0.0    196.8          0.2      0.1      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.3
L. OPERATIONAL RESEARCH             1238.6     84.8      47.6     72.9      42.8      0.0   1486.6          1.7      0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1      0.0      2.1
TotaL INVESTMENT COSTS              4135.2   3036.9   1829.2    941.6    625.0    552.5  11120.3            5.8      4.2      2.5       1.3      0.9      0.8      15.5
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATIONAL COST                   91.5    119.2    132.6    154.1    174.7    144.4    816.5            0.1      0.2       0.2      0.2      0.2       0.2      1.1
B. TRAVEL COST                        36.0      51.0     82.6     91.4    100.2    105.1    466.3           0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1       0.6         -J
C. MAINTENANCE                        64.3    147.1    211.8    228.6    239.1    162.5   1053.3            0.F      0.2       0.3      0.3      0.3       0.2      1.5
D. DRUGS                             174.5    187.5    266.9    388.4    431.9    473.7   1922.9            0.2      0.3       0.4      0.5      0.6       0.7      2.7
E. SUPPLY                            141.2    152.6    246.6    365.3    431.9    515.3   1853.0            0.2      0.2       0.3      0.5      0.6       0.7      2.6
Total RECURRENT COSTS                507.5,   657.4    940.4   1227.8   1377.9   1401.1   6112.0            0.7      0.9       1.3      1.7      1.9       1.9      8.5
==s=.===========                                                      ================================================= ===== =======
Total PROJECT COSTS                 4642.7   3694.2   2769.6   2169.4   2002.9   1953.6  17232.4            6.5      5.1       3.9      3.0      2.8       2.7     24.0
===fls8s=Bss==flsfl=S=sfluUBggst====S*5===n                           ns======asssssg=s= zin=sgz=38z==== ==-=nrza
Val______es__ Scaled by 1000000  ............................          ..       ............................0.12/5/199....... 4_ 16_
Valtues Scated by 1000000.0 12/5/1994 16:02
.N)



LAO PDR
Health System Reform and Malaria Control Project
Projects Corponents by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                                         Totals Including Contingencies
Kip                                                                       USS
1995     1996      1997     1998      1999      2000    Total         1995      1996      1997     1998      1999     2000    Total
e                       =====~~~~==        ZZ23CC::=s========zrn== .3R:Ets==========             z===w===rt==S===2t====t=====              tzz:n:=2= ===========
A. BASIC HEALTH SERVICES
1. Savarnnakhet                    1398.8   1804.3   1314.0   1002.3    759.1    731.2   7009.6              1.9       2.5       1.8      1.4       1.1       1.0      9.7
2. Sekong                           135.7    296.5       87.8    105.6    115.0       96.0    836.6          0.2       0.4       0.1      0.1       0.2      0.1       1.2
Sub-Total                               1534.5   2100.7   1401.8   1108.0    874.1    827.2   7846.2              2.1      2.9       1.9       1.5      1.2       1.2     10.9
B. MALARIA CONTROL                     901.9   1038.9    874.1    601.0    679.6    745.3   4840.9               1.3      1.4       1.2      0.8       0.9       1.0      6.7
C. INFO/EDU/COM                         710.6    256.3    204.5    162.9    143.3        66.5   1544.0           1.0      0.4       0.3      0.2       0.2       0.1      2.1
D. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                  1495.8    298.3    289.3    297.4    305.9    314.5   3001.2              2.1      0.4       0.4       0.4      0.4       0.4      4.2
Total PROJECTS COSTS                   4642.7   3694.2   2769.6   2169.4   2002.9   1953.6  17232.4              6.5       5.1       3.9      3.0       2.8       2.7     24.0
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 12/5/1994  15:23
-4
i-
2
N)



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Scientific and   R_                                                               ExecutiRve_
Technical                                                                        Conmrnittee
Comrnittee
Provincial Health
VICE                   Departments
MINISTER                                                                                                                MINISTER
Department of                              Cabint of
Hyoiene &                                 Minister
Prevention
Department of                                 I                                        I                                     Statff
Food & Drugs                           Deportment of                             Department of                             Training
Curative                                 Plenning                                             e
& Rahab, Medicine                           & Bud.etin                                                       eco
l~~~~~~~~~~~~4 ;bpe e 
Pharmaceutical  |                             |                                         l                              Medical Schools & |
Factories gt 2 &311                            1         1
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dpnnn 1ofIZI                                                     Allied Haedth Schools
I~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 CaSa Ie Ieediee at Depertmen                                              Pa
|                     |  ~~~~~~~~Adrinirtration |
| Food & Drugs   |                                       
|Analysis Center|                                                                                   I
Extemnd
F     -        7  1                             RePlations
Export of Drugs|
| 3 1 ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. kn ,*_of HmO_ m
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fea Oft a._h_I d
S. _wS   _-Ph
7.   e      _|w Ow11h.da    of Wb _ *a



- 79 -
ANNEX 23
LAO PDR
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
Civil Works Plan
New Construction         Rehibilatation          Total Cost
Project Component                       M2   Unit Cost Total        M2   Unit Cost Total         USS
USS                         USS
A. Basic Health Services
Savannakhet
Provincal Health Management Team                                     900       50   45,000      45,000
Provincial Hospital                    3,732      250  933,000    2,822       150  423,300   1,356,300
Interdistrict Hospital                 1,600      240  384,000       900      120  108,000    492,000
interdistrict Management team           300       240   72,000                                  72,000
District Hospital                       400       240   96,000     1,650      120  198,000    294,000
Health Center                                                      4,400      100  440,000    440,000
Health Center Kantabuli                                            1,200      120  144,000    144,000
Sekong
Provincal Health Management Team                                     200      100   20,000      20,000
Provincial Hospital                     200       240   48,000       896      100   89,600    137,600
Health Center                                                0    1,080       100  108,000    108,000
Sub-total                                                                                      3,108,900
B. Malaria Control
IMPE                                   2,000      300  600,000       300      100   30,000    630,000
Bokeo                                    100      150   15,000                                  15,000
Luang Mantha                             165      150   24,750                                  24,750
Luang Prabang                           400       300  120,000                                 120,000
345      150   51,750                                  51,750
Savannakhet                              400      300  120,000                                 120,000
130      150   19,500                                  19,500
Champasak                                 65      150    9,750                                   9,750
Sekong                                    65      150    9,750                                   9,750
Saravane                                  65      150    9,750       150       60    9,000      18,750
Attapeu                                 165       150   24,750                                  24,750
Sub-total                                                                                      1,044,000
C. Health Education
IHE                                     400       300  120,000                                 120,000
TOTAL                                   10,532          2,658,000                              4,272,900



- 80 -
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
X Disbursement
Profile for
Disbursement            X Cumulative         LAO PDR
IDA Fiscal year       Semester   Cumulative          Amount         Agriculture
and Semester             (US$ Million)           Disbursed (X)         Project
Jan.-Jun., 95           0.2            0.2              0                 0
Jul.-Dec., 95           0.2            0.4              2                 3
Jan.-Jun., 96           0.8            1.2              7                 10
fl22
Jul.-Dec., 96           1.1            2.3             13                 14
Jan.-Jun., 97           1.6            3.9             22                 22
Jul.-Dec., 97           1.7            5.6             32                26
Jan.-Jun., 98           2.0            7.6             43                46
Jul.-Dec., 98           2.1            9.7             55                54
Jan.-Jun., 99           1.9           11.6             66                54
FYOO
Jul.-Dec., 99           1.8           13.4             76                62
Jan.-Jun., 00           1.6           15.0             85                70
FYO1
Jul.-Dec., 00           0.8           15.8             90                78
Jan.-Jun., 01           0.9           16.7             95                90
XQZ
Jul.-Dec., 01           0.9           17.6             100               94
Jan.-Jun., 02                                                            98
DV0I
Jul.-Dec., 02                                                            100



- 81 -
ANNEX 25
Page 1 of 2
LAO PDR
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
Performance Indicators
Basic Health Programs                                                  1995    1997        2000
Structure
-number of facilities repaired, expanded, built new and
number of squared meters for each, by cost center;
-number and type of equipment repaired and procured by
cost center;
number of workers trained, by type of worker, by type of
training;
transportation equipment procured by cost center;
communication facilities procured and installed and where;
value of pharmaceuticals and contraceptives procured and
distributed;
Process
-number of mothers trained in growth monitoring,
recognizing symptoms of pneumonia, and using ORS;
- number of children immunized, number of ORS packages
used, number of complicated pregnancies referred,
number of IUDs inserted, by level of care;
frequency of clinical and management supervisions at
village, health center and at district levels, activities of the
DHMT and the PHMT in managing the care delivery
increase in EPI rate, decrease in referrals for complications
of diarrhea;
decrease in hospitalization for selected causes at the
district and province levels
number of children being monitored for growth and
weight, number of children and pregnant and lactating
mothers receiving food supplements
Outcome
changes in Contraceptive Prevalence Rate, Total Fertility
Rate, and cases of tetanus;
decrease in maternal mortality rate and perinatal mortality
rate by cause of death;
decrease in acute and moderate malnutrition rates



- 82 -
ANNEX 25
Page 2 of 2
Malaria Control
Structure
Anti-malaria staff (sanitary agents, microscopists, vector
control agents, team leaders, provincial professional,
technical, and auxiliary staff) trained
_ Facilities (IMPE, provincial, district, village) repaired, built,
equipped, and in operation
_ Training Courses carried out, by number of students, place
and date
Process
- Families protected with mosquito nets
- % of villages covered with early diagnosis and treatment
facilities for malaria
- % of villages actively involved in income-generating and
malaria control activities
- % of villages reporting cases of malaria
% of febrile cases examined (blood smears taken and
read)
Outcome
% of malaria positive slides
% of hospitalized cases of malaria
Malaria mortality rates
Health Education
Structure
Office space made available for IEC at IHE, Savannakhet
and Sekong provinces by square meters
Number and type of equipment procured for IEC activities
at IHE
Number of National and Provincial staff trained by place of training,
length and type of training
Number of persons trained in the following categories: village health
communicators, village broadcast operators, school teachers, Lao
Women Union members, and monks by place and length of training
Number of village broadcast systems established
Transportation equipment procured at national and provincial levels
Process
- Number and type of IEC materials produced by IHE by type of program
Number of meetings, workshops and seminars organized by IHE and by
the provinces by type of program
Number of folk dance groups participating in competitions
- Number of dances and songs produced for health education
- Number of radio broadcasts per village per month
Outcome
Increase in knowledge amon the target population after tow and four years
Required behavioral changes adopted by the target population after two
and four years



- 83 -
Annex 26
Page 1 of 2
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
IDA SUPERVISION PLAN
1.        IDA Supervision Input.  The staff input indicated in the table below
is in addition to regular supervision needs for the review of progress reports,
procurement actions, supervision report preparation and correspondence (estimated
for this project to require six staff-weeks per year throughout project
implementation).
2.        Borrower's Contribution To Supervision.
(a) Annual work programs, to be prepared by each participating province,
would be reviewed by the Project Director and appropriate central MOH
technical and financial staff, and the content, plan and budget for
each work program would be negotiated and agreed between MOH and the
province.
(b)  Six-monthly  progress  reports  to  be  prepared  by  the  Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) would use a simple, tabular format, agreed
with IDA to compare achievement against agreed plans.  The initial
progress report would be due on June 30, 1995.
(c) Annual project performance reports, to be prepared by the PCU, would
include the progress report for the two preceding six month periods,
and a concise, narrative section describing major project achievements
and problems encountered.  Annual progress reports would be due on
June 30 of each year.
(d)  Project  monitoring  and  reporting  of  implementation  progress  in
accordance with the approved annual work program would be the
responsibility of the PCU, with inputs from the MOH technical services
and provincial health offices as required.
(e) The PCU would be responsible for coordinating arrangements for Bank
and other donor supervision missions, and for providing information
required by missions.   Mission briefings  on arrival and wrap-up
meetings would be presided over by the Project Director.
(f)  The Government's contribution to a Project Completion Report would be
prepared by the PCU and submitted to IDA within six months of the
closing date.



- 84 -
Annex 26
Page 2 of 2
3.        Field Supervision Plan
Approximate                                                     Staff Input
Dates                       Activity                       (staff-weeks)
01/95                  Project launch mission                       4
07/95                  Initial supervision mission                  6
12/95                  Annual plan review mission                   4
07/96                  Annual progress review mission               6
12/96                  Annual plan review mission                   4
07/97                  Annual progress review mission               6
12/97                  Mid term review mission                      8
07/98                  Annual progress review mission               6
12/98                  Annual plan review mission                   4
07/99                  Annual progress review mission               6
12/99                  Annual plan review mission                   4
07/00                  Annual progress review mission               6
12/00                  Final supervision/PCR mission                8
(a)   Annual progress reports would be reviewed by an IDA supervision
mission in July of each year. Lessons from this review of progress
would then be fed by MOH into the annual plans of participating
provinces.
(b)   These  consolidated  annual  plans  would be  reviewed  by  an  IDA
supervision mission in December of each project year.
(c)   A comprehensive mid term review would be held in December, 1996 to
determine   the  need  for  modifications   to  the  design  and
implementation targets of all project components.
(d)   Each IDA supervision mission would: (i) require at least two weeks
in the field; (ii) require the services of specialists in health and
management on a regular basis, and of specialists in procurement,
civil works, training, malaria control and health education,   as
needed; and (iii) review progress of procurement and civil works,
financial statements and disbursements, credit covenants, and the
implementation of technical assistance and training activities.
Specialized skill requirements would be added to the missions
according to needs identified by previous supervision missions, and
would include among others the following areas: family planning,
nutrition, health education and health finance.



ANNEX 27
-  85  -                                                      Page  1  of  2
LAO PDR
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
ImDlementation Schedule of Key Activities
Calendar Years             CY94             CY95       I     CY96       I     CY97      I     CY98             CY99
IDA Fiscal Years                                       Y96           FY97             FY98             FY99             FYOO
Lao Fiscal Years         FY94           FY95             FY96             FY97            FY98             FY99             FYOO
Project Years                             1                2                3               4                5               6
Quarters from Effectiveness             1       2   3      J67     I |        o1 9105 ll                  17118L19 20  21 122|23
District Staff
Provincial Staff
IMPE
4. Equipment
5. Drugs
6. Innovative Activities
Health Education
1. Short-term Training
2. Fellowships
3. Study Visits
4. Community Surveys
5. Training of Village
Communications
6. Design of IEC Materials
7. Production of IEC Materials
8. Malaria Health Education
Program Development                           *   *   *   *   *   *   *
9. Civil Works
Rehabilitation of IHE                          *  *   *  *   *        _
10. Procurement
Furniture
Equipment
Vehicles
Proiect Management
Technical Assistance                           *                                                 * _
-   ____    C - _-         



-  86  -                                          ANNEX  27
Page 2 of 2
LAO PDR
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
Implementation Schedule of Key Activities
Calendar Years            CY94       I    CY95       I    CY96       I    CY97       I    CY98              CY99
IDA Fiscal Years                    FY95            FY96           FY97             FY98             FY99           FY00
Lao Fiscal Years         FY94          FY95            FY96            FY97            FY98             FY99            FYOO
Project Years                            I               2               3               4                5              6
Quartets from Effectiveness            1  2   3   4   5   6   7  8 | 9 |10ll 12 113 114 |15 16 117 |18 119 20 121 22 123
Processing & Implementation
Negotiations
Board Presentation
Loan Signing
Effectiveness
General Procurement Notice
Project Completion Date
Credit Closing Date
Basic Health Services
Health Centers
District Hospitals
Inter-district Hospitals
Provincial Hospitals
2 Eguipmen__
3. Drug Procurement
4, Establishment of PHMTs
Savannakhet
Sekong
5. Establishment of DHMTs
Savannakhet
Sekong
6. Training__ _                                                     _ __ __ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
7. Technical Assistance
1. Civil Works
Malaria Stations                                                  **_******
IMPE
2. IEC Program
Villages**                                                                                           **          *
Program Staff
3. Training
Saniary Agents



- 87 -
ANNEX 28
LAO PDR
HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
1.    Malaria Control Component.  November 1993
2.    Consultancy Report by Dr. Chanpen Choprapawon.
September 26 - October 14, 1993
3.    Le Financement de la Sante en RDP Lao, Philippe Vinard.
December 1993
4.    Study on Health Care Utilization and Expenditures.
Philippe Vinard. April 1994






IBRD 25864
CHINA                                                           MYAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CIA                    rN
~~~~~~~~The  boundor,es.  colors. WCIA  HS
-\   CHINA    )             \                       ~~~~~~~~~~other information shown   MYANMAR    
-22 >          t                imply.                on   *he ps2rt  of  22 -  J~~~iPl               LA- PhOPpE'Sof 22
The W-rld  Eank  Gr_P.                           A  POI
any judgrent on the legal                           OEM
sttSof any  terrtory.
t   t    jPh-gS.ly  -D or any  endorsement
o --ccpton-   of suchRE
VIET
hAM
MYANMAR   -                      S                       7                                                                           I 
TH-,AILAN C
/a&t i,,& ~~~~VIET NAM  /TALS  
,n N.-z SS/l ( t   <   t   }             \ CAMBODIA
2       Pok B-n                                         _   9    
lSuvubourstJ  ?                +(3Kh-og    <
THAILAND   ST   REFORM AND MA
- g $ nokhomg Xhono ong \&~~~~~~~~~~~~N.nfu  , i  VIET 8
2   _>            ~~~~VIENTIA EsC             ;tr!K 
. t v .'.' < ;'.:. 'f XAM
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                                           _ 
H EALTH SYSTEM REFORM AN D MALARIA                                                      82&i
CONTROL PROJECT
Maloria Control Provinces     -t-   Airports
Basic Health Services Provinces   c    Selected Towns
-      Paved National Roods           s    Province Headquarters
Unpaved National Roads        *     Natonol Capitals
-      Province Boundaries
t    Notional Road Numbers     -    International Boundaries
K LOMETERS         50        190      150                                                        hopoXpk
MILES               50             1;0
CAMBODIA                                                                        14-_
02                                        iol-
MAY 1994



