                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 32159

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                       (IDA-26740)

                                          ON A

                                         CREDIT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$19.2 MILLION

                                         TO THE

                           LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC

                                        FOR THE

              HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM AND MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT




                                      June 30, 2005




Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective March 23, 2005)

                  Currency Unit = Kip
                           1 Kip = US$ 0.0009
                         US$ 1 = 10050 Kip

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  October 1     September 30

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

            ADB             Asian Development Bank
            BHS             Basic Health Services
            BTC             Belgian Technical Cooperation
            CPR             Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
            DCA             Development Credit Agreement
            HE              Health Education
            IBN             Impregnanted Bed Net
            ICHC            Integrated Community Health Center
            IDA             International Development Association
            IEC             Information, Education and Communication
            IHE             Institute of Health Education
            IMR             Infant Mortality Rate
            MMR             Maternal Mortality Rate
            MOH             Ministry of Health
            PCU             Project Coordination Unit
            PSR             Project Status Report
            SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
            SDR             Special Drawing Rights
            TFR             Total Fertility Rate
            TTL             Task Team Leader




                 Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum
              Country Director       Ian Porter
               Sector Manager        Fadia Saadah
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Hope C. Phillips

                       LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                     Health System Reform and Malaria Control Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              6
6. Sustainability                                                                  7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   8
8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
9. Partner Comments                                                              11
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            23

Project ID: P004200                                                  Project Name: Health System Reform and Malaria
                                                                     Control Project
Team Leader: Hope C. Phillips                                        TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 28, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Health System Reform and Malaria Control                 L/C/TF Number: IDA-26740
                            Project
   Country/Department: LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                    Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (91%); Central government administration (9%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P);
                            Child health (S); Other communicable diseases (S); Population and
                            reproductive health (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/02/1989                                     Effective: 05/05/1995                06/30/1995
     Appraisal: 08/23/1993                                         MTR: 06/30/1998                  08/27/1998
      Approval: 01/05/1995                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          LAO PDR/MOH
                      Other Partners:      Government of Belgium

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Gautam Kaji
Country Director:               Ian C. Porter                                  Callisto E. Madavo
Sector Manager:                 Fadia Saadah                                   Jayasankar Shivakumar
Team Leader at ICR:             Hope C. Phillips                               Willy de Geyndt
ICR Primary Author:             Hope C. Phillips


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The overall objective as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for this International Development
Association (IDA) Credit is to improve the health status of the Lao population, and to reduce morbidity and
mortality rates in selected parts of the country. Its specific objectives would be to: (a) improve the quality
of basic health care, particularly for infants, children and women through health system reform for priority
health programs, including family planning; (b) strengthen the malaria control program in the country; (c)
improve health awareness and health behavior in the population by strengthening the MOH (Ministry of
Health) Institute of Health Education (IHE) to develop health education messages; and (d) build the
capability of the MOH and of participating health systems to implement project activities. The first Form
590 paraphrases the objective and notes that: "The Project aims at improving the health status of the Lao
people in selected parts of the country focusing on women and children who are the most vulnerable
members of the population. It will reduce morbidity and mortality by increasing accessibility to basic
health care services in two provinces and two zones, and by strengthening the national malaria control
program in eight provinces. It will give the country the ability to conduct effective health education
programs to improve health awareness in the population".

The objectives were clear, realistic and in line with Government priorities as well as the Bank's strategy.
The Project had one parallel bi-lateral financier, and an expectation of support from the private and public
sectors. On the basis of its being the first Bank Project support to the country's health sector, as well as
the geographic dispersion and the number of institutions involved, the Project should be considered
demanding, complex and risky.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
In support of the objectives, the Project had four components: (a) Basic Health Services (BHS), covering
the Provinces of Savannakhet and Sekong, and a pilot in the Special Zone of Saysomboune and an area on
the Boloven plateau in the Province of Champassak; (b) Malaria Control, covering eight Provinces; (c)
Health Education (HE); and (d) Project Management. The components were relatively well related to
achieving the objectives, and simplifications and adjustments in the details during implementation improved
the relevance of these components in support of the development objectives. The first component of the
Project was to be implemented by the respective Provincial Health Departments.               The Institute of
Malariology, Parisitology and Entomology would be responsible for implementing the second component,
and the IHE would be responsible for implementing the third component. Overall Project implementation
would be the responsibility of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) which was yet to be established in the
MOH. The design of the fourth component recognized that, in view of the Project being the first Bank
support to the health sector, as well as the limited in-country capacity, there would be a need for capacity
enhancement. The Project was designed on the basis of sector work (Report No. 8181-Lao, November 30,
1990), Government's priorities and policies, as well as prevailing country circumstances. In recognition of
the capacity constraints, it was agreed that the PCU would support both this Project and a Project funded
by the Asian Development Bank (ADB).              However, there was over optimism with respect to the
administrative (including procurement), and financial management capacity which would be required for
successful implementation, as well as the number of staff necessary to support this first Bank intervention
in the health sector.




                                                       - 2 -

3.4 Revised Components:
The Project Status Report (PSR) for June 2000 indicates that the Credit was restructured on December 18,
1998. The restructuring consisted of: (a) phasing out of the HE component, with IEC activities for the
BHS and Malaria Control being moved to their respective components, and (b) limiting the support under
the BHS for health centers to a fewer number, notwithstanding their having received training and
equipment, given the challenges associated with making these operational.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Project was never subjected to a review for Quality at Entry, however, findings from a Quality
Assessment Group review (FY00-01) of problem projects noted that the Project was not ready for
implementation. The operation was prepared over a five year period, with health service delivery and
malaria control being included in all the permutations, however, the HE component was only included from
1993. Although the Project was consistent with Government priorities as well as the Country Assistance
Strategy, it was too complex as a first intervention in the health sector, especially as institutional capacity
was acknowledged as fragile: the design included the involvement of a number of different agencies, and
the coverage of each component was different. In total there were six amendments to the DCA, four of
which were not related to extension of the closing date; some changed the aggregates for procurement, and
in one instance to specific include revised activities. The Project had a "C" rating for the environment,
which was consistent with the policy prevailing at the time. This six year Project completed the software
aspects in eight years, but closed after nine years to allow for the completion of hardware aspects. In terms
of issues and focus, the project aimed to address key priorities, but was clearly too complex for the
country. It had not built in enough risk mitigation measures, and could not be implemented as planned;
simplifications and adjustments were needed in order to improve Project performance. Hence, despite the
correct technical focus, this project is considered Unsatisfactory in terms of quality at entry.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Impact indicators were provided for each component in the SAR, and it was expected that these would be
measured at the beginning, midpoint, and end of project. The SAR notes that the outcome indicators for
the Basic Health Programs were: (i) changes in contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR), total fertility rate
(TFR), and cases of tetanus; (ii) decrease in maternal mortality rate (MMR) and perinatal mortality rate by
cause of death; and (iii) decrease in acute and moderate malnutrition rates. For the Malaria component, the
indicators included (i) % of malaria positive slides; (ii) % of hospitalized cases of malaria; and (iii) malaria
mortality rates. For the HE component, outcome indicators were: (i) increase in knowledge among the
target population after two and four years; and (ii) required behavioral changes adopted by the target
population after two and four years. The mid-term review PSR notes that the following would be the
outcome indicators: (i) CPR; (ii) MMR; (iii) infant mortality rate (IMR); (iv) malaria mortality rate; (v)
malaria positive tests; and (vi) increase in health practices knowledge. The PSRs did not report on the
indicators during the supervision of the project. The SAR indicated that in 1990 the IMR was 106 per
1,000 live births, at the end of the Project the 2000 National Health Survey reported the IMR to be 83.
The SAR did not provide information on the CPR for 1995, but as there had been no systematic efforts in
family planning, the usage is believed to have been quite low at that time; the 2000 National Health Survey
indicates that the national average is currently 32.2%. The MMR, as reported in 1995 was 656 per
100,000 and the 2000 National Health Survey reports that the rate was 530 per 100,000 in 2000. For
malaria control indicators, the data presented is for Provinces supported by the Project. With respect to
malaria positive tests, the slide positivity rate in 2003 was 8.1%, compared to 16.4% in 1996; this is a 50%
decrease. The malaria mortality rate was 22.2 per 100,000 in 1996, and fell to 3.1 per 100,000 in 2003;



                                                       - 3 -

this compares favorably with the national figures which were reported to be 4.0 in 2003. The HE
component was phased out after the Mid Term Review, and IEC activities subsumed under the BHS and
Malaria Control components, and the only specific information available relates to malaria control.
Findings from a Knowledge, Attitude and Practice Survey covering two Provinces (360 persons) in 2001
reports that for causes of malaria, 98.1% of respondents identified mosquito bites, 99.4% indicated not
sleeping under a net, 98.9% reported lack of hygiene, 71.7% sited drinking unboiled water, and 32.8%
attributed the disease to evil spirits. Although it is not possible to soley attribute all of the improved
indicators to the Project, access to basic health care was improved in selected Districts, the malaria control
program was strengthened and there was a marked drop in mortality in the Districts supported by the
Project, the health promotion under the HE component was subsumed under the first two components and
knowledge on causes of malaria has improved, and the capacity to implement project activities was
strengthened over the life of the Project. The outcome of the Project is rated Satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
It needs to be recognized that the design of the components and their outputs were appropriate for achieving
the development objectives in a different country context. However, the country context was not as
sufficiently addressed in the design, and the mitigation measures were inadequate. The SAR expected 31
indicators to be tracked for structure (physical, financial and staffing inputs and refer to the related
organizational arrangements), and process (measuring how the inputs are being used) indicators. Having
so many indicators to be tracked is unwieldy and could have contributed to the poor reporting of these
indicators in the PSRs.

Information available from the BHS component indicate that 42 health centers, 7 District and Inter-District
Hospitals, 4 Provincial and Regional Hospitals, 8 Provincial malaria stations, 6 District malaria stations
and 2 Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome facilities were constructed or rehabilitated. Vehicles (cars,
motorcycles and bicycles), drugs, medical equipment and furniture for health centers and hospitals were
procured. At least 3,618 staff were trained, with 1,307 of these being village health volunteers, and 183
being traditional birth attendants. Although not envisaged at design phase, in line with the Government's
Primary Health Care Policy, and in support of the health services reform process, the Project supported an
Integrated Community Health Center (ICHC) model, designed with Belgian Technical Cooperation (BTC)
inputs, which was piloted in 29 health zones. This model, which has a transparent mechanism for
providing information on charges to patients, and involves the community in identifying the poor for
exemption from paying for health center services, has been adopted by MOH for country-wide expansion.
The Project also supported the establishment of the Village Drug Revolving Kits in locales where access to
health care delivery was limited; these have been established in 476 villages, covering 148,449 people in 27
Districts in the 7 southern Provinces. In spite of the fact that some of the specific support was not
envisaged at design phase, the support to ICHCs improved the quality of services provided to those living
in more remote areas. Although no specific indicators for the ICHCs are available, it appears that the
approach led to an increase in access by those in the ICHC's catchment area.

Under the Malaria Control component, the success of the coverage in the original 8 Provinces, and
increased demand, resulted in the coverage being expanded to 10 Provinces in 1999.                   In total,
approximately 1.4 million people (59% of the total population living in the Project area, although the
expectation was 100% coverage) were covered by the integrated bed net (IBN) program. The Malaria
Facility Network increased from 595 in 1998/99 to 2,716 in 2002/2003, while an additional 4,304 staff
were trained over the same period. New or rehabilitated malaria stations were funded in eight Provinces,
including lab equipment, as well as vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles, and boats. Approximately 350,000 bed
nets were distributed, and more than 3,000 villages provided with anti-malarial drugs. Technical manuals,
as well as IEC tools and campaigns were supported by the Project. These activities helped strengthen the



                                                     - 4 -

malaria control program in the country.

Prior to the redistribution of activities under the HE component in February 1999, the Center of
Information and Education for Health was rehabilitated and equipped, two vehicles were provided, as well
as audio-visual equipment. Around 600 people received training under this component, and a number of
workshops were held in 1999 attended by approximately 100 people; over 50% of the expenditures under
this component were for training and consulting services. After February 1999, the information, education
and communication (IEC) activities were subsumed under the BHS and Malaria Control components.
Since its curtailment after midterm, the original indicators were obviously not met.             However, the
integration of HE into programs, as opposed to having a vertical program as originally designed, was
deemed to have helped improve health awareness for malaria control, since this was evaluated. Findings
from a survey indicate awareness in the sample of above 98% on causes for malaria.

The Project Development Objective did not expect to have an impact on macroeconomic policies, but did
expect to have an impact on health sector policies through health system reform for priority health
programs, including family planning. Notwithstanding the difficulty of attribution, on the basis of the
outcomes and outputs described above, and on the future direction of the health sector (in particular with
respect to ICHCs, training of village health volunteers in minority communities, and revolving drug funds)
the impact on health sector policies is rated Modest. With respect to the anticipated physical objectives, the
completion of a number of referral facilities, the successful piloting of ICHCs, the provision of
transportation, as well as laboratory needs for the malaria component merit a rating of Substantial for the
Project Provinces. The objectives did not specifically include financial or environmental objectives so these
are not rated, and the institutional development objectives are discussed in 4.5 below. There were no
private sector development objectives, so this is not rated. The Project strengthened the Health Sector's
management, through capacity building to the Provinces and Districts within which it operated. On the
basis of the support provided to the referral system, and the piloting at the health center level of ICHCs, the
rating for Health Sector management is rated Modest.

In evaluating this Project's impact on poverty, it should be noted that the Provinces selected for inclusion in
the BHS component included the most populous Province (Savannakhet) and the newest and poorest
Province (Sekong). Due to capacity constraints, the Malaria Control component was limited to 8 of the
then 17 Provinces, selected on the basis of the disease prevalence, ease of communication, security,
transport, organizational capacity, and support from other agencies. It was eventually expanded to cover
10 Provinces on the basis of its success and the demand for this type of support. The HE component was
national, and was expected to increase health knowledge, adjust attitudes and behaviors in regard to basic
health, malaria control, among others, however this support, after the mid-term review, was subsumed
under the components; with respect to HE, the only specific information available relates to malaria. Since
malaria was the worst single threat to child health, and, in some communities, accounted for 80% of
morbidity, and on the basis of the indicators reported elsewhere, support from the HE component
contributed to the achievement of positive outcomes. Province specific indicators (except for malaria) were
not collected for the Project, so it is difficult to quantify Province specific improvements, let alone be able
to attribute these to the Project. Therefore the rating for poverty reduction is Modest.




                                                       - 5 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not calculated at appraisal.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not calculated at appraisal.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The SAR indicates that in order to accomplish the objectives, the Project would comprise a number of
components and sub-components, including specifically "institutional development" which consisted,
among other things, of (i) IEC programs to improve health awareness and health behavior in the
population; (ii) training to upgrade staff clinical and management skills; (iii) technical assistance; and (iv)
support to MOH in project management. With respect to IEC, the HE component was phased out after the
Mid Term Review due to its failure thus far to improve health awareness and/or health behavior in the
population; its activities were subsumed under the BHS and Malaria Control components. Substantial
technical assistance to the Project was provided by BTC in the form of advisors. It also supported a
number of trainees in areas such as epidemiology of tropical diseases; public health; biostatistics; health
system reform and sustainable health care financing; health care planning; drug management; IAPSO and
World Bank procurement, equity fund, and health insurance system. The Bank supported training costs for
hospital management and health system reform and sustainable health care financing. Other sources of
funding covered topics such as primary health care program, and health system management. It is reported
that knowledge and skills were increased as illustrated by improvements in setting, monitoring and
adjusting monthly action plans and regular reporting on project implementation, however, it is not possible
to quantify the extent to which staff's clinical and management skills were upgraded. While IDA financed
the PCU, approximately 85% of the parallel financing provided through the BTC was for technical
assistance to support the PCU, and the Center of Malaria, among others. The official integration of the
Procurement Unit under the PCU into the MOH's Centre for Medical Equipment and Supplies under the
guidance of the PCU provided an opportunity to build MOH's capacity for procurement. Although the
project provided important contributions in terms of institutional development, the project did not address
some of the key constraints in terms of public sector management issues as that was beyond its objectives;
some of these reforms are being addressed through other initiatives in the country. On the basis of its
achievements described above, the institutional development impact is rated as Modest.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The implementation of the Project was not affected by factors outside the control of either Government or
the implementing agency.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government administrative procedures relating to procurement and disbursement contributed substantially
to delays experienced during implementation, since each step in the clearance often required approximately
30 days. A second factor subject to Government's control was the appointment of the Project Coordinator;
having a Coordinator with less operational experience contributed to delays during implementation. With
the designation of a more operationally oriented Project Coordinator there was a substantial improvement
in the pace of implementation. All in all, the most serious delay in implementation arose as a result of a
contractual dispute over the quality of hospital construction; without Government intervention it took more
than two years to resolve, placing a drain on the time and money of the MOH and the PCU, as well as the
Bank.



                                                      - 6 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The inability of the implementing agency to resolve the contractual issues described above substantially
affected the implementation. While Government administrative procedures were cited as bottlenecks, in
one instance it appeared that the implementing agency itself was requiring more clearances than either the
MOH or the Ministry of Finance. Failure, for more than a year, to transfer vehicles to two of the Provinces
partially affected activities in those Provinces. Documentation available on hand indicates substantial
delays in procurement, from drugs to staffing of PCU, which resulted in an implementation schedule which
differed significantlyfrom the original plan.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The 12.9 million Special Drawing Rights (SDR) Project was equivalent to US$19.2 million at the time of
negotiation, with US$2.5 million as contingencies. The Project was designed to be completed in 6 years,
but as of the original closing date only 44.45% of the Credit had been disbursed, and 2 extensions were
granted resulting in 9 years of implementation. The HE component activities were reduced right after the
Mid-Term Review, and this component only disbursed around US$0.5 million, or 26.55%, against an
original estimate of US$2.0 million. Savings from this went to finance activities in the BHS component,
whose actuals amounted to US$15.3 million, versus the original estimate of US$9.6 million. The actuals
for the Malaria Control program were 76.4% of the original estimate, and expenditures for project
management were 43.2% of the original estimate. Government's cash contribution to the Project amounted
to US$0.5 million, against an original estimate of US$2.4 million; it is understood from the Government
that while estimates appear to indicate that there was a shortfall of around US$0.4 million for civil works
and goods, indeed the contractors were paid. The anticipated US$0.4 million from the private sector for
drugs in Savannakhet never materialized, however, another private entity donated US$0.03 million for bed
net impregnation. Support from the BTC, in the form of technical assistance, was originally to be
co-financing. However, since the support was tied, this assistance was provided in parallel to the Project
implementation. By the time this support concluded, an equivalent of US$4.35 million had been provided
(around 85% for technical assistance and 15% for goods), as opposed to the original estimate of US$2
million, mainly due to the extension of project implementation.

Unfamiliarity with World Bank procurement procedures, as well as the lack of dedicated TTLs during the
first part of the Project affected the pace of implementation, as did a contractual dispute relating to civil
works which delayed activities by almost two years. Delays in responding by the Bank on issues relating to
procurement, experienced during the first part of the Project, were ameliorated once support activities were
decentralized to the field. The technical support provided by the BTC was invaluable, and their presence
in-country went a long way towards ensuring that activities were less off-track than they could have been.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
It will take some time for the health system to be sustainable at a level that can provide basic health
services purely through Government resources. The Government is working with other donors, including
the Bank, towards a longer term plan to direct more resources towards basic health services. The
sustainability rating has been provided on the basis of on-going and/or expected support which will be
provided to the Lao PDR health sector. The experiences gained from piloting the ICHC model under the
BHS component has resulted in a decision to expand the approach in order to build upon the perceived
positive outcomes from local participation. This approach will be supported in the eight Southern and
Central Provinces by a proposed IDA Credit/Grant, as well as ongoing BTC support. The current ADB
support to the health sector covers the Provinces which the proposed Bank support will not cover. With
funding being provided by the Global Fund Program for malaria (which includes early diagnosis and


                                                     - 7 -

appropriate treatment, IBNs, surveillance, social marketing of re-treatment tablets, and support for IEC),
the foundation laid by the Project for Malaria Control is expected not only to remain, but will be expanded
to cover 100% of the people at risk by 2007. While Government is interested in continuing to explore
mechanisms for providing health care to the poor in a sustainable manner, it is currently not able to do so
without external support. As a consequence the sustainability of the Project activities is expected to be
Unlikely unless donor support continues.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As noted in the sustainability section, support for many of the activities funded through this Project will be
continued either through World Bank, other funding or Government support. The design of the follow-on
Bank support has been collaborative so as to ensure maximum compatibility, and avoid duplication. The
experiences from the pilot ICHCs show that communities are willing to become involved in the operation
and maintenance of health centers, and that they are willing to select poor families who should receive an
exemption from paying fees. With the attendant improvement in the quality of services at health center and
community level (through training of Village Health Volunteers and Traditional Birth Attendants), the
population is expected to be more inclined to avail themselves of these services, thereby generating fees to
contribute to the ICHCs operation and maintenance. The follow-on Project will be tracking a number of
the indicators such as specific immunization rates, and births attended by skilled personnel. A HMIS
which collects data at the Health Center level has been piloted and will be supported under the proposed
Bank Project down to the village level where ICHCs are providing services; the system is manual, although
it is amenable to computerization. In addition, there are a number of existing surveys which have the
capability of providing information on the indicators, although in some instances only to the Provincial
level. All of these mechanisms will provide information on the health status of the population. Since it will
take time before the Government will be able to fund the provision of health services without donor
support, the transition in the medium-term will require donor support.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Project was in line with the Government's interest in focusing on maternal and child health, as well the
Country Assistance Strategy (Report No. 15284, dated January 18, 1996), whose stated goal was poverty
reduction by, among others, creating necessary social and physical infrastructure to enable the poor to
respond to opportunities, and target vulnerable groups and regions; reference to a 1993 CAS in this report
indicated that support for the health sector would include improving the quality and coverage of basic
health.

The areas which this Project would focus on evolved over time from the first mission, which was
undertaken in March of 1988. In December of 1990 a Grant of Yen 28 million was approved for the
preparation of the Project which the Bank would execute; at that time there was an expectation that
appraisal would take place in January of 1993, however the signing of the Grant was delayed by a year.
Unfamiliarity with the Bank contributed to delays in the design, but eventually resulted in a more
participatory preparation process by the Country. Most missions included representatives from other key
partners such as the World Health Organization, and United Nations Children Fund. The appraisal took
place in September of 1993, and a second Japanese Grant of Yen 72.3 million, also executed by the Bank,
became effective on January 24, 1994. The appraisal focused mainly on technical issues, with less
attention paid to procurement and financial management. Confirmation was received from the Government
of Belgium that it would provide the equivalent of US$2 million for technical assistance, however this
support was provided in parallel since the Bank could not manage tied funds. A last minute request by the
Government, just prior to negotiations, for inclusion of two additional areas for support under the BHS


                                                    - 8 -

component, was accommodated by the Bank; as a consequence this support had not been prepared or
appraised.    The support for these areas was designated as a pilot, and conditions of disbursement
associated with its acceptable design was included in the DCA. Key agreements during negotiations
included supporting incentives at various levels such as the retention of funds for the sale of drugs and
services at the point of collection, and that selective salary increases would be allowed if linked to superior
performance of functions and if paid out of the Government's budget earmarked for higher salaries in
hardship areas. With respect to safeguards, the Project was classified as a C for environmental purposes,
which was consistent with the practice at the time.

Although the lending instrument was appropriate, the Project design, covering different Provinces for
different components, was complex, particularly since this was the first health Project that the Bank had
supported in Lao PDR.          The SAR indicates that the country's institutional capacity may delay
implementation (especially in areas of procurement, accounting and auditing systems), and approximately
20% of the Project costs, which included a Grant from the Government of Belgium, was earmarked for
technical assistance. It was expected that training in fiduciary aspects would take place prior to Project
effectiveness, although there is no record that this occurred. The files indicate that a Project Performance
Plan, giving outputs and impact indicators, was prepared in March of 1995, after the appraisal,
negotiations, and Board approval.

While the design team made a significant effort to ensure participatory preparation and addressed key
sectoral issues that would produce important results, there were a number of weaknesses. These include:
(a) complexity of design in a sector which had no previous experience in executing Bank Projects (b)
inadequate attention to fudiciary aspects of the project, especially at appraisal; and (c) inadequate measures
to address the risk associated with the capacity to implement the Project. A Quality Assurance Group's
review of the Quality of Supervision of Risky Projects (FY00-01) judged that the project was not ready for
implementation at approval. On the basis of the foregoing, the Lending is judged to be marginally
Unsatisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
The supervision of this Project got off to a weak start, with staff assigned for short periods of time,
resulting in less attention being paid to the fledgling Project, or to the Project management capacity
constraints. Not withstanding this lack of stability in TTLs, some continuity was provided through team
members who worked on the Project across TTLs. The combination of frequent staff changes, and initially
only focusing on technical issues, at the expense of fiduciary aspects, resulted in the delays to flag
problems or obtain needed support for implementation. Just prior to the Mid-Term Review, the first of two
more long lasting TTLs (covering around 70% in the second half) was assigned. This more permanent
arrangement made a difference to the implementation, as changes and adjustments were made in response
to problems and constraints faced during the first half of Project implementation. As noted above, this
Project was subject to a Quality Assurance Group review of the Quality of Supervision of Risky Projects
(FY00-01), which found the supervision to be satisfactory. While the review noted the insufficient budget
being provided for this risky Project, the supervision team did not let lack of supervision budgets affect
their responsibilities. When resources provided were insufficient, the team would overrun its budgets in
order to provide the needed support. There was good cooperation with donors, as evidenced by the sharing
of a PCU with ADB, and the parallel financing provided by BTC. Perhaps more could have been done to
link this support to other programs that would address systemic issues, in order to maximize the possibility
of improving results, such as civil service incentives. However, this Project was drawing to a close while
other relevant Bank support was being designed. Even though the initial supervision of the Project was
weak, the efforts of the Bank during the latter part of the Project merit an overall rating of Satisfactory.




                                                       - 9 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Notwithstanding the successful completion of the Project, and the improvement in supervision from just
before the mid-term review onwards, the Bank's overall performance is rated marginally Unsatisfactory.
This rating is given on the basis of the marginally unsatisfactory Lending rating, and the failure during the
first part of Project to focus sufficient attention on implementation issues.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
This Project, the first of its kind in support of the health sector in Lao PDR, involved quite a bit of dialogue
both within Government, as well as with various stakeholders, including other donor partners as well as
non-governmental organizations. Although initially Government took a more hands-off approach, the
participatory nature of the preparation, once it was clear that this was a Government project, is written up
as an example of participatory approaches in the World Bank Participation Sourcebook. Indications from
the files point to a great deal of internal Government discussion about the objectives of the Project, as well
as its scope (which included highly populated as well as areas with lagging health outcomes). The
deliberations relating to the latter are evidenced by Government's desire, just prior to negotiations, to
include on a pilot basis, two areas targeting the more vulnerable. On the basis of the foregoing, the
preparation is rated Satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government's support to the Project is evidenced by having put in place a Steering Committee to direct and
supervise not only this Project, but the ADB support as well. The composition of the Committee included
representation from the Ministry of Health, as well as key Vive Governors of relevant areas, as well as the
Ministry of Finance; the Director of the PCU served as the secretary to the Committee. While counterpart
funding was identified as a potential risk during preparation, and a problem periodically during
implementation, it does not appear to have affected the pace of implementation. In recognition of the
capacity constraints in-country, the PCU supporting this Project also served as the management unit for an
ADB project in health. The PCU was identified as a bottleneck at one stage, and the Government
eventually replaced the Coordinator. With the designation of a new Coordinator in February 2001, there
was considerable improvement in the pace of implementation. While Government procedures negatively
affected the pace of implementation, the Project did close on a positive note, with positive outcome
indicators, although it is not possible to entirely attribute these to the Project. Notwithstanding the initial
delays, Government's eventual intervention had a positive effect on the pace of implementation, and for this
its performance is rated Satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:




                                                       - 10 -

The Project was executed by a PCU, which was shared with an ADB supported health project, on behalf of
the MOH. In the beginning, Project implementation was negatively impacted by the failure to ensure that
the PCU was adequately staffed.        As noted above, there was a contractual dispute which delayed
completion of one activity by almost two years; the Ministry could probably have been more proactive in
ensuring that the impasse was resolved in a more expeditious manner. Many of the shortcomings for
implementation (procurement, unresolved contractual disputes, requiring additional clearances) were
ultimately resolved with the designation of a more operational Coordinator in 2001. With this appointment,
the Unit commenced the task of resolving the contractual dispute, and put in place the necessary staff to
facilitate the implementation. Notwithstanding the initial slow pace of implementation, activities moved
forward, which resulted in the Project ending on a positive note. For this improvement, the overall
performance of the implementing agency is rated Satisfactory.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the above, the overall Borrower performance is rated Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


l On the basis of the challenges faced by the Project during implementation of the first health sector
    intervention, to improve the likelihood of satisfactory performance, the design of a project needs to be
    simple in countries where (a) the sector has had no prior experience in working with the Bank, and (b)
    there are capacity constraints.
l he positive experiences associated with collaboration between IDA and the BTC shows that good
    cooperation among donors can lead to a win-win situation for a sector and Country.
l Experiences with sharing a PCU with ADB affirm that in capacity constrained environments,
    harmonization and collaboration among donors are important, so as not to tax the system on the
    ground. However, it is important to ensure that the Unit is fully and appropriately staffed in order to
    ensure timely implementation.
l Implementation during the first part of Project reaffirm that not only do appropriate mitigation
    measures need to be included in the design of Projects where both human and financial resources are
    constrained, they need to be implemented as well.
l In view of the implementation delays experienced during the initial stages of the Project, it is clear that
    there is a need to maximize continuity in the leadership of the Bank task team. In these circumstances
    there is a need to focus on developing Project management skills of our borrowers.
l The Project also demonstrates that good supervision can turn projects around and give satisfactory
    outcomes.
l On the basis of the sheer volume of indicators selected, it is more useful to both the Bank and the
    Borrower to select indicators which are: (a) strategic, (b) meaningful, and (c) trackable.
l Opportunities should be sought to increase the chance of better outcomes at the macro level. Therefore
    linking sector support to other programs that address systemic issues could produce synergies that
    might increase the chance of better results.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
This Report was shared with the Borrower, who provided the following comments: ".......we
have reported your ICR to the MoH Steering Committee which includes representatives from
Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We very much appreciated your report. It is
not too long but including everything especially the strong point and weak point. From your


                                                     - 11 -

report we can draw some lessons and pay more attention to the Second Health Project such as 1.
coordination with all donors who are implementing health projects in Laos 2. regarding project
staffing 3. monitor project's indicators and put in project report and so on. The other thing we
should pay more attention is training on Procurement and Financial Management. Implementation
of District Allocation for the second health project is a big challenge for us due to it covers 60
districts.

Regarding your assessments and ratings we think it is reasonable."

Government's Executive Summary from their Implementation Completion Report follows:

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
of Government's Implementation Completion Report

        The Health System Reform and Malaria Control Project jointly financed by GOL, IDA credit and
Belgian Technical Cooperation has been implemented since 1995 to December 2004. It was the first loan
project of the Ministry of Health, covering 10 provinces of Lao PDR. Though there were many problems
faced during the implementation of the project, a large number of significant results was produced and
summarized below.

        First, the basic health care services have been improved through the strengthening health
infrastructure in project provinces. Health facilities, such as hospitals at provincial and district hospitals
and health centers have been rehabilitated or built new. In total there are 42 health centers, 7 district or
inter-district hospital, 4 provincial and regional hospitals, 2 SARS facilities, and 8 provincial malaria
stations renovated or built new. In line with this, it is the supply of additional and more appropriate types
of medical equipment, including 2 CT-Scanner machines for 2 regional hospitals. About 7 million USD
has been invested in civil works and more than 6.4 million USD has been invested in the procurement of
basic and modern medical equipment for a better quality of health care. This is evidenced by a substantial
increase in the number of in-patient and out-patient caseloads.

        Concerning capacity building, in order to sustain the health care services, the project has focused
on up-grading technical, clinical, and managerial skills of staff at the central, provincial, district and health
center levels. More than 600 health personnel have been trained in health education campaigns, more than
3000 people trained on different topics of the basic health services, and more than 7000 people trained in
malaria control, with giving high priority to health center workers and village volunteers living in rural
areas, especially in under-served ethnic minorities areas, as they have direct impact to local people.

        For the Basic Health Services Component, its objectives were found too ambitious and unlikely to
be achieved during the Mid-Term review, therefore the project with the direct assistance of the Belgian
consultants has redirected its goals with more concentration on the development of the so-called "Pilot
Health Zones" which are to be used as the models for expansion in 5 project provinces. So far, twenty nine
"pilot health centers" have been effectively developed. Those health centers are meant to be " integrated
community centers".       "Integrated" means that different activities such as curative, preventive and
promotional are integrated, and that collaboration with other sectors (education, agriculture,..) is also
committed. "Community" means that health center belongs to the local community or administrative level,
and that health care and promotion activities are jointly planned and executed. The community gets
involved in managing and monitoring the health centers including its accounting. This model has been
proved to be successful and is planned to be expanded in the 2nd phase.



                                                    - 12 -

        So far, the project has tried to create a sense of project ownership amongst provincial, district and
health center personnel as well as the community. The piloting of the "Integrated Community Health
Center" has tremendously involved people at each level in the planning, implementing, monitoring and
evaluating of key project inputs. Regular quarterly meetings with the assistance of Belgian TA have
improved the capabilities of the staff working at district and health center level. The pilot health centers
have also strengthened community support and involved them in health problem solving process.

        To fill the gap of inaccessibility to health care services, a village drug kit system has been
introduced to be applied. The project has successfully provided drug kits to 476 remote villages so far.
About 140,000 people living in the target rural and remote areas have been able to access and receive the
most minimal health care. When transportation is improved, health facilities reach these people and private
pharmacies are locally available, the drugs kit system will be removed and replaced by a more sustainable
and effective health care system.

        The most significant outcome of the Project is the accomplishment in reducing morbidity and
mortality rates due to malaria through the programs of Impregnated Bed Nets (IBN), the Early Diagnosis
& Adequate Treatment and the Heath Education campaigns. In the last 3 years, it should be noted that
there has been no outbreak of malaria. The malaria control component has been implemented in 10 out of
18 provinces of Lao PDR. This is a new initiative of practicing IBN program through the sufficient supply
of nets, insecticides and dipping materials, and the establishment of IBN Fund to sustain the malaria
control activities. Regarding the people's knowledge on malaria, the 2000 KAP survey showed that there
was a significant increase in their knowledge related to the causes of malaria and their health care behavior:
98 % reported that malaria was caused by mosquito bites; and 90 % reported that they went to see trained
health personnel when sick.

        The project was facing with a lot of problems, especially at the beginning of the project, due to a
poor design of project management at central and local levels resulting in a number of problems in the
domain of civil works and procurement of goods. There was no unit of civil work at the PCU to manage
the related activities. However, the situation has been gradually improved later by the establishment of
necessary PCU units, such as procurement of goods, civil works, basic health services and malaria control.
The malaria control has been directly managed by the Center for Malaria, Parasitology and Entomology
(CMPE). Since Mid-term review, the Project has been better coordinated with concerned departments of
the Ministry of Health, and had a closer supervision from the Central and Provincial Steering Committees.

        However, this transition has not yet fully built the capacity of government staff, because the
majority of PCU staff, who work for procurement of goods, civil works and accountants are private
consultants. Even though the MOH has tried to shift the responsibility to its related departments. For
example, the procurement of goods of the project has been incorporated in and under the responsibility of
the Center for Drugs and Medical Equipment Supply; while civil works are under direct supervision of the
Department of Planning & Budgeting, but their roles and responsibilities are still limited.

        Even though a large number of provincial and district hospital staff have received clinical, nursing
and management training and refresher training, but the training plan has not yet been well coordinated
between vertical programs such MCH, health education, malaria, drug kit system or other basic health
services. Some provinces have been able to create a core group to take the role of trainers, but they still
lack regular technical assistance and teaching materials.

        For the new project to be financed by IDA credit, it is strongly commended the emphasis be given


                                                    - 13 -

on project management at each level. The project should be lead by a strong team of qualified and
experienced personnel.     The project design including its indicators should be clearly defined and
appropriate to the Lao context. The project activities and responsibilities should be gradually integrated to
concerned MOH departments by building the personnel's capacities related to the project management,
planning and financing. At the same time, there should be a plan to transfer technical knowledge and skills
from contractual staff to government staff.

        A more systematic approach in personnel training should be developed for each level. Special
attention should be given to the following topics: (1) improving the quality of care and increasing
accessibility to under-served areas, (2) PHC services through the development of ICHC and of minimum
package of activities such as basic curative care, emergency, preventive services, health education,
maternal and child health, immunization, nutrition supplementary program, surveillance for communicable
diseases and health management information system; (3) improvement of delivery system; and (4)
management of revolving drug funds to make health activities more sustainable.

        A more systematic, equity and sustainable health care financing should be initiated and piloted.
The exempting fee for the poor, transparent accounting system, cost recovery, equity funds and
community-based health insurance should be taken into account.

        Last but not least, a system to motivate staff should be created and applied, because it can be
considered as a key factor to the success of project. Importantly, incentives should be first given to the
staff who work hard in rural and difficult areas.

(b) Cofinanciers:
A copy of the Report was shared with Belgian Technical Cooperation, parallel financiers of the Project,
who advised that they had no comments.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                   - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                 Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Contraceptive Prevalence Rate               No data provided                               32.2% (contraceptives only introduced in
                                                                                              1998)
2. Maternal Mortality Rate                     No data provided                               530 per 100,000; 1995: 656 per 100,000
3. Infant Mortality Rate                       No data provided                               83 per 1,000; 1995: 117 per 1,000
4. Malaria Mortality Rate                      SAR: reduce by 50% by end of project           3.1 per 100,000; 1995: 22.2 per 100,000
5. Malaria Positive Tests                      No data provided                               8.1%
6. Increase in Healthy Practices Knowledge     No data provided                               For malaria, 90% of surveyed people (360)
                                                                                              have knowledge of malaria symptoms and
                                                                                              prevention, and practice malaria prevention


Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                 Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
# of facilities repaired, expanded, built new  53 Rural Health Centers, 4 District Hospitals, 40 Rural Health Centers (Savannaket 5,
and # of square meters for each, by cost       3 Inter-District Hospitals                     Champassack 5, Xaysomboune Special Zone
center                                                                                        2, Vientiane 2); 5 District Hospitals (Phoune,
                                                                                              Longsane, Xonebuly, Paksong and Thateng);
                                                                                              2 Inter-District Hospitals (Champhone,
                                                                                              Sepone); 2 Proincial Hospitals (Sekong,
                                                                                              Xaysomboune Special Zone); 2 Regional
                                                                                              Hospitals (Savannakhet, Champassack); 1
                                                                                              Center of Malaria; 1 Center of Health
                                                                                              Education; 8 Provincial Malaria Stations, 5
                                                                                              District Malaria Stations; and 2 SARS
                                                                                              facilities.


# of workers trained by type of worker and     SAR anticipated 2 overseas training, 78        15 people trained overseas (5 in health
type of training                               in-service training, 2 anesthesiology, 58      system reform and sustainable health care
                                               in-service laboratory, 2 radiology, 115        financing, 10 (co-financed) in hospital
                                               nursing, 23 midwifery, 400 Village Health      management; 3618 staff trained locally: 282
                                               Workers (p. 47)                                Provincial Health Office level, 278 provincial
                                                                                              hospital staff, 800 District Health Officer
                                                                                              level, 668 health center level, 1307 Village
                                                                                              Health Volunteers and 183 traditional birth
                                                                                              attendants.


Value of pharmaceuticals and contraceptives No data provided                                  US$0.8 million pharmaceuticals procured;
procured and distributed                                                                      US$1.5 million of insecticides, bed nets and
                                                                                              net dipping.


# of mothers trained in growth monitoring,     No data provided                               IEC provided to mothers by trained VHVs
recognizing symptoms of pneumonia, and                                                        and TBAs; number trained unknown
using ORS


# of children immunized, # of ORS packages No data provided                                   The National Health Survey of 2000 indicates
used, # of complicated pregnancies referred,                                                  that 32.4% of children received the 6
# of IUDs inserted, by level of care                                                          recommended vaccinations during the first
                                                                                              12 months of life. 95.5% of children under 5
                                                                                              who had diarrhea received recommended
                                                                                              home treatment, including ORS; no data
                                                                                              available on referral of complicated
                                                                                              pregnancies or IUDs inserted.


Frequency of clinical and management           No data provided                               Once a month for each type of activity; main
supervisions at village, health center and at                                                 activities include monitoring of drug kit
district levels, activities of the DHMT and the                                               system, MCH care, vaccinations, IBN
PHMT in managing the care delivery                                                            redipping and administrative activities




                                                                   - 15 -

# of children being monitored for growth and No data provided                         1,347 children undeer 5 were monitored for
weight, # of children and pregnant and                                                growth and weight: 15.4% were moderately
lactating mothers receiving food supplements                                          or severely wasted, 40.7% stunted, and 40%
                                                                                      underweight; 1209 children aged 6-59
                                                                                      months received Vitamin A supplement; 4%
                                                                                      of women who recently gave birth received
                                                                                      Vitamin A supplement and 13.6% took iron
                                                                                      tables during their pregnancy.


Families protected with mosquito nets        SAR p. 64: 15% by year 3, 40% by year 4, 58.9% of villages covered with malaria control
                                             80% by year 5 and 100% by EOP            program in 2002.


% of villages covered with early diagnosis   SAR: 100% by EOP                         58.9% of villages covered with malaria control
and treatment facilities for malaria                                                  program in 2002.


# of persons trained in the following        No data provided                         94 village health communicators trained in
categories: village health communicators,                                             Nambak District; 64 primary school teachers
village broadcast operators, school teachers,                                         from districts trained on IEC; District Health
Lao Women Union members, and monks by                                                 Communicators were trained as follows: 36
place and length of training                                                          in LBP, 28 in Sekon and 35 in SVK; 28 from
                                                                                      10 villages of Xaysomboune District, 30 from
                                                                                      10 villages of Longsane District, and 28 from
                                                                                      18 villages of Muang Phoune District were
                                                                                      trained as health communicators. Data on
                                                                                      length of training unavailable.


# of radio broadcasts per village per month  No data provided                         IEC radio programs are broadcast at central
                                                                                      and provincial level and on national television
                                                                                      every Saturday.

1End of project
The output indicators above are a selection of those provided in the SAR.




                                                             - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
A. Basic Health Services
    Savannakhet & Sekong                                     9.60          15.34           159.78
B. Malaria Control                                           5.90            4.51           76.42
C. Inforomation, Education, Communication                    2.00            0.53           26.55
D. Project Management                                        4.00            1.73           43.25

Total Baseline Cost                                         21.50          22.11
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.70
 Price Contingencies                                         1.80
                        Total Project Costs                 24.00          22.11
                  Total Financing Required                  24.00          22.11


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          3.90              0.80         0.00         0.40          5.10
                                  (3.90)           (0.80)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (4.70)
2. Goods                          7.70              0.70         0.80         0.90         10.10
                                  (7.70)           (0.70)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (8.40)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         3.30         2.00          5.30
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (3.30)         (0.00)       (3.30)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         3.50         0.00          3.50
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.80)         (0.00)       (2.80)
   Total                          11.60             1.50         7.60         3.30         24.00
                                 (11.60)           (1.50)      (6.10)         (0.00)      (19.20)




                                                - 17 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                               5.52                1.00               0.40            0.00              6.92
                                          (5.34)             (0.90)            (0.30)            (0.00)           (6.54)
   2. Goods                               4.90                0.07               2.39            0.65              8.01
                                          (4.90)             (0.07)            (2.34)            (0.00)           (7.31)
   3. Services                            0.00                0.00               2.50            3.70              6.20
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.50)            (0.00)           (2.50)
   4. Miscellaneous                       0.00                0.00               0.98            0.00              0.98
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.86)            (0.00)           (0.86)
       Total                              10.42               1.07               6.27            4.35              22.11
                                         (10.24)             (0.97)            (6.00)            (0.00)           (17.21)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
      managing the project.



Project Financing by Category (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
         Category                  Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.        IDA      Govt.    CoF.
1. Civil Works                 4.70        0.40                      6.54         0.38       0.00       139.1     95.0
2. Goods                       8.60        1.70                      7.31         0.02       0.68       85.0      1.2
3. Consultant services,        2.80                     2.40         2.50         0.00       3.70       89.3               154.2
training, auditing
4. Incremental operational     3.10        0.40                      0.86         0.12       0.00       27.7      30.0
and maintenance costs

   IDA categories given per the Development Credit Agreement. The amounts in appraisal cofinancing are
   US$2.0 million parallel financing from the Government of Belgian, and US$0.4 million expected from
   private sources for drugs.




                                                         - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

None was calculated at preparation.




                                       - 19 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              02/89

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              08/1993

 Supervision

              09/30/1995                3    TTL (1); PUBLIC HEALTH           HS             HS
                                             SPEC. (1); HEALTH
                                             EDUCATION AND IEC (1)

              06/08/1996                5    HEALTH EDUC & IEC SPEC           S               S
                                             (1); PUBLIC HELATH SPEC.
                                             (1); IMPLEMENTATION SPEC
                                             (1); PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC
                                             (1); HEALTH PLANNER (1)

              12/18/1996                3    IMPLEMENTATION (1); TASK         S               S
                                             MANAGER (1); HEALTH
                                             EDUCATION & IEC (1)

              05/31/1997                5    IMPLEMENTATION (1); TASK         S               S
                                             MANAGER (1); HEALTH
                                             PLANNING; (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTAT (1); HEALTH
                                             EDUCATION & IEC (1)

              11/22/1997                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             HEALTH EDUCATION & IEC
                                             (1); PLANNING &
                                             IMPLEMENTAT (1)

              9/16/98                   4    TTL (1); PUBLIC HEALTH SP.       S               S
                                             (1); IMPLEMENTATION SP.
                                             (1); HEALTH SYSTEMS SP. (1)
              02/17/1999               24    HEALTH ECONOMIST (1);            S               S
                                             ARCHITECT (1)

              10/20/1999                4    PRJECT ANALYST (1);              S               S
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH SP. (1);
                                             CIVIL WORKS SP. (1); TEAM
                                             LEADER (1)

              05/13/2000                2    TEAM LEADER (1); CIVIL           U               S
                                             WORKS/PROCUR. SP (1)




                                              - 20 -

               10/31/2000              4   TEAM LEADER (1); PUBLIC            U    S
                                           HEALTH SP. (1);
                                           OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                           HEALTH SYSTEM SP. (1)

               06/04/2001              1   TEAM LEADER (1)                    S    S

               09/21/2001              3   TEAM LEADER (1); PUBLIC            S    S
                                           HEALTH SP. (1); ARCHITECT
                                           (1)

               03/02/2002              4   TTL (1); PUBLIC HEALTH SP.         S    S
                                           (2); PROCUREMENT SP. (1)
               11/24/2002              3   TTL (1); PUBLIC HEALTH SP..        S    S
                                           (1); ARCHITECT (1)
               04/15/2003              4   TTL (1); PROCUREMENT               S    S
                                           SPEC. (1); PUBLIC HEALTH &
                                           PHARM. SP.. (1);
                                           ARCHITECHT (1)
               11/15/2003              3   TTL (1); PROCUREMENT SP.           S    S
                                           (1); ARCHITECHT (1)


 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                940
  Supervision                                                          920
  ICR
  Total                                                              1,860




                                            - 21 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Documents consulted included the following:

Project Status Reports, aide memoires and back-to-office reports
Project files
Government's Implementation Completion Report.




                                                 - 24 -

- 25 -

