Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2674 LA
            (Health System Reform and Malaria Control Project)
                                  between
                     LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated February 4,  1995
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2674 LA
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated February 4, 1995, between  LAO PEOPLE'S
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (the "Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the "Association").
    WHEREAS: (A) The Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project;
    WHEREAS: (B) Part C of the Project will be carried out by
the Borrower's Province of Savannakhet ("Savannakhet") with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to Savannakhet the portion of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated to said Part C as provided in
this Agreement;
    WHEREAS: (C) Part D of the Project will be carried out by
the Borrower's Province of Sekong ("Sekong") with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to Sekong the portion of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated to said Part D as provided in
this Agreement;
    WHEREAS: (D) The Borrower intends to obtain from the
Government of Belgium ("Belgium") a grant in kind in an amount
Page  2
equivalent to two million dollars ($2,000,000) to assist in
financing Part E (1) of the Project on terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the "Belgium Grant Agreement") to be
entered into between Belgium and the Borrower; and
    WHEREAS: (E) The Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, and
in each of the Savannakhet Project Agreement between the
Association and Savannakhet, and the Sekong Project Agreement
between the Association and Sekong, both of even date herewith.
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows.
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the "General Conditions") constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
    (a)   "Boloven" means the Boloven Plateau in the Province of
Champassak, under the local administration of the Borrower;
    (b)   "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12)-month period
corresponding to any of the Borrower's, Savannakhet's and
Sekong's financial years, which period commences on October 1
and ends on September 30 in each calendar year, and the term
"Fiscal Years" means collectively each of said Fiscal Year;
    (c)   "IECs" means the information, education and
communications materials for promoting the use of basic health
services, controlling malaria and promoting the rational and
cost-effective use of drugs within the Borrower's territory,
referred to in Part B of the Project;
    (d)   "IHE" means the Borrower's national Institute of Health
Education, established and operating under the general
oversight responsibility of the MOH (as such term is defined
hereinafter) pursuant to Ministerial Order No. 540/MOH, dated
September 3, 1990;
    (e)   "IMPE" means the Borrower's Institute of Malaria,
Parasitology and Entomology, established and operating under
the general oversight responsibility of the MOH pursuant to
Ministerial Order No. 897/MOH, dated December 21, 1990;
    (f)   "Kip" means the unit of currency of the Borrower;
    (g)   "Luang Prabang" means the Borrower's Province of Luang
Prabang, under the local administration of the Borrower;
    (h)   "Malaria Control Program" means the Borrower's national
program covering the period 1995-2001, for controlling malaria
in the following eight (8) provinces of the Borrower: Luang
Prabang Luang Namtha, Bokeo, Savannakhet, Saravane, Sekong,
Champassak and Attapeu;
    (i)   "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health,
organized pursuant to the Borrower's Prime Ministerial Decree
No. 145/PM, dated December 2, 1989;
Page  3
    (j)   "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit to be
established and thereafter maintained by the Borrower within
MOH, pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.04 and Section
6.01 (a) of this Agreement;
    (k)   "Project Implementation Plan" means the implementation
plan referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
    (l)   "Project Performance Plan" means the time-based action
plan setting forth the performance indicators and standards of
achievement for the timely carrying out of the Project,
referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement;
    (m)   "Savannakhet" means the Borrower's Province of
Savannakhet, under the local administration of the Borrower;
    (n)   "Savannakhet Health Plan" means Savannakhet's 1994-2001
health plan, and related financing plan, strategy and
investment (capital and recurrent) time-table therefor, for
reforming, reorganizing and strengthening Savannakhet's health
care system so as to improve the planning, quality and
efficiency of the delivery of basic health care services within
Savannakhet;
    (o)   "Savannakhet Project Agreement" means the agreement
between the Association and Savannakhet, of even date herewith,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Savannakhet Project Agreement;
    (p)   "Saysomboune" means the Borrower's Special Zone of
Saysomboune (comprising the following five districts:
Saysomboune; Hom, Longsane; Thathom; and Phoune), which is
under the central administration of the Borrower and has been
established as a special economic zone pursuant to the
Borrower's Decision No.27/PBCCP dated June 6, 1994;
    (q)   "Sekong" means the Borrower's Province of Sekong, under
the local administration of the Borrower;
    (r)   "Sekong Health Plan" means Sekong's 1994-2001 health
plan, and related financing plan, strategy and investment
(capital and recurrent) time-table therefor, for reforming,
reorganizing and strengthening Sekong's health care system so
as to improve the planning, quality and efficiency of the
delivery of basic health care services within Sekong;
    (s)   "Sekong Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and Sekong, of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Sekong Project
Agreement; and
    (t)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
    Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to twelve million and nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR12,900,000).
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
Page  4
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
    (b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the Banque
pour le Commerce Exterieur Lao on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
    Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
    (b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
    (c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
    Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
    Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
    Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each January 1 and July 1
commencing July 1, 2005 and ending January 1, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on January
1, 2015, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of
such principal amount.
    (b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded
seven hundred and ninety dollars ($790) in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall
consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice
the amount of each such installment not yet due until the
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so
requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such
modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
Page  5
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at
an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
    (c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly,
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
    Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under this
Agreement, shall:
    (a) Carry out Parts A, B, E and F of the Project through
MOH, cause Savannakhet to carry out Part C of the Project and
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Savannakhet
Project Agreement all the obligations of Savannakhet therein
set forth, and cause Sekong to carry out Part D of the Project
and perform in accordance with the provisions of the Sekong
Project Agreement all the obligations of Sekong therein set
forth, in all cases: (i) with due diligence and efficiency; and
(ii) in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic,
financial, health, medical and environmental practices; and
    (b) Take or cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds (including foreign exchange), facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
enable Savannakhet and Sekong to perform their respective
obligations under the Savannakhet Project Agreement and the
Sekong Project Agreement, respectively, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
    Section 3.02. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried, the Project
in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (b) The Borrower shall: (i) prepare, based on performance
indicators acceptable to the Association, a project performance
action plan (the Project Performance Plan) which shall set
forth, inter alia, the performance indicators and standards of
achievement for determining the timely and proper carrying out
of the Project, and for measuring the progress achieved in
attaining its objectives; (ii) at all times take, or cause to
be taken, all action necessary for the prompt and due diligent
implementation of the Project Performance Plan and the
attainment of its objectives; and (iii) not amend, abrogate or
waive any part of the Project Performance Plan, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree in advance.
    Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
Page  6
    (a) Prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date, or such later date as
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, for the future operation
of the Project;
    (b) Afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
    (c) Thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking
into account the Association's comments thereon.
    Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall establish and
thereafter maintain within MOH, until completion of the
Project, a Project Coordination Unit with membership, functions
and terms of reference which shall be at all times acceptable
to the Association. The PCU shall be headed by a qualified
Project director acceptable to the Association, and shall be
staffed by qualified personnel in adequate numbers (including,
but without limitation, two (2) deputy Project Directors, an
accountant and a procurement advisor).
    (b) The PCU shall be vested at all times with such
responsibilities, funds, staff and such other necessary
resources as shall be required to enable it to undertake the
general oversight and overall national supervision, management
and coordination of the implementation of the Project,
including the procurement of all goods, works and services
necessary therefor.
    (c) The Borrower shall cause the PCU to prepare, in
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and
furnish to the Association for review and comment not later
than June 30 and December 31 in each Fiscal Year a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Project and all
financial expenditures incurred in connection therewith.
    Section 3.05. (a) Without any restriction or limitation upon
any of the provisions of the General Conditions, this
Agreement, the Savannakhet Project Agreement or the Sekong
Project Agreement, not later than June 30, 1998, the Borrower
shall carry out, based on terms of reference acceptable to the
Association, a comprehensive mid-term review of the progress
achieved to date by each of the Borrower, Savannakhet and
Sekong in the carrying out their respective parts of the
Project in accordance with the Project Performance Plan; and
    (b) Promptly thereafter, and taking into account the
Association's recommendations on the basis of the findings of
the mid-term review, the Borrower shall take, or cause to be
taken, all actions necessary to achieve the objectives of the
Project.
    Section 3.06. For the purposes of assisting it in carrying
out the Malaria Control Program, the Borrower shall cause IMPE
to appoint and employ, based on terms of reference satisfactory
to the Association, personnel teams for implementing the
provincial components of the Malaria Control Program within
each of the provinces referred to in Section 1.02 (h) of this
Agreement.
    Section 3.07. Not later than January 01, 1995, the Borrower
shall:
    (a) Cause MOH to establish, based on terms of reference and
procedural and administrative modalities acceptable to the
Association, regional malaria control centers in each of
Savannakhet and Luang Prabang, which centers shall be charged
with the responsibility of coordinating and supervising the
regional implementation of the Malaria Control Program subject
Page  7
to the overall technical oversight authority of IMPE; and
    (b) Cause MOH to employ and, thereafter, assign to IMPE duly
qualified personnel with functions, responsibilities and terms
of employment satisfactory to the Association for the purposes
of assisting in supervising the overall regional implementation
of the Malaria Control Program.
    Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall take, or cause to be
taken, all action required on its part to enable each of
Savannakhet and Sekong to carry out, promptly and with due
diligence, the Savannakhet Health Plan and the Sekong Health
Plan, respectively.
    (b) Not later than March 31 in each Fiscal Year, the
Borrower shall exchange views: (i) with the Association and
Savannakhet on the progress achieved in implementing the
Savannakhet Health Plan and on any necessary modifications
thereof; and (ii) with the Association and Sekong on the
progress achieved in implementing the Sekong Health Plan and on
any necessary modifications thereof.
    (c) Immediately thereafter, the Borrower shall take all
action required, and shall cause each of Savannakhet and Sekong
to take all action required on each of their part, to promptly
carry out the Savannakhet Health Plan and the Sekong Health
Plan, respectively, and to achieve their respective objectives,
taking into account the Association's recommendations pursuant
to the exchange of views referred to in Sub-paragraphs (b)(i)
and (ii) hereinabove.
    Section 3.09. The Borrower shall ensure that the technical
assistance activities under the Project at all times shall be
carried out in accordance with an overall technical assistance
plan and related program for the provision of required
consultants' services which shall be satisfactory to the
Association and in conformity with the provisions of Section
3.14 of this Agreement.
    Section 3.10. The Borrower shall promptly take all action
necessary to ensure that:
    (a) The sales proceeds of all drugs financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be retained at the origin by the
entities which originally sold and received said sales
proceeds; and
      (b) Each of said entities shall establish a revolving
fund, on terms and conditions and according to a methodology
satisfactory to the Association, in which said sales proceeds
shall be duly deposited for further purchases of drugs.
    Section 3.11. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of Parts C of the Project shall be
carried out by Savannakhet pursuant to Section 2.05 of the
Savannakhet Project Agreement, and in respect of Part D of the
Project shall be carried out by Sekong pursuant to Section 2.05
of the Sekong Project Agreement.
    Section 3.12. For purposes of carrying the pilot basic
health services activities under Part F of the Project, the
Borrower shall:
    (a) Prepare, based on terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, an action plan for preparing and appraising said
activities, which plan shall include, inter alia, a sustainable
financing plan as well as a set of proposed measures for
identifying and remedying any adverse impact these activities
Page  8
might have on the environment or on any persons affected
thereby, including indigenous people;
    (b) Afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower, together with representatives
of Boloven and Saysomboune, on said action plan and, taking
into account the Association's views thereon, prepare and
furnish to the Association for its approval a detailed
implementation program; and
    (c) Thereafter, carry out Part F of the Project on the basis
of said implementation program with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices.
    Section 3.13. The Borrower shall promptly take all action
necessary to ensure that at all times: (a) any adverse
environmental impact of the Project, or any part thereof, is
effectively mitigated in a manner which is acceptable to the
Association; and (b) measures are adopted and carried out for
the resettlement, relocation and rehabilitation of all persons,
including indigenous people, involuntarily displaced as a
result of the Project, or any part thereof, all in accordance
with procedures, methodology and guidelines acceptable to the
Association.
    Section 3.14. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out Parts A, B, E and F
of the Project.
    (b) The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                the Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited,
                in accordance with appropriate auditing
                principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Association;
          (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                but in any case not later than four (4) months
                after the end of each such year, a certified copy
                of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                such scope and in such detail as the Association
                shall have reasonably requested; and
         (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                information concerning said records,
                accounts and the audit thereof as the
                Association shall from time to time
                reasonably request.
    (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  9
          (ii)  retain, until at least one (1) year after the
                Association has received the audit report for the
                Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the
                Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                examine such records; and
          (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                included in the annual audit referred to in
                paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year,
                together with the procedures and internal
                controls involved in their preparation, can be
                relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a) Savannakhet shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Savannakhet Project Agreement;
    (b) Sekong shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Sekong Project Agreement;
    (c) As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that either Savannakhet or
Sekong will be able to perform any of their respective
obligations under the Savannakhet Project Agreement or the
Sekong Project Agreement.
    (d) The Belgium Grant Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by June 30, 1995, or such later date as the
Association may agree upon; provided, however, that the
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes, to the satisfaction of the Association, that
adequate funds for Part E (1) of the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement; and
    (e)   (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the
          right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the
          Belgian Grant shall have been suspended, cancelled or
          terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
          of the Belgium Grant Agreement.
          (ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
          if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
          Association that: (A) such suspension, cancellation or
          termination is not caused by the failure of the
          Borrower to perform any of its obligations under the
          Belgium Grant Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
          Project are available to the Borrower from other
          sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
          obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
    Section 5.02. (a) Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified, namely, that the events specified in Paragraphs (a),
Page  10
(b), (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur
and shall continue for a period of ninety (90) days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower.
    (b) The event specified in paragraph (e) (i) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (e) (ii).
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
    (a) That the PCU shall have been established pursuant to the
provisions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement; and
    (b) That the Borrower shall have prepared and furnished to
the Association, for its review and approval, the Project
Performance Plan.
    Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
    (a) That the Savannakhet Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by Savannakhet, and is legally binding
upon Savannakhet in accordance with its terms; and
    (b) That the Sekong Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by Sekong, and is legally binding upon
Sekong in accordance with its terms.
    Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
    Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles
III, IV and V of this Agreement shall cease on the date on
which this Agreement shall terminate, or on the date twenty
(20) years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Minister of Finance
          Ministry of Finance
          Post Office Box No. 46
          Vientiane
          Lao People's Democratic Republic
          Cable address:                             Telex:
Page  11
                       MINFINANCE                    4369
                       VIENTIANE                     MOF LS
    For the Association:
          International Development
           Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA),
                Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC),
                                          64145 (WUI) or
                                         197688 (TRT).
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in Vientiane, Lao People's
Democratic Republic, as of the day and year first above
written.
                       LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                       By /s/ Bounlith Khennavong
                                                Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                                Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.        The table below sets forth the Categories of items to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation
of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                    Credit              % of
                                   Allocated        Expenditures
                                 (Expressed in          to be
     Category                   SDR Equivalent)       Financed
(1)  Civil works under              2,800,000       90%
     the Project (except
     Part F thereof)
Page  12
(2)  Civil works under                700,000       90%
     Part F of the Project
(3)  Goods under the                5,000,000       100% of foreign
     Project (except                                expenditures,
     Part F thereof)                                100% of local
                                                    expenditures (ex-
(4)  Goods under                                    factory cost) and
     Part F of the Project            300,000       85% of local
                                                    expenditures for
                                                    other items procured
                                                    locally
(5)  Incremental                    1,700,000       80%
     operational
     and maintenance
     costs
(6)  Consultants'                   1,700,000       100%
     services,
     auditing services
     and training
(7)  Unallocated                      700,000
                      TOTAL        12,900,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a) The term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
    (b) The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
    (c) The term "incremental operational and maintenance costs"
means payments made for expenditures on account of the
operation and maintenance of health services vehicles,
buildings and equipment, and the supervision of health services
personnel under the Project, but excluding any salaries of any
personnel.
3.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; or (b)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (2) and (4) of
the table set forth in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, in respect of Parts F (1), (2) and (4) of the
Project, unless the Association shall have approved the action
plan and implementation program referred to in Sections 3.12
(a) and (b) of this Agreement, respectively.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures under contracts for: (a) works not exceeding
the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000); (b)
goods not exceeding the equivalent of one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000); (c) consulting firms not exceeding the
equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000); (d)
individual consultants not exceeding the equivalent of fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000); and (e) all training and
incremental operational and maintenance costs; all under such
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
Page  13
    The overall objective of the Project is to help improve the
general health status of the Borrower's population, by
assisting the Borrower in inter alia: (i) mobilizing,
allocating and using cost effectively the resources devoted to
the delivery of health services to its population; (ii)
reducing the cases of malaria transmission within its
territory; (iii) strengthening its institutional capability to
formulate and implement national malaria control policies and
programs; (iv) reforming the ability of Savannakhet and Sekong
to deliver effective basic health services to their respective
residents; and (iv) developing and promoting appropriate means
for the rational and cost-effective use of health care services
throughout its territory.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Provincial Malaria Control Program
1.        Carrying out of a Malaria Control Program in the
following eight (8) provinces of the Borrower: Luang Prabang,
Luang Namtha, Bokeo, Savannakhet, Saravane, Sekong, Champassak
and Attapeu.
2.        Carrying out of a community mobilization action plan in
respect of the Malaria Control Program to promote individual
protection, to be carried out under Paragraph 1 hereinabove.
3.        Training of provincial and village health personnel in
the early detection of febrile and suspected malaria cases,
vector control and the early treatment of presumptive malaria
cases.
Part B:   Health Education Program
1.        Provision of technical assistance services to
strengthen the capabilities of IHE, and of the Borrower's
related departments, agencies and units at the national,
provincial and district levels, to effectively: (i)
disseminate, manage and implement the IECs; and (ii) develop,
deliver and assess the impact of public messages and associated
information on behavior changes and health knowledge.
2.        Provision of local training, fellowships abroad and
regional study tours to selected IHE personnel in connection
with the strengthening of the capabilities of IHE under
Paragraph 1 hereinabove.
3.        Provision of goods, vehicles, communication equipment
and office furniture to IHE and the provincial health education
agencies of Savannakhet, Sekong and Luang Prabang in respect of
the foregoing.
4.  Public dissemination and implementation of IECs throughout
the Borrower's territory.
Part C:   Basic Health Services Delivery in Savannakhet
1.        Provision of preventive, curative and promotive health
care service packages to the populations of the districts of
Savannakhet.
2.  Rehabilitating and upgrading: (i) at least two (2) existing
district hospitals in Savannakhet to the level of inter-
district hospitals; (ii) a provincial hospital in Savannakhet;
and (iii) at least four (4) district hospitals in Savannakhet.
3.  Constructing and equipping forty-eight (48) rural health
centers in Savannakhet.
Page  14
4.  Strengthening the capabilities of Savannakhet's provincial
hospital in diagnostic imaging, clinical laboratory, outpatient
specialty care and emergency medical services.
5.  Provision of civil works and related goods (including drugs,
medical supplies and vehicles), equipment and materials in
respect of the provision of the services and works referred to
in Paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 hereinabove.
6.  Carrying out of a time-based action plan for: (i) the cost
effective and timely financing and supply, at both the
provincial and district levels, of essential drugs; (ii) the
proper administration of related financial management and data
base systems; and (iii) the rational and sustainable cost-
effective use of such drugs.
7.        Provision of on-the-job training and technical
assistance services to provincial health personnel, so as to
strengthen Savannakhet's capabilities to deliver basic health
services to all its residents.
Part D:   Basic Health Services Delivery in Sekong
1.        Provision of preventive, curative and promotive health
care packages to the populations of the districts of Sekong.
2.  Rehabilitating and upgrading: (i) the provincial hospital in
Sekong; and (ii) the Thateng district hospital in Sekong.
3.  Constructing and equipping five (5) rural health centers in
Sekong.
4.  Provision of civil works and related goods (including drugs,
medical supplies and vehicles), equipment and materials in
respect of the provision of the services and works referred to
in Paragraphs 1, 2, and 3 hereinabove.
5.  Carrying out of a time-based action plan for: (i) the cost
effective and timely financing and supply, at both the
provincial and district levels, of essential drugs; (ii) the
proper administration of related financial management and data
base systems; and (iii) the rational and sustainable cost-
effective use of such drugs.
6.        Provision of on-the-job training and technical
assistance services to provincial health personnel, so as to
strengthen Sekong's capabilities to deliver basic medical
services to all its residents.
Part E:   Institutional Strengthening
1.  Provision of technical assistance services to: (a) the
Borrower to assist it in carrying out the Malaria Control
Program under Part A of the Project; and (b) to Savannakhet and
Sekong to assist each of them in carrying out their respective
Parts C and D of the Project.
2.  Provision of technical assistance services to the PCU to
strengthen its capacity for day-to-day supervision of the
implementation of the Project.
Part F:   Pilot Basic Health Services Delivery in Boloven and
          Saysomboune
1.  Carrying out, on a pilot basis, a basic health services
program in Boloven, including the provision of works for: (a)
constructing three (3) district hospitals; and (b) constructing
or rehabilitating, as the case may be, ten (10) health centers.
2.  Carrying out, on a pilot basis, a basic health services
program in Saysomboune, including the provision of works for:
Page  15
(a) constructing an inter-district hospital; (b) constructing
three (3) district hospitals; and (c) constructing or
rehabilitating, as the case may be, four (4) health centers.
3.  Provision, on a pilot basis, of: (a) technical assistance
services in respect of the foregoing; and (b) training and
technical assistance services to provincial health personnel,
so as to strengthen Boloven's and Saysomboune's capabilities to
deliver basic medical services to their residents.
4.  Provision of goods (including drugs, medical supplies and
vehicles), equipment and materials in respect of carrying out
the activities referred to in Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3
hereinabove.
                            *   *   *  *  *  *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the "Guidelines"),
and in accordance with the following additional procedures:
    (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances andaward the contract. The 
bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of bid price
to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over
the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Association's
prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1. of
this Section, the Association's prior approval will be required
for: (i) a first extension of the bid validity period, if the
period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any
subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance
with this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard
bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary
for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower
shall use bidding documents based on other internationally
recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers and Contractors
1.  In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A. 1 hereof, goods manufactured in
the territory of the Borrower may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions
of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1
through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
2.  In the procurement of works in accordance with the
Page  16
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant
a margin of preference to domestic contractors in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Local Competitive Bidding Procedures
    (a) Contracts for works estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000), up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of seven hundred
thousand dollars ($700,000), may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
    (b) Contracts for goods estimated to cost up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of thirty thousand dollars
($30,000) may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.  Local Shopping
    Contracts for equipment and supplies estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000)
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of seven hundred thousand dollars ($700,000), may be
procured on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three (3) suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part D:   Pre-qualification
    Bidders for the works under paragraph C.1. above shall be
pre-qualified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part E:   Procurement Practices
    Without any limitation or restriction upon any of the
provisions of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall ensure, in
respect of the procurement of works in accordance with the
procedures referred to in Part A hereof, that:
1.        All tender documents shall be made available in the
English language, as well as in the Lao language;
2.        Foreign bidders shall not be required to have local
agents;
3.        No prior registration of foreign bidders shall be
required;
4.        No preference shall be granted on the basis of: (a)
national origin of the bidder, except as provided in paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines, and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto; (b) the legal nature of the bidder; or (c)
any financial facilities offered by a bidder, such as export
credit or suppliers' credit;
5.        The opening of bids shall take place in public and in
the presence of all bidders wishing to attend, including
foreign bidders; and
6.        Awards shall be made to the lowest evaluated bidder,
irrespective of the bidder's national origin.
Part F: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Page  17
1.  Review of pre-qualifications: with respect to the pre-
qualification of bidders as provided in Part D hereof, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    With respect to: (i) all contracts awarded pursuant to the
provisions of Part A hereof; and (ii) each contract for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000) or more per contract, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two (2) conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
3.  With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to the
provisions of Part C hereof the Borrower, shall furnish to the
Association for its review and approval a draft of the
negotiated contract, and shall furthermore furnish to the
Association two conformed copies of each such contract promptly
after its execution and prior to the delivery to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account or to making the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
4.        The figure of fifteen percent (15%) is hereby specified
for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.     Employment of Consultants
1.  Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to consultants: (a) whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank; and (b) who shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the "Consultant Guidelines").
2.  For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall
employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with
the Bank.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000) each; or (b) contracts for the employment of
consulting individuals estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) each. However,
this exception to prior Association review shall not apply to:
(i) the terms of reference for such contracts; (ii) single
source selection of firms; (iii) assignments of a critical
nature as reasonably determined by the Association; (iv)
amendments to contracts for consulting firms raising the
contract value to the equivalent of one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000) or more; or (v) amendments to contracts for
the employment of consulting individuals raising the contract
value to the equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or
Page  18
more.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.        For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a) The term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) set forth in the table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b) The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
    (c) The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to six hundred thousand dollars ($600,000) to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule;
provided, however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount
equivalent to three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000) until
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account,
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered by the bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of five
million dollars ($5,000,000).
2.        Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.        After the Association has received evidence
satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
    (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts
determined by the Association to be required to pay for
Eligible Expenditures during the four (4) months following the
date of each such request, which amount shall not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of
such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Association
shall have determined to be so required.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                such intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for Eligible
                Expenditures.
Page  19
    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective Eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
    4. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
    5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a) If, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b) If the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
    (c) If, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
    (d) Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
Eligible Expenditures.
6.        (a) If the Association shall have determined, at any
time, that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
Page  20
    (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit
in the Special Account.
    (d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
                                Schedule 5
                        Project Implementation Plan
    Without limitation or restriction upon any of the other
provisions of this Agreement, the Project shall be carried out
in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan set forth
hereinbelow:
1.  Overall Project Implementation Arrangements. The Borrower
shall carry out: (a) Parts A, B, E and F of the Project through
the MOH, IMPE and IHE, as required; and (b) Parts C and D of
the Project through the provincial health services departments
of Savannakhet and Sekong. Overall day-to-day supervision and
coordination of Project implementation will be the
responsibility of the PCU.
2.  Project Implementation Unit. Throughout the duration of the
Project, the PCU shall be maintained with the necessary
resources and shall be headed, at all times, by a Project
director to be assisted by two (2) Project deputy directors
(comprising a Lao national and an expatriate), an accountant,
a procurement manager and support staff in appropriate numbers.
The responsibilities of the PCU shall include: (a) monitoring
and reporting on the progress achieved in Project
implementation; (b) ensuring that the procurement of works,
goods and services, to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, is carried out in a timely manner and with due
efficiency; (c) ensuring that all proposals and requests for
the counterpart funding necessary for the Project are submitted
in accordance with the Borrower's, Savannakhet's and Sekong's
budgetary timetable and related procedures therefor; (d)
maintaining Project records and accounts, in respect of Parts
A, B, E and F of the Project; (e) consolidating all Project
accounts; (f) managing the operation of the Special Account;
(g) preparing Credit disbursement applications for submission
to the Association; and (h) arranging for the timely auditing
of Project accounts, statements of expenditures and the Special
Account.
3.  Project Monitoring and Evaluation. The PCU shall be
responsible for monitoring and reporting, on a regular basis,
on the progress achieved in Project implementation. Project
reporting requirements shall include: (a) semi-annual Project
progress reports; (b) annual Project performance reports; and
(c) the Project completion report.  The PCU shall prepare the
semi-annual reports in a simple descriptive and tabular form to
compare actual accomplishments against agreed upon
implementation schedules and the Project Performance Plan.
Annual Project performance reviews will be conducted jointly by
representatives of the Borrower, Savannakhet, Sekong and the
Association not later than June 30 in each Fiscal Year, and a
comprehensive mid-term review shall be carried out not later
than June 30, 1998.
4.  Implementation of Malaria Control Program. The director of
IMPE shall be responsible for implementing the malaria control
component of the Project, and in such capacity will report to
the Project director. A central implementation team, consisting
of the IMPE director, four (4)IMPE division chiefs, the IMPE
administrator, the PCU manager and two (2) expatriate
Page  21
specialists, will be responsible for the technical,
supervisory, and logistic support required by the network of
provincial, district and village stations under that component.
The two (2) regional directors will be accountable to the IMPE
director for the implementation of the Malaria Control Program
in the concerned provinces assigned to their regions.
Provincial health directors will be responsible for the
implementation of the Malaria Control Program in their
respective provinces, and shall organize a provincial
implementation team for that purpose.
5.  Provincial Basic Health Services Delivery. The provincial
basic health services components of the Project (Parts C and D
of the Project) shall be carried out by the respective
provincial health services departments of Savannakhet and
Sekong. In each of Savannakhet and Sekong, a Project steering
committee, to be chaired by the Provincial Vice-Governor, will
provide policy guidance and general oversight on Project
implementation within each province. The membership of each
steering committee shall include representatives of the
corresponding provincial bureau of finance, bureau of
construction and health services department. Day-to-day
implementation will be carried out by the responsible units
within the provincial health services department.
Representatives of the provincial hospital, district health
services, pharmacy, malaria control, primary health care and
health education units in each of Savannakhet and Sekong will
meet regularly, as a technical support group, to ensure that
the various activities to be implemented under the Project are
being duly coordinated within the framework of the Savannakhet
Health Plan and the Sekong Health Plan.
