Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
(First Health Project)
between
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by the
GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN
Dated February 3, 1992
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 3, 1992, between LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (the 
Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) acting as 
Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds provided by the GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN 
(Japan).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between Japan and 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Association 
(collectively, the Bank), Japan has requested the Bank, and the Bank has agreed, to 
administer grant funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain 
programs and projects supported by the Bank in accordance with the provisions of such 
letter agreement;
WHEREAS (B) the Recipient has requested and Japan has agreed to make available 
to the Recipient a grant (the Grant) out of said grant funds to finance the cost of 
carrying out the technical assistance described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the 
Technical Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth; 
WHEREAS (C) the Recipient has requested the Bank to carry out the Technical 
Assistance;
Page  2
WHEREAS (D) the Bank has agreed to carry out the Technical Assistance on the 
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions; Term of Technical Assistance
Section 1.01. The Technical Assistance shall consist of services to be 
undertaken by consultants (the Consultants) who shall have expertise in the following 
areas:
(a)
health manpower development;
(b)
health education services;
(c)
health administration;
(d)
architectural and equipment studies and surveys;
(e)
primary health care; 
(f)
control of malaria and other endemic diseases;
(g)
financial analysis; and 
(h)
essential pharmaceutical products.
Section 1.02. As used in this Agreement, the terms "yen" and "¥" mean the 
currency of Japan, and the term "Consultants" includes individual consultants as well 
as any consulting firm that provides any of the experts referred to in Section 1.01.
Section 1.03. The Consultants are expected to provide a total of 18 man-months 
of service.
ARTICLE II
Responsibilities of the Administrator
Section 2.01. The Administrator shall make reasonable efforts to secure the 
services of the Consultants, ensure the availability of adequately qualified local 
counterpart staff, and shall review for approval the specifications of equipment and 
vehicles and the related operating costs.
Section 2.02. The Administrator shall utilize the Grant to finance, on a grant 
basis, the following expenditures: 
(a)
In connection with the services of the Consultants:
(i)
remuneration, per diem and other allowances;
     (ii)
international and local travel expenses;
    (iii)
out-of-pocket expenses, including communications and reports, 
incurred by the Consultants in foreign and local currency in the 
performance of their services; and
     (iv)
official local travel and incidential expenses.
(b)
In connection with local training:
(i)
local travel expenses;
     (ii)
per diems;
    (iii)
supplies and materials; and
     (iv)
official local travel and incidental expenses.
Section 2.03. The amount of the Grant to be provided by Japan for the Technical 
Assistance pursuant to Section 2.02 shall not exceed the equivalent of twenty eight 
Page  3
million yen (¥28,000,000). 
Section 2.04. The recruitment, engagement and supervision of the Consultants 
shall be the responsibility of the Administrator and shall be done according to the 
Administrator's applicable procedures.
ARTICLE III
Responsibilities of the Recipient
Section 3.01. The Recipient shall cooperate with the Administrator and the 
Consultants to ensure that the Technical Assistance is carried out promptly and 
effectively and, for this purpose, shall issue appropriate instructions to its 
officials, agents and representatives.
Section 3.02. The Recipient shall:
(a)
make arrangements for all personnel of the Consultants assigned to the 
Technical Assistance (other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of 
the Recipient's territories) and all dependents of such personnel promptly to be 
provided with any necessary entry and exit visas, residence and work permits, exchange 
documents and travel documents required for their stay in the Recipient's territories 
during the duration of the Technical Assistance;
(b)
facilitate clearance through its customs of any equipment, materials and 
supplies required for the Technical Assistance and any personal effects of the 
personnel of the Consultants assigned to the Technical Assistance (other than 
nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient's territories) and 
the dependents of such personnel;
(c)
permit the Consultants to bring into, and withdraw from, the Recipient's 
territories reasonable amounts of foreign currency for purposes related to the 
Technical Assistance;
(d)
permit the personnel of the Consultants assigned to the Technical 
Assistance (other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the 
Recipient's territories) and the dependents of such personnel to bring into, and 
withdraw from, the Recipient's territories reasonable amounts of foreign currency for 
their personal use; and
(e)
exempt the Consultants and the personnel of the Consultants assigned to 
the Technical Assistance from (or the Recipient shall pay on behalf of the Consultants 
and such personnel) any taxes, duties, fees, levies and other impositions imposed 
under the laws and regulations in effect in the Recipient's territories on the 
Consultants and such personnel in respect of:
(i)
any payments whatsoever made to the Consultants and such personnel 
(other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of 
the Recipient's territories) in connection with the carrying out 
of the Technical Assistance;
     (ii)
any equipment, materials and supplies brought into the Recipient's 
territories by the Consultants for the purpose of carrying out the 
Technical Assistance and which, after having been brought into 
such territories, will be subsequently withdrawn therefrom by 
them;
    (iii)
any equipment, material and supplies brought into the Recipient's 
territories by the Consultants for the purpose of carrying out the 
Technical Assistance and which will be consumed therein or become 
the property of the Recipient; and
     (iv)
any property brought into the Recipient's territories by the 
Consultants or such personnel (other than nationals of the 
Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient's terri- tories) 
or the dependents of such personnel for their personal use and 
which will be consumed therein or subsequently withdrawn therefrom 
by them upon their respective departure from the Recipient's 
territories, provided that the Consultants, such personnel and 
their dependents shall follow the usual customs procedures of the 
Recipient in importing property into the Recipient's territories. 
Page  4
Section 3.03. The Recipient shall be responsible for dealing with any claims 
arising out of, or resulting from, the Technical Assistance that may be brought by 
third parties against the Administrator. The Recipient shall indemnify the 
Administrator against any costs, claims, damages or liabilities arising out of, or 
resulting from, any acts or omissions in connection with the Technical Assistance.
Section 3.04. For purposes of carrying out the Technical Assistance, the 
Recipient shall make available to the Consultants, free of charge, the data, services, 
facilities and equipment set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Recipient shall make available to the Consultants, free of 
charge, such counterpart personnel to be selected by the Recipient, with the advice of 
the Administrator and the Consultants, as are set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. If any member of the counterpart personnel fails to perform adequately any 
work assigned to him by the Consultants that is consistent with the position occupied 
by such member, the Consultants may request the replacement of such member, and the 
Recipient shall not unreasonably refuse to act upon such request.
Section 3.06. The Recipient shall procure equipment and vehicles for the purpose 
of carrying out the Technical Assistance in accordance with procedures consistent with 
those set forth in Section I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Administrator in May 1985. 
ARTICLE IV
Reports and Other Matters
Section 4.01. The Recipient and the Administrator shall, from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the Technical Assistance and consult on 
any reports prepared by the Consultants and the implementation of any recommendations 
made in those reports.
Section 4.02. The Administrator may use any reports prepared by the Consultants 
for any purpose that the Administrator may consider appropriate but those reports may 
not be made public except by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date, Suspension
and Termination
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties.
Section 5.02. The Recipient may at any time request the Administrator in writing 
to terminate the Technical Assistance.  Whether or not the Recipient has made such a 
request, the Administrator may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the 
Recipient, terminate the Technical Assistance if any circum- stances arise that, in 
the opinion of the Administrator, interfere or threaten to interfere with the 
successful implementation of the Technical Assistance, the accomplishment of its 
purposes, or the execution of the Technical Assistance in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of this Agreement.
Section 5.03. If the Technical Assistance is suspended or terminated, the 
Recipient and the Administrator shall consult with each other concerning any further 
action that may be necessary or desirable.
Section 5.04. The Administrator is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient 
and shall not have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall 
have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Administrator 
pursuant to this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Representation
Section 6.01. The officials responsible for the implementation of this Agreement 
shall be:
For the Recipient:
Minister of Public Health
Page  5
Ministry of Public Health
Vientiane
Lao PDR
Cable address:
Ministry of Public Health
Vientiane
LAO PDR
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
By /s/ L. Phetsavan
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ G. S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Description of Technical Assistance
The objective of the Technical Assistance is to assist the Recipient in the 
preparation of a proposed First Health Project (the Proposed Project).
The Technical Assistance will consist of the provision of consulting and health 
services, fellowships, local training and equipment and vehicles.
The Proposed Project aims at (i) reducing the high incidence of preventable 
communicable diseases and high fertility rate in the Savannakhet and Sekong provinces; 
(ii) increasing the efficiency of health services delivery through the strengthening 
of provincial and district health systems in the two provinces mentioned in (i) above, 
as well as the administrative capacity at the Ministry of Public Health; (iii) 
establishing training curricula adapted to the health needs of the population; (iv) 
strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Public Health to formulate, analyze and 
implement health policies; (v) enhancing the distribution and use of essential 
pharmaceutical products; and (vi) expanding the national malaria control program. 
SCHEDULE 2
Page  6
Description of Services, Facilities,
Equipment and Counterpart Personnel to be Made
Available by the Recipient
The Recipient shall:
(i)
appoint a project director at the Ministry of Public Health in Vientiane 
to coordinate all preparation activities in connection with the Proposed Project and a 
project coordinator in each of the Savannakhet and Sekong provinces;
     (ii)
make available at the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare in Vientiane 
and in each of the Savannakhet and Sekong provinces such office space, office 
furniture and telephone and secretarial services as shall be necessary for the 
efficient preparation of the Proposed Project; and
    (iii)
make all appropriate arrangements as shall be necessary to facilitate for 
the personnel of the Consultants (a) all travel within Lao PDR for purposes of 
carrying out the Technical Assistance described in Schedule 1 hereof; and (b) the 
finding of suitable local housing in Vientiane and the provinces of Savannakhet and 
Sekong.
