Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20399
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 96.2 MILLION
AND ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$23 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR A
DAM SAFETY PROJECT
PROJECT ID: P009877
IBRD LOAN NUMBER: 3325-IN
IDA CREDIT NUMBER: 2241-IN
May 10, 2000
Rural Development Sector Management Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs.)
1991: US$ 1.00 = Rs. 18.58
1992: US$ 1.00 = Rs. 25.95
1993: US$ 1.00 = Rs. 26.20
1994: US$ 1.00 = Rs.31.37
1995: US$ 1.00 = Rs. 31.38
1996: US$ 1.00 = Rs. 35.67
1997: US$ 1.00 = Rs. 35.87
1998: US$ 1.00 = Rs. 39.37
1999: US$ 1.00 = Rs. 42.50
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (in) =3.28 feet; I kilometer (km) = 0.62 miles; I hectare (ha)  2.47 acres;
I million cubic meter (Mm3) = 810 acre-feet or 35.3 MfM3
1 cubic meter per second (m3/s) = 35.31 cubic foot per second (cfs);
I cubic foot per second (cfs) = 0.028 cubic meters per second (mn3/sec); I metric ton = 2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Category I dams    Dams identified at appraisal for remedial works
Category II dams   Darns that at appraisal required to be inspected and investigated for identitfing
required remedial works
CWC                Central Water Commission
DAD                Depth Area Duration
DCA                Development Credit Agreement
DOI                Department of Irrigation (Rajasthan)
DSC                Dam Safety Committee (in each Project State)
DSO                 Dam Safety Organization (in CWC and in each Project State)
DSRP               Dam Safety Review Panel
DOWR               Department of Water Resources (Madhya, Pradesh, Orissa and Tanil Nadu
ERR                Economic Rate of Return
FRR                Financial Rate of Return
FRL                Full Reservoir Level
GOI                Government of India
GOR                Government of Rajasthan
GOTN               Government of Tamil Nadu
HO                  Hydrology Organization of CWC
ICOLD               Intemational Committee on Large Dams
IITM               India Institute for Tropical Meteorology
ICR                 Implementation Completion Reporting
IMD                India Meteorological Department
ILI                Intensive Learning ICR
MOF                Ministry of Finance
MTR                Midterm Review
MWL                Maximun Water Level
O&M                Operation and Maintenance
PCR                Project Completion Report
PMF                Probable Maximum Precipitation
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
SDSO                State Dam Safety Organization
SPF                 Standard Project Flood
Vice President:   Mieko Nishmizu
Country Manager/Director:   Edwin R. Lim
Section Manager/Director:   Ridwan Ali
Water Team Leader:   Keith Oblitas
Task Team Leader:   E.V. Jagannathan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
DAM SAFETY PROJECT
(Loan No. 3325-IN / Credit No. 2241-IN)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1.   Project Data .....................................................1
2.   Principal Performance Ratings ..............1.......................................1
3.   Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry .......... 1
4.   Achievement of Objective and Outputs .........................   .............................4
5.   Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome ...........................................9
6.   Sustainability .....................................................                   12
7.   Bank and Borrower Perfornance ..................         ................................... 13
8.   Lessons Learned ..................................................... 18
9.   Partner Comments .....................................................                21
10. Additional Information .31
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix .32
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing .41
Annex 3. Economics Costs and Benefits .44
Annex 4. Bank Inputs .45
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objective/Outputs of Components .46
Annex 6. Ratings for Bank and Borrower Performance .47
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents .48
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results .49
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results .64
Annex 10. Borrowers PCR                  ..69
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
DAM SAFETY PROJECT
(Loan No. 3325-IN / Credit No. 2241-IN)
Preface
This is the Intensive Learning Implementation Completion Report (ILI) for the Dam
Safety Project in India, for which Loan 3325-IN in the amount of US$23 million and Credit
2241-IN in the amount of SDR 96.2 million (US$130 million equivalent) were approved on
May 14, 1991 and made effective on July 11, 1991. The participating states were Madhya
Pradesh, Orissa, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu. The Loan was canceled on June 11, 1995. SDR 20
million (US$27.2 million) was canceled from the Credit on July 31, 1997 and a further SDR 7.4
million (US$10.1 million) was cancelled on September 30, 1998.
The Credit closed on September 30, 1999, two years later than planned at appraisal.
Final disbursement took place on February 28, 2000 at which time a balance of US$ 9.017
million was cancelled.
The ICR was prepared jointly by the staff of SASRD and FAO/World Bank Co-
operative Program and reviewed by Mr. Christopher Konecki (EASRD) and Dr. Subhash
Chandra (Consultant). The Borrower provided comments that are a supporting document in the
ICR file.
Preparation of this ILI was begun during a mission to India between October 19 and
November 14, 1999, during which all participating states were visited. This included site visits
and detailed discussions with officials and stakeholders, the holding of a Stakeholders Workshop
in New Delhi on November 11- 12, 1999, conducting a Beneficiary Survey in October-November
1999 and examination of material in the project file. The ILI mission included participation of
the World Bank's Dam Safety Advisor, Mr. Alessandro Palmieri. The results of the Beneficiary
Survey and the Stakeholders' Workshop are presented respectively in Annexes 8 and 9. The
Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing draft Project Completion
Reports prepared by each of the participating states and the Central Water Commission.






Project ID: P009877                                        Project Name: DAM SAFETY
Team Leader: E. V. Jagannathan                             TL Unit: SASRD
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR            Report Date: May 10, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: DAM SAFETY                                      L/C/TFNumber: 33250; 22410
CountryIDepartment: INDIA                                                 Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: VM - Natural Resources Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  12/08/89                                 Effective: 09/09/91           07/11/91
Appraisal:  12/01/90                                  MTR: 03/31/94               12/01/94
Approval:  05/14/91                                 Closing: 09/30/97            09/30/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: Government of India/CENTRAL WATER COMMISSION
Other Partners: Governments of Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Rajasthan and Tarnil Nadu
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                            A. Karaosmanoglu
Country Manager:     Edwin Lim                                  Heinz Vergin
Sector Manager:      Ridwan Ali                                 J. Alejandro GutierrezWijnand
Team Leader at ICR:   E.V. Jagannathan                          W. Price
ICR Primary Author:   E.V.Jagannathan; and R.G.
Paterson (FAO-CP)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL-Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN-Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time:
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1   The objectives of the project as described in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) were to
improve the safety of selected dams in the Project States through (a) remedial works, (b) installation of
basic safety facilities, and (c) strengthening of the institutions of the Borrower and the project states
responsible for assuring dam safety.



3.1.2  These objectives were realistic and important for the country, which had many dams that required
safety review and strengthening. When the project was prepared, the Govermment of India (GOI) was
seeking to become more effective in dam safety assurance. Although a start had been made in laying out a
conceptual framework and establishing a National- Committee on Dam Safety and a starting nucleus of a
Dam Safety Organization (DSO) in the Central Water Commission (CWC), the tempo of dam safety
activity in India had not kept pace with the needs, and a backlog of potential risk had accumulated. It was
realized that many largel dams were hydrologically unsafe in that they had experienced floods larger than
their original design floods. There was a lack of funding, insufficient institutions specialized in dam safety
and a shortage of technically specialized staff allocated exclusively to the needs of maintaining an active,
viable dam safety assurance program. The project was to address these issues. The project was unique in
that it was the first Bank project directed entirely at dam safety. The standards followed under this project
were essentially those set out by the Intemational Commission on Large Dams (ICOLD), which are
generally accepted as applicable in many countries.
1. Large dams are defined as being more than 15 m high or more than 10 m high and either more than 500 m
long or with reservoir volume more than I Mm3 or maximum flood discharge greater than 2,000 m3n.
3.2 Revised Objective:
None
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1  The original components were:
(a) Institutional strengthening of CWCs, DSOs, and CWCs, Hydrology Organization (HO)
through assignment of staff, training, technical assistance, provision of equipment and
consultant support ($3 million).
(b) Reviewing the existing flood forecasting facilities in one or more selected interstate river basins
and exploring the possibility of improving such facilities ($10.7 million).
(c) Technical assistance to Dam Safety Committees (DSC) to be established in each project state;
and institutional strengthening of DSO and the Department of Irrigation (DOI) and Department
of Water Resources (DOWR) through additional staff, technical assistance, training, provision
of equipment, and services of consultants ($9 million).
(d) Improvement of basic safety related facilities at an unspecified number of dam sites selected by
the project states through provision of communications equipment and real time hydrologic
data gathering equipment, power backup systems, monitoring instrumentation, construction
and rehabilitation of all-weather access roads, and other means ($27 million).
(e) Remedial works at dams selected in accordance with criteria established by DSC ($147.1
million).
3.3.2. These components were well suited to achieving the stated objectives of the project and, subject to
the issues described below, were suited to the capacities of the implementing agencies.
- 2 -



3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1  The project was restructured twice.  The restructuring was mainly in the remedial works
component which constituted 75 percent of project costs. In September 1997, the Annex to Schedule 2 of
the DCA was amended to reflect actual progress and what could realistically be expected during the
extended project period by omitting seven dams (out of 33) identified for remedial works (Category I dams)
and listing 14 dams to be inspected and investigated to identify required remedial works (Category II
dams). A condition for further extension was that satisfactory progress should be made during the period
of the first extension.
3.4.2  In September 1998, when the closing date was extended, the extension did not include Tamil Nadu
because of its unsatisfactory performance. This eliminated a further 5 dams and reduced the total number
of Category I dams under remedial works to 21 (there were no Category II dams in Tamil Nadu). Also,
telemetry for Hirakud Dam in Orissa did not figure in the extension from the basic facilities component of
the project due to difficulty in resolving contractual problems.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1  The project was unique, being the first World Bank project devoted entirely to dam safety. Though
the components were relatively straight forward the project was institutionally complex, involving four
states and central government in all stages of inspection, investigation, design, approval, procurement and
implementation of works that were often technically sophisticated and outside the normal experience of
many of those involved. The development of institutional arrangements, building on the idea of DSO that
would be responsible for reviewing and inspecting large dams and identifying those requiring urgent
remedial works, was both right and necessary. The project correctly included important and valuable
subordinate activities such as the development of atlases of probable maximum precipitation (PMP), the
further development of flood forecasting and the need for operational models for emergency spillway
operation. The risk that states would be slow in making funds available for remedial works was correctly
identified at appraisal.
3.5.2  However, appraisal of the project had a number of deficiencies. Project preparation in the states
was not as far advanced as assumed in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and did not comply with the
general rule of OMS 2.28 that procurement for the first year's program should be able to start shortly after
loan approval. The project also did not address chronic problems already recognized in Bank-financed
irrigation projects concerning delays in procurement, timeliness and adequacy of counterpart funds, and
continuity of staff in state implementing agencies. The lack of constitutional authority and legislation for
CWC to enforce a national program of dam safety assurance was recognized as a problem (SAR Annex 1,
para 19), but the project did not address it. No attempt was made to estimate the benefits of the project
works, and there was no justification at all given for the inclusion of the flood forecasting component.
Criteria for judging achievement of project objectives were not well quantified in the SAR. Although the
number of dams identified at appraisal for remedial works (Category I dams) was clearly stated, there was
no target for remedial works on dams yet to be identified (Category II dams), nor for most basic facilities.
3.5.3  Technical weaknesses in the project design included: (a) an over emphasis on the design flood as
the detenninant of safety with less regard to the general flood regime and the general flood operation of
dams; (b) lack of appreciation of the importance of historical data, particularly the characteristics of
historical floods; and (c) unclear lines of responsibility and leadership for the project, especially to deal
with problems on interstate rivers (see Annex 7.2). In other words, structural issues (such as adequate
- 3 -



spillway capacity) were stressed. perhaps at the expense of nonstructural issues (spillway operation, flood
mitigation). The linkage between flood forecasting and the operation of the dams during floods is not well
developed, and the SAR did not (lefine well enough a program of work to ensure the linkage of these issues.
The hydrological tasks were not specified in sufficient detail nor were they comprehensively defined in the
SAR. There should at least have been a requirement to study in detail the highest flood of record at each
dam, including analysis of the reservoir operation used to pass it, and to seek lessons from alternative
operation strategies using computer simulation.
3.5.4  Given the project's uniqueness, it was to be expected that problems would be encountered and
lessons learned at all stages from design through implementation. Such was indeed the case, and it is
appropriate to recognize this as the wisdom of hindsight is applied to all phases of this operation.
Nevertheless, the lack of readiness for implementation at the start of the project (in institutional capacity"
hydrological design and procurement) could have been better appreciated at appraisal. This lack of
readiness had a direct bearing on the initial performance of the project; as discussed below. It took several
years for the program to gather momentum, and the core implementation difficulties of the project are
mostly attributable to this starting situation. Accordingly, quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory. For
both the Bank and the borrower, preparedness could have been better. Alternatively, the project could have
been down scaled or might have included a two- to three-year initial phase for building institutional
capacity and technical readiness.
1. The World Bank Operational Mlfanual Statement 2.28. State of project preparation necessary for loan
approval.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1   Notwithstanding the start-up difficulties that the project had to overcome, and a number of
implementation difficulties discussed in this and subsequent sections, the overall outcome of the project was
positive. This conclusion is supported by the perception of the stakeholders (of respondents to the Intensive
Learning ICR (IlI) beneficiary survey, 88 percent considered the project had fully or partially achieved its
objectives; see Annex 8). The project outcome is thus rated as satisfactory.
4.1.2 The "institutionalization" of dam safety. A key achievement is that dam safety has become
generally accepted in India as a necessity, with an important start also made in terms of development of
institutions and technical capacity. At central and state levels, awareness has grown appreciably. The
initially fledgling central institutions have been strengthened considerably. At the level of the four states,
institutions (previously nonexistent in some states) and basic capacity for dam safety have been created.
The start made by these states and through promotion of dam safety by the center has started to spill over
to other states. Thus 12 states (out of 25 states) owning about 4,251 large danis are members of the
National Committee on Dam Safety, play active roles. Considerable interest has also been expressed in a
follow-on dam safety project, with all 12 states requesting participation. In the ILI Beneficiary Survey,
two-thirds of the respondents felt that the Dam Safety Project was "highly relevant", and two-fifths felt that
expenditure on dam safety should be the first charge on water sector investment in India.
4.1.3 As discussed in section 4.2.2 it appears that commitment by the Government of Madhya Pradesh
(GOMP), the Government of Rajasthan (GOR) and the Govemnment of Orissa (GOO) to the institutional
concept, as envisaged in the project documents. continues. The concept of prioritization of dams and
rehabilitation measures has been adopted. The institutional strengthening in terms of creation and
-4 -



operation of permanent DSOs equipped with requisite staff carrying out periodic inspection of the health
status of large dams has been achieved. CWC has also been strengthened, with permanent staff increased
and equipment and training provided. In other words India's "dam safety assurance program" has made an
important start towards being "institutionalized".
4.1.4     An exception to this positive institutional progress has been the of Government Tamil Nadu
(GOTN). Its commitment to the institutional concept has waned. GOTN has now severely reduced the
number of staff in the DSO, so that, at the time of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) mission,
only four technical staff remained. Continuation of this situation would seriously affect the DSO's future
operation, although GOTN has informed the ICR mission that staff numbers would be increased again.
4.1.5  Improvement in physical safety. The objective of improving dam safety in the four project states
through carrying out remedial measures has been achieved at 33 sick dams. Although about half of the 33
dams at which remedial works are completed differ from the initially identified list of 33 dams in the SAR,
dam safety works were adequately identified and implemented. Additionally, works are ongoing at seven
other sites. In terms of value of construction, the remedial works achieved of Rs 2,806 million amount to
82 percent of the appraisal estimated Rs 3,431 million. Based on selective examination of documents,
discussion with state and national experts and site visits, reduction of seepage through dams, structural
improvements and increased spillway capacities for increased design floods dams have improved dam
safety.
4.1.6 Under the basic safety facilities component, more works than originally intended have been
completed. Some Rs 788 million of works have been completed against Rs 604 million estimated at
appraisal. These incremental facilities enhance basic requirements for safety assurance and have also
added to the safety of the dams.
4.1.7  Shortcomings and imDrovement areas. Most of the training provided by the project was conducted
later than envisaged in the SAR, which contributed to delay in implementation of the project. In a number
of cases the dam safety concept and new knowledge obtained from training courses have not trickled down
to operative level at dams. The concept of prioritization of dams and rehabilitation measures has sometimes
been adopted with little care to an objective and technically sound assessment of risk. In some cases, dam
serviceability has been addressed rather than safety.
4.1.8  For interstate rivers there is a need to assign responsibility for resolving issues on dams and
cascades of dams. While CWC accepts its role as having responsibility for safety issues relating to
downstream areas as a result of projects on interstate rivers, it is not playing a proactive role mainly due to
the advisory role it is called upon to play on projects/dams constructed on inter-state rivers. CWC has the
ability to compute design floods, and has the software capability to examine the problem holistically.
Present institutional inertia illustrates the need for clearer guidelines on responsibilities, and the need to
develop or improve river basin authorities or boards which could expedite and guide the actions needed (see
Annex 7.4).
4.1.9  During the ICR field visits, it became clear that operation rules for many reservoirs are inadequate.
The general nature of the rules does not permit simple direct gate operations in a flood emergency. Nor are
the management arrangements such as to ensure rapid response to floods (see Annex 7.3). There is a need
to define procedures/decision support system for reservoir gate operation during floods to ensure more
effective control of flood attenuation to optimize downstream benefits and to deliver benefits from flood
forecasting.  These procedures will depend on the availability of forecasts and other information.
Guidelines to operate the gates in case of non-availability of infornation be formulated and prominently
- 5 -



displayed in the gate operating rooms at dams.
4.1.10 States generally do not have adequate hydrological capability to estimate design floods and review
flood operating strategiesl. They prefer to rely on CWC or consultants. However, consultants entrusted
with probable maximum flood (P.MF) analysis have not always perforrned well. This appears to be due in
part to lack of precise terms of reference and adequate supervision. Engineers in India are encouraged to
be generalists, and hydrologists are seen as largely within the engineering .
1. Although the objectives of the Hydrology Project (Cr. 2774-IN) are to improve arrangements, capabilities and facilitates
for measurement, validation, collation, analysis, transfer and dissemination of hydrological and hydrometeorological data,
attention is not paid in that project to estimating design floods.
profession. As disciplines such as hydrology become increasingly technical, this generalization is becomning
outdated.
4.1.11 Sensors and telemetry for the intended flood forecasting systems have been installed and are
operating but the objective of this component has not yet been achieved in that the system has not yet
produced any flood forecasts. The calibration/operation phase is expected in the monsoon period of 2000.
However it is not clear how the expected output will be incorporated into reservoir operations. The flood
forecasting component would have been improved had it included the determination and evaluation of
reservoir operating strategy during floods and the impact of this strategy on dam safety. This should also
be linked to economic analysis of costs and benefits of alternative operating rules.  The lack of
quantification of potential benefits (such as the reduction of damages and losses downstream of the dam)
has resulted in the importance of" dam safety not being fully appreciated by those who prioritize the
allocation of funds.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1  Institutional strengthening of CWC's DSO, and HO. The CWC's DSO, and HO have been
strengthened in terms of darn saf£ty and hydrological review capability and this strengthening is both
effective and sustainable. The present deployment of staff in CWC's DSO and HO is 117 compared to
103 targeted under the project. Regional precipitation atlases have been prepared for two regions against a
projection of three at the SAR stage. The balance work on the preparation of atlases has been initiated but
not completed. The training of the required staff, technical assistance and equipment have generally been
completed as planned (see Annex 1) and CWC is now capable of ensuring that design floods are correctly
computed and that procedures foi inspection, investigation, identification, selection, prioritization, and
preparation of plans of action are properly executed not only for project dams but also for other dams in
India. Draft guidelines on risk analysis have been drafted with the help of the consultants and proposed for
discussion in the National Committee on Dam Safety before their finalization and adoption. CWC
reviewed the flood forecasting facilities in the Charnbal and Mahanadi Basins and improvements are being
implemented. Technical assistance was provided to each state DSC. CWC along with the participating
states also carried out hydrologic review of 128 dams (appraisal estimate 170) and gave procedural
clearance for structural review/carried out structural review of 49 dams (appraisal estimate 44). It is to be
hoped that CWC will extend and focus its remit, especially in terms of being proactive in resolving issues
relating to dams or cascades of dams on interstate rivers.
-6 -



4.2.2  Institutional strengthening of DSO  and DOI/DOWR  in the project states has been
substantially achieved. The staffing status is as shown below:
State                      Projected at appraisal             Staff in place at ICR
Madhya Pradesh                                    101                               82
Orissa                                            76                                68
Rajasthan                                         80                                77
Tamil Nadu                                        55                                 12
Total                                            312                                239
The staffing position is generally satisfactory in the DSOs except in Tamil Nadu. While the staff in place
at the time of the ICR is 82 (compared to 101 targeted at appraisal), in Madhya Pradesh most staff classed
as incremental in the SAR have been redeployed from within their organization. In addition to the
measures described in the SAR, good initiatives have been taken by some states to prepare history of dams
records describing the design and past performance of many of their dams. In Rajasthan, DSO publishes a
regular newsletter with articles related to dams. The states have also performed satisfactorily in carrying
out Phase I inspections of 1,510 dams (appraisal estimate 947) and Phase II investigations of 81 dams
(appraisal estimate 147), in addition to pre/post-monsoon inspection carried out for a number of dams.
These inspections have been institutionalized in all the project states, including Tamil Nadu.
4.2.3 There is a need for more specialization and the development of experience in specific fields. Flood
analysis, flood forecasting, reservoir operation, and the other aspects of the hydrology of reservoirs is one
such field where specialization is desirable. The frequent transfer of engineers who have received specific
training is counter-productive.
4.2.4 Basic safety facilities have been provided at dams in all project states, substantially enhancing
their safety. Achievements in financial terms were Rs 788 million or 130 [percent of the appraisal estimate
of Rs 604 million (there were no physical targets specified at appraisal). A substantial number of dams
were provided with basic facilities as shown below:
Facility                               No. of dams actually provided with
Access Road                                                              181
Communication System                                                     148
Back-up power system                                                      103
Hydrological instrumentation                                              172
-7 -



4.2.5   Over 90 percent of the respondents to the beneficiary survey considered the quality of the basic
facilities satisfactory. In all 182 dams were provided with basic safety facilities. However basic safety
facilities have not been adequately included in dam safety plans (operation and maintenance (O&M)
procedures and emergency preparedness plans). The supply of instruments and monitoring devices was
less than SAR expectations.
4.2.6 Remedial works at 17 ouit of 33 Category I dams identified at appraisal have been completed, nine
other Category I dams have been partially completed, while remedial works at 16 Category II dams (i.e.,
not specifically named in the SAR), have been completed. The remedial works amounted to Rs 2,795
million, or 81 percent of the appraisal estimate of Rs 3,431 million.
4.2.7 In summary, the number of dams at which basic facilities have been provided and where remedial
works have been done are shown below.
State                Basic                        Remedial Works
Facilities     SAR      Completed    Partially            New
Complete         a/                    completed    completed
(Cat 1)      (Cat I)       (Cat I)        (Cat. II)
Madhya                 91           8            3             5              10
Pradesh          I__   _  _       _  __ _  _  _ _  _  _
Orissa                 15           9            6             3               2
Rajasthan              60           7            5             2               2
Tamil Nadu             16           9            3             6               2
Total                 182           33          17             16             16
a/ Category. I dams are those dams which are specifically named in SAR/DCA for undertaking remedial works. Category II dams have
not been specifically narned in SAR to receive remedial works.
4.2.8  Notwithstanding these generally satisfactory physical achievements, reservoir operations need
improvement in several respects. I)uring the ICR field visits it became clear that operation rules for many
reservoirs are inadequate. The general nature of the rules does not permit simple direct gate operations in a
flood emergency and the management arrangements are not such as to ensure rapid response to floods.
There is insufficient awareness of the valuable role that flood forecasting can play in improving operation
and in providing greater benefits. IThere is need for much improvement in the operation of dams with gated
spillways. Properly thought out operating instructions are needed and the procedures for operating gates at
times of flood must be clearly defined and displayed prominently at the dam (see Annex 7.3).
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1        At appraisal, conventional cost/benefit analysis was considered not to be an appropriate
measure or criterion for evaluation of this project. The SAR justified the project on the fact that dam
safety assurance is a regulatory function of government, which is undertaken to prescribed standards for
the benefit of the general public. While economic analysis is an important factor among many other factors
(potential risks of failure, social impact, etc.), there is still much work to be done in devising a suitable and
comprehensive set of criteria for prioritization, which would include not only parameters (such as dam
- 8 -



height and reservoir volume) but would also take into account the extent of potential loss of life and
physical damage downstream. It may be too much to expect that at the time of appraisal such analysis
could have been undertaken; for this reason the ICR has not tried to estimate the economic rate of return
(ERR) or the FRR.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1   As discussed in sections 4.1 and 4.2, the project has substantially strengthened the institutional
base for dam safety in the central government and the participating states. At state levels, this required in
some cases establishing (Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu) and subsequent developing and strengthening (in all
states) of institutions (the DSOs, state DSCs and the Dam Safety Review Panels (OMS 3.8/OP 4.37).
These institutions existed at the central government level and have been strengthened considerably under
the project. Notwithstanding the various recommendations for improvements discussed in this report, these
institutions have been largely effective in implementing the dam safety assurance programs. The first
five-year cycle of safety inspection of large dams has been satisfactorily completed in all four states
(inspection of 1,455 dams against the SAR estimate of 947 dams). The second inspection cycle has already
started for about 100 dams. Biannual inspections of all dams continue. CWC has effectively contributed
to this by training, issuing guidelines for the darn safety program, carrying out dam break analyses,
reviewing hydrology, preparing PMP atlases for hydrology studies, developing design flood computation
procedures, preparing computer simnulation models for training in operation of gated spillways, and
preparing guidelines for emergency preparation procedures. Guidelines for risk analysis and hazard
classifications have been drafted but not yet finalized. Based on these achievements, the permanent staff
strength established, ongoing and planned work programs, and the commitment expressed during the
Stakeholders' Workshop (Annex 9), the dam safety assurance program is likely to be continued on a
permanent basis after the project. This assessment is also reflected in the Beneficiary Survey (Annex 8),
where only 9 percent of the respondents felt that the DSOs would revert back to pre-project status after the
project. Tamil Nadu is the worrisome exception--unless the DSO is restored to an adequate working level
of qualified staff, Tamil Nadu's dam safety program would be significantly impaired. Based on the
analysis and strongly positive assessment for the central institutions and in three of the four states, the
institutional development impact of the project is rated substantial.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1. Alterations in the rate of exchange between the Indian Rupee and the dollar substantially
augmented the Rupee equivalent of the Bank's assistance. The Rupee depreciated by 10 percent between
the appraisal date and approval date; 54 percent between approval date and the midterm review (MTR); 16
percent between MTR and the first extension in September 1997; 17 percent between September 1997 and
the second extension in September 1998; and 2 percent between the second extension and the credit closing
date. In 1995 this contributed to the cancelation of the $23 million loan. In 1997 the credit closing date
was postponed by one year, the project was restructured and SDR 20 million ($27.2 million) was canceled
from the credit. The project was again extended by a year and restructured in 1998, when Tamil Nadu was
dropped from the project and a further SDR 7.4 million ($10.1 million) was canceled from the credit.
-9-



5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1  In spite of the availability of advance IDA funding of up to 25 percent of the approved budget at
the start of the fiscal year, the implementing agencies in the states generally did not obtain this advance due
to lack of coordination between DEA and the state finance departments. There was often a shortage of
funds and this contributed to delays in implementation. The allotment of funds often did not correspond to
the approved budget. Delayed cash flow was an important factor in delay of remedial works, especially in
the first quarter of each financial year. A contributing factor to the delay of project implementation was a
general ban imposed by the MOF on recruiting new staff and the creation of new posts. Disbursement
lagged significantly behind the appraisal schedule throughout the project (shown below). Although the two
primary reasons were because of the initial state of nonreadiness for physical implementation under the
project discussed in section 3.4, and the enhanced value of the loan/credit in Rupee equivalents (in Rupee
terms, the project by closure had spent 93 percent of the appraisal estimated project costs), these were
further exacerbated by the constraints in finance availability during the working season, and other
implementation issues noted elsewhere in this report. The total disbursement is $85.7 million--about 56
percent of the $153 million estimated at appraisal.
200
150
100
50
0
1      2      3      4       5      6       7      8      9      10
Years
-.- SAR estimate -  Actual
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1  Delay in agreement of parameters for remedial works was the main factor affecting the project.
For design floods this was the responsibility of CWC (see DCA paragraph 3.04). Annex 13 of the SAR
planned completion of investigation and analysis for all 7 Category A dams by March 1992; 5 Category B
dams by September 1992; and 21 Category C dams by June 1993. Annex 4 of the SAR shows
hydrological review to be completed for 6 Category A dams. and 3 Category B dams by April 1991.
Except for a few large reservoirs like Gandhisagar and Hirakud (for which reviews were completed later),
hydrology review was not completed until end-1993 or mid-1994. At the project's outset CWC suffered
delays due to tardiness in redeployrnent of staff to DSO, and only in the extended project period were full
staff employed in the designated posts. The opinion was stated at the stakeholders' workshop that there
was an overlap in the perceived responsibilities of CWC, consultants, DSRPs, and others.
5.3.2 There were many procurement delays due to cumbersome administrative arrangements and lack of
familiarity with Bank procedures, aggravated by frequent changes of staff. At times nonavailability of
funds caused the finance departments to delay approval of award of contracts. The failure of Tamil Nadu
- 10-



to meet performance targets during the first year of the project extension resulted in the state being omitted
from the project on October 1, 1998. In 1997 it was reported that contract awards for works to increase
spillway capacity were being purposely delayed by DOWR officers in several states; who considered the
works unjustified (due to the opinion that revised spillway requirements had been overestimated). There
were considerable delays in procurement of instruments and their installation at dams due to difficulties in
mobilizing contractors for small works at scattered locations. Frequent rotation of staff required increased
training efforts.
5.3.3   Another factor inhibiting project implementation was the performance of CWC in the initial years
of the project when CWC saw its coordination role in a less proactive manner and expected the states to
make the initial steps. This was apparent in issues related to dam break modeling and preparation of
conceptual action plans. In some instances CWC was unable to persuade the states concerning the
appropriateness of the revised design floods and the need for risk analysis. There were serious differences
between CWC and the state dam safety review panels. There also appears to be an overlap of the roles of
CWC as an approving authority and as consultant.
1. Category A Dams: top priority dams with evaluations and designs nearly complete (hydrologic reassessment already made);
Category B Dams: deficiencies identified but investigation and evaluation incomplete (hydrologic reassessment not yet made);
Category C Dams: partial deficiencies identified, no significant investigations or designs made (hydrologic reassessment not
yet made); Category D Dams: Dams yet to be fully inspected and evaluated (hydrologic reassessment most likely required).
5.4 Costs and financing:
5.4.1   Estimates of the actual costs are compared with the estimates in the SAR (given below).
Rs. million                          $ million
Project Component         SAR       Actual/ Latest    Actual    SAR     Actual/ Latest    Actual
Estimate     SAR %                  Estimate       SAR %
Institutional Strengthening     68.30        113.43         166       3.00        3.10           103
(CWC)
Flood Forecasting Systems      250.10        174.39         70       10.70        4.29           40
(CWC)
State Institutional Strengthening    205.80  349.72         170      9.00         9.70           108
Basic Safety Facilities        604.50        797.09         132      27.00        21.88           81
Remedial Works                 3,431.10     2,794.87        81       147.10       76.21           52
Total Project Costs           4,559.80      4,229.50        93       196.80       115.18          59
5.4.2   The costs incurred in Rupees are about 93 percent of the appraisal estimate but, due to the
substantial change in exchange rate between the dollar and the Rupee, when expressed in dollars, costs are
about 41 percent less than those estimated at appraisal. Institutional strengthening exceeded the SAR
estimate by 70 percent in Rupee terms and 8 percent in dollar terms, due in part to the longer project
duration. Basic safety facilities exceeded appraisal estimates in Rupees by 32 percent but were about 19
percent less in dollar terms. The main reason for the overall reduction in project costs in Rupee terms (by 7
percent) was the reduction in costs of the remedial works, due mainly to lack of accurate estimates at
appraisal but also to the disbursement and implementation delays described above.
- 11 -



5.4.3  The Borrower's performance with accounting, financial reporting, and auditing requirements was
generally satisfactory though on several occasions the audit reports were submitted after the due date
resulting in suspension of disbursements based on Statement of Expenditure (SoE) procedure. Some of the
audit reports had disallowed certain expenditures for which appropriate action was taken by the Bank to
disallow those expenditures from the withdrawal applications. Since the project was appraised in 1990, the
stringent financial management reviews now specified in OP/BP 10.02 were not undertaken. In spite of
this the project's financial management was satisfactory.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1  Overall the project benefits are assessed as likely to be sustained. Concepts of dam safety as
implemented in the project have been agreed and adopted by the CWC and the four participating states. In
Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan (and to a lesser extent in Orissa), the DSOs have been made permanent
organizations and are likely to remain effective and'sustainable. Many incremental staff are in permanently
established posts. However in T amil Nadu sustainability appears much less likely unless staff numbers are
restored as advised by the GOTN to the ICR mission. Concerning the physical works, it is anticipated that
with the level of safety of dams raised through provision of basic safety facilities and carrying out the
remedial works, most of the special and expensive repairs expenditure have been incurred (these
components together constituted 88 percent of the project cost). Consequently, the provision of funding for
O&M, normally provided by the states on a per ha of cultural command area basis, would enable an
improved routine maintenance of the dams and thereby enhance sustainability of project benefits. Dam
safety awareness raised by the project is expected to contribute to the mobilization of O&M funds in a
positive manner.
6.1.2 Nevertheless there are several areas for concern. The benefits achieved by training staff in dam
safety matters are unlikely to be sustained if staff are rotated away from work related to dam safety. There
is an urgent need to ensure that operation rules (subjective or otherwise) and dissemination of knowledge
relevant to these rules should trickle down to the dam operation level where there is less turnover of
operating staff than in the upper management and supervisory levels. User fliendly decision support
systems specially designed to help the operator to do his work intelligently can go a long way in sustaining
the outcome of the project.
6.1.3  It is worrisome that 51 percent of respondents to the Beneficiary Survey considered the states not
to be in a position to sustain the dam safety program. One can interpret this as reflecting a desire for
inclusion in a follow-up dam safet) project in order to better ensure the necessary funds for the tate DSOs.
This is a cause for concern since this reflects an anxiety on the part of the stakeholders that the project may
not be sustainable unless it is quickly backed up by a follow on project. During the stakeholders'
workshop, particpants (primary respondents in the beneficiary survey) also expressed keen interest in a
follow-on project.
6.1.4 Although the quality of workmanship does not always meet international standards (the
stakeholders' workshop drew attention to the need for more training in construction quality control), there
is no reason to doubt the quality of ihe remedial works that have been completed. However, it is significant
that many of the remedial works were in fact deferred maintenance caused by insufficient budget for
maintenance in the past. It is extremely important that needs-based O&M assessments are regularly
undertaken before the annual budget exercise and adequate provisions made. The states should move away
from the present practice of clubbing the financial requirement of O&M of dam and distribution networks
- 12-



of irrigation water supply. This would better ensure that adequate budget will be secured for the long term
maintenance of the dams. The adequacy of O&M funds is a general problem of the water sector, rather
than of dam safety in particular, but it clearly has relevance for dam safety as well.
6.1.5  In the long-term it is important to recognize that flood forecasting systems have a limited life due to
deterioration of equipment and the continuing improvement of hardware and software. Once they are
completed, sustainability will depend on periodic expensive replacing and upgrading the system every five
to ten years.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1  There are no particular transition arrangements to regular operation. The DSOs in CWC and in
the project states (with the possible exception of Tamil Nadu) are expected to continue to function
satisfactorily, as will the State Dam Safety Committees. O&M of the project dams will continue to be the
responsibility of the relevant river basin chief engineers. The states should ensure continuity of staff posted
in DSOs (Tamil Nadu should restore the staff strength quickly as promised) and perform all the operations
performed during the project (Phase II safety inspection; Phase 112 investigations; pre- and post-monsoon
inspections; prioriting dams needing remedial works; periodic meeting of state DSCs, etc.).
1. Phase I is an inspection to assess the general conditions of a dam and to determine the needfor any
additional engineering investigation and analysis, including hydrological.
2. Phase II investigations are performed where the results of the Phase I inspection indicate the needfor
additional investigation and studies.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1  The project was the first Bank stand alone dam safety project, and considerable credit must be
given to the initiative to mount such a program. India was well suited for this first initiative as it ranks
third in terms of number of large dams in the world (China, the United States, and India), and India showed
receptivity for such a program. Project identification also responded to repeated design problems with
existing dams in ongoing Bank assisted projects. It was inevitable that the initiative would encounter many
unforeseen difficulties, and that both preparation and implementation would entail some mistakes, and
require learning and adjustment. Many innovations had to be introduced. Promoting a project such as this
in India, requiring the hamesssing of GOI's participaton, and the participation of the states, was a
significant achievement.
7.1.2 As discussed in section 3.4, there were a number of weaknesses in project preparation and
appraisal resulting in weak quality at entry and which beset project implementation through most of its life.
During preparation the Bank accepted assurances from the implementing agencies concerning the state of
preparation of the hydrological analysis of project dams that turned out to be too optimistic. The large
impact of the revisions of flood inflows in some important cases was not anticipated. Where structural
solutions were hard to define, remedial works were not specified. The Bank insisted on the inclusion of
very technically advanced flood forecasting systems against the wishes of the Borrower, who expressed
before and during loan negotiations a desire to delete this component from the project. The Bank did not
sufficiently emphasize in the SAR the need to establish clear operating rules for dams with gated spillways.
The implementation plan and performance indicators were also weak, and there was no attempt to estimate
the benefits due to the project works.
- 13 -



7.1.3  With the wisdom of hindsight, more importantly the over-optimism conceming the time required to
establish and build the new institutions, especially at state levels, and to establish and work through the
many new technical procedures and to agree on the various hydrological parameter estimates. At appraisal,
the capacity of CWC to coordinate project imnplementation was also overestimated.  As a result,
implementation took about two to three years longer than anticipated to get significantly underway. A
better course of action would have been to reduce the scope of physical works by about one-third to half, or
to build in a two to three year start-up phase with recognized low activity on physical works, or to delay
appraisal till the remedial measures for the bulk of Category I dams had been fully worked out.
Notwithstanding the innovation of this pioneering program, performance at this juncture contained critical
weaknesses and the Bank's lending performance is assessed as unsatisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1  The Bank's supervision is rated as satisfactory. Supervision missions were regular, thorough, and
contained the expertise required to steer of the project. Through persistent efforts the CWC and the states
were assisted in resolving the various bottlenecks confronting the project, and by the end of the project,
albeit with a two-year extension, the project was able to largely meet its development objectives and
physical targets. Skill-mix covered the core disciplines required in design and construction, hydrology,
institutions, procurement, disbursement and economics. Substantial technical assistance was provided to
the states and CWC, which helped create the various technical and institutional innovations introduced
under the project. In the beneficiary survey 27 percent of respondents rated the Bank's performance as
"highly satisfactory", and a further 50 percent as "satisfactory", with only 7 percent rating Bank
performance as unsatisfactory.
7.2.2  Bank management decisions were also largely appropriate. Cancellation of the loan was done in
1995, a first restructuring and part cancellation of the credit in September 1997, and a second in September
1998. In hindsight, the first restructuring could have been effected earlier; possibly in 1995 after the
end-1994 MTR. The caution of not considering the request of GOI for inclusion of Uttar Pradesh in the
project after MTR was appropriate in view of project experience with the time required for a new state to
gear up its program. The extension in September 1998 did not include Tamil Nadu based on agreed
parameters between the Bank and the GOI and was appropriate given Tarnil Nadu's poor perfonmance.
The decision of allowing an initial one-year extension with conditional agreement in principle for a second
year extension providing that strict performance and implementation acceleration conditions were met, has
also been largely responsible for the project's significant acceleration in implementation and performance in
the last two years. Without the two year extension the project would have fallen significantly short of its
development objectives and implementation targets.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
7.3.1   Overall the Bank helped introduce and implement a pioneering project in a technically difficult field
with limited experience on which to base decisions both at appraisal and during implementation. Some
appraisal mistakes were inevitable, as they were also during implementation. The persistence and
adaptability of the Bank team in conrecting and adjusting as project experience developed, contributed to an
overall satisfactory project outcome. Overall Bank performance has been assessed as satisfactory.
- 14 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1  The performance of the Borrower at preparation has been rated as unsatisfactory. As discussed in
section 3.4, there was considerable overestimation of the state of preparedness of the hydrological analyses
necessary for implementation of remedial works.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1  Government inplementation performance was generally satisfactory. Support was provided to
the project, and the various restructurings and part cancellations were agreed to. The project was also
periodically reviewed by DEA and MOWR along with the Bank and the implementing agencies. A
significant shortcoming was that, although the Bank advanced 25 percent of each year's budget for project
works to the GOI at the start of each financial year, this was generally not all passed on to the states.
There was also a national ban on recruitment which contributed to delay of specialized work.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1  The implementation agencies' performance progressed from problematic in the project's initial
phase to generally satisfactory in the final years. The fundamental achievement was that the new
institutions were created and became progressively operational by project completion, and physical targets
were substantially met. With the exception of Tamil Nadu discussed above, both the central and state
agencies had, by project completion, reached largely satisfactory performance levels. In the beneficiary
survey conducted at the end of the project, only 2 percent of the respondents rated the performance of the
central agency as unsatisfactory, while the corresponding figure for the state implementing agencies was 8
percent.
7.6.2 Nevertheless the bottom-line achievements above, examination of implementation details raise a
number of shortcomings which, if they had been addressed would have improved outcome and the pace of
implementation: (a) DOI/DOWR and their consultants were slow in agreeing hydrological and other design
parameters and in finalizing detailed designs; (b) the project completion report prepared by Rajasthan DSO
states that the services provided by its consultant were not of good standard; (c) there were considerable
delays in the award of major contracts for the remedial works due to slow approval of the contracts by state
authorities; (d) several major construction contracts were poorly managed by the states, which contributed
to the delay in project implementation; (e) the funds required for construction were frequently not available
when needed; (f) budgets for maintenance have sometimes been neither needs-based nor sufficient; and (g)
the procurement and installation of novel instruments and dedicated software for the flood warning system
were more than three years behind SAR's schedule due to differences of opinion between CWC and the
Bank on design modalities and on deployment of staff. Finally, some important opportumities afforded by
the project were foregone. For instance, advantage was not taken of the opportunity to study fully the
possible ways of dealing with the revised design flood at Gandhisagar dam and at the three downstream
dams (see Annex 7.5). The implementing agencies also did not evaluate the environmental impact of
project works, which would have given good opportunity to stress the environmental improvements
resulting from the enhanced safety of the dams.
- 15 -



7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1  By project completion the institutions had developed significantly, technical expertise had
increased, and physical targets had been substantially met. Since the project has been successfully
completed, with progressively improved implementation over time, the borrower's overall performance is
considered satisfactory. This assessment is corroborated in the beneficiary survey results, where 80
percent of the respondents rated the performance of the borrower as either satisfactory or highly
satisfactory.
7.8 Beneficiary Survey:
7.8.1  The survey included the implementing agencies, contractors, consultants, farmers, academia,
experts, and dam safety panel mernbers as all of them had benefited either directly or indirectly from the
project. A detailed questionnaire was prepared and circulated. The questionnaire attempted to elicit
response from the beneficiaries on issues related to project relevance, investment priority, project
objectives, project design, implementation of project components, performance of relevant project agencies,
and issues related to agency coordination and project achievement.  The respondents consisted of
implementing agencies (31), dam safety review panel members (12), farmer representatives (2) and
consultants, experts and contractors (13). Detailed results are in Annex 8, with a sununary provided
below:
Query                                         Response
Project relevance                       Highly Relevant (62%), Relevant (38%)
Achievement of objectives               Fully (28%), Partially ( 60%), Not achieved (7%)
Consistency of project design with      Consistent (52%), Needs major changes (36%)
objectives
All necessary components considered     Yes (49%), No (40%)
Central agency performance              Highly satisfactory (22%), Satisfactory (61%), Unsatisfactory
(5%)
States' performance                     Highly satisfactory (12%), Satisfactory (43%), Unsatisfactory
(6%)
Bank's performance                      Highly satisfactory (27%), Satisfactory (50%), Unsatisfactory
(7%)
Impact of training on quality of work   Substantial (32%), Marginal (23%), Nil (12%)
Basic safety facilities adequately provided    Yes (56%), No (28%)
for
Duration taken for finalizing the design  > 2 years ( 38%), 1-2 years (20%), < 2 years (2%)
flood
Sustainability of DSOs                  Certain (20%), likely (36%), pre-project status (9%)
Provision of O&M funds                  Provided (71%), Token/no provision (29%)
Sustainability of DSP by states         Yes (49%), No (51%)
- 16 -



7.8.2  Overall the response appears to be consistent with the ratings indicated in the earlier paragraphs.
A good number of respondents felt the need for major changes in project design, thereby suggesting a need
for improvement of quality at entry. They also felt that finalization of the design flood has taken
substantial time. They seem to be generally pleased with the performance of all the agencies. On the
question of sustainability the impression is even. The question area here is likely to reflect both the weak
past performance of state governments in maintaining infrastructure and supporting institutions not related
to construction, and the possible influence in responding to this question of strong requests by stakeholders
for a Bank funded follow-on project.
7.9 Stakeholders' Workshop (November 11-12,1999, New Delhi):
7.9.1  The aim of the workshop was to share the experience of a diverse set of stakeholders, consisting of
officials from the GOI, state governments, consultants, contractors, nongovernmental groups, experts,
academia, legislators and farmer representatives on design, implementation and outcome of the Dam Safety
Project. This was expected to lead to: (a) greater understanding of implementation issues of the project;
(b) objective assessment of the achievement of the project; (c) coordination issues relevant to project design
and implementation; and (d) lessons learned to be used in the event of a follow-on project. There were 78
participants representing the MOWR, Department of Economic Affairs (DEA), CWC, engineers from the
implementing states of Orissa, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh; National Planning
Commission, Dam Safety Review Panel chairmen and members, academia, Central Board of Irrigation and
Power (representing the Indian National Comnmittee on Large Dams), the International Commission on
Irrigation and Drainage, representatives from primary beneficiaries (fanner representatives, ex-member of
the legislative assembly); contractors and consultants; and the World Bank and FAOCP. The project's
implementation issues; conceptldesign issues and outcome/beneflt issues were discussed in three parallel
group sessions. The recommendations of these groups were presented and discussed in a plenary on
November 12, 1999, and final lessons learned and recommendations discussed and summarized. The key
recommendations are:
* It is necessary to define the benefits of project works. This should be done with the
participation of beneficiaries and those affected by the project, both upstream and downstream
of the dam.
e Dams selected for remedial works and provision of basic facilities should be prioritized
according to the benefits and costs.
* Clear terms of reference are needed in the project documents for all parties involved with the
selection, investigation and design of project works, including consultants, Dam Safety Review
Panels (DSRP), CWC, and others.
* DSRPs are a requirement of the World Bank for all dams associated with Bank projects. They
should be advisory only and their terms of reference (TOR) should clearly indicate time allowed
for their operation.
* Private consultants have their role. Their TOR should be time bound. A possible way to
improve performance would be to give consultants contracts with short duration--if they do not
perform satisfactorily, their contract would not be renewed.
* CWC should not act as hydrology consultants when they have authority to approve design
-17 -



floods. CWC's other niain purposes as far as dam safety is concerned should be the production
and dissemination of guidelines and training.
* Wherever practical, training should be given on the job.
* Continuity of personnel would greatly improve implementation efficiency and dam safety.
* Availability of funds for construction was a problem during implementation. The Bank
advances 25 percent of the year's budget but this does not reach the implementing agencies. It
was suggested that borrower should ensure that implementing agencies have funds available at
the start of the financial year, particularly when this coincides with the construction season.
* Many reservoirs with gated spillways do not have clear detailed operating rules. A
straightforward procedure for deriving such operating rules was described to the workshop
participants. This should be adopted for all reservoirs with gated spillways. The responsible
chief engineers should be instructed to ensure that this is done.
* Emergency action plans are required for all reservoirs. They should be made with public
participation and should be published. A paper by the United States Bureau of Reclamation on
emergency preparedness plans was distributed to all participants at the workshop.
* There is a need for legislation to ensure that dams are safe--a draft is under preparation by
CWC on behalf of the National Conmittee on Dam Safety.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1    The project was the first stand alone dan safety project financed by the World Bank, and as such,
the lessons emerging are of particular interest. For India, the project introduced new ways of tackling dam
safety, many unfamiliar technical skill requirements, and the creation of new institutions at state levels,
substantial upgrading of institutions at central level, and the coordination between different institutions both
within states (the DSC, DSO, and DSRP) and between the state institutions and the center. Although many
teething problems were encountered, and there is still much to do to upgrade dam safety capabilities, a
strong start has been made. Much can be learned by other states and countries, and by India's central
agencies and implementing states, from the generally positive progress made under this project. In a more
general sense, the project illustrates that the embarkation on a project in a new field for Bank involvement,
also requiring substantial new technical areas for a borrower and new institutions for implementation can
be made to be a success, albeit not without attendant issues and shortfalls.
8.2    The principal general lesson from the project is that in circumstances with new ideas and
institutions, realism is needed in design and planning, and adequate time is required for implementation.
Either the preparation phase or the time allowed for the implementation should have been different from
those allowed under this project. If the former, the project should have been better prepared by completing
hydrological estimates and have agreed designs for remedial works to be carried out in the first two years of
the project approved by the financial and administrative authorities in the state before appraisal, and the
new institutions established before implementation. If the latter, an institutional development and design
phase of at least two years should have been incorporated in the project from the outset.
8.3    The project and the processes used in this ILI, have additionally brought out a great many technical
issues in design, implementation, institutional, and coordination--these are summarized below:
- 18-



* Hydrological work takes a long time to collate data for rainstorms, to define PMP and unit
hydrographs and to agree revised design floods, often two to four years. As indicated above
this period should be duly taken care of either in the preparation phase or implementation phase
or an explicit up front integration in both the phases. Highly technical components, such as
flood forecasting using telemetry, risk analysis, and some other specialized areas must be
thoroughly prepared before appraisal, using international consultants where necessary. The use
of new instrumentation requires training of the personnel concemed. Where practical, the
supply and installation contract should include a component for on-the-job training. The project
design should incorporate development of computer data bases incorporating historical major
flood hydrographs and corresponding storm data, software for analysis, and graphical user
friendly interfaces
* The need for detailed discussion: It is important to adequately define the time frame and
sequencing of analysis and design of remedial works to avoid delays. The capacity and
established responsibilities of implementing agencies need to be evaluated during project
preparation and their project responsibilities, including the relationship between DSO and other
units, clearly defined based on this evaluation. Future projects should recognize the difficulties
in agreeing design criteria.
* The engineering of dams is a specialized subject. Training in dam safety should be
institutionalized so that all engineers in DOI/DOWR routinely receive dam safety training or a
separate cadre of dam engineers should be established. Engineers in charge of dams must have
adequate training and experience. The frequent rotation of experienced staff away from dam
related work should be minimized.
* It is important to prioritize investments according to appropriate risk analysis and not on
limited parameters such as dam height and reservoir volume but taking account of the extent of
potential loss of life and physical damage downstream. In those countries where they exist at
all, guidelines relating to risk analysis are still at an early stage and even ICOLD has yet to
finalize such guidelines. In India, draft guidelines prepared under the project with the help of
consultants, are being finalized by CWC through the National Committee on Dam Safety.
When finalized these guidelines should enable prioritization of dams needing remedial measures,
albeit initially with limited risk analysis.
* Dam safety review panels should be advisory only and should not be required to approve
studies or designs. The selection of members of dam safety review panels should be made very
carefully to ensure that those selected are capable of reaching sensible conclusions quickly. It
may be advantageous to include at least one international expert in the panel to incorporate
international experience in arriving at innovative solutions to the remedial works needed and
flood forecasting aspects.
* States generally do not have adequate hydrological capability to estimate design floods and
review flood operating strategies. There is a need for more specialization and the development
of experience in specific fields. Flood analysis, flood forecasting and reservoir operation and
the other aspects of the hydrology of reservoirs is one such field where specialization is
desirable. Frequent transfer of engineers who have received specific training is
counter-productive. There is a need for much more review and analysis of historical events to
- 19 -



understand why floods in excess of previous designs were passed without undue damage or
difficulty and as an aid to formation of future operational strategies.
* Systemic problems in project implementation need to be avoided: Uncertainty in the flow of
funds deters good conbtactors from bidding for the works. Procurement is slow. Contract
management by DOIFDOWR needs improvement. The stakeholders' Workshop drew attention
to the need for more training in Bank procedures and contract management.
* O&M manuals should take account of dam safety plans (including O&M, instrumentation,
and emergency preparedness), which should be drafted early in the rehabilitation process and
progressively updated during implementation. Problems identified with the remedial works
should be reflected in revision to O&M manuals. Operating instructions should incorporate
design assumptions, such as expected erosion downstream of spillway energy dissipaters, pore
pressure readings, expected displacement, etc. The results of periodical readings of monitoring
instruments installed in the dams should be analyzed and the findings should be incorporated in
the annual O&M program, if necessary. Although implementation of the project has been
generally satisfactory, assurance against dam safety related disasters is a continuous and
ongoing process and further strengthening of institutions, procedures and technical capacity in
the project states are required.
* There is a need to assign responsibility for resolving safety issues and taking decisions on
how to operate dams and cascades of dams on interstate rivers. There is a need for clearer
guidelines on responsibilities, and perhaps the need to develop or improve river basin authorities
or boards which could expedite and guide the actions needed. The prime example of this
problem is the Gandhisagar to Kota cascade on the Chambal River where a major review of all
options is needed.
* Reservoir operation rules for many reservoirs are inadequate. There is a need to define rule
curves for reservoir gate operation during floods to ensure more effective control of flood
attenuation to optimize downstream benefits and to deliver benefits from flood forecasting.
Such rules should be prominently displayed in the operating room at the dam and the authority
to apply them should be unambiguous. With the improvement in information technology normal
operation rule curves should be replaced by a computerized decision support system for
safely passing the flood and online help for training the ever changing staff/operators to sustain
the knowledge gained diring the implementation of the project.
* There is an urgent need for review of spillway capacities of dams in other states. Many old
dams in India (and elsewvhere) were designed for floods which are much too low by modem
standards. The project has remedied this situation at many dams in the four project states,
where it was found that design floods had been underestimated, often by as much as a factor of
three. This indicates that a review in other states is likely to result in remedial action being
needed in many cases.
8.4    Looking to the future, it would clearly be important for India to continue and further develop its
dam safety program. Considerable interest has been expressed by India in a Bank-supported follow-on
project. This message also came clearly during the deliberations of the stakeholders' workshop and the
views expressed by the chairpersons of various sessions in the workshop from the MOWR, National
Planning Commission, and the CWC.
- 20 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
(Comments on the ICR have been received from the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA), Ministry
of Finance, GOI the Ministry of Water Resources and the participating states in the program, viz,
Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu. These are reproduced below verbatim. The
comments were discussed with the agencies and suitably incorporated in the ICR text, where
considered acceptable. Most of the comments support the views of the ICR. The comments do not
materially change the substance of the ICR nor any questions raised on the ratings given in the ICR.)
Letter from Ms. Rachna Shah. Under Secretary (FRB) DEA
Quote Dear Mr Jagannathan:
Please refer to your letter dated 16.2.2000 addressed to Secretary, MOWR and copied to us among all
others concerned regarding Dam Safety Project (Credit No. 2241-IN) Draft Implementation Completion
Report. This Departrnent's comments on the draft ICR are as under:
T'he project was approved with a total credit of SDR 96.2 million and a loan of US$ 23 million.
Subsequently the entire loan was cancelled in July 1995 and credit amounting to SDR 20 million and 7.4
million was cancelled in July 1997 and September 1998 respectively. The likely utilization now is expected
to be $87.5 million which means that there would be a further cancellation of $5.5 million.
While much of this is attributable to the depreciation of Rupee against the Dollar, it is also pertinent to note
that the Project Implementation in the initial years was extremely slow. In the Remedial Works that were
taken up under the Project, works at 33 sick dams were completed but half of these were not the ones that
were originally identified. This reflects lack of adequate preparation and appraisal on the part of both the
implementing agency and the Bank.
If a future project on Dam Safety is to come, one lesson that must be leamed is that there has to be
adequate project preparation before the project is negotiated so that the implementation can take off
inimediately after the loan is declared effective.
Bank in particularly needs to take careful look at the design and preparation level of Projects to avoid such
cancellations and delays.
We shall be grateful if the above comments are incorporated in the final Implementation Completion
Report. Unquote
Observations of Ministry of Water Resources on the World Bank's Draft ICR on Dam Safety
Assurance & Rehabilitation Project(Credit 2241-IN):
Ministry of Water Resources is of the view point that under mentioned  paras of the
Implementation Completion Report need modification:
Para 3.      Assessment of Development objective and Design, and of Quality of at Entry
- 21 -



Para 3.1.2
It is reported that "These objectives were realistic and irnportant for the country, which had many
dams that were unsafe"
It is clarified here that at the time of their design, the dams were designed as safe as per design
standards prevalent at that time. It is, therefore, not proper to say that dams were unsafe. Part of the
sentence "many dams that were wusafe" may be substituted by the words "some dams that required safety
review and strengthening".
Simnilarly, in the sixth line "many large dams" may be substituted by "some large dams".
Para 3.5.3
In the 5th and 6th line it is mentioned "structural issues (such as adequate spillway capacity) were
stressed, perhaps at the expense of nonstructural issues (spillway operation, flood mitigation). In this
regard it is to state that due consideration was given to these aspects during implementation of the project
and augmentation of the spillway capacity was resorted to only when it became essential.
Para 4        Achievement of Objective and Outputs
Para 4.1.2
From 7th to 9th lines it is mentioned "Thus, some 20 states (out of 25 states) are members of the
National Committee on Dam Safety, with 12 states playing active roles. Considerable interest has also
been expressed in a follow-on Darn Safety Project, with nine states requesting participation"
The statement may be corrected as thus, some 12 states (out of 25 states in the country), who own
about 4251 large dams are members of the National Conmnittee on Dam Safety, with all of them playing
active roles. Considerable interest has also been expressed in a follow-on Dam Safety Project, with 11 out
of these 12 states requesting participation. The 12th state has of late also shown interest for participation
in the follow on Dam Safety Project.
Para 4.1.4    DOS in fourth line of this para may be read as DSO.
Para 4.1.8
With respect to interstate liver basins, it is not correct to say that CWC is not playing a pro-active
role. It is clarified that CWC has only an advisory role to play on projects/dams constructed on interstate
rivers.
Interstate river disputes are to be resolved by the concemed states themselves. If not resolved, the
state refer the dispute to Ministry of Water Resources, Government of India for resolving the issues
amicably. However, if the issues still remain unresolved, interstate Water Tribunals are formed for
resolution of such disputes/issues whose findings have legal sanctity.  CWC plays an advisory role
reinforced with technical data and analysis in resolving such issues/disputes between state Governments of
the interstate river basins. Therefare, the wording of ICR in this respect needs to be suitably revised or
deleted in view of the above explanation. However, the suggestion regarding the need to develop or
- 22 -



improve river basin authorities or boards on such interstate river basins is welcomed.
Para 4.1.10
It is clarified that normally in states, it is a practice to post officers having sufficient experience in
hydrology in their hydrology units.
Para 4.2.1
It has been mentioned that CWC carried out hydrological review of 128 dams (appraisal estimate
170). Factual position is that under DSARP, CWC's Hydrology Studies Organisation has vetted/carried
out hydrologic review of 62 dams only. In fact as per AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS of
World Bank's SAR for this project (on page 19 of SAR) it is mentioned under para 4.2 that CWC
Hydrology Unit would carry out design flood analysis for 33 identified dams and would make a review and
give concurrence(vetting) of any flood hydrology analysis made by the states on other dams. This para
needs correction as per the above noted observations.
Similarly CWC has carried out procedural clearance of 40 dams on which remedial measures were
carried out for their rehabilitation against appraisal estimates of 33 dams. Structural reviews of dams
identified for rehabilitation were carried out by state Governments through their design/units/consultants
and agreed upon by Dam Safety Review Panels of the respective states.
Para 4.2.3
For overall development of the profession and their outlook, officers in CWC and the state
Governments are being transferred to other fields but majority of their services are being utilised in the
fields of their specialisation for purposes of continuity.
Para 4.2.7
The dams completed under remedial measures in case of Madhya Pradesh need to be corrected to
read as on 91,8,3,5 and 10 instead of 91, 8,4,4 and 9. In view of this change, the table under this para also
needs change. Similarly in para 4.2.6 of ICR, the number of dams where remedial works have been
undertaken under Category I & II need to be revised as 16 & 17 respectively.
Para 5 Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
Para 5.2.1
The eleventh line of this para says, "In Rupee terms, the project by closure had spent 93 percent of
the appraisal estimated project costs". The above may be substituted with, "In Rupee terms, the project at
closure had spent 93 percent of the appraisal estimated project costs and 99.94% as per 2nd restructured
cost of the project""
Para 5.3.1
For conducting design flood studies, observed rainfall and corresponding discharge data for several
flood events at the dam site are essential. With these data, the response fimction of the basin, is computed.
Despite repeated requests, during the initial stages of implementation of the project, the State Governments
- 23 -



could not supply the requisite data for most of the dams. Because of this, the studies had to be done by
following a regional approach for developing the response functions. Since this methodology has its
inherent limitations, attempts were made to collect as much infornation and data as possible and hence this
was not attempted initially. There was also a need for a broad consensus on certain issues related to design
storm estimation, which is a major step in design flood estimation. Towards this objective, a workshop
involving eminent experts was held in December, 1993 in CWC and certain decisions were taken to
rationalise the procedures. The recommendations of this workshop had significant impact on the outcomes
of the hydrologic review. All these were contributing factors for the delay in completion of hydrological
studies.
This aspect is now being attended to while preparing for the DSARP Project Phase-I1 to avoid
delays in completing the hydrological reviews of the dams proposed by the States willing to joint the
DSARP Phasse-II programme.
Para 5.3.3
It is not a correct observation by ICR that "in the initial years of the project, CWC had been
pro-active even in the initial stages but due to the project being new and unique in its nature, some
coordination delays in getting details from states and their compilation were encountered. In fact, during
the last 2-3 years of the project, it was due to a very pro-active role of CWC which resulted in a very
satisfactory and highly successful completion of the project.
Further, it is absolutely incorrect that there were serious differences between CWC and state Dam
Safety Review Panels.  This has not been substantiated in the ICR.  In fact, all the hydrology
reviews/vetting done by CWC were based on technical and hydrological analysis and finally accepted by
state Governments and state DSRE's for all the dams identified for receiving remedial works.
Furthermore, it is not corTect that there was an overlap of the roles of CWFC as an approving
authority and as consultants. In fact, for hydrology studies/reviews, some of the participating states did
not have sufficient expertise in the field of hydrology during the initial stages of project implementation and
CWC acted as an expert advisory in this specialised field and not as a consultant in any sense. Rather, the
state engineers were trained during hydrology review/vetting and implementation of the project to make
them self-sufficient in this regard. CWC never charged any amount from the tates for hydrology
reviews/vettings under the project.
Thus this para needs to be suitably reworded in light of above comments.
- 24 -



Para 5.4.1
Revised tables as per actual expenditure is given below:
Rs. In million  Actual/                     Actual
Project component       SAR   Actual/ latest  latest    SAR       Actual   SAR %
Institutional Strengthening    68.30        113.43      166      3.00      3.10       103
(CWC)                                                      I
Flood Forecasting             250.10        174.39       70     10.70      4.29       40
Systems(CWC)
State Institutional Strengthening   205.90  349.72      170      9.00      9.70      108
Basic Safety Facilities       604.60        797.09      132     27.00     21.88       81
Remedial Works               3431.10      2794.87        81    147.10    76.21        52
Total Project Costs          4560.00      4229.05        93    196.80    115.18       59
The table given in the draft ICR, therefore, needs to be corrected accordingly.
Para 7 Bank and Borrowers Performance
Para 7.1.3.
As already communicated against para 5.3.3, some problems were encountered during the initial
stages of the implernentation of the project but these were duly compensated during the last 2-3 years by
accelerated implementation of the project. However at no stage did the borrower express the desire to
delete this component from the project.
Para 7.6.2(item vii)
It may be clarified that CWC could really start its work on the modemisation of flood forecasting
in two basins, viz. Mahanadi and Chambal basin only after getting approval of the World Bank in January,
1995.
Comments received fromGovernment of Madhva Pradesh (BhoRal)
Assessment of development, objective and design and of quality at entry:
Coinments: No comments.
Achievement of objectives and outputs:
- 25 -



Comments:    The state has adequate capabilities to estimate the design flood and review flood operating
studies. There is a correction in the table below point 4.2.7. The correction is with respect to the state of
Madhya Pradesh. The corresponding figures should be 91, 8, 3, 5, and 10 instead of 91, 8, 4, 4, and 9.
Major factors affecting implementation and outcome:
Comments: No comments.
Sustainability:
Comments: The state of Madhya Pradesh has at many occasions, expressed its commitment to continue the
dam safety programme in the state. The state understands that at least a period of six years is required to
consolidate the dam safety institution installed and procedures established during Dam Safety Project-I.
However to take up the dam safety works in all such dams, it is beyond the state's present financial
capabilities. As the state has well-established institutional back up, the implementation of dam safety
programme at field level, can starl: immediately if the funds are made available by any extemal agency. In
fact the state has advanced preparedness to execute the Dam Safety Project proposed to be undertaken
later, by the World Bank as Dam Safety Project II.
Lessons Leamed:
Comments: To fix the priority in selecting the safety and other related works in a distressed dam on the
basis of risk analysis is at present not possible. The National Guidelines in this issue are in the draft stage
and may take sometime to come to practice and will overtake much longer time to become a good practice.
As has been debated all over the World, the factors dam height and the volume of reservoir are still
accepted as indicators to assess the hazard potential. The state has already considered the effect of loss of
property and life by fixing the priorities of dams with respect so its location and distance from upstream of
a village, township, district headquarter and big cities. The present procedure is to identify the distressed
dams through visual inspection and prioritize them on the basis of their location and potential hazard to the
life and property.
There are over 1000 dams in the state, which are to be prioritized on the basis of risk analysis approach.
This required approved set of guidelines, for the study and financial resources, to carry out such studies.
In the present scenario, it cannot be achieved.
The state has capabilities to hancUe the hydrology of the project and floods and thus differs from other
states. This is one of the strong reason for the state so as to claim the World Bank assistance for the
follow-on Dam Safety Project, Phase II.
The state has started to review the O&M manuals of all the dams which are in use since their operation and
likely to complete by end of December 2000.
Comments received from the Government of Raiasthan (JaiVur)
Para I                Principal Performance Ratings
C ommnents:          Agreed
Para 3.5             Quality at Entry - Unsatisfactory
- 26 -



Comments:           Agreed
Para 4.1.1          Achievements of Objectives & Outputs - Output is rated as Satisfactory
Comments:           Agreed
Para 4.1.3          Rajasthan DSO Institutional Concept
Comments            The DSO will be continued
Para 4.2.2          Institutional Strengthening of DSO - staff in place = 77
Comments            Likely to be continued
Dams News/Newsletter
Comments            Being published regularly
Para 4.2.7          Basic Facilities Completed - on 60 Dams
Remedial Works
Commpleted   Partial Comp. New Com.
Cat, I       Cat. II       Cat. III
4                    3                    3
Comments            Agreed
Completed     Partial Comp. New Com.
Cat, I       Cat. II       Cat. III
5                    2                    2
Para 5              Major Factors Affecting Implementation & Outcome
Comments            No comments
Para 6               Sustainability - likely to be sustained.
Comments            Agreed
Para 7              Bank & Borrower Performance
- Overall Bank performance - Satisfactory
- Overall Borrower Performance - Satisfactory
Comments            Agreed
Para 7-6.2          As per the Project Completion Report of Rajasthan, Consultant Services were not
of
good standard.
- 27 -



Comrnents           Agreed
Annex 1             Output Indicators
Pag 23-25
Comments            Agreed
Page 25             Phase I Inspection of 176 dams - Completed
Commenits           186 (125 identified + 61 newly identified) - Completed
Annex 2             Project Cost by Component - Rajasthan State million Rs.
Page 30
Comments            Final figures are as under:
Inst. Strengthening        134.17        139.383 M
Basic Safety Facilities 246.68    247.135 M
Remedial Works             697.78        710.290 M
Page 31-39          Various Annexes
Comments            No comments
Comments received from the Government. of Tamil Nadu (Chennai)
Regarding sustainability and cont;nuity of the Dam Safety Organization, I am directed to state that as the
credit facilities were withdrawn fiom 30.9.98 onwards, the staff were redeployed for the works related to
Dam Safety Works only. The Dani Safety Organization is functioning now and the staff strength would be
increased as and when required (11). Regarding adequacy of budgetary provision for the long term
maintenance of the dams rehabilitated, I am to state that adequate funds will be provided in the budget for
every year for the maintenance of the dams for which rehabilitation works have been taken up. (iii)
Regarding emergency preparedness plan, I am to state that the approved emergency preparedness plans for
rehabilitated dams will be prepared after getting a final report from the consultant for WRCP project, for
whom the task of operation and maintenance has been entrusted (iv) Regarding frequent transfer of key
staff handling reservoirs, I am to state that generally the policy of this Government is to transfer the
technical staff once in three years. However, while transferring the person care will be taken to post such
persons, who have similar experience in safe operation of reservoirs with gated spillway (v) Regarding the
project cost and financing furnished in page 30 of ICR, I am to state that, in World Bank letter dated
12.4.99, it was agreed to reimburse some of the expenditure on works which were executed before the
closing date of 30.9.98. An amoumt of Rs. 25.51 lakhs was sanctioned and payment made. The vouchers
were sent to World Bank for reimbursement during the first fortnight of Feb. 2000. The expenditure
incurred are under Institutional Strengthening and under Basic Safety Facilities. Hence adding these
expenditure the revised figures are as follows:
Inst. Strengthening      134.17       34.3262 M
Basic Safety Facilities  246.68       54.1976 M
Remedial Works          697.78        159.7709 M
- 28 -



Comments received from Govt. of Orissa (Bhubaneshwar)
Project Data
Principal Performance Ratings
Assessment of Development Objective and Design and Quality at Entry (Original Objectives,
Revised
Objective, Original components, revised components, quality at entry)
No comments
Achievement of Objective and Outputs:
4.11 to 4.1.6   No comments
4.1.7           Agreed to Bank's comments. Specialized training should have been given to DSO
personnel as well as design engineers who in turn will impart training to field engineers.
4.1.8           No comments
4.1.9           We fully agree with the views taken by the ICR Mission. Special care has been taklen
for preparationi of Operation & Maintenance Manual of multipurpose projects.
4.1.10          The Irrigation Engineers of Orissa have adequate capability for hydrological study. The
results of studies are referred to CWC only for the sake of vetting.
4.1.11          No comments
4.2             Outputs by components:
4.2.1. to 4.2.2    No comments
4.2.3           We rully agree with the views of the ICR Mission
4.2.4 to 4.2.8  No comments
4.3             Net Present Value/Economic rate of returni No comments.
4.4             Financial rate of return: No comments
4.5             Institutional development impact: No comments
5               Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome:
5.1             Factors outside the control of govemment or implementing agency
5.1.1           No comments
5.2             Factors generally subject to government control
- 29 -



5.2.1           No comments
5.3             Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1 to 5.3.3  No cotmiments
5.4             Costs and financing
4.4.1           No comments
to
5.4.2
6.              Sustainability:
6.1             Rationale for sustainability rating
6.1.1 to 6.1.3  No comments
6.1.4           We fully agree withl the views of the ICR Mission that budget provision be made for
O&M for dam and lIrigation network separately.
6.1.5           No cotmments
6.2             Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1           No comments
7.              Bank and Borrower Performance:
Bank
7.1             Lending
7.1.1 to 7.1.3           No comments
7.2.1 - 7.2.2   No comments
- 30 -



7.3             Overall Bank Performance
7.3.1                    No comments
Borrower
7.4             Preparation
7.4.1                    No comments
7.5             Government implementation performance
7.5.1                    No comments
7.6             Implementing Agency:
7.6.1 to 7.6.2           No commnents
7.7             Overall Borrower Performance
7.7.1                    No comments
7.8             Beneficiary Survey
7.8.1 to 7.8.2           No cormments
7.9              Stakeholders' Workshop, November 11-12, 1999, New Delhi
7.9.1                    No comments
8               Lessons Learned:
8.1
8.2             The views of the ICR Mission are bighly appreciated
8.3
8.4
9.              Partner Comments: No comments
10              Additional Information:   No comments
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Otherpartners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
Listed in Annex 7
- 31 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/Impact Indicators:
Indicator                                    Projected        Actual
in SAR
Dam Safety Improved in project states                                         yes             yes
Dam Safety Inspection and Evaluation System Introduced
Madhya Pradesh                                                Yes             Yes
Orissa                                                       Yes s           Yes
Rajasthan                                                     Yes             Yes
Tamil Nadu                                                    Yes             Yes
Environmental Impact Assessments                                              Yes             No
- 32 -



Output Indicators:
Indicator                             Projected       ActuaVLatest
in SAR           Estimate
A. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
(I) CWC
(i) Add Directorates To CWC                                            3                   3
(ii) Incremental CWC Manpower:
(a) Technical:
- Chief Engineer's Office                                              l
- Monitoring Directorate                                              13                  20
- Special Analysis Directorate                                        I I                 14
- Rehabilitation Directorate                                           7                   8
- Hydrology Organization: Chief Engineer's Office                      I
- Hydrology Organization: Review Directorate                          22                  23
- Flood Management                                                     0                  l l
(b) Support:
- Chief Engineer's Office                                              3                   2
Monitoring Directorate                                               11                   8
- Special Analysis Directorate                                         8                   4
- Rehabilitation Directorate                                           3
- Hydrology Organization: Chief Engineer's Office                      3                   3
- Hydrology Organization:  Review Directorate                         20                  18
- Flood Management                                                     0                   3
Total                                                                103                 117
(2) States: Incremental Manpower
(i) Madhya Pradesh
(a) Technical
- Dam Safety                                                          24                  31
- Hydrology, Structural and Others                                   26                   19
(b) Support
- Dam Safety                                                         21                   26
- Hydrology, Structural and Others                                    30                   6
- 33 -



Total                                                                101                  82
(ii) Orissa
(a) Technical
- Dam Safety                                                          25                  25
- Hydrology, Structural and Others                                    17                  17
(b) Support
- Dam Safety                                                          23                  19
- Hydrology, Structural and Others                                    I1                   7
Total                                                                 76                  68
(iii) Rajasthan
(a) Technical
- Dam Safety                                                          27                  21
- Hydrology, Structural and Others                                    14                  18
(b) Support
- Dam Safety                                                          25                   8
- Hydrology, Structural and Others                                    14                  30
Total                                                                 80                  77
-34 -



Output Indicators (continued)
Indicator                                     Projected          ActualVLatest
in SAR             Estimate
(iv) Tamil Nadu
(a) Technical
- Dam Safety                                                                           22                    4
- Hydrology, Structural and Others                                                     12                    0
(b) Support
-Dam Safety                                                                            12                    8
- Hydrology, Structural and Others                                                      9                    0
Total                                                                                  55                   12
Grand Total                                                                           415                  356
(3) Preparation of Regional Maximum Precipitation Atlases                               3                    2
(4) Estimation of Design Floods for Dams by CWC Hydrology                              33                   62
(5) Training (SAR Annex 8)
- Training Abroad for CWC - DSO Engineers                                          15 mm              13.0 mm
- Training Abroad for CWC - Hydrologists                                           15 mm              20.2 mm
- Training Courses at CWC                                                     not specified          II number
- CWC Workshops/Seminars                                                      not specified          16 number
- External Consultants for CWC DSO                                                  6 mm                18 mm
- Consultants for CWC Hydrology                                                     6 mm               494 mm
-Study Tours CWC DSO                                                                4 mm               1.8 mm
- Study Tours CWC Hydrology                                                         4 mm                1.8 mm
- Training Overseas: Madhya Pradesh                                                15 mm               9.0 mm
-Training Overseas: Orissa                                                         15 mm              10.0 mm
- Training Overseas: Rajasthan                                                     15 mm              11.5 mm
- Training Overseas: Tamil Nadu                                                    15 mm              (10 mm)
- State Workshops                                                               10 number             8 number
Total
(6) Hydrological Review (number of dams) (see SAR, p 69)
- Madhya Pradesh                                                                       95                   60
- Orissa                                                                               20                   43
- 35 -



- Rajasthan                                                                                     _
- Tamil Nadu                                                                             5                    4
Total                                                                                  17C                  128
(7) Structural Review (number of dams) (s e SAR, p. 69)
- Madhya Pradesh                                                                        2C                   19
- Orissa                                                                                                      7
- Rajasthan                                                                             24                   13
- Tamil Nadu                                                                             0                   10
Total                                                                                   44                   49
(8) Dam Safety Review Panels (number of rneetings)
- Madhya Pradesh                                                                                             23
- Oissa                                                                                                        
- Rajasthan                                                                                                 25
- Tamil Nadu                                                                                                 14
Total                                                                                                        77
(9) Phase I Dam Inspection (number of dams) (see SAR, p. 6)
- Madhya Pradesh                                                                       608                1,081
- Orissa                                                                               131                 196
- Rajasthan                                                                            124                  176
- Tamil Nadu                                                                            84                  57
Total                                                                                  947                1,510
(10) Phase If Investigation (number ofdams) (see SAR, p. 69)
- Madhya Pradesh                                                                        75                  28
- Orissa                                                                                25                  25
- Rajasthan                                                                             25                   13
- Tamil Nadu                                                                            22                   15
Total                                                                                  147                  81
Grand Total
- 36 -



Output Indicators (continued)
Indicator                                     Projected         Actual/Latest
in SAR            Estimate
B. BASIC SAFETY FACILITIES
(1) Access Roads (number of dams)
- Madhya Pradesh                                                                       yes                   94
- Orissa                                                                               yes                   15
- Rajasthan                                                                            yes                   56
- Tamil Nadu                                                                           yes                   16
Total                                                                                                       181
(2) Communication Systems (number of dams)
- Madhya Pradesh                                                                       yes                   45
- Orissa                                                                               yes                    3
- Rajasthan                                                                            yes                   60
- Tamil Nadu                                                                           yes                   40
Total                                                                                                       148
(3) Standby Generators (number of dams)
- Madhya Pradesh                                                                       yes                   33
- Orissa                                                                               yes                    6
- Rajasthan                                                                            yes                   56
-Tamil Nadu                                                                            yes                    8
Total                                                                                                       103
(4) Hydrological Instrumentation (number of dams)
- Madhya Pradesh                                                                       yes                  105
O rissa                                                                                yes                   15
- Rajasthan                                                                            yes                   16
- Tamil Nadu                                                                           yes                   36
Total                                                                                                       172
C. REMEDIAL WORKS
(i) Madhya Pradesh
- Category I
(I) Aoda (Cat. C)                                                                yea             completed
- 37 -



(2) Barna (Cat. C)                                                           yes            completed
(3) Kotwal (Cat. A)                                                          yes              partial
(4) Gandhisagar (Cat. A)                                                     yes            completed
(5) Pagara (Cat. A)                                                          yes              partial
(6) Pillowa (Cat. A)                                                         yes              partial
(7) Tigra (Cat. B)                                                           yes              partial
(8) Kaketo (Cat. C) (Dam was dropped in 1997 restructuring)                  yes           not taken up
- Category 11
(I) Munamsilli                                                               no             completed
(2) Barchar                                                                  no             completed
(3) Maniyari                                                                 no             completed
(4) Dudhwa                                                                   no             completed
(5) R.S. Sagar                                                               no             completed
(6) Sondur                                                                   no             completed
(7) Tawa                                                                     no             completed
(8) Sukta                                                                    no             completed
(9) Chandora                                                                  no            completed
(I0) Sanpna                                                                  no             completed
Total (including partial/completed only)                                                       17/13
(ii) Orissa
- Category I
(1) Alikuan (Cat. C)                                                          yes            (partial)
(2) Behera (Cat. C)                                                           yes            completed
(3) Bhanjanagar (Cat. C)                                                      yes            completed
(4) Darjang (Cat. C)                                                          yes           completed
(5) Ghodahada (Cat. C)                                                       yes            completed
(6) Hirakud (Cat. A)                                                          yes            (partial)
(7) Jhamai (Cat. C)                                                           yes           completed
(8) Soroda (Cat. C)                                                           yes           completed
(9) Ganianala (Cat. C) (Dam was dropped in 1597 restructuring)                yes            (partial)
- Category 11
(I) Kansabahal                                                                no             completed
- 38 -



(2) Kuanria                                                                         no              completed
Total (including partial/completed only)                                                              11/8
Indicator                                       Projected         Actual/Latest Estimate
in SAR
(iii) Rajasthan
- Category I
(1) Galwa (Cat. C)                                                                  yes                  completed
(2) Jawahar Sagar (Cat. B)                                                          yes                  completed
(3) Kota Barrage (Cat. B)                                                          yes                   completed
(4) Matri Kundia (Cat. C)                                                           yes                  completed
(5) Parbati (Cat. C)                                                                yes                   (partial)
(6) Ranaprathap Sagar (Cat. B)                                                      yes                  completed
(7) Alnia (Cat. C) (Dam was dropped in 1997 restrticturing)                         yes                   (partial)
-Category 11
(I) lawai                                                                           no                   completed
(2) Sci Diversion                                                                   no                   completed
(3) Garnbhiri (Dam was dropped in 1997 restructuring)                               no                    (partial)
(4) Moral (Dam was dropped in 1997 restructuring)                                   no                 (not taken up)
Total (including partial/completed only)                                                                    10/7
(iv) Tamil Nadu
- Category I
(I) Gomukhinadhi (Cat. C)                                                           yes                   (partial)
(2) Kodaganar (Cat. A)                                                              yes             (completed by State)
(3) Manimuthar (Cat. C)                                                             yes                  completed
(4) Pechiparai (Cat. C)                                                             yes                  completed
(5) Periyar (Cat. C)                                                                yes                   (partial)
(6) Santhanur (Cat. B) (Dam was dropped in 1997 restructuring)                      yes                   (partial)
(7) Uppar (Cat. C) (Dam was dropped in 1997 restructuring)                          yes                   (partial)
(8) Ponnaniar (Cat. C) (Dam was dropped in 1997 restructuring)                      yes                (not taken up)
(9) Vidur (Cat. C) (Dam was dropped in 1997 restructuring)                          yes                   (partial)
- Category 11
- 39 -



(1) Gunderipallam (Dam was dropped in 1997 restructuring)                  no             (completed by State)
(2) Willington (Dam was dropped in 1997 restructuring)                     no                (not taken up)
(3) Siddhamalli (Dam was dropped in 1997 restructuring)                    no                  (partial)
(4) Sholayar (Dam was dropped in 1997 restructuring)                       no             (Completed by State)
(5) Peruchani (Dam was dropped in 1997 restructuring)                      no                (not taken up)
(6) Manimukta nadhi (Dam was dropped in 1997 restructuring)                no                (not taken up)
Total (including partial/completed only)                                                         11/5
Summary by State
- Madhya Pradesh                                                            8                     13
- Orissa                                                                    9                     8
- Rajasthan                                                                 7                     7
- Tamil Nadu                                                                9                     5
Total                                                                      33                    33
Summary by Category
-Category l.A                                                               7                     2
CategoryLB                                                                  5                     3
- Category l.C                                                             21                     12
- Category 11                                                                                    16
Total                                                                      33                    33
a/ SAR and DCA identified 33 dams (Category I dams) but allowed an additional Rs 337 million base cost (SAR page
96 - SAR page 55). Although not stated in the SAR, it is understood that the costs were based on 55 dams. However,
Annex 13 of the SAR (page 100) shows an umknown number of Type D dams with construction starting after the end of
the project, indicating that the Rs 337 milliorn was to cover investigation and design only. Page 19 of the DCA (Annex to
Schedule 2) refers to Category II dams, which would be inspected and investigated for the purpose of identifying required
remedial works. Para 4 of Schedule 2 refers to carrying out remedial works at Category It dams set forth in the Annex.
(See also SAR, pages 20-33 dams proposed far rehabilitation).
b/ Categories A, B, C are based on completeness of data at SAR.
-40 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Components
(currency unit in miniUon)
Annex 2a
Project Component             Appraisal   Appraisal   Latest    Latest  Percent  Percent of
Estimate Rs  Estimate  Estimate  Estimate  of App    App in $
$        Rs         $      in Rs
CWC Institutional Strengthening                 68.3        3.0   113.43       3.10     166          103
Flood Forecasting Networks                     250.1       10.7   174.39       4.29      70           40
Institutional Strengthening:
- Madhya Pradesh                                59.6        2.6    73.36       1.93     123           74
- Onssa                                         48.9        2.1    103.20      2.94     211          140
- Rajasthan                                     52.5        2.3   139.38       3.82     265          166
- Tamil Nadu                                    44.8        2.0    33.78       1.01      75           51
Total                                          205.8        9.0   349.72       9.70     170          108
Basic Safety Facilities:                                                             .
- Madhya Pradesh                               280.2       12.3   403.00      10.64     143           87
- Orissa                                       133.4        6.0    94.80       2.85      71           48
- Ra-asthan                                    109.8        5.0   247.14       6.89     225          138
- Tamil Nadu                                    81.1        3.7    52.15       1.50      64           41
Total                                          604.5       27.0   797.09      21.88     132           81
Remedial Works:
- Madhya Pradesh                              1059.1       45.9   837.09      23.04      79           50
- Orissa                                      1091.0       46.4  1105.25      29.73     101           64
- Rajasthan                                    700.9       29.8   710.29      19.04     101          64
- Tamnil Nadu                                  580.1       24.9   142.33       4.40      25           18
Total                                         3431.1      147.1  2797.87      76.21      81           52
Grand total                                   4559.8      196.8  4229.50    115.18       93           59
* The table needs minor revisions in consultation with the borrower to be made consistent with the table given at
para 5.4.1.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(appraisal estimate) ($ million equivalent)
Annex 2b (1)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category    ICB         NCB            Other     N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                 0.00        132.90          10.00      0.20        143.10
2. Goods                  7.70        7.40            3.50       0.00       18.60
3. Services               0.00        0.00            6.00      16.50       22.50
4. Miscellaneous          0.00         0.00           6.40       6.20       12.60
Total                  7.70        140.30         25.90      22.90       196.80
- 41 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(actual/latest estimate) (S million equivalent)
Annex 2b(2)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category   ICB           NCB             Other       N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                  0.00         95.10            0.90        0.90         96.90
2. Goods                  3.40          2.70            0.20        0.00         6.30
3. Services               0.50          0.30            4.90        0.00         5.70
4. Miscellaneous          0.00          0.00            6.00        0.00         6.00
Total                  3.90          98.10           12.00       0.90         114.90
Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services
of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and
incremental operating costs related to (a) managing the project, and (b) relending project funds to local
government units.
Project Financing by Category
($ million equivalent)
Annex 2c
Component        Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest Estimate   Percentage of Appraisal
Bank                  Govt.          CoF.BankGovt.CoF.BankGov
t.CoF.
Land acquisition                                   0.20              0.100.050.00.0
Civil works                128.60                 14.30           76.7020.2059.6141.30.0
Equipment and               13.70                  4.90            4.002.3029.246.90.0
vehicles
Training, TA,               6.00                                     2.1035.00.00.0
consultants
Design, staff,              4.70                  24.40           4.706.00100.024.60.0
incremental costs
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                     0.00         132.90        10.00         0.20         143.10
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)                     (0.00)
2. Goods                     7.70          7.40          3.50         0.00          18.60
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00          6.00         16.50        22.50
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          6.40         6.20          12.60
(0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
-42 -



5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                         7.70           140.30         25.90          22.90          196.80
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related
to: (a) manage the project, and (b) relend project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equiv alent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Appraisal Estimate           ActuallLatest Estimate
Bank      Govt.      CoF.      Bank       Govt.     CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Land acquisition                    0.20                            0.10                0.0    50.0   0.0
Civil works              128.60     14.30                76.70      20.20              59.6  141.3   0.0
Equipment and vehicles   13.70      4.90                 4.00       2.30               29.2   46.9   0.0
Training, TA, consultants    6.00                        2.10                          35.0   0.0    0.0
Design, staff, incremental  4.70    24.40                4.70       6.00               100.0  24.6   0.0
costs
-43 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not estimated.
- 44 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a Missions:
Sitage of Project Cycle             No. of Persons ared Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Irnplementation     Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation
December 1990                 7   E, Ec
Supervision
Aug. 1991                     3  EDS,Ec                                S                  S
Mar/Apr 1992                  2  Ec EDS                                S                  s
Aug/Dec 1992                  2  Ec EDS                                S                  S
Apr 1993                       1  EDS                                  U                  s
Oct 93/Feb 94                  1  EDS                                  U                  s
MTR: Nov/Dec 1994             2  EDS                                   U                  S
Dec 1995                      2  EDS                                   U                  S
Jan/Feb 1997                  5  ED, EDS, Ec, 1, P                     S                  S
June 1997                     5  ED,EDS,Ec,P,I                         S                  S
Jan 1998                      5  EDS,Ec,H, P,J                         S                 S
Jun 1998                      5  EDS,Ec,H, P,J                         S                 S
Jan/Feb 1999                   7  EDS,Ec,Ed,H, P,J                     S                 S
ICR
Oct/Nov 99                    6   E H Ec                               S                 S
(7) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   ActualLateat Estimate
No. Staff weeks              USS (.000)
Identification/Preparation               86.9                       181.5
Appraisal/Negotiation                    28.3                        78.8
Supervision                             211.3                       328.6
ICR                                 17.0 (est.)                      60.0
Total                                   343.5                       648.9
-45 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
FZ Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
FZ Sector Policies                        O H  *SUOM  ON  O NA
F Physical                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
FX Financial                              O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
O Institutional Development               O H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
E Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Gender                            O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)
F Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
O Public sector management                0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)
-46 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
F Lending                                            OHS OS  *U  OHU
? Supervision                                        OHS OS   Ou  OHU
F Overall                                            OHSs    O u  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
 Preparation                                        OHS Os   * u   O HU
F Government implementation performance              O HS * S  0  U  0 HU
ER Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS  O u  O HU
0 Overall                                            OHS OS O u O HU
- 47 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 7.1    Aide-Memoire of the ICR Mission
Annex 7.2    Review of CWC Activities in Hydrology
Annex 7.3    Flood Operation of Reservoir with Gated Spillways
Annex 7.4    Other Hydrological Aspects of the Project
Annex 7.5    Gandhisagar Design Flood
Annex 7.6    International Perspective on Dam Safety
Annex 7.7    Review of Flood Hydrology at Hirakud
-48 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
Description of Survey
Beneficiary Identification:
The main beneficiaries of the project would be the owners of the dams, which are the
governments of the participating states. However, the survey included all classes of stakeholders (the
implementing agencies, contractors, consultants, farmers or experts, and damn safety panel members) as
all of them had benefited either directly/indirectly from the project.
Questionnaire:
A detailed questionnaire (see Appendix 1) was prepared and discussed. The questionnaire
attempted to elicit response from the beneficiaries on issues related to project relevance, investment
priority, project objectives, project design, implementation of various components under the project,
performance of all the relevant agencies in the project and the issues related to their co-ordination and
project achievement. Questionnaires were sent to about 75 persons and response has been received so
far from 58 persons.
Respondents:
The respondents consisted of (see Appendix 2):
Number        _
Implementing Agencies (state and central) Staff                     31                53
Dam Safety Review Panel Members                                     12                21
Beneficiaries                                                        2                 4
Others (consultants, experts, contractors)                          13                22
Total                                                               58               100
Responses
Summary of Responses:
*   About two-thirds of the respondents feel that the project is highly relevant in the context of water
resources development in India.
*   39 percent feel that dam safety should be the first charge on investment in the water sector.
*   28 percent feel that the objectives have been fully achieved. 60 percent feel that it is only partially
achieved.
*   52 percent feel that the project design is consistent in meeting project objectives while 36 percent feel the
need for major changes.
*   Overall performance (Bank and borrower): 79 percent have rated it as satisfactory/highly satisfactory.
*   77 percent have rated Bank performance as satisfactory/highly satisfactory.
- 49 -



*   52 percent feel that the State DSCs created under the project were extremely useful.
*   34 percent feel that training has been provided to less than a quarter of the staff and almost one-third feel
that training had had either marginal or no impact.
*   56 percent feel that the basic safety facilities (an important component of the project) have been
adequately provided for and two-thirds feel that their quality is satisfactory.
*   Almost two-thirds feel that DSR Panel (created under the project for expert input related to the remedial
works component) has been extremely useful and 77 percent feel that the panel adequately reflects the
disciplines needed for dam safety activities.
*   Almost half of the respondent feel that there was a delay in case of more than 50 percent of the dams in
finalizing the design flood and 38 percent felt that the delay for some of the dam was as large as 2 years.
Thirty-one percent feel that the delay was due to lack of adequate data, 27 percent due to difference of
opinion on the methodology or the value of design flood between state agencies, Central Water
Commission and Dam Safety Review Panel.
*   Only 56 percent feel that the DSOs will be sustained with full/reduced complement of staff and functions
after the project closing date
*   While there is a general agreement that funds are being provided for O&M, only 21 percent feel that such
funds are provided based on dam inspection/investigation reports.
*   44 percent feel that the co-ordination between central and state agencies worked well; 45 percent though
satisfied, feel there are some gray areas.
*   On the question whether the states are in a position to sustain the dam safety program, the response is
even.
- 50 -



Graphical Summary
The graphical presentations of responses are as follows:
Beneficiary Survev
Graphical Response SunmuarY
Projet relevance in the context of water                     kn.stmmen Ptiorty in the contt of W;At Rtowce
resowtes in Indla                                     De,elopfnt in h,dia - Dm Safety sh ould be
Relevant                                                                                             rst Charg*
38% 3A
Highly                    impteant         -
Relevant                      h . ett__
62%                        511%
Have the Objectives as laid out in the                                    Project Design
project document been achieved?
NR
M ostly Not
Achievedi                                                               NR
7%                       FuiI*                                      12%
28%
Consistent
Needs                                  in meeling
major                                   project
changes                                 objectves
Partialy                                                   36%                                       52%
60%
Project Durstok                                        DId the Projed cover all necessay
conponents?
Should have
been less   NR
and rtSre   7%
36%                            ~~~~~~~11%
Yes
Should have ~~~~~~~~~No_
been more.                                                     40%
55%
NR. Not Recorded
- 51 -



Performance or Centra Agency                                        Pedonnance f States
1SS                Silti5hdor            :                                         12%
Lh 0t
AIfy
Overall PBfcrnce                                               Bank Perfonnance
NR                                                            h
NR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s Highs/
U]SJIC5* 0 t 2~~~~~~~~~~~7%
SA*ffttp,y
The      ^_* DUcS ASale:led to the DSDo yu think tht the 0 SCs hv abeen e4r.mely usdj
The Dulles AssItJned to the Oin Sro%AJinp  n -sssry Guidene - tho Cotvities
related to th- project?
32%
9%                  ~~~~~~Apprep6A                                                          Yes
/o                                   52%
- 52 -



The Meetings of tIlWDCs W_u                                Are tho DSQS represerMed by al the reUtred
discipfines?
Too
frequent
2%
Adede quate                  44% -
inrrequert
5'Mc                                                                             No
Are theJob descriptietm  ofthe OSO Staff                                    Areallthepostsfiller?
appropriate and relitecng need?
7-
Adequate training hae been prnuid0ito:                        Hastranin genhancedthe ualiy of emoation
G,"t*, thn
WS% Ofhe
NR   ICostotther   sta1f                                        YeY.,t has
NR%                                                                                                    enh3'r
- 0 ,*ate than~
26% of th.
Less thas25 tuth                                 ,no .C l ks.                     n
25% o1th                   10%                      fat                        margirna.IV
24%
- 53 -



Do you thhik basic safety fatieleS as                     Do you thInk the qualty or baslc saffty
envisaged under the project hiwe been                             fadhties provWided are
adequ ateiV prvA ded for ad mao4 darns that
need them?
HR
NR                                                      25%A
16%
No                            YeeS                      Nt%
2%%                            56%
Do you think DSR Panel has been extrnely                    oees the DSR Panel adequatel retecl the
usefu In providhig necessawy ahzlce on the                           dicslplines needed?
renaedisi works to betaken up?
NR                                                        NR
16%                                                 No
No
20%
The nmeetings of the DSR Paei wee:                      WDs there a substantile delay In finalizing the
Too                                   design lood ofthe dams considered for
frequent                               r_ieDal measums under the project In the
NR              11%                                                 case cot
23% ,  
NR
Too                                        ~~                                                   Moto tM.A
irtrequeint                                                                               w        0 ofth
11%                                                                                              - -----
iA eqLete                       10% ftZ h
25% ofthe
5-A        ~~~~Darr.
-54-



The duration taken for flnalizirng the dedgn                              Reasons for DeIay.
flood for some or the cIms
2_%                               LAkr of
t*dquatc
2yr             -pInim                                          -      -od
Lee     sfsoe? ttr.uh 2y
NR ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~DR
2S%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2   Doesno of LhR
Y..    *2Years                                         age.ceks and                  sttet hvdf
2%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
The cuwrent nonrs,for deckding the design                          The revised rules are based on:
flood O .SPS, return period based floods)
aR 4
Others
P. .                       5p)
Adequale                                10%                         ewe
37%                                                             operation
tmf
Change                                                                    Ali4 vl
IS the PMWgess with Flood~ forecasting                       Is the health stalus of dauws being assesset
Satist.clo,y?                                                    regwlarW
NR
25%      Yes~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
54%
No                                                           No
40%                                                           5%
- 55 -



Are hesIM status reptots beingi used?                                             VWI DSOs cregsd be suaWned?
A-e being                                                           W  be .sur.d
ui,ed by the                                                            wrei Itt
state                                                             ocr,nplemontot
agenc4i In                          NR seffend
taki" up                                                               unctior,
remedial20
43%                                                    m9                  ilmmbo
topre-prtt 4
trrned out                 FtbtonsulRyS_ i
raroutire                cordinued und     t                           b
manurtaey S11's er                                              ned-dmtt
major fthrus t              deparryient                           lunctions
0 & M Provisions:                                               Coordinaion betae CWYC and State Agenclacs
Neer% e 1a ri%
FunrF nut                                                                                   and
prourided/enlyi prreov mt                                                                                                             Areerel
cren made                                                                                                                            detred.
29%                                                   F rundo                                 1S d                                 in    e d
pnorid.d                                                              d    and.odl.d
*_ _   i  _         thoughs41                                                                       ..I  ll
based on                                                                       __ 44%
hos per-h.            Are *v ra
Fund.                                          norm.               nat-dastory
Funds *                                            f Sthough there
prould..                                                                vvere some
bted on                                                                  grey arran
cosp*otionVim,                                                               46^ay
est.g ation
report ot
dam.
- 21%S'                                                                      
Are States In it position to sustain the Dam Sarety Program:
Yes
529k 1  li;42434i::;    _            48%
52%A
Ftrrtsr.i ni snrmP nhp vAtinnc rm,rflD hv thA r*akAhnlrJPr.r; rhrrinfl thtP ruirvrv rarP niPrll in thu Pttsrthmurt thAt fninrvs
- 56 -



Summary Observations from Beneficiaries
Project Objectives (Areas of concern):
Sustainability related project like dam safety project has mostly resulted in expenditure on items like
deferred maintenance" Real risk alleviation needs involvement of local administrations near damage
centers, who need to be formally involved.
Need to define emergency action plan for the safety of the people residing downstream from inundation.
Need for development of a comprehensive MIS with database of input parameters relevant to dam
safety.
To upgrade the procedure for reservoir operation for safety assurance.
Post project analysis of safety status of dams.
Project Objectives (Achievements)
*   Out of the major components of Dam Safety, the most important component, remedial measures,
has been fully achieved by the states. Still some physical work remains in some projects requiring
about 3.5 percent of the estimated cost. In future where remaining requirement is below say less
than 10 percent (minor), full funding should be provided by the World Bank to avoid delay in
completion and receipt of fruitful result early.
*   The 2 primary objectives in the project i.e. strengthening of institutional framework for dam safety
and upgrading of selected dams to enhance their safety status, have been achieved. Most
importantly, awareness about dam safety has permeated to the rank and file of the concerned
department.
* Generally cosmetic changes have taken place without commitment to main objectives.
* Institution building has not yet made very deep penetration into the system. The awareness is till
limited to higher echelons of water resources administrations in the states.
* To arrive at the final remedial measure investigation and design consumed more than 60 percent of
the project period. Hence full objective could not be achieved.
Project Design (Need for changes)
*   Change in TOR's of safety panels.
*   Safety of utility is the most important; spillway operation and regulation of flood water should
be inbuilt features of the system.
- 57 -



*   The participating agencies have an ample number of people, hence selection and placement of
suitable staff needs to be done as a preproject exercise and their exhaustive training before start
of real execution.
*  Remote sensing the inflow stream. Automatic recorders for discharge and levels for incoming
streams. Remote control gate opening.
Additional components for consideration:
*  R&D efforts to use local materials and manpower for DSP.
*   Sometimes major components of the Dam Project such as Hydro Power House are not included
in the TOR by the state Government.
*  Improving O&M schedule and ensuring advance action of instrumentation observation and
evaluation by an independent scientific institution like the Indian Institute of Science.
*  Dam break study and categorization of hazard of dams for safety of property and population;
emergency action plan for the safety of people down stream.
*   Institutional strengthenings of hydraulic research stations; institutional strengthening of
'Geological Survey of India'.
*   Specific provision for hands on training, to the engineering staff, in construction quality from
reputed national organization like the National Council of Cement and Building materials.
*   Sedimentation study; catchment area treatment.
*   Should cover guidelines and recommendations for retiring some dams which are not economical
to rehabilitate.
*  Flood forecasting machinery; a plan for crisis management in the event of seismological
activities, high floods and other anticipated failures.
Performance (Central Agency)
*  All works as stipulated have been completed in a systematic manner in proper perspective.
* More involvement of CWC is necessary. It must be more than a facilitator as safety is
dependent on care given at all levels; disaster should be mitigated.
*  The CWC worked only as a monitoring agency, whereas we should provide guidance in
implementation of the pro ect.
*   Should have been more proactive.
- 58 -



Perfonnance (Bank)
*   WB has been striving hard to encourage competent contractors, besides introducing the latest
technology in construction and mechanization of construction process resulting in early
completion of projects.
*  Bank should have imposed conditions for non performance in certain components like O&M
manual preparation and Phase II investigation, hydrological review and procurement.
*   The Bank did not consider the constraints and submissions of the state and deleted dams from
the list, where remedial works were to be done.
*   As it is the first project of its kind a more intense initiative and effective monitoring/interaction
in the initial years of the project could be rated as highly satisfactory.
Reasons why DSCs have not been useful:
*   Committees having only "veto" power but having no responsibility to obtain positive results
have been its difficulty.
* They were only monitoring the progress.
i No technical guidance
Disciplines not represented well by the DSO.
i Geotechnical;
o Hydrology;
o   Socioeconomic.
DSR Panel (Utility)
*   The DSRP either did not finalize the things or finalized too late, which resulted in delayed
execution with more expenditure.
*  The panel should have acted as facilitator group. Instead they tended to be a parallel center of
authority, often leading to time-consuming conflicts.
Disciplines not adequately represented by the DSRP:
* Hydrology;
* Geotechnical.
Hydrology Review: need for revision of norms:
*   Rigid adherence to PMF sometimes leads to absurd situations. More flexible decision making
should be possible.
*  PMF criteria existing at present particularly for the old dams needs a review at national level.
- 59 -



*   Transposing a PMP to the dam site may not be physically possible.
*   A risk-based approach could result in more rational values and reduction in rehabilitation cost.
*   PMF should have relevance to the channel capacity in the downstream.
Major lessons learnt:
*   Adequate staff in DSO should be provided and they should be properly trained.
*  Hydrological studies should be completed on time.
*   Design of remedial measures and their approval by DSRP on time.
*   Local administration has to be involved in risk alleviation.
*   O&M manual and data book compilation should have been completed.
*   Review and monitoring o:F implementation schedule by CEs should be conducted in short
duration to identify bottlenecks and to overcome it.
*   Increased awareness of iniportance of Dam Safety. There is an urgent necessity to establish
capability to organize systeematic collection of dam behavior on a regular basis and archive
information on the perforTnance of Dams at National Level.
*   Develop a public policy, as in United States, National Performance of Dam Program.
*   Training course, particularly for attitude change and orientation.
*   Need for methodologies, guidelines and standardization of procedures.
*   Transfer of project staff and monitoring agencies should be stopped.
*   The DSO should be given the responsibility of quality control also.
*   Emergency preparedness is important.
*  The project should have been planned after proper investigation.
*  Maintenance of the project: is a continuing process and needs specialized manpower as well as
an independent agency to certify the health of the projects.
- 60 -



*   Being an interstate project with a wide spread-out within each state, the existing norm of two
Bank supervision missions a year, needs to be upgraded to three supervision missions a year for
the follow-on DSP. This shall keep the states on alert and will expedite implementation.
*   Conducting of regular progress review/ monitoring meetings biannually by chief engineers and
quarterly by the secretary of the state government with due participation of contractors is of
paramount importance.
* Timely flow of funds is to be ensued through legal agreement of states with the Bank.
* Time of preparatory work such as hydrological study, health of dam may be separately
provided.
* Qualified and experienced engineers must be incharge of executing the project.
* Institutional development including PMP Atlas, finalization of design flood etc. should be in the
first Phase; construction implementation should be part of Phase II.
3   Project should be implemented in two stages, Stage I for basic facilities and investigations,
finalization of design and procurement of documents Stage II should be execution of remedial
measures.
*   Time frame and sequencing of activities should be defined without ambiguity.
O  The capacity and the established responsibilities of implementing agencies should be evaluated
beforehand.
*   Hydrology, safety evaluation of dams and identification of remedial measures to be completed
during the initial period of two years and only such dams included for execution of remedial
measures.
*   CWC to be given more authority and proactive role for effective monitoring and coordination.
Also Bank supervisory mission to be more strict and effective in implementation of the project
objective, especially during the initial period.
*   More training in the country as well as abroad to engineers on dam safety subjects.
Important components of the follow-on project:
* Institutional strengthening;
* Basic facilities of dams;
*  Remedial measures;
*   Hydrological studies;
* R&D efforts in repair and improving the health of dams;
* Flood forecasting network;
* Communications upstream and downstream;
* Nationwise database for dams;
* Maintenance schedule;
* Operation manual;
- 61 -



*   Rehabilitation of foundations of old projects;
*   Hydrological information systern, decision support systems for operation of projects during
flood time integrating inflow forecasts and evaluation of socio-economic costing from the part
of new project;
*   Institutional strengthening of hydraulic research stations, institutional strengthening of'
'Geological Survey of India';
*   Dam safety projects should invariably include a dam utility component since investment in dam
safety may be pardy financed through increased utility;
*   Private sector participation in sustainability;
*   Preparatory Phase needed;
*   Training in quality control, project management, computer networking;
*   Mock training on implemented telemetry/ flood waming system for disaster management
procedures;
*   Improvement of nonstructural measures for dam safety/flood investigation;
*   PMP study, design floods in finalization in Phase I; structural measure on dam safety should be
implemented in Phase II;
*   Flood forecasting system should be installed in all dams catchments and flood-warning systems
upstream and downstream are to be set up;
*   Post project safety assessiment of the darns.
suggestions on how to make the DSP program sustainable
*   Cess/tax may be imposed on major users to sustain the activities of DSARP2.
*   Prior conditions to be set for sustainability in case of next project and if possible allocate a
fixed amount for the futume.
*   GOI to fix norms and criteria for annual plan funds for assistance.
*   The dam owner should take the program seriously and mobilize resources through safe loans
from internal and external financing agencies.
*   When the funding of the project is finalized there should be sufficient provision to meet out
maintenance for next three years so that the states get proper time to generate their own
resources.
-   The risk/hazard, which the dam users face, should be made public.
-   Almost all of the states are experiencing financial problems. Accordingly, the states may not be
in a position to sustain the dam safety program to the requisite desired level. The dam safety
project being unique and first of its kind in India (and in the world), the Bank should consider a
special mechanism to promote sustainability of safety program. In this context the Bank may
consider a quick three- to four-year duration" Dam safety Sustainability Project' amounting to,
say, $15-2 million to cover the cost of maintaining DSRPs, incremental staff, preparation of
POMs of dams, documentation of history of dams, left over basic facilities, and execution of
any remedial measures associated with critical distress observed recently including the dams
subjected to severe onslaught cyclone in Orissa.
*   The Bank should provide ifunding keeping in view prioritization of remedial measures and
importance of the Dam. In above, to have uniform policy, central monitoring body should be set
up to liaise with the Bank, MOWR and state government.
*   During implementation of remedial measures services of DSRP consultancy agencies be
continued to fine tune the recommendations made in the course of construction. Entrusting
quality assurance of remeclial measures to the consultancy agency would also go a long way in
adequate rehabilitation of aging dams.
*   More than one state can join hands to have a common dam safety organization.
- 62 -



* A roving DSO at the regional or national levels can be created.
* Incentive mechanism required for retaining the trained/willing/qualified personnel.
* There should be dam safety set-up for each dam at appropriate level including public
representation.
* A program be launched for public awareness to dam safety; part public funding through rural
development organizations; soft loan from lending agencies.
* Continuity of staff in design offices and dam and safety offices.
* A legalization and legal power is needed to ensure compilation of safety principles.
*   Water rates should be raised commensurate with the M&R cost and major repair cost.
*   Awareness should be created among the end users to prepare them to contribute adequately for
the cost of remedial measures.
*   The state or central governments should subsidize water resource departments, or else they
should be brought under the purview of the government-owned corporations/boards to generate
their funds.
*   Make special budget provision for dam safety aspect; avail funding for Phase II DSARP with 9
Plan.
Perception of the benefits of the project as a stakeholder:
* Reduced risk cost with the rehabilitated dams.
* Improved awareness of dam safety concept in the Indian water resources sector.
* Improved the technical capacity of state/CWC staff in handling dam safety related issues.
* Reduced sustainability with the number of lives at risk downstream of the dams.
* Improved the quality of remedial measures proposed due to interaction of
CWC/states/DSRP/consultants/contractors in an intensive way.
*   Improved the benefits to the populace living downstream.
- 63 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Work;shop Results
Objectives:
The aim of the workshop was to share the experience of a diverse set of stakeholders, consisting of
officials from the government of india and state governments, consultants, contractors, non-govemmental
groups, experts, academics, legislawtors and farmer representatives on the design, implementation and outcome
of the dam safety project.
This was expected to lead to:
*   greater understanding of implementation issues of the project;
*   assessment of the achievement of the project's objectives;
*   identification of co-ordination issues relevant to project design and implementation; and
*   lessons learned for use in case of a follow-on project.
Participants:
There were 78 participants (see Appendix l) in total representing the MOWR, DEA, CWC,
engineers from  the implementing states of Orissa, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, and Madhya Pradesh;
National Planning Commission, Dam  Safety Review  Panel chairmen/members, academia, Central
Board of Irrigation and Power (representing the Indian National Committee on Large Dams),
Intemational Conmnission on Irrigation and Drainage, representatives from primary beneficiaries
(farmer representatives, ex-members of the legislative assembly); contractors and consultants. The
break up is as below:
GOI (MOWR, DEA, and Planning Commission):                              5
Implementing agencies:
*  CWC                                                          10
*  States                                                       18
NGO group:
*  Dam Safety Review Panel members                              1 2
*  Consultants                                                   4
*  Academia/experts                                              6
*  Contractors                                                   9
*  Farmer representative                                         3
*  Political group (ex-MLA)                                      I
*  FAO-CP                                                        3
'  Bank                                                          7
Deliberations Summary:
In the inaugural session (see Annex 9), the key note address was delivered by Mr. Z. Hasan, Secretary,
Union Ministry of Water Resources, who underlined the importance of such stand alone dam safety project for
a country like India which has around 4,000 large dams. He also indicated the current exercise on in MOWR
for a follow on project. Mr. A. Bhardari (Operations Advisor, World Bank) presented the salient features of
the intensive learning ICR and the objective of the stakeholder's workshop. Mr. Rajagopal (Water Resource
- 64 -



Specialist) dwelt on the Bank policies related to dam safety.
In the first technical session chaired by Mr. Hasan, all the implementing agencies (CWC and the four
participating states of Rajasthan, MP, Orissa and Tamil Nadu) presented the details of implementation status of the
project in their states, achievement and lessons learned. Through scanned photographs the implementing agencies
presented dam by dam the pre and post dam safety project status related to various components of the project. This
was followed by a presentation by Mr. R. Paterson (the ICR mission leader from FAO-CP) on the preliminary
findings of the ICR mission. The implementation issues; concept/design issues and outcome/benefit issues were
discussed in three parallel group sessions.
The recommendations of these groups were presented and discussed in a plenary on November 12, 1999,
and final lessons learned/recommendations discussed and summarized below. Mr. Alessandro Palmeiri (Senior
Dam Specialist, RDV) presented international perspective on dam safety especially the Bank experience and a
simple methodology to carry out a risk analysis to determine and prioritize candidate dams. Mr. David Plinston
(consultant hydrologist, FAO/CP) presented methodology for arriving at simple reservoir operation strategy during
floods which can be easily followed by a gate operator of the dams in India. A number of speakers (farmer
representatives, ex-MLA, contractors, consultants, DSR Panel members shared their perception of the project in
technical session V. The concluding session was chaired by Mr. Nawalawalah, Advisor (Irrigation), Planning
Commission. He dwelt in detail on the maintenance issue related to dams, especially provision of inadequate
funding for the works component of the repair/maintenance through revenue budget. He suggested funding part of
such expenditure through plan funding (capital expenditure). The Chairman, Central Water Commission, Mr.
A.D. Mohile briefly outlined the possible follow-on project. Mr. E.V. Jagannathan (Water Resources Engineer),
World Bank, presented the preliminary summary statistics of beneficiary responses on the survey carried out.
Workshop Recommendations (as presented by Mr. Paterson in the concluding Session)
* It is necessary to define the benefits of project works. This should be done with the participation of
beneficiaries and those affected by the project, both upstream and downstream of the dam.
* Dams selected for remedial works and provision of basic facilities should be prioritized according to the
benefits and costs.
*   Clear terms of reference are needed in the project documents for all parties involved with the selection,
investigation and design of project works, including consultants, Dam Safety Review Panels (DSRP),
CWC and others.
-   Dam Safety Review Panels are a requirement of the World Bank for all dams associated with Bank
projects. They should be advisory only and their TOR should clearly indicate time allowed for their
operations. Guidance on the recruitment of DSRP was provided in a paper, by Hoek and Imrie, distributed
at the workshop.
*   Private consultants have their role. Their TOR should be time-bound. A possible way to improve
performance would be to give consultants contracts with short duration: if they do not perform
satisfactorily, their contract would not be renewed.
*   CWC should not act as hydrology consultants when they have authority to approve design floods. CWC's
other main purposes as far as the project is concemed should be the production and dissemination of
guidelines and training.
*   More training was required than was provided under the project, particularly in the fields of Bank
procedures;
*   Construction quality control;
*   Contract management;
*   Dam instrumentation.
*   Wherever practicable training should be given on the job.
*   Continuity of personnel would greatly improve implementation efficiency and dam safety.
*   Availability of funds for construction was a problem during implementation. The Bank advances 25
percent of the year's budget but this does not reach the implementing agencies. It was suggested that
assurances should be sought from the Borrower in the legal agreements to ensure that implementing
- 65 -



agencies have funds available at the start of the financial year, particularly when this coincides with
the construction season.
*   Many reservoirs with gated spillways do not have clear detailed operating rules. A straightforward
procedure for deriving such operating rules was described to the workshop participants. This should
be adopted for all reservoirs with gated spillways. The responsible Chief Engineers should be
instructed to ensure that this is done.
*   Emergency action plans are required for all reservoirs. They should be made with public participation
and should be published. A paper by United States Bureau of Reclamation on emergency
preparedness plans was distributed to all participants at the workshop.
*   There is a need for legislation to ensure that dams are safe.
Summaries of technical -roup discussions
A. Group I - Implementation Issues
The meeting of Group I wvas attended by 16 experts representing DSRP members, states, the Bank,
and contractors. Mr. R.K. Malhotra, an eminent construction expert, chaired this group session. The
group made the following recommendations (presented by Mr. Malhotra in the workshop):
Recommendations:
*   Training in quality control/quality assurance in construction to engineering staff and contractors'
staff in reputed organization like NCB.
-   Training on Bank procurement procedures/disbursement to all projects related staff.
*   Institutional strengthening of state nucleus cells (in design organization) on construction equipment
planning and management, as well as instrumentation.
i   Any follow-up DSP should consist of twp 2 phases--Phase I: institutional strengthening and basic
safety facilities; and Phase II: remedial measures of those dams, which are in full state readiness.
i   Time bound plans for all activities should be incorporated in project implementation schedules for
all parties concerned (owner, DSRP, consultants, approval agencies, etc.), making use of
CPM/PERT facilities.
i   Construction/implementation progress review and monitoring meetings should be held bi-monthly
with concerned chief engineers/additional chief engineers, with   participation of concerned
contractors.
*   For meaningful coordination of multi-disciplinary agencies (CWC, DSRP, GSI, consultants, EIC,
CE's) appoint CE (DSO) as project manager cum coordinator.
*   Allotted budget and timely release of funds must be ensured in the form of legal agreement
*   Once project scope and provisions are agreed and defined in PAD (viz. vehicles, equipment,
communication equipment, buildings etc.) no more clearance on these items should be insisted upon
by finance.
- 66 -



Group II - Concept and Design Issues
Group II's meeting was attended by 24 experts, representing DSRP (members, experts, consultants,
CWC, planning commission, states, Bank staff, FAO). Dr. K.C. Thomas chaired the session. Dr. S.M.
Seth was the reporter. Dr. Palmieri of Bank was the facilitator. There was unanimity of agreement on the
objectives of the scheme and its continuation to cover more dams and more states. However, there could be
changes in the terms of reference and modalities of implementation. Views were expressed by members on
various issues, particularly those having emphasis on recently completed project. These included:
* Need for external funding support for dam safety related activities.
* Need for redefining the role of DSRP to make it more broad based and proactive, including the role
to suggest suitable remedial measures.
*   In any dam project, there is element of Risk involved and design parameters should be based on
both risk as well as economic aspects with due consideration of local site specific conditions.
*  Thorough review of approaches and procedures (deterministic/statistical) for hydrological analysis
is necessary to decide design flood with a view to keep it realistic with due consideration of
reliability, risk, uncertainty, and safety. These could also be discussed at some International
Seminar.
* Desirability of CWC to have an arbiter's role only rather than both as consultant and arbiter.
* Suitable mechanism needs to be introduced for interaction of different DSRPs, DSRPs and CWC,
and DSRPs and Bank at appropriate stages of the project.
3 There is need for laying down suitable procedures/guidelines for deciding earthquake parameters.
i The need for maintaining continuity of specialized personnel in design offices, DSOs, and project
sites operational roles was emphasized. The need for suitable incentives was also mentioned.
3  The small dams require special concern, in view of likelihood of extreme flood events of flashy
nature. For small dams and dams in remote locations, ungated spillways should be preferred
keeping in view flash floods and likely human errors.
* There is need for reasonable network of ORG's and SRRG'S in each dam catchment for proper
estimation of design flood using historical data.
* The objective of Dam Safety Project should be safety of life and property with due consideration of
local site specific/country specific factors. The remedial measures would include structural as well
as nonstructural measures.
* The role of state organizations vis-A-vis DSRP also needs to be properly defined in order to achieve
project objectives in a smooth time bound manner as per schedule.
* State DSOs should be properly structured with clearly defined roles of dam safety evaluation,
regular monitoring, proper instrumentation, proper maintenance etc. with suitable review boards
comprising of internal or intemal/extemal experts/officers.
* It is desirable to have for all dams/completed projects appropriately compiled historical
infornation in the form of data books, reports, maps, drawings, quality control, instrumentation
etc. These should form important information for dam safety review.
* The role of CWC should be more proactive with suitable mechanism for review, interaction with
DSRPs and states. All publications, guidelines etc., prepared by CWC, should be distributed to
all concerned including DSRP members.
* Model emergency preparedness plans should be prepared as a guide for use by states for preparing
similar plans for specific dams/projects.
* Guidelines should be prepared for operation of various types/sizes of dams/reservoirs, including
real time operation.
* Before taking up the main activities of project with new states/new dams in existing states under
the project, appropriate preparatory phase is necessary with DSRP involvement to include
- 67 -



inspection, compilation of data/information, identification of dams under distress, prioritization of
dams, deciding hydrologic design parameters etc. The project duration, therefore needs to be
decided accordingly to provide time for preparatory phase.
* There is need for establishing suitable criteria for evaluating efficacy of remedial measures and
their periodical monitoring.
* Suitable laws should be enacted at national level/state level for dam safety related issues, in order
to ensure desired objectives of safety.
*   It can be concluded that all participants in Group II favored the need for taking up dam safety
project to cover more dams/states with World Bank assistance. The need for: (a) proper
structuring of dam safety organizations in states; (b) consideration of design flood
estimation issue in a rational manner keeping in view risk, uncertainty, safety & economy; (c)
properly defining role of l)SRPs; (d) interaction mechanism of all concerned; and (e) provision of
preparatory phase of project were emphasized.
Group HI - Outcome/Benefit Related Issues
*   The beneficiaries to be informed about the need of dam safety so that benefits of a dam reach them
without any hindrance. The beneficiaries (especially farmers) want proper attention to stop
degradation of catchment and proper maintenance of canals for round
the year service from the dam.
*   There should be involvement of beneficiaries in decision-making and sharing of costs for dam
safety so that dam safety is cost effective. This will help in reducing the cost for rehabilitation of
dams for safety and will also be useful in accountability of the dam managers.
* Flood forecasting to be an integral part of the dam safety program.
* There is a need to build up database for dam safety so that all information about the safety of dam
and historical data about the dam are available at dam site as well as in the DSOs.
* A need was felt to have a built in mechanism under dam safety for reassessment of the original
assumptions and risks so that steps can be taken to remedy the deficiencies for safety of dam. The
O&M plans need to be revised at least once in five years based on the recommendations made as a
result of reassessment of safety of dam.
*   There should be an immediate safety evaluation of all the dams in a state. The safety evaluation
should include the hydrology review, seismic revisions, dam break analysis, preparation of
inundation maps and emergency action plans, etc. A start for risk analysis of the safety of dams
can also be made in a limited way. This will also help in prioritization and in finalizing the
remedial measures to be undertaken for rehabilitation of dams.
* There is an urgent need to have a legislation to make the owners of dams aware of their obligations
towards dam safety and the society.
* It was felt that a provision of basic dam safety facilities should cover all the dams in the state.
states/owners should undertake a review of such facilities at their dams and immediately take
action to provide them at all dams.
*   The group unanimously recommended formulation of a Dam Safety II Project, which can be
divided into two parts-first dealing with safety evaluation; and the second may be kept for
execution of remedial measures to rehabilitate dams under distress.
- 68 -



Annex 10. Borrower's PCR
CENTRAL WATER COMMISSION
DAM SAFETY MONITORING DIRECTORATE
INDIA - DAM SAFETY PROJECT [2241-INI
PROJECT COMlPLETION REPORT
Dam Safety Assurance and Rehabilitation Project (DSARP) was taken up for implementation with
the World Bank assistance in 1991. The total estimated base cost of the Project was US $172 million out of
which the States' share was US $160 million and that of Centre US $12 million. The total Project cost,
including contingencies, was US $197 million i.e. Rs.4559.80 million as detailed out in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) of the World Bank. The disbursements were projected over a period of 6 years commencing
from 1991-92 and the credit was to close by September 1997. However, the Central as well as the State
Governments requested the World Bank to extend the Project period by two years, i.e. upto September
1999. The World Bank accepted the request and extended the project twice on yearly basis. The final
restructured cost of the project is US $ 92.973 million, i.e. Rs.4231.83 million. Apart from CWC at the
Centre, the other beneficiary States under the project include Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Rajasthan & Tamil
Nadu. The project ended on 30.9.99.
As desired by the World Bank vide letters dated 5.5.99 and 16.7.99, this Project Completion
Report (PCR) has been prepared on the guidelines contained in Attachment I of the letter dated 5.5.99. The
Report has, therefore, been divided into four parts, i.e. (a) Project Design; (b) Project Appraisal; (c) Project
Implementation; and (d) Project Results.
The main lessons learnt from the implementation experience and arising from the above analysis
are summarized at the end of the Report. The Report is supplemented by six tables, as per World Bank
letter viz. key performance indictors, key indicators for project operation, financial progress, studies
included in the project, project financing (item-wise) and project financing (total by agency). Copies of the
World Bank letters referred to above are enclosed as Annex I & II. The status report of implementation of
the project as on 31.8.99 is enclosed as Annex III to the Report.. In addition to these, copies of ICRs as
received from the participating States, i.e. Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu are also
enclosed with this Report.
PROJECT DESIGN
Two primary objectives of the Dam Safety Assurance & Rehabilitation Project as stipulated in the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) of the project are:
(a)   to strengthen the institutionalframeworkfor Dam Safety Assurance in CWC and in thefour
participating States; and
(b)   to upgrade the physicalfeatures in and around selected dams to enhance their safety status as
required through remedial works, basicfacilities additions, andfloodforecasting systems.
The Project objectives have been chosen appropriately and are very much relevant to the project. These
have been very useful in strengthening the dam safety activities in India. The scope of the investments
- 69 -



stipulated in the SAR, an amount of Rs.214.6 million (US $11.9 million), i.e. 6.9% of the base cost was
proposed towards Institutional Strengthening of the Dam Safety Organizations (DSO) at the Centre and
participating States. For modemisation of flood forecasting network, an amount of Rs.161 million (US $
8.9 million) i.e. 5.2% of the base cost was envisaged. Provision for upgrading the basic dam safety
facilities at identified dams in the participating States was Rs.438.8 million (US $22.8 million), i.e. 14.2%
of the base cost of the project. A provision of Rs.2283.9 million (US $126.9 million) was kept for
execution of remedial works for rehabilitation of dams. This is 73.7% of the total base cost of the project.
Physical and price contingencies were in addition to the above base cost.
The following observations are made on the size and scope of investments stipulated in the SAR:
1.    Being the first Dam Safety Project not only in India but also to be assisted by the World Bank and
uniqueness of the project, the period of implementation of the project should have been kept between 8 &
10 years. specially when it was known that:
(a)    hydrology of a number of dams has not been completed;
(b)   identification of remedial measures and prioritization of dams to be taken up for rehabilitation had not
been done for most of the dams included in the project at the start of the project; and
(c)    when it was stipulated (in the SAR itself) that more dams can be included during implementation of the
project for taking up rehabilitation. Altematively it could have been stipulated that only those additional
dams will be included for rehabilitation on which identification of remedial works are finalised within
two years of the start of the project.
2.    More provision was required for Institutional strengthening. This is substantiated by the fact that
the average expenditure on the institutional strengthening at the end of the project is of the order of about
122% of SAR provisions whereas it exceeded by about 200% of the SAR provision in case one of the
participating States, i.e. Rajasthan.
3.     Extensive training to the staff of the implementing agencies directly associated with the project,
about the procurement procedures and other important rules/regulations of the World Bank should have
been proposed at the start of the project.
4.     A total of 10 man-months for training of Indian engineers and holding of 10 workshops in India
were proposed in SAR. In addition, 98 man-months for trainings and study tours abroad were provided in
SAR. For a project of this type where dam safety is in the initial stages of development in India, the
provisions have been very useful and have helped Indian Engineers to get more exposures in dam safety
activities in developed countries and adopt them in India as well.
5.    A mechanism to make the implementing agencies agree for redeployment of the staff as per the
provisions in SAR should have been devised so as to achieve the desired results, i.e. posting/redeployment
of the staff in the DSOs within one year of the start of the project. This would have definitely accelerated
the implementation of the project from the beginning itself Assurance should have been taken from the
implementing agencies not to transfer the key personnel associated with the project during the project
period. Further a stringent provision for not fulfilling the SAR assurance given by implementing agencies
regarding making the SDSO staff a part of permanent establishment by August 31,1996 should have been
stipulated.
- 70 -



6.    Similarly it is felt that more weightage could have been given to the provision for basic dam safety
facilities at more damns in the SAR. A provision of maximum 25% of the cost of the project would have
been adequate for this component of the project. This inadequacy could have been corrected during the
mid-term review by increasing the dams for provision of basic darn safety facilities.
7.    The DSR Panels should have been flexible in composition with a provision that in case of any rigid
stand taken by DSRPs with regard to identification and fmalisation of remedial works for rehabilitation of
dams, the matter could be referred to CWC for final decision to be taken within a fixed time frame.
8.    The delay in taking up the implementation of mordemisation of flood forecasting work could have
been accelerated and extended to more basins, dams and reservoirs, if the provisions on this component had
been firrned up and clearly spelt out at the Appraisal Stage itself.
EFFECT ON GOVERNMENT INSTITUTIONS
1.    By implementation of this project the maximum gain to the Government institutions has been that
awareness of Dam Safety has reached the highest level of the Govt. and the implementing agencies.
2.    Being the first project of its type the sailing was not smooth during the initial stages of
implementation of the project. Now the implementing agencies have been equipped with a very good
infrastructure for a good Dam Safety Organisation with trained staff who are now geared for taking up
further dam safety activities in their respective jurisdictions.
3.    It has been possible to install and operate the latest state of the art flood forecasting systems for
getting information on real time basis about the hydrological and hydro-meteorological data at the Control
centres to formulate forecasts with greater efficiency and accuracy in the Mahanadi and Chambal basins.
This has contributed considerably enhancing the safety of dams in these two basins. This may lead to a
new change in the approach of flood forecasting in the country by extending this system to all the river
basins in the country.
PROJECT APPRAISAL
There was no change with regard to objectives spelt out in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) during the
implementation of the project. However, the following observations are made:
1.    During the course of implementation of the project, 22 dams were added for rehabilitation through
remedial works in addition to 33 dams already identified for this purpose at the time of appraisal. The
identification of the remedial measures even for the originally included 33 dams were not completed at the
start of the project which resulted in considerable delay. The inclusion of new dams should have been
considered only after complete identification of remedial measures in the originally identified dams and, as
already commented in the Chapter on "Project Design", the inclusion of new dams should have been
restricted upto 2 years from the start of the project.
- 71 -



2.     During the first restructuring of the project at the end of the project period i.e. after 6 years, 87
dams were added to the 98 darms already included for provision of basic dam safety facilities. This
exercise could have been done earlier, may be during the mid-term appraisal of the project, so that
adequate time could have been made available for receiving and enhancing basic dam safety facilities. It is
very encouraging to observe that most of the dams included during the first restructuring i.e. just two years
back have been upgraded by provisions of these basic dam safety facilities.
3.    There was increase in the allocation of funds for the Institutional strengthening during the first and
second restructuring of the project and these seem to be quite appropriate and adequate. During the first
restructuring of the project in September 1997, funding of 15 dams meant for rehabilitation through
remedial works were dropped by the Bank due to slow construction activity on these dams. It is felt that
such an action of dropping dams could have been deferred by setting suitable targets, to the second
restructuring i.e. from Oct. 1998. This could have given opportunity to the implementing agencies to
accelerate the execution of remedial works on these dams and would have also helped in rehabilitation of
more dams under the project.
4.     The exclusion of the State of Tamil Nadu from funding by the World Bank during the second
restructuring could have been avoided for the simple reason that remedial measures on only 2 dams were
being executed at the time of excluision of Tamil Nadu component of the project.
5.     The exclusion of telemetry system as proposed by Government of Orissa  should have infact
been deleted much earlier due to the fact that CWC was also providing more or less the sarne type of
telemetry system on the same river basin i.e. Mahanadi basin with an identical objective i.e. for real time
flood forecasting to the Hirakud reservoir.
6.    The restructuring and extension of the project after completion of its stipulated period of 6 years,
initially by one year instead of two years was a good decision and was instrumental in accelerating the pace
of implementation of the project end better utilisation of the Bank credit which at the close of the credit
date is of the order of almost 1 00°% of the second restructured project cost.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
The implementation has been quite smooth and orderly, however, following points are brought out:
I.    In general, IDA performance in supporting and supervising the project has been quite helpful and
positive. However, hardships have been experienced by most of the participating States regarding flow of
funds during the implementation ol the project and it is felt that progress would have been faster if timely
flow of funds to the executing agencies could have been ensured throughout the year, specially during the
first quarter of the financial years.
2.     Though there were slippages at the initial stage of the project the final progress achieved at the
closing of the project is quite satisfactory. The initial slippages were due to the fact that first, the nature of
the project was unique and it was the first such project in India. The State and Central institutional set up
was not conversant with technical and financial procedures. Second, due to delay in fmalising design floods
mainly due to non-availability of hydrological & meteorological data, more time was consumed than it was
estimated at the time of preparing SAR. Third, the procedure laid down in the SAR to approve a project
for execution has inbuilt time lag between the preparation of the proposal for remedial works and its
finalisation by the Dam Safety Review Panels. Some of the participating States have expressed that the
- 72 -



requirement of approval of all remedial works by the Dam Safety Review Panel and vetting of all
hydrological reviews by CWC was time consuming. Sometimes delay has been noticed because the
consultants could not complete their job on time.
3.    The implementation agencies had been complaining of delay in approval of the remedial works to
be taken up for rehabilitation of dams by Dam Safety Review Panels but they did not resort to the
provisions in the Staff Appraisal Report to constitute more than one panel in a State.
4.    Monitoring agencies in the participating States could have been strengthened and made more
effective in giving momentum to the execution of remedial works instead of collecting data and compiling
them for report purpose. Monitoring of the project should have been carried out at the highest level and
identified at the time of appraisal itself.
5.    The performance of the implementing agencies and the support and supervision given by the World
Bank during the extended period has been very remarkable. After restructuring the project, the
performance/expenditure incurred by the implementing agencies, which was only 44% (of the final
restructured cost) at the end of the project period of 6 year, increased to 56% during the extended period of
2 years. This corroborates the feeling that the project period should have been more than 6 years and being
a project, first of its kind, it should have been supervised and monitored more frequently, in the initial
stages.
6.    There was delay in the formulation of training programmes for Indian engineers abroad which was
not stressed upon by the Supervisory Missions of the Bank during their review including the mid term
review taken up by the Bank. However, trainings and workshops in India, for which most of the faculty
was provided by CWC, were evenly distributed during the project period. It is quite pertinent to bring out
that most of the training programmes abroad were formulated and executed during the extended period of
the project.
7.    There have been instances when complaints have been made to the World Bank regarding handling
of procurement issues and refusal by World Bank for award. However in case the Governments at the
Centre or in the participating States, having given due consideration and investigation to such complaints,
have still recommended award of work, the World Bank should have honoured the recommendations of the
implementing agencies. It is felt that there is a need to appreciate the stand taken by the implementing
agencies on such cases of complaints and the World Bank should not entertain them which cause delay in
the implementation of the project or may lead to non procurement.
PROJECT RESULTS
Dam safety programme will help in deriving optimum benefits from various dams covered under
the project.
1.    Institutional set up of Dam Safety Organisation at the Centre as well as in the four participating
States have been strengthened through training of officers, installation of modem equipments etc. This will
go a long way in handling future dam safety projects. Awareness with respect to the safety aspect of the
dam has been created in the participating States in particular and through out the country in general.
2.    Formulation and use of a numnber of Guidelines on Dam Safety and PMP Atlases by the
- 73 -



implementing agencies and dam owners has been one of the most significant and unique achievement of the
project. With the use of PMP Atlases, the uniformity in methodology/ approach for the estimates of
appropriate precipitation values in the various region has been achieved and this will save lot of time in
collection of relevant data for taking up review of flood hydrology. The guidelines prepared on "
Management of dam safety risks" under the project has been another significant achievement. With these
guidelines based on the latest concept of risk analysis in Dam Safety, India has become one such country,
in addition to a few developed countries of the world, to initiate action in this regard.
3.    Basic dam  safety facilities like providing access roads, back up power, instrumentation,
installation of communication system, stockpiling of emergency material, etc., have been provided at 180
dams in the 4 States out of total of 185 dams (Details in Annex III of Tables & Annexures). The
upgrading of physical features around these dams has enhanced the safety of the dams, including improved
management of the dams during extreme and emergency situations. This has also resulted in improved
inspection and monitoring systenm of the dams.
4.    40 dams (out of 55 dams proposed) where remedial measures have been completed under this
project have come up to the desired safety level, reducing the risk and adverse environmental impact on the
property and people living downstream. (Details in Annex III of Tables & Annexures). Thus likely loss of
reservoir capacities have been restored to provide for assured irrigation/water supply/power generation
which in twm will contribute to thle economic development of the respective regions in the country. This has
also enhanced the confidence of the owners for safety of dams. It is felt that the safety standards achieved
by this project will be sustained by proper operation, maintenance and surveillance of dams by the owners
for which the most essential input is provision of funds for this purpose. The State Governments are
committed to sustain and strengthen this achievement of the project by provision of adequate funds for the
purpose.
5.    There has been practically no negative impact on the environment in the vicinity of the dams where
remedial works were undertaken or access roads were constructed. However, no studies were undertaken
by the participating States to study negative effect, if any. The implementation of this project has
definitely created a positive environmental impact by allowing better regulation of large floods to reduce
the peak flows downstream and nrduce damages.
MAIN LESSONS LEARNT FROM THE IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
I.    Adequate institutional support in all fields of specialization is a must for successful implementation of
the project. Provision of all infrastructure facilities to the DSOs and field units implementing the
project should have been provided within the first year of start of the project and improved upon
subsequently as and when required.
II.    Training of project implementation officials in procurement procedures of the World Bank is necessary
for speedy implementation of the project. Specialised technical programmes abroad undertaken during
the implementation of the project have given exposure to Indian engineers for better appreciation of the
dam safety in the developed countries and its adoption in India.
III.   Proper and realistic Hydrcnlogy Studies on dams should be completed well in advance.
- 74 -



IV.   Adequate funding is an important and necessary requirement. For speedy implementation adequate and
timely flow of funds is a must for early completion of works. Flow of funds to be streamlined by the
implementing agencies round the year especially during the beginning of the financial year.
V.    In case of any rigid stand by DSR Panels, regarding identification of remedial measures, the issues
could be referred to CWC for final decision in time-bound period. There should be more than one DSR
Panel for fast decisions on identification and execution of remedial works.
VI.   Better framing of the contractual documents could have been done to avoid ambiguities. Estimation of
quantities for major works for execution are required to be as accurate as possible and should be
approved by panel of experts, to avoid extra items and disputes during the implementation.
VII.  Strict implementation of procurement schedules should be ensured at the highest level.
VIII.  Mechanism should be evolved for regular review of construction schedule by project Chief Engineers,
identify the bottlenecks and remove them expeditiously.
IX.   Officers and staff responsible for implementing the project should be educated and trained about the
components and the time schedule for completion of the project. Transfer of project staff and
monitoring agencies should be avoided.
X.    PERT, CPM charts and implementation schedules to be prepared and reviewed at the highest level at
regular intervals to make up the slippages, if any, during the implementation of the project.
ACTION PLAN FOR FUTURE OPERATION
The work of review of design flood has been completed only for some selected large dams in the four
States. It is very essential that all the large dams in respective States undergo periodic reviews for dam
safety. As per the decision of NCDS all large dams with storage of more than 50 million acre ft. shall have
their design flood reviewed every 10 years. This gigantic task is yet to be achieved, due to lack of trained
manpower and other resources. Keeping the above in consideration, it has been planned to undertake the
following works by the Hydrology Unit of CWC in association with State Hydrology Units, during the 2nd
phase of Dam Safety Project:
1.    Vetting of design flood reviews including technical advice/consultancy for design flood review of the
remaining large dams in the participating and other interested States.
2.    Preparation of PMP Atlas for remaining basins in India.
3.    Conversion of PMP Atlases already prepared into GIS package and their dissemination through national
network.
4.    Strengthening of computerization in Hydrology Units in CWC and the participating States.
5.    Training of CWC/State personnel in the state-of-the-art tools for hydrological studies.
The Dam safety Organization in CWC will continue providing assistance to the State Dam Safety
Organisations in all dam safety aspects through:
- 75 -



