Page  1
                                            December 17, 1992
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi
India
Dear Sirs,
          Re:  Credit No. 2241-IN and Loan No. 3325-IN
               Dam Safety Project
     We refer to the Development Credit Agreement dated June 10, 1991,
(hereinafter the Development Credit Agreement) between India and the
International Development Association (the Association), and the Loan
Agreement of even date therewith (hereinafter the Loan Agreement) between
India and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the
Bank), both for the Dam Safety Project.  We also refer to your letter of
November 20, 1992, requesting the Association and the Bank to add
construction of office space and related facilities to the description of
the Project.
     I am pleased to inform you that, the Association and the Bank,
after due consideration, have agreed to your request.  Accordingly, Part
B.2. in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is deleted and
replaced with the following:
     "2.  Institutional strengthening of DSO and DOI/WR through
     additional staff, technical assistance, training, provision of
     equipment, services of consultants, and office space and related
     facilities."
     Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing
and dating this letter in the space provided below.  This amendment may
be executed in several counterparts each of which shall be an original.
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to the
Association.  This amendment shall become effective on the date of
confirmation by both parties.
     Copies of this amendment letter are being sent to each of the
States of Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu for
information.
                      Very truly yours,
            International Development Association
    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                By:
                        Heinz Vergin
                          Director
                      India Department
                         Asia Region
CONFIRMED
INDIA
By:  /s/ A.K. KHURANA
Date:7/1/93
Page  2
