Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2241 IN
                       (Dam Safety Project)
                              between
                               INDIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated June 10, 1991
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2241 IN
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 10, 1991, between INDIA,
acting by its President, (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself
as to the feasibility and priority of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Association to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower has also requested the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the
financing of the Project and by an agreement of even
date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (the
Loan Agreement as herein further defined), the Bank is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate
principal amount equivalent to twenty-three million
dollars ($23,000,000) (the Loan);
      (C)   the Borrower and the Association intend, to
the extent practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit
provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account
of expenditures in respect of the Project before
disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan are made;
      (D)   the Project will be carried out by the
Page  2
Borrower and the States of Madhya Pradesh, Orissa,
Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to such States a portion of the proceeds of
the Credit as provided in this Agreement and a portion
of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in the Loan
Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis,
inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to
the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in
this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even
date herewith among the Association, the Bank and the
State of Madhya Pradesh, the State of Orissa, the State
of Rajasthan and the State of Tamil Nadu;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable
to Development Credit Agreements" of the Association,
dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred
to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (b)   "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even
date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the
Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to
time; and such term includes the "General Conditions
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the
Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such
agreement, and all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Loan Agreement;
      (c)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement among
the Association, the Bank and the State of Madhya
Pradesh, the State of Orissa, the State of Rajasthan
and the State of Tamil Nadu of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement;
      (d)   "Madhya Pradesh" means the State of Madhya
Pradesh, a State of the Borrower, or any successor
thereto;
      (e)   "Orissa" means the State of Orissa, a State
of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
      (f)   "Rajasthan" means the State of Rajasthan, a
State of the Borrower or any successor thereto;
      (g)   "Tamil Nadu" means the State of Tamil Nadu, a
State of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
      (h)   "Project States" means Madhya Pradesh,
Orissa, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu collectively;
      (i)   "Project State" means, as the context may
require, any one of the Project States referred to in
Page  3
paragraph (h) of this Section;
      (j)   "CWC" means the Central Water Commission of
the Borrower;
      (k)   "CWC-DSO" means CWC's Dam Safety
Organization;
      (l)   "HO" means the Hydrology Organization of CWC;
      (m)   "DSC" means the Dam Safety Committee
established by a relevant Government Order satisfactory
to the Association;
      (n)   "DSO" means the Dam Safety Organization of
each Project State;
      (o)   "DSRP" means the Dam Safety Review Panel
established by a relevant Government Order in each
Project State with terms of reference acceptable to the
Association;
      (p)   "NCDS" means the National Committee on Dam
Safety of the Borrower;
      (q)   "Category I Dams" means Dams which have been
identified for remedial works as set forth in Section I
of the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
      (r)   "Category II Dams" means Dams which will be
inspected and investigated for identifying required
remedial works as set forth in Section II of the Annex
to Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
      (s)   "Selected Dams" means Dams selected from
among Category I Dams and Category II Dams for remedial
works under Part B.4 of the Project;
      (t)   "DOI/WR" means the Department of Irrigation
or Water Resources of each Project State; and
      (u)   "Fiscal Year" means the Fiscal Year of the
Borrower beginning on April 1 of each calendar year and
ending on March 31 of the following year.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to
the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ninety-six
million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 96,200,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods, works, and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit
account in the Reserve Bank of India on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Page  4
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September
30, 1997 or such later date as the Association shall
establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate
to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from
the date sixty days after the date of this Agreement
(the accrual date) to the respective dates on which
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the
Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set
as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual
date and at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied
from the next date in that year specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at
such places as the Association shall reasonably
request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in
the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or
in such other eligible currency or currencies as may
from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to
the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a service charge at the rate of three-
fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service
charges shall be payable semiannually on January 15 and
July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and
(c) below, the Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments
payable on each January 15 and July 15 com- mencing
July 15, 2001 and ending January 15, 2026. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
January 15, 2011 shall be one and one-fourth percent
(1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national
product per capita, as determined by the Association,
shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall
consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above
by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so
requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise
such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Page  5
Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided
that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision
shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association
determines that the Borrower's economic condition has
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end, shall carry out Part A of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and dam safety
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
      (b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its obligations under this Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Project States
to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of the Project
States therein set forth, shall take and cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable the Project States to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with
such performance.
      (c)   The Borrower shall make a portion of the
proceeds of the Credit available to the Project States
in accordance with the Borrower's standard arrangements
for developmental assistance to the States of India.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and
services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association
hereby agree that the obligations set forth in Sections
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Part B of the Project shall be carried out
by the Project States pursuant to Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause CWC to:
            (a)   make computation of the design flood
                  hydrology of Category I Dams;
            (b)   review and approve the computation of
                  the design flood hydrology of the
Page  6
                  Selected Dams where such computations
                  have not been made by CWC; and
            (c)   review and confirm to the Association
                  that the procedures in respect of the
                  inspection, investi-gation,
                  identification, selection,
                  prioritization, preparation of the plans
                  of action for remedial works of the
                  Seclected Dams and the recommendation of
                  such plans by DSRP are in accordance
                  with the provisions of paragraphs 1, 2,
                  3, 4 and 5 (a) of Schedule 2 to the
                  Project Agreement.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
            (a)   in consultation with the Association and
                  the Bank and in accordance with terms of
                  reference and methodology satisfactory
                  to the Association, undertake and
                  complete by March 31, 1994 a mid-term
                  review of Part A of the Project; and
            (b)   participate in carrying out a mid-term
                  review of Part B of the Project referred
                  to in paragraph (12) of Schedule 2 to
                  the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall through its
appropriate agencies review and approve, or cause to be
reviewed and approved, where necessary, the
environmental impact assessments of the Selected Dams
prepared by the Project States pursuant to paragraph 9
(b) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of Part A of the Project of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out such Part
of the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred
                  to in paragraph (a) of this Section
                  including those for the Special Account
                  for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                  available, but in any case not later
                  than nine months after the end of each
                  such year, a certified copy of the
                  report of such audit by said auditors,
                  of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                  information concerning said records,
                  accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Association shall from time to time
Page  7
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower
shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in
                  accordance with sound accounting
                  practices, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after
                  the Association has received audit for
                  the fiscal year in which the last
                  withdrawal from the Credit Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives
                  to examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts
                  are included in the annual audit
                  referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                  Section and that the report of such
                  audit contains a separate opinion by
                  said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditures sub- mitted
                  during such fiscal year, together with
                  the procedures and internal controls
                  involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related
                  withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
      (a)   Any Project State shall have failed to
perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred
after the date of the Development Credit Agreement, an
extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that any Project State will be able
to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified, namely, that the event specified in
paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as
an additional condition to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely,
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than
Page  8
those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an
additional matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02
(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association,
namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Project States, and is
legally binding upon the Project States in accordance
with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower
under Section 3.03 of this Agreement and the provisions
of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary, or Under
Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are
specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the
General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            The Secretary to the Government of India
            Ministry of Finance
            Department of Economic Affairs
            New Delhi, PIN 110001, India
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  ECOFAIRS                  953-3166175
                  New Delhi
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  9
                  INDIA
                  By /s/ A. Kumar
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
     Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
and of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
                     Amount            Amount
                     of the            of the
                     Credit             Loan            % of
                    Allocated         Allocated       Expendi-
                   (Expressed        (Expressed        tures
                     in SDR           in Dollar        to be
     Category      Equivalent)       Equivalent)      Financed
(1) Civil works         78,400,000     18,800,000     90%
(2) Equipment and        8,500,000      2,000,000     100% of
    vehicles                                          foreign expenditures,
                                                      100% of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      (ex-factory
                                                      cost), and
                                                      80% of
                                                      local ex-
                                                      penditures
                                                      for other
                                                      items procured
                                                      locally
(3) Consultants'         3,800,000      900,000           100%
    services and
    training
                     Amount            Amount
                     of the            of the
                     Credit             Loan            % of
                    Allocated         Allocated       Expendi-
                   (Expressed        (Expressed        tures
                     in SDR           in Dollar        to be
     Category      Equivalent)       Equivalent)      Financed
(4) Incremental          3,000,000      700,000       90% of staff
expenditures                                          salaries
                        incurred
                                                      until
                                                      July 31,
                                                      1993, 75% of
Page  10
                                                      expenditures
                                                      incurred
                                                      thereafter
                                                      until July
                                                      31, 1995,
                                                      and 60% of
                                                      expen-
                                                      ditures
                                                      incurred
                                                      thereafter
(5) Unallocated       2,500,000         600,000
                  _____________     ___________
    TOTAL         SDR96,200,000     $23,000,000
                  =============     ===========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
and
      (c)   the term "incremental staff salaries" means the
incremental costs for salaries and allowances of staff
incurred by CWC-DSO, HO, DOI/WR for its staff engaged in
dam investigation, and DSO for purposes of implementing
the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 7,400,000 may be made on
account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after November 30, 1990.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the project are to improve the
safety of Selected Dams in the Project States through
remedial works, installation of basic safety facilities,
and strengthening of the institutions of the Borrower and
the Project States responsible for assuring dam safety.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve
such objectives:
Part A:     Borrower
1.    Institutional strengthening of CWC-DSO and HO
through, inter alia, assignment of required staff,
training, technical assistance, provision of equipment,
and services of consultants.
2.    Reviewing the existing flood forecasting facilities
in one or more selected inter-state river basins and
exploring the possibility of improving such facilities.
Part B:     Project States
Page  11
1.    Technical assistance to DSC.
2.    Institutional strengthening of DSO and DOI/WR
through additional staff, technical assistance, training,
provision of equipment and services of consultants.
3.    Improvement of safety-related facilities at dam
sites selected by the Project States through, inter alia,
provision of communi- cations equipment and real-time
hydrologic data gathering equipment, power backup
systems, monitoring instrumentation, and construction and
rehabilitation of all-weather access roads.
4.    Carrying out of remedial works at such Category I
Dams and Category II Dams set forth in the Annex to this
Schedule selected in accordance with criteria established
by DSC.
                        *        *        *
      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31,
1997.
                               ANNEX
               Category I Dams and Category II Dams
              referred to in Part B.4 of the Project
I.  Category I Dams
      These include the following Dams in each Project
State which have been identified by the Project States
for remedial works based upon inspections and
investigations carried out in accordance with existing
procedures in each such State:
      (i)   Madhya Pradesh:
            1.    Aoda
            2.    Barna
            3.    Kaketo
            4.    Kotwal
            5.    Gandhisagar
            6.    Pagara
            7.    Pillowa
            8.    Tigra
      (ii)  Orissa:
            1.    Alikuan
            2.    Behera
            3.    Bhanjanagar
            4.    Darjang
            5.    Ganianala
            6.    Ghodahada
            7.    Hirakud
            8.    Jharnai
            9.    Soroda
      (iii)       Rajasthan
            1.    Alnia
            2.    Galwa
            3.    Jawahar Sagar
            4.    Kota Barrage
            5.    Matri Kundia
            6.    Parbati
            7.    Ranapratap Sagar
      (iv)  Tamil Nadu
            1.    Gomukhinadhi
            2.    Kodaganar
            3.    Manimuthar
Page  12
            4.    Pechiparai
            5.    Periyar
            6.    Ponnaniar
            7.    Sathanur
            8.    Uppar
            9.    Vidur
II.   Category II Dams
            These include Dams in each Project State other
than those set forth in Section I of this Annex which
will be inspected and investigated in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Schedule 2 to the
Project Agreement for the purpose of identifying required
remedial works.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1), (2), (3) and (4) in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $8,000,000 to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence
satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the  Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request
or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account or the Loan Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the
                  Association requests for deposits into
                  the Special Account at such intervals as
                  the Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such
                  request, the Borrower shall furnish to
                  the Association the documents and other
                  evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
                  of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replen-
Page  13
                  ishment is requested. On the basis of
                  each such request, the Association shall,
                  on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
                  the Credit Account or the Loan Account
                  and deposit into the Special Account such
                  amount as the Borrower shall have
                  requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have
                  been paid out of the Special Account for
                  eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the Credit Account or the Loan Account under the
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing
that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3
of this Schedule, the Association shall not be required
to make further deposits into the Special Account:
            (i)   if, at any time, the Association shall
                  have determined that all further
                  withdrawals should be made by the
                  Borrower directly from the Credit Account
                  in accordance with the provisions of
                  Article V of the General Conditions and
                  paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of the
                  Development Credit Agreement or from the
                  Loan Account in accordance with the
                  provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan
                  Agreement and Article V of the General
                  Conditions applicable thereto; or
            (ii)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the
                  Credit and the Loan allocated to the
                  eligible Categories for the Project, less
                  the amount of any outstanding special
                  commitment entered into by the
                  Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of
                  the General Conditions with respect to
                  the Project, shall equal the equivalent
                  of twice the amount of the Authorized
                  Allocation.
      (b)   Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any
time that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was
made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2  of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from  the Association: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to
Page  14
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association
into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any
time that any amount outstanding in the Special Account
will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the
Association, refund to the Association all or any portion
of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement including
the General Conditions applicable thereto.
