                                    Document of
                                The World Bank


                                                               Report No. 48651




                  PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                                        INDIA

                              DAMSAFETY PROJECT
                          (CREDIT 2241-IND); (LOAN 3325-IND)



                                    June 16,2009




Sector Evaluation Division
IndependentEvaluation Group (World Bank)

                                                11
                                                 * .




CurrencyEquivalents(annualaverages)

Currency Unit =Indian Rupee (NR)

1990     US$ 1.00         INR 17.8                  1999 US$l.OO      INR43.5
1991 US$ 1.00             INR 18.3                  2000 US$ 1.00     INR46.8
1992     US$ 1.00         INR25.9                   2001 US$ 1.00     INR47.9
1993     US$ 1.00         INR26.2                   2002 US$ 1.00     INR48.1
1994     US$ 1.00         INR31.4                   2003 US$l.OO       INR45.6
1995     US$ 1.00         INR34.9                   2004 US$l.OO       INR44.1
1996     US$ 1.00         INR35.8                   2005 US$ 1.00      INR45.7
1997     US$ 1.00         INR39.2                   2006 US$ 1.00      INR44.7
1998     US$l.OO          INR42.6                   2007 US$ 1.00      INR43.6



Abbreviations andAcronyms

cwc             Central Water Commission
DCA             Development CreditAgreement
DSC             Dam Safety Committee (ineach Project State)
DSO             Dam Safety Organization (inCWC and ineachProject State)
DSRP            Dam Safety Review Panel
DOWR            Department o f Water Resources(Madhya, Pradesh, Orissa andTamil Nadu)
EAP             Emergency Action Plan
FRL             FullReservoir Level
GO1             Government o f India
HO              Hydrology Organization o f CWC
ICOLD           International Committee on Large Dams
ICR             Implementation CompletionReport
M O W           MinistryofWater Resources
MTR             Mid-termReview
MWL             MaximumWater Level
O&M             OperationandMaintenance
PMP             Probable MaximumPrecipitation
S A R            StaffAppraisal Report



IndianFiscalYear

April 1-March31




Director-General, Evaluation                            : Mr.VinodThomas
Director, Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)     : Ms.CherylGray
Manager, Sector Evaluation Division                     : Ms.MonikaHuppi
Task Manager                                            : Mr.Ramachandra Jammi

                                                             i


 IEGWB Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellenceand independence inevaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent EvaluationGroup assesses the programs and activitiesof the World Bankfor two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocess andto verify that the Bank'swork is producingthe
expected results,andsecond, to helpdevelopimproved directions,policies, and procedures throughthe
disseminationof lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEGWBannually assessesabout 25 percentof
the Bank's lendingoperations through fieldwork. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment, preferenceis givento those
that are innovative, large, or complex;those that are relevant to upcomingstudiesor country evaluations; thosefor
which ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhaverequested assessments;and thosethat are likelyto generate
important lessons.
       To preparea Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR), IEGWBstaff examine projectfiles and other
documents, interviewoperational staff, visit the borrowingcountry to discuss the operationwith the government,
and other in-countrystakeholders, and interview Bankstaff and other donor agency staff both at headquartersand
in localoffices as appropriate.
       Each PPAR is subject to internal IEGWBpeer review, Panel review, and managementapproval. Oncecleared
internally, the PPAR is commentedon by the responsible Bank department.IEGWB incorporatesthe comments as
relevant. The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrowerfor review; the borrowers' comments are attached to
the document that is sent to the Bank's Boardof Executive Directors.After an assessment report has beensent to
the Board, it is disclosedto the public.

About the IEGWB RatingSystem
       IEGWB's use of multipleevaluation methodsoffers both rigor and a necessary levelof flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEGWBevaluators all apply the same basic methodto
arrive at their project ratings. Followingis the definitionand rating scale used for each evaluation criterion
(additionalinformationis available on the IEGWBwebsite: htttx//worldbank.ora/ieg).
       Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevanceincludes
relevanceof objectives and relevanceof design. Relevanceof objectives is the extent to which the project's
objectives are consistentwith the country's current development prioritiesand with current Bank country and
sectoral assistancestrategies and corporate goals (expressedin Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevanceof design is the extent to which
the project's design is consistentwith the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project's objectives
were achieved, or are expectedto be achieved,taking into account their relativeimportance. Efficiencyis the
extent to which the project achieved,or is expectedto achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost comparedto alternatives. The efficiency dimensiongenerally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possibleratings for Outcome: HighlySatisfactory, Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Risk to DevelopmentOutcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that developmentoutcomes (or
expectedoutcomes)will not be maintained(or realized). Possibleratings for Risk to DevelopmentOutcome: High
Significant, Moderate, Negligibleto Low, Not Evaluable.
       Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementationthrough appropriatesupervision(including ensuring adequate
transitionarrangementsfor regularoperation of supported activitiesafter loanlcreditclosing, toward the
achievementof developmentoutcomes.The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possibleratingsfor Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
       BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrower(includingthe governmentand implementing
agency or agencies)ensured quality of preparationand implementation,and compliedwith covenants and
agreements,toward the achievementof developmentoutcomes. The rating has two dimensions:government
performanceand implementingagency(ies)performance.Possibleratings for BorrowerPerformance:Highly
Satisfactory,Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly
Unsatisfactory.


                                                                          ...
                                                                          111



Contents

PRINCIPALRATINGS                ....................................................................................................................       V


KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE                      ..........................................................................................................       V


PREFACE     ......................................................................................................................................         vi1


SUMMARY     ......................................................................................................................................         IX


BACKGROUND           ...............................................................................................................................         1


THE PROJECT         ................................................................................................................................        3

        Design      ...............................................................................................................................        . 4
        Implementation             .................................................................................................................         5
        Monitoringand Evaluation                       ...............................................................................................       6


PROJECTEVALUATION                   ................................................................................................................         6

        Relevance         ..........................................................................................................................         6
        Efficacy      .............................................................................................................................        .8
        Efficiency       .........................................................................................................................         12
        Outcome        .............................................................................................        fl............................ 13
        Riskto DevelopmentOutcomes                               ....................................................................................      14
        Safeguard Compliance                    ...................................................................................................        15
        StrengtheningCountry Systems for Dam Safety                                             ........................................................   15
        Bank Performance                 ..........................................................................................................        16
        Borrower Performance                    ...................................................................................................        17


LESSONS     ......................................................................................................................................         17


ANNEX A    .BASIC        DATA SHEET               ..................................................................................................       19


ANNEX 6    .LIST     OF DAMSVISITED AND ORGANlZATlONSlDEPARTMENTSCONSULTED21


ANNEX C BORROWER'S COMMENTS
           .                                                    .....................................................................................      23




This report was preparedbyRamachandra Jammi (Task Manager). who assessedthe project inFebruary
2008. Romavne Pereira andRose Gachinaurovidedadministrative sumort.


                                                     V




                                         /CR*                 /CR Review*                    PPAR

Outcome                 MarginallySatisfactory       MarginallySatisfactory     ModeratelySatisfactory
Institutional           Substantial                  Modest
Development
Impact**
Riskto                                                                          Significant
Development
Outcome
Sustainability***       Likely                       Uncertain
Bank                    Satisfactory                 Satisfactory               ModeratelySatisfactory
Performance
Borrower                Satisfactory                 Satisfactory               ModeratelySatisfactory
Performance
The ImplementationCompletionReport (ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsibleBank department. The
ICR Reviewis an intermediateIEGWBproduct that seeks to independentlyverify the findings of the ICR.
**As of July 1, 2006, InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact is assessed as part of the Outcome rating.
***ASof July 1, 2006, Sustainabilityhas been replaced by Risk to DevelopmentOutcome. As the scales are
different, the ratingsare not directly comparable.




Project              Task ManagedLeader                   Division Chief/            Country Director
                                                         Sector Director
Appraisal                 William Price           J. Alejandro GutierrezWijnand         Heinz Vergin
Completion              E.V.Jagannathan                     Ridwan Ali                   Edwin Lim


                                            vii


Preface

This i s a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the IndiaDam Safety
Project.

The Dam Safety Project was approved on May 14, 1991, for a LoanofUS$153 million
equivalent (Loan No. 3325-NCredit No. 2241-IN). The project implementationwas
originally scheduledfor six years during 1991-1997, with a total Bank credit of SDR
96.2M (US$130M equivalent) and a loano fUS$23M. The project was extendedby two
years till 1999to allow completion o fboththe physical and institutional components. At
project completion, only SDR 68.8M (US$ 86M equivalent) o fthe credit was disbursed,
while the entire loanwas cancelled.

Thereport presents the findings of: (i) IEGmission to IndiaduringFebruary 4-21,
                                       an
2008, includingvisits to 10project-assisteddam sites infour states (Madhya Pradesh,
Orissa, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu) and discussions with governmental officials and
agencies, project directors and staff; (ii)
                                         discussionswith Bank task managersandother
staff inWashington D.C. andNew Delhi; and (iii)     areview o fthe project's
implementation completion report, appraisalreport, legal documents, sector reports and
other relevant material. The cooperation andcourtesies extendedto the IEGmission by
all are gratefully acknowledged.

The project was selected becauseit was one o fthe first two projects (along with the
Indonesia Dam Safety Project) to focus exclusively on Dam Safety, which i s also the
object o f the Bank's OP/BP 4.37 on "Safety o fDams" and one o f the ten safeguard
policies o fthe Bank. As such, it provides input for the ongoing major IEGStudy on the
Bank's Environmental and Social SafeguardPolicies, which inter aZia covers activities
that may contribute to the recent Bank's pilot initiative for the use o f country safeguard
systems. It also provides inputto the ongoing major IEGStudy on the Bank's support for
Water ResourceManagement.

Following standardIEGprocedures, the draft PPAR was sent to the Borrower for
commentsbeforebeing finalized. The Borrower's comments are attachedas Annex C. In
accordancewith the Bank's disclosure policy, the final report will be available to the
public following submission to the World Bank's Boardo f Directors.


                                                ix


Summary

This Project Performance Assessment Report reviews the India DamSafety Project,
which was approved in 1991and closed in2000. This was the first Bank project inany
country that was devoted entirely to dam safety. The project was prepared inresponse to
the Government's concerns about sustaining the existing dam structures, while making
provisions to protect society against potential disasters due to dam failures.

The objectives o f the project were to (i)  improve the safety of selected dams inthe project
states throughremedial works; (ii)     install basic dam safety-related facilities; and (iii)
strengthen the institutions ofthe Borrower andproject states responsible for assuring dam
safety.

Remedialworks for dams under the project served to decrease their risk of failure and
demonstrated the cycle o f inspection, prioritization, design, and implementationof dam
rehabilitation. The project helped to streamline data collection at the dam level through
standardizing pre- and post-monsoon reports. The capacity ofthe Central Water
Commission (CWC), the main implementing agency and the State DamSafety
Organizations (DSOs) was enhanced throughtraining and involvement inproject
activities. Officials of the central and state governments, the CWC, andthe DSOs
reported that the project increased their awareness of dam safety issues and improved
capacity to diagnose andprioritize problems. But the depthof this understanding appears
to be uneven across different levels of the government. Basic dam safety facilities
including instrumentation that were installed under the project were not backed up with
sufficient ongoingmaintenance anduser training, resulting inonly a marginal impact.
Relatively few EnvironmentalAction Plans have been developed. Project development
outcome is ratedModerately Satisfactory.

Since project completion, the pace ofremedial works has slowed due to insufficient
resources. Inmany cases, basic dam safety facilities are not being maintained or replaced
to the extent needed. While data collection emanating from the damlevel is fairly
streamlined, there i s relatively little focus or capacity for analyzing it ina systematic
manner for improvingdam operations or for longer term planning. Also, less attention is
paidto understanding and estimating the costs and benefits that might lead to more
balanced strategies for dam safety, and improve stakeholder support. Ingeneral, the
DSOs are yet to establish themselves as technically capable units for establishing
priorities for dam safety, and guidingplanning, implementation, and quality control. The
CWC needs to play a stronger role inadvocating for dam safety, upgrading and sharing
its expertise, and improvingcoordinationwith DSOs. Overall Riskto Outcome is rated
Sign@cant.

The Bank deserves credit for puttingtogether a project devoted exclusively to dam safety
for the first time. Itbased the project design on a sound analysis of India's dam safety
needs andthe country's existing institutional strengths andweaknesses inrespect of dam
safety management. The Bank didwell insecuring the Government of India's
participation and coordinating with four large states with varied endowments and
independent jurisdiction over their own dams. Supervision missions were conducted

                                               X



regularlyand included an appropriate mix oftechnical andinstitutionalexpertise.
However, the Bankwas optimistic about the time required to establish andbuildnew
institutions for dam safety inthe states, and overestimated the capacity o f CWC to
coordinate project implementation. Bankperformance i s ratedModerately Satisfactory.

The Central and State Governments showed strong commitment at project preparation,
and despite difficulties inthe coordination andlogistics o f a complex operation, worked
to achieve most o fthe project objectives. Lack o freadiness at project commencement (in
terms o f designs for remedial works, procurement, andinstitutionalcapacity) resultedin
theproject taking 2-3 years to gain momentum. The schedule for remedial works (which
accounted for 75% o fthe original project cost) was negatively affected byprotracted
discussionsbetweenthe CWC andthe state governments on methodologies and
parameters for hydrologicalreview and calculating design floods, which would form the
basis for engineeringdesign. Inresponseto the delay inimplementingremedial works,
the project was restructured in 1997, andseveral lower priority dams were droppedwhile
others were taken up intheir place. In 1998, Tamil Nadu state withdrew from the project
becauseit failed to meet the revisedperformance targets duringthe project extension
period, resulting insome more dams being dropped from the remedial works component.
Borrower Performance i s ratedModerately Satisfactory.

Thekeylessonsfrom the project are:

         Institution-buildingcan be a longprocesswhen it involves organizations at
        multiplelevels, establishingnewwork methods, andupgradingtechnical
         expertise. Insuch cases, the Bank should consider an extended commitment
        through a sequence o fprojects or through adaptableprogramlending(APL).
        Institutions that carry out regulatory functions require technical expertise and
         adequateresourcesto be able to functionina capable and independent manner.
        Inthisproject, shortageofexperiencedqualified staffandinadequateoperating
        budgets contributed to the under-performance o fthe state dam safety
        organizations.
        Whennew monitoringandreporting procedures are instituted, their purpose
        should bemade clear to all those involved, and appropriate andregular feedback
        should be given to those originatingthe data. Inthis project, there was little
        systematic analysis or feedback from higherlevels onreportingemanating from
        the dam level, which may be affecting its quality andcompliance.
        Newtechniques andequipmentshouldbetailored to the existinglevelof
        capacity, facilities and funds for ongoing maintenance. A significant portion o f
        the relatively sophisticated instrumentation installed at dams under this project
        has deteriorated for lack o fmaintenance or use.



                                                                     Vinod Thomas
                                                                     Director-General
                                                                        Evaluation

                                                     1


Background

1.       Dams are structures for water storage anduse inwater supply, irrigation,
hydropower, and flood control. They play a crucial role inmajor sectors of economic
activity and may contribute to povertyreduction. At the same time, dams canbe
associatedwith negative environmental and social impacts includingthose causedby
natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes. Dam safety concerns itselfwith the
adequacy o fthe operations and maintenance o f dams, limitingtheir possible adverse
impacts on humanlife, health, property, andthe environment, as well as plans for dealing
with emergencies'. Preservingdamsafety can also improve the efficiencyofwater
resource use, while keepingthe dams environmentally and socially sustainable.

2.       According to estimatesby the World Commission on Dams2(WCD), there are
presentlyaround 45,000 large dams3inthe world, withthe largest numbersinChina
(22,000), U.S.A(6575), India(4,291), Japan (2675) and Spain (1196).

3.       The World Bank hasbeeninvolvedinfinancing dams and ancillary facilities
since the 1960s, though the rate o f involvement slowed sharply inthe mid-1980s, with
the focus shifting towards ancillary facilities. Inrecent years, there hasbeengreater
emphasis on promotingdam rehabilitation and safety. At the end o fFY2008, there were
around 70 active projects containing components relatingto dam rehabilitation or safety
assessment. O fthese, three projects4inSri Lanka, Armenia and Albania are mainly
concerned with dam safety.

4.       In1977, the Bank issuedits first formalpolicyon"Safety ofDams"'
underscoring the importance of dam safety measuresto addressissues arising from
inadequate design or natural phenomena. After revisions that incorporated new thinking
on dam safety issues, the current version o fthe Bank's policy was issuedinOctober 2001
(Operational Policy [OP] 4.37). The standards set by this policy are at least as stringent
as those recommended by the WCD. "Safety o f Dams" i s also one o fthe ten Safeguard
Policies o fthe World Bank, which require that potentially adverse environmental and
social impacts of Bank-financed projects be identified, mitigated, and monitored.




1.2002. Bradlow, D.D., Palmieri A., Salman S.L.A., Regulatory Frameworks for DamSafety, World
Bank.
2. The World Commission on Dams (WCD) was established in 1988 with a mandate to review the
development effectiveness o flarge dams and develop internationally acceptable criteria, guidelines and
standards for large dams.
3. Large dams are defined as those having a height o f 15 meters or more and/or a reservoir capacity o f at
least 500,000 cubic meters.
4. Sri Lanka: Dam Safety And Water Resources PlanningProject (DSWRPP); Armenia: IrrigationDam
Safety 2 Project; Albania: APL 5 For Albania DamSafety.
5. Operational Manual Statement (OMS) 3.80 (1977).

                                                    2


5.       Indiai s adeveloping country with apopulation o f 1.1billion and a Gross
NationalProduct (GNP)per capita6o fUS$820. Agriculture accounts for 18% o f Gross
Domestic Product and involves nearly70% o f the population. Indiais a water-short
country for its agricultural, municipal andindustrial needs. With seasonalrainfall and
limitedgroundwater potential, the country is dependent to a great extent on surface
storage o fwater. Around 4300 large dams provide irrigation for over 35 millionhectares
o f landapart for producing hydroelectricity, serving municipal and industrialneeds, and
helping inflood control.

6.       According to the StaffAppraisal Report (SAR) o f the IndiaDam Safety Project
there were about 2,900 large dams inIndia at the time of project preparation in 1991o f
which nearly 800 were consideredto be at risk due to ageing, poor maintenance andlack
of compliance with dam safety standards andpractices.

7.       India's constitutional framework gives eachstate the primaryresponsibility with
respect to water resource development. The central Ministryo f Water Resources
(MOWR) and the Central Water Commission7 (CWC, the mainimplementing agency for
thisproject) have substantialauthority to issue guidelines andreview standardsrelating to
dam safety, but havevirtually no powers o f actual enforcement. The CWC ensures that
projects on inter-state rivers are consistentwith downstream safety requirements, an
important rolewhich individualstates cannot undertake.The CWC also monitors and
reviews projectsproposed for central support by the NationalPlanning Commission in
each StateDevelopment Plan.

8.       InIndia, the importance ofdam safetywas recognizedas early as 19798,whena
Dam Safety Organization (DSO) was establishedinthe CWC for assisting states in
evaluating safety-relatedhazardsinexisting structures. In 1982, the National Committee
on DamSafety' was created andproduced a report onDam Safety Procedures (1986) and
Guidelinesfor Safety Inspection of Dams, which establishedstandards that conformed to
those o fthe International Commission o fLarge Dams (ICOLD)                 lo.TheHydrology
Organization of the CWC performs hydrologic analysis for nationally important dams
and others that are part o fnew major irrigationprojects and assists state governments on
these issues.




6. Atlas method.
7. CentralWater Commission is the premier technicalorganizationofIndiainthe field of Water Resources
andis an attachedoffice ofthe MinistryofWater Resources, GovernmentofIndia.CWC, inconsultation
with the state governments, initiatesand coordinates schemes for control, conservationandutilization of
water resourcesthroughout the country, for the purposeof FloodControl, Irrigation,Navigation,Drinking
Water Supply andWater Power Development.
8. Incomparison, majorreformsto damsafety procedures were introducedin 1972inthe U.S. and in 1975
inthe U.K.
9. NationalCommittee onDamSafety (NCDS) is a forum for discussionsondamsafety issues among the
Central, State Govt. anddamowningagencies.
10. The InternationalCommissionon LargeDams (ICOLD) is a non-governmentalInternational
Organizationwhichprovidesa forum for the exchangeofknowledge andexperience indamengineering.

                                                   3


9.      Capacity to carry out effective dam safety assurance programs varies substantially
from state to state due to staffing levels, training, degree o f experience andprocedures.
While dam safety assurance is ajoint concern o f the state and central organizations, it i s
the state that must eventually provide the necessary staff and equipment to monitor the
population o f dams within the state.

10.     Since the 1970s, the Bank has been fundingirrigation, power, andwater supply
projects that have directly or indirectly involved at least 150 dams. The IndiaDamSafety
Project was prepared inresponse to the government's concerns about sustaining the
existing dam structures, while makingprovisions to protect society against potential
disasters due to dam failures. It was the first Bank project to focus exclusively on dam
safety issues. PresentlyinIndia, there are six active projects that contain dam safety or
rehabilitation components'      '.The Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project (DRIP),
which i s currently under preparation, seek to builduponthe IndiaDam Safety project.

The Project

11.     The objectives o f the project were to:


    1. Improve the safety o f selected dams inthe project states through remedial works;
    2. Install basic dam safety-related facilities; and
    3. Strengthen the institutions o f the Borrower and project states responsible for
        assuring dam safety.

12.     Throughout the project period, the IndianRupee depreciated against the U S
Dollar12,resulting initially inthe cancellation o f the entire loan o f US$23mby 1995.
Following restructuring in 1997, SDR 20m (US$27.2m) o f credit was cancelled. After
Tamil Nadudropped out o f the project in 1998, a further SDR 7.4m (US$lO.lm) credit
was cancelled. InRupee terms, final project cost was 93% o f the appraisal estimate,
while it was 59% interms o f US$.

13.     The project implementation was originally scheduled for six years during 1991-
1997, with a total Bank credit o f SDR 96.2 million (US$130m equivalent) and a loan o f
US$23m. The project was ultimately extended till 1999 to allow completion o f boththe
physical and institutional components. At project completion, only SDR 68.8m (US$
86m equivalent) o f the credit was used, while the entire loan was cancelled.




11. Karnataka Tank Management Project: Rajasthan Water Sector Restructuring Project; Madhya Pradesh
Water Sector Restructuring Project; Maharashtra Water Supply and IrrigationProject; Andhra Pradesh
Water Sector Improvement Project; LuhriHydroelectric project.
12. The Rupee depreciated by 10percent betweenthe appraisal date and approval date; 54 percent between
approval date and the midtermreview (MTR); 16percent betweenMTRand the first extension in
September 1997; 17percent between September 1997 and the second extensioninSeptember 1998; and 2
percent betweenthe second extension and the credit closing date. In1995 this contributed to the
cancellationof the $23 million loan.

                                                     4



14.      The project had 5 components which are listed inthe Table 1below, together with
the correspondingobjectives, plannedcost, and actual cost.


                     Table 1. Objectives,Components;PlannedandActualCosts

Objectives                              Component                            Planned Actual   Actual
 (as listed
  above)                                                                      U S $ M U S $ MPlanned

Objective1 Remedialworks at dams selected inaccordance with
             criteria established by DamSafety Committees.                   147.1

Objective2   Improvementof basic safety-relatedfacilities at an
             unspecified number o f dam sites selected by the project
             states through provision o f communications equipment and
             real-time hydrologic data gathering equipment, power
             backup systems, monitoringinstrumentation, construction
             and rehabilitation o f all-weather access roads, and other
             means,

Objective3   Institutionalstrengtheningo fCWC's DamSafety
             Organization, Hydrology Organization (HO) through
             assignment o f staff, training, technical assistance, provision
             o f equipment and consultant support,

             Reviewingthe existingflood forecastingfacilitiesinone
             or more selected interstate river basins and exploring the
             possibility o fimproving such facilities.

             Technicalassistanceto DamSafety Committees (DSC) to
             be established ineach project state; and institutional
             strengthening o f state DamSafety Organizations and the
             Department o f Irrigation (DOI) and Department o f Water
             Resources (DOWR) through additional staff, technical
             assistance, training, provision o f equipment, and services o f
             consultants.



DESIGN
15.      The project design recognizedthe need to increase awareness and improve
institutional capacity for dam safety at the central and state levels. It also recognized the
large number o f dams inneed ofrehabilitation (nearly 800 or 18% o f all dams at project
preparation). Project design therefore appropriately combined features that addressed
institutional capacity-building while taking up the rehabilitation o f selected dams inall
four project states that would serve to demonstrate the entire cycle o f inspection,
prioritization, design andrehabilitation.

16.      The project designtook note o fproblems that were commonly experienced in
previous Bank-financed irrigation projects including delays inprocurement, timeliness
and adequacy of counterpart hnds, and lack o f continuity o f staff instate implementing

                                                     5


agencies, and attemptedto mitigatethem through dialogue and assuranceo fcommitment
from the government and implementingagency.

17.      The project team considered several states before selecting four (Orissa, Madhya
Pradesh, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu) on the basis o f institutionalreadinessand
government interest and commitment. While this initially appearedto be a manageable
number, coordination amongthe DSOsofthe four project states, CWC, andexternal
consultants and the logistics o f organizing physicalworks indispersed locations, proved
to be challenging. At project preparation, these four stateshadabout 947 large dams or
approximately one-third o f all large dams inthe country.

18.      The CWC was designated as the main implementingagency andit's Dam Safety
Organization as the focal point for implementingthe project. The lack of constitutional
authority and legislation for CWC to enforce a national program of dam safety assurance
was recognized as aproblem, but the project didnot addressits implications sufficiently.

IMPLEMENTATION

19.      Project implementation was delayed due to several reasons. Lack o f readiness at
project commencement (interms o f designs for remedial works, procurement, and
institutionalcapacity) resulted inthe project taking 2-3 years to gain momentum, and
affected implementation throughout. The schedule for remedial works (which accounted
for 75% of the original project cost) was negatively affected byprotracted discussions
betweenthe CWC andthe state governments on methodologies andparameters for
hydrologicalreview and calculating design floods, which would form the basis for
engineeringdesign13. Inthis situation, CWC's role as a consultant to the statesmade it
difficult for it to have an authoritative role inruling on its own analysis. As a result, at
the start o f the project, designs were not ready even for top priority Category A dams14.

20.      The Basic Dam Safety Facilities (BDSF) component experienced delays in
procurement andinstallation of instruments at dams due to difficulties inmobilizing
contractors for small works at scatteredlocations. Ingeneral, for bothremedial works
and BDSF, there were manyprocurement delays due to cumbersome administrative
arrangements and lack o f familiarity with Bank procedures, aggravatedby frequent
changes o f staff. Shortfalls incounterpart funds duringthe working season fwrther


13. CWC had the responsibility for performingthe hydrology review and calculating design floods for
dams that were slated for remedial works. CWC found it difficult to combine its role as consultant and to
defend its own analysis. There were differences between the CWC, andDamSafety Review Panels and
DamSafety Organizations (DSOs) on the application o fProbable MaximumPrecipitation (PMP) andunit
hydrograph methodologies. As a result, Hydrological reviews and Design flood computations for the target
group o f dams were delayed by 1-3 years ,and the entire process was not completed till end-1993 or mid-
1994. For a few large reservoirs like Hirakud and Gandhisagar, this was completed evenlater.
14. Category A Dams: top priority dams with evaluations and designs nearly complete (hydrologic
reassessmentalready made); Category B Dams: deficiencies identifiedbut investigation and evaluation
incomplete (hydrologic reassessmentnot yet made); Category C Dams: partial deficiencies identified,no
significant investigations or designs made (hydrologic reassessmentnot yet made); Category DDams:
Dams yet to be filly inspected and evaluated (hydrologic reassessmentmost likely required.)

                                             6


contributed to delays inawarding contracts for both remedial works and BDSF.
Institutional strengthening at CWC's Dam Safety Organization was affected due to
tardiness inredeploying staff inthe unit, with the result that the full staff complement
was inplace only duringthe extended project period. Frequent rotation o f staffrequired
increased training efforts at CWC as well inthe four project states.

21.     Inresponse to the delayinimplementingremedialworks, the project was
restructuredin 1997, and 7 out o f the original 33 Category A dams were dropped from
the project, while 14 Category B dams were taken up. It is not clear as to why the
decision to restructure the project was taken so close to the original closing date. In
1998, Tamil Naduwithdrew from the project because it failed to meet the revised
performance targets duringthe project extension period, resulting in5 more Category A
dams being dropped from the remedialworks component.

MONITORINGEVALUATION
                  AND


22.      Designand Implementation. Ingeneral, project outcome indicators were not
well articulatedinthe project SAR. For instance, the most important indicator,
improvement indam safety, was not defined interms that would enable a before and after
comparison. Targets for basic dam safety facilities were specified only inmonetary
terms. Institutional development inCWC and the State Departments and DSOswas
defined inoutput terms such as number o fpersons trained and staff strength. It i s
recognizedthat this project was prepared several years before the Bank adopted a log-
frame approach o f specifying a causal chain from inputs to outputs and outcomes, with
corresponding indicators. The project S A R provided a detailed schedule o f training
events under the project for tracking implementation. The participating states were
requiredto submit annual reports on progress inrespect o f dam status andproject
activities. These reports covered the progress o f Phase Iand I1inspections and
evaluations, manpower assigned to these activities, and factors causing a shortfall inthe
scheduled activities. Compliance with reporting requirements was satisfactory but the
reports were not always received on time.

23.     Utilization. The utilization o fdata from the periodic reportswas essentially to
track outputs, uncover factors for slow progress, and try to address them. To this extent,
the purpose o fthe reports inproviding feedback and corrective action for implementation
was served. Overall, M&E i s ratedModest.

Project Evaluation

RELEVANCE

24.     Relevanceof Objectives.At project preparation(as at present), Indiahad a large
number o f dams that required a safety review and possible rehabilitation. Even though
the Government of India (GOI) had created a DamSafety Organization (DSO) inthe
CWC as early as 1979, and established a highlevel National Committee on Dam Safety
in1982, the pace ofactivities addressing dam safety was low. Therewas a shortage of

                                                  7


funds for maintaining dam safety institutions and for dam operations and maintenance
(O&M). There were not enough trained specialists andstaff dedicated to dam safety at
the center as well as inthe states. Therefore, the project objective o f strengthening
institutions at all levels was well founded. Improvingthe safety o fprioritized dams
through remedial works and installingbasic safety facilities were consistent with the
project objectives because - apart from the immediate reductions inrisk that would be
realized for the assisted dams -it would create a demonstration effect for a systematic
approach to dam safety. The Bank's Country Assistance Strategies (CAS 1995, 1997,
2001 and2004) consider water resource development as a major area o f focus including
the need to control and exploit India's limitedwater supplies. Inthis context, dam safety
assurance is necessary to reduces risks andhelps assure sustainability and full operational
capacity o f existing storage through early identification and rectification o fproblems. On
the whole, relevance o f the project objectives is rated high.

25.      Designofprojectcomponents.The design o fthe project's components had some
drawbacks, most o fwhich are more obvious inretrospect. The time-frame for planning
and executing remedial works was under-estimated. The Basic Dam Safety facilities
component could have chosen instrumentation that was better suited to local conditions
and capacity, and included a provision for their ongoing maintenance. Institutional
strengthening didnot provide adequately for training at the level o f dam operators (as
distinct from staff ofthe CWC, MOWR, and State Government and State DSO officials).
Under theflood-forecasting component, too much emphasis was placed on the design
         and structuralsolutions as the determinant o f safety, with less regardto the
general flood regime and the flood operation o f dams. Also, the project should have
recognized a lack o f appreciationo f the importance o f historical data across the states.

26.      Inretrospect, thecapacity ofCWCtocoordinateprojectimplementationacross
the states was overestimated. Further, there was little separation between CWC's role as
a consultant to the states and having to rule on its own analysis, especially inrespect of
hydrological parameters.

27.      The project S A R paidrelatively less attention to the costs andbenefits o f
improving dam safety, andput greater emphasis on the technical and process aspects o f
addressing dam safety. It could have framed the project objectives ina broader cost-
benefit framework, makingclear and illustrating the benefits from improving dam safety
interms ofreducingthe riskofeconomic losses (downstreamlossoflifeandproperty,
and adverse environmental effects), while improvingother direct and indirect benefits
such as water use efficiency. Relevance o f design is therefore ratedModest. Taking into
account the innovative nature o f the project and the complex institutional and technical
issues that needed to be tacked simultaneously, the overall relevance i s ratedSubstantial,
though marginally so.




15. DesignFlood: The maximum amount o f water for which a flood control project will offer protection.
Selectionis based on engineering, economic and environmental considerations.

                                                    8


EFFICACY

Objective 1. Improve the safety of selected dams inthe project states through
Remedial Works (Rating: Substantial)
28.     Inall, 33 dams infour stateswere fully rehabilitatedatproject completion
consisting o f 17 Category A dams (out o f the original set o f 33 Category A dams
identified at appraisal) and 16 Category B dams identified at restructuring. The 16
Category A dams remaining from the original set were partly rehabilitated. (Table 2)
According to the project ICR, the project-assisted dams benefited from a reduction in
seepagethrough dams, structural improvements and increased spillway capacities. As a
result the safety status o f the dams was improved. Duringsite visits to ten project-
assisted dams (see list inAnnex B) state government officials indicated that the benefits
from remedialworks to the project-assisted dams hadbeen largely sustained. These
includedrepairdenhancements to the dam structure, dam crest rehabilitation, stabilization
o f embankments andreplacement or repair o f gates.



                                                                                        Basic DamSafety




Objective 2. Installbasic dam safety faci1itiesl6for improvingdam safety (Rating:
Modest)

29.      The target for basic dam safety facilities was indicated only infinancial terms
because identificationo f specific needs was not completed at the beginning o f the project.
The financial target was exceeded by 30% (INR 788 million against a target o f INR604
million), but the actual supply o f instrumentationwas less than expected at project
appraisal, mainly due to contracting problems. Overall, the objective o f improving dam
safety through better monitoring, communications, and access was served through the
constructiodimprovement o f access roads (181dams), standby power supplies (103
dams), stockpiling o f strategic materials andprovision o fmonitoring instruments (172




16.Basic DamSafety Facilities are broadly defined as items that assist the operation and maintenance
personnelat the damto assess emergency situations and to respondwith timely actions. These include
Surveys (key drawings, reservoir capacity surveys); Communications (primary and secondary
communication links for operational and flood warning purposes); Instrumentation (Seepage: V-notch
weirs; seepage flow recorders; reservoir level gauges and recorders; rain gauges); Site preparation
(clearance o f dam and surrounding area); Emergency actions (Emergency actions plans).

                                                       9


dams), andcommunication systems (148 dams). However, it is not clear as to how much
of the instrumentation is inworking condition.

30.      Inthe 10damscoveredby site visits, state officials generally indicated that basic
instrumentation (especially for measuring rainfall, water level, and discharge) was largely
inworking condition. Butinabout halfofthisdaminstrumentation suchas piezometers,
stress gauges, and automatedequipmentfor recording various data was inneed of
replacementor repair. Access roads, back-up power systems and communication
facilities that were installed during the project have been generally maintained well or
have been allocated funds by the government for that purpose. However, ingeneral,
resources for maintenanceor replacementof instrumentswere reported to be low. At
several dams, officials expressedthe needfor more guidance for identifying, installing
andusing appropriate instrumentation.

31.      There was little progress inpreparing Emergency Action Plans (EAPs) to deal
withthe potential downstream consequencesof dam failure. MadhyaPradeshreported
the preparation of4 EAPs includingone for the major Gandhisagar dam, while Orissahas
recently prepared2 EAPs.

Objective3. Strengthenthe institutionsof the borrowerand projectstates
responsiblefor assuringdamsafety (Rating: Substantial)

Institutional strengthening and CWCs Dam Safety Organization and CWC's Hydrology
Organization (Rating: Substantial)

32.      The project contributed to the Dam Safety Organization and the Hydrology
Organization inthe CWC by providing equipment and training. Training for CWC during
the project includedstudy courses, workshops, seminars, and 38 man-months of study
tours andtraining abroad. This served to improve CWC's capacity to review hydrology,
prepare Probable Maximum Precipitation (PMP) atlases, design flood computation
procedures, prepare models for operation of gated spillway^'^, carry out dam break
analyses'*, and prepare guidelines for emergency procedures. But the impact of training
during the project may have beenreducedto some extent due to retirements andturnover
of staff, andrelatively little follow-up training.

Review of existingyoodforecasting facilities (Rating: Substantial)

33.      Floodforecast networks were installed inthe Mahanadi(Orissa) and Chambal
(Madhya Pradeshand Rajasthan) basins by the CWC and data was made accessible at the
receiving stations at the dams. As part of this effort, the CWC preparedPMP Atlases for
the two river basins. Since project completion, PMP Atlases have also beenpreparedfor
the Gangaand Brahmaputra river systems, and all PMP atlases ingeneralare being
digitized.



17. A spillway i s a structure usedto provide for the controlled release of flows from a dam or levee into a
downstreamarea, typically being the river that was dammed.
18. An analysisthat provides an estimationof downstreamflooding effects following dam failure.

                                                      10


34.       State and dam site officials largely agree that C W C is generating important and
timely data for decision-making. But officials o f both the CWC and the state government
were not able to provide a clear explanation as to why they were not able to integrate this
data with better operating rules for dam operations. Inparticular, the project missed a
clear opportunity to fully study the possible ways o f dealing with the revised design flood
at the Gandhisagar -a dam o fnational importance - and at its downstream cascade o f
dams.

35.       The CWC broadly met its targets" for estimating design floods duringthe project,
and generally demonstrated its capacity for hydrological and structural reviews o f dams
and for executing the entire cycle o f inspection, prioritization, and preparation o fplans o f
action for ensuring dam safety.

Technical strengthening of Dam Safety Committees2', Dams Safety Organization,
Departments of Water Resources/Irrigation/Public Works (Rating: Modest)

36.       Duringthe project, all four stateDSOs emerged as distinct andpermanent units o f
the larger departments o fwater resources/irrigation/public works. The DSOs were
adequately staffed inall the four states except Tamil Nadu, where the staff was reduced
towards the end o f the project. The DSOs benefited from training and services o f
consultants, andwere provided with office space, office equipment, andvehicles.

37.       Since project completion, the Rajasthan DSO has beenmergedwith the Dam
Directorate, effectively losing the separation betweenthe regulatory and operational
functions. InMadhya Pradesh, Orissa and Tamil Nadu, the DSOs continue to be
independent units but generally face a shortage o f staff, capacity, office space and
equipment, andoperating budgets. As a result, nearly all states have not kept up with
their schedule o f Phase I/II     inspections2' o f dams22with the result that the overall status
o f dam safety cannot be gauged with any certainty. They are also unable to do any
meaningful analysis o f dam-level data for long-term planning. The general feeling




19. CWC also hadthe task o f estimating design floods for 33 (later increased to 55) projects identifiedfor
remedial works. By project completion, CWC had carried out hydrologic review o f 128 darns (appraisal
estimate o f 170) and gave procedural clearance for structural reviewharried out structural review o f 49
dams (appraisals estimate 44).
20. DamSafety Committees typically are chairedby the State-level departmental headwith Heado f the
state DSO as Secretary, andrepresentatives from other concerned ministries and technical specialists, and
typically meets around twice an year to consider dam safety issues.
21.PhaseIis an inspection to assess the general conditions o f a dam and to determine the need for any
additional engineering investigation and analysis, including hydrological. PhaseI1investigations are
performed where the results o f the PhaseIinspection indicate the needfor additional investigation and
studies.
22. At project completion, progress on inspections was generally satisfactory (Phase I:1510vs. 947
targeted; Phase 11: 81 vs. 147 targeted). Since then, inOrissa, 3 expert panels have completedthe PhaseI
cycle o f inspections., but PhaseI1is behind schedule due to shortage o f staff. Tamil Naduhas completed
the Phase Iinspection cycle, and PhaseI1began in 2008. Madhya PradeshandRajasthan are lagging
behindintheir inspection schedules due to shortage o f staff.

                                                       11


among state officials was that a posting inthe DSO was not an attractive career
proposition. However, the specific situations differ between state D S O S ~ ~ .

38.       At project completion, the effect o ftraining provided to officials at the state level
was difficult to gauge. It was felt that the training was not correctly targeted, and didnot
adequately cover the crucial category o f dam level engineers and operators. There has
beenrelatively little training on dam safety since project completion. CWC officials
indicated that regular training is offered on dam safety and instrumentationat its National
Water Academy inPune. Feedback from DSOs suggests that only two o f their officers
have taken advantage o f the CWC training. Ingeneral, the DSOs reported a strong need
for training inthe fields o f hydrology and reservoir operation. The Orissa DSO has taken
the initiative o f conducting some basic training courses on dam safety and quality control
for staff intwo river basin areas inthe state.

39.       Data Collection and Analysis. Pre- andPost monsoonreporting on dam status in
a standardized format was introducedby the project. This procedure generally works
well inall four states except for some delays and lack o f compliance i s some cases24.
These reports are consolidated by each state inan annual "Health Status o fDams" report
to the CWC. However, the CWC reports delays inreceiving these reports from some
states though it i s not clear ifthis includes the project-assisted states. All states use the
reports to differing extents to categorize dams interms o f hazard andto identify priority
remedial work needs. Orissa and Tamil Nadureported sending some feedback to the
reporting dams. Inspite o f this, many state officials felt that the data from pre- andpost
monsoon reports is not analyzed to any significant extent and that the procedure has
become a "paper exercise".

40.       D a m Safety Committeesz5and D a m Safety Review Panels26. Orissa and Tamil
Naduhave Dam Safety Committees that meet around twice a year to review dam safety
issues. The two states also constitute expert groups for periodic dam inspections. Dam
Safety Review Panels that were created duringthe project no longer exist except in
Rajasthan where it is requiredunder the RajasthanWater Sector Restructuring Project.
Orissa and Tamil Naduprefer ad hoc expert committees to carry out the functions o f
DamSafety Review Panels.




23. The specific situations differ between DSOs. InOrissa, the staffingpositionwas said to be relatively
better, though more expertise inhydrology i s needed. Some indicative feedback: The Orissa DSO has
obtained a renovated computer room and computer equipment, and is developing a dedicated mini
conference roomand data library for all dams inthe state. DSO inMadhya Pradeshhas beenrelocated
from its original premises, with less access to office equipment. The Tamil Nadu DSO has basic office
facilities and some computer equipment, but lacks space even for storing past reports from dams.
24. For instance, Madhya Pradesh officials reported around 70% compliance.
25. D a mSafety Committees are chaired by the State Department Headwith the State DSOHeadas
secretary, and include technical specialists and members from concerned ministries.
26. D a mSafety Review Panels were requiredto be establishedfor darns where remedial measures are
proposed to be undertaken, and consisted of four to five experts. These were expected to become regular
features after project completion.

                                                      12


41.      Substantial progress has beenmade inthe institutional strengthening o f CWC's
DSO andHydrology organization, andinimproving flood forecasting facilities. But
there was only modest improvement inthe technical capabilities o f Dam Safety
Committees and state DSOs. Data collection at the dam level has been streamlinedbut i s
not analyzed to a significant extent on a regular basis. DamSafety Committees and
Panels continue to operate at least on a periodic basis inthree out o f the four project
states. Inthe balance, dam safety institutions have been strengthened to a substantial
extent at the center andthe states. Taken together with substantial and modest efficacy
respectively for the first two objectives, overall efficacy is rated substantial.

EFFICIENCY
42.      Most project components encountered delays to different extents. Remedial
works were delayed due to lack o fpreparation while basic dam safety facilities were
delayed due to delays inprocurement andmobilizing contractors at scattered locations
(see section onImplementation). Procurement and installation o fnovel instruments and
dedicated software for flood warning systems was more thanthree years behind schedule
due to differences between the CWC andthe Bank on designmodalities and on
deployment o f staff. Finalproject costs appear commensurate with the revisedtargets for
remedial works.

43.      The project put a lot o f emphasis on the design flood as a determinant o f safety.
Safety was seen as an end initselfrather than as a part o fthe wider benefits that may also
be gainedby the appropriate operation o f the dam intimes o f flood. Inother words,
structural issues (such as adequate spillway capacity) were stressedperhaps at the
expense o fnon-structural issues (spillway operation, flood mitigation).

44.      The project S A R took the positionthat conventional Cost-Benefit Analysis may
not be appropriate for this project. The main benefit would be the preventiono fpotential
loss o f life and property and damage to the environment downstream, which were
considered difficult to estimate. The concept ofprioritization o f dams and rehabilitation
measures was therefore adopted with little care to an objective and technically sound
assessment o frisk. Insome cases, dam serviceability has been addressed rather than
safety.

45.      While noting that risk assessment for dams continues to be a work inprogress
worldwide, the project could have considered the large number o f direct and indirect
benefits from a dam safety program that maybe more readily estimated, such as
increased water supply for domestic and industrial use, irrigation, power generation,
fishery and recreation. The project ICR could have made an attempt at quantifying some
o f these benefits, which may have largelyjustified investments indam safetg7. Taking



27. For instance, the ICR for the Bank's Indonesia Dam Safety Project notes that after rehabilitation of the
Jatiluhur dam, the water level inthe reservoir was first drawn to a minimumlevel (76 meters) during the
1997 dry season, which couldnot have been done earlier due to safety considerations. This helped ensure a
continuous supply o f irrigationwater to 200,000 ha o f rice fields downstream from the dam, and the ICR
estimates that the value o fthe crop that was saved is likely to have more than offset the cost o f
rehabilitation.

                                              13


into account the time overrun andthe lack o f sufficient evidence for establishing benefits,
the project's efficiency is ratedModest.

OUTCOME
46.     The project documents do not specify any outcome indicators to assess
performance against objectives. One approach to assessing outcomes is to review the
safety status o fthe country's dams as determined by the latest inspections, but such
information is incomplete or outdated. CWC officials conveyed orally to the IEG
mission that the incidence o f dams indistress is low. However, records indicate that the
CWC does not have up-to-date and comprehensive data on the safety status o f dams.
Further, the states do not consistentlyreport problems or dam failures to the CWC.
Hence the value o f CWC's informal assessment on the overall dam safety inthe country
is limited.

47.     Onthe whole, officials o fthe central and state governments and the CWC and
State DSOsreportedthat the project increased awareness o f dam safety issues and
improved capacity to diagnose andprioritize problems. Butthe depth o f understanding is
uneven. Thus, even at higher levels o fnational planning, dam safety is not convincingly
viewed ina cost-benefit framework, andreceives relatively routine attention inthe latest
five-year national plan. Senior state officials appear to understand the dimensions o f dam
safety, but many others still view it ina narrowly technical manner.

48.     Remedial works for dams under the project served to decreasethe risk of failure
andalso demonstrated the whole cycle o finspection, prioritization, design, and
implementation o f dam rehabilitation. However, the pace o f remedial works since project
completion has been slow due to insufficient resources. Basic dam safety facilities were
not backed up with sufficient user training and ongoing maintenance, resulting inonly a
marginal impact. Relatively few Emergency Action Planshavebeen developed.

49.     The project has helpedto streamline data collection at the dam level through
standardizing pre- and post-monsoonreports. The concept o f prioritization o f dams and
rehabilitation measures has been adopted. Institutional strengthening interms o f creation
and operation o fpermanent DSOs equipped with requisite staff carrying out periodic
inspections o f the health status o f dams has beenpartly achieved. DSOs are yet to
establish themselves fully as technically capable units capable o f establishing priorities
for dam safety, and guidingplanning, implementation, and quality control. DSO officials
ascribe this to being inadequatelystaffed, low opportunity to upgrade capacity, and
insufficient operating budgets.

50.     Onthe basis o fSubstantial Relevance, Substantial Efficacy andModest
Efficiency the overall project outcome i s rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

                                                     14


      ImpliedDevelopment Objectivesof               Relevance    Efficacy     Efficiency*
      each Project Component
      Improve the safety of selected dams in         Substantial Substantial
      the project states through remedial
      works
      Install basic facilities for improving            Modest     Modest
      dams safety
      Strengthenthe institutions of the              Substantial Substantial
      borrower and the project states
      responsiblefor assuring dam safety
      Overall Outcome: Moderately                    Substantial Substantial     Modest
      Satisfactory
     *Efficiency has beenrated for the project as a whole.


RISKTO DEVELOPMENT                  OUTCOMES


51.      While the project had several positive outcomes, there are risks that need to be
addressed. Awareness o f dam safety has increased, but it i s still largely viewed in
narrowly technical terms at all levels o f government. Relatively less attention i s paidto
understandingand estimating the costs and benefits that might lead to more balanced
strategies for dam safety. Also, lack o f cost-benefit estimates can make it more difficult
to buildsupport among various stakeholder groups including within the government
itself. Senior officers inthe participating state governments felt that the case for dam
safety i s not being made adequately bytheir DamSafety Organizations, to strengthen
their hands inseeking more resources.

52.       Capacity for dam safety may be eroding at various levels due to the lack o f
sufficient follow-up training andhighstaff turnover at all levels. Lack o f training for
damlevel operators and engineers is an especially important gap since frequent transfer
o f key staffposes a risk to sustainable safe operation o f reservoirs with gated spillways.

53.      Ingeneral, the centralrole ofDamSafety Organizationsinthe review,
prioritization, and quality control o f dam safety efforts i s not being carried out to its
potential. This is due to inadequate staffing, capacity, operatingbudgets, computer
equipment and other office facilities. Broadly speaking, staff does not seem to view a
DSO posting as an attractive option due to real or perceived lack o f incentives interms o f
career progression.

54.      Many state officials feel that the CWC's role inbeingan advocate for dam safety
at the highest level, sharing its expertise with the states andhelping to buildtheir capacity
i s not up to expectations. At the same time, the states do not always seem to be inclined
to seek CWC's expertise even inareas where it has a clear edge such as hydrology and
basic dam safety facilities. A clear opportunity for synergy between the CWC and the
states is being underutilized.

55.       The culture o f data collection and analysis for long-term planning and guiding
dam operations has not improved much since project completion. General data on the

                                                      15


safety status o f dams andproblem occurrences at the level o f CWC appears to be
incomplete andoutdated. While dam level reporting is fairly streamlined and regular,
there is relatively less emphasis and little or no capacity at the state level for analyzing
the data. Instrumentation at many dam sites needs to upgraded and maintained. Yet,
there is a large body o f historical data that that exists at many dams that lies unprocessed.
The CWC has begunwork on an ambitious DamHealth and RehabilitationMonitoring
Application (DHARMA) data collection exercise covering the entire country. While the
states are complying with their reportingrequirements, some state officials had
reservations about the feasibility and utility o f the exercise init is current form.

56.      According to central and state government officials, remedial works since project
completion are occurring at a much lower pace than duringthe project mainly due to lack
o f sufficient funds2*. Inmost states, budgets for dam O&M are part o f the larger budget
for irrigation and canal maintenance which i s decided on the basis o f irrigated area. In
practice, irrigation and canal maintenance tend to get greater priority, with the result that
dam O&M is relatively neglected. Allocations for damO&M need to be more inline
with need-based assessments. A small start has beenmade inOrissa andTamil Naduin
earmarking funds for Dam-related O&M. InOrissa, a "critical lump fund"has been
created in2007 with a modest initial allocation, while inTamil Nadu, 15% o fthe
irrigation budgethas been earmarked for dam headworks.

57.      While there are several sources o f risk for outcomes from this project, it should be
kept inmindthat the project added clear value to an essentially functioning and time-
tested framework for dam safety at all levels o f the government and dam locations.
Overall, the riskto project outcomes i s rated Significant.

SAFEGUARD COMPLIANCE
58.      The project was appropriately classified inCategory B for compliance with the
Bank's safeguard polices. The project S A R indicatedthat environmental effects from
constructions works were expected to be limitedando f short duration. Assurances were
obtained from participating states that they would identify any environmental impacts o f
project works, and prepare environmental impact assessments indicating the nature and
time-frame for mitigation measures. However, there is no evidence that this was done.

STRENGTHENINGCOUNTRYSYSTEMSFORDAM SAFETY
59.      All o fthe project's components served to strengthen the institutional and
regulatory fram.eworks for dam safety inIndia. These efforts are inline with the
principal objectives o f the Bank's Safeguard OP 4.37 for "Safety o fDams"29.



28. The pace is relatively higher inRajasthan due to the ongoing Water Sector Restructuring Project, which
has a component for dam safety related O&M.
29. Two important objectives o f the Bank's Safeguard policy for "Safety o fDams" (OP 4.37) are to: (i)
work with the borrowing countries to strengthen their institutional, legislative, and regulatory frameworks
for dam safety programs; and (ii)  ensure that the borrower adopts and implements dam safety measures for
the design, bidtendering, construction, O&M o fthe damand associatedworks, and to make sure that
experienced and competent professionals design and supervise construction.

                                                   16


60.      The project also attempted to streamline andupdate the a set o f dam safety
regulatory guidelines to bringthe country's standards inline with those o f the Bank.
This facilitated the Bank's new approach for using Country Systems3' for environmental
and social safeguards infuture projects that involve dam safety and rehabilitation.

61.      Thus the project has helpedto advance the framework o f safeguards for safety o f
dams inthe country andto mainstream it to a greater extent at the central and state levels.
However, as discussed under the section on Outcome, Indiahas a long way to go in
consolidating its dam safety institutions, especially inprovidingthem with adequate
resources to function effectively.

BANKPERFORMANCE

62.      The Bank deserves credit for puttingtogether an exclusive project devoted to dam
safety for the first time. The experience from this project has helped to design a similar
project inIndonesia (1994-2003), andinfluenced three active projects on dam safety in
Albania, Armenia, Sri Lanka. The Bank based the project design on a sound analysis o f
India's dam safety needs andthe country's existing institutional strengths and
weaknesses inrespect o f dam safety management. Intechnical terms, the project design
conformed to ICOLD's guidelines and OP 4.37 on "Safety o f Dams" which was issued
several years later by the Bank. The Bank didwell insecuring the Government o f India's
participation and coordinating with four large states with varied endowments and
independentjurisdiction over their own dams.

63.      As discussed inthe section onDesign, there were several weaknesses inproject
preparation and appraisal resulting inweak quality at entry. Importantly, the Bank could
have made a better effort at estimating the benefits from the project or at least
enumerating the various benefits clearly. This was also reflected inthe relatively weak
design o f performance indicators which were mainly interms o fproject outputs. The
Bank was optimistic about the time required to establish andbuildnew institutions for
dam safety inthe states, andoverestimated the capacity o f CWC to coordinateproject
implementation. The time to establish and work through many new technical procedures
andto agree onthe various hydrologicalparameter estimates was also underestimated.
The Bank didnot adequately balance structural solutions to meet new design flood
requirements against the use o f more systematic operating rules for dams with gated
spillways. Consideringthat this was the first project o f its kind, and that several
shortcomings at appraisal and designmay not have been easy to anticipate at that time,
quality at entry i s ratedModerately Satisfactory.

64.      Supervision missions were conducted regularly and included an appropriate mix
o f technical, institutional and expertise. However, they faced a difficult task incovering
dam sites infar-flungareas inthe four project states. The supervision missions were


30. In2005, the Bank launched a Country Systemspilot to explore usinga country's own environmental
and social safeguard systems, where they are assessedas being equivalent to the Bank's systems, inBank-
supported operations. Key to the approach would be an increased emphasis by the Bank on capacity-
building.

                                               17


persistent inworking with the CWC and the states inresolving various bottlenecks that
were faced duringproject implementation, but were not always able to ensure that annual
progress reportswere submitted regularly. Supervision performance is ratedSatisfactory.
Overall, Bank performance is ratedModerately Satisfactory.

BORROWERPERFORMANCE
65.     The central government andparticipating state governments were receptive to the
innovative nature o f this project. They displayed a significant level o f cooperation and
commitment at preparation and during implementation, given the complex nature o f the
project and institutional relationships. Towards the end, Tamil Naduwithdrew from the
project due to disagreement with the Bank on procurement matters andunsatisfactory
progress with remedial works. Duringthe project, the central government strengthened
the Dam Safety Organization and Hydrology Organization inthe CWC, while the states
created Dam Safety Review Panels and strengthened their DSOs. The Department o f
Economic Affairs andthe MOWRplayed their role adequately inreviewing progress and
responding to the project restructuring andpart loancancellations that were necessitated
duringthe project. Implementingagencies could not take advantage ofproject hnds
available at the start o fthe fiscal year due to lack o f coordination with DEA and the state
finance departments. Government performance is ratedModerately Satisfactory

66.     Insome cases, major constructioncontracts were delayedor poorlymanagedby
the state authorities. State governments have generally not been able to provide adequate
staff and operatingbudgets to the DSOs. However, the Borrower's performance with
accounting, financial reporting, and auditing requirements was generally satisfactory.

67.     CWC didnot initiallyperform its role ina pro-active manner and expected the
states to make the first moves, especially for dam break modeling, and action plan
preparation. CWC and the states were slow inagreeing on hydrological and other design
parameters and infinalizing detailed designs. However, towards the end o f the project,
there was some improvement incoordination between the CWC and the states.
Procuremento f instruments and software for flood forecasting were three years behind
schedule due to differences between CWC and the Bank, but was mostly completed
towards the end o f the project. Keeping inview the complexity o f institutional
relationships and logistics ininteractionbetween the central and state levels,
implementing agency performance i s ratedModerately Satisfactory. Overall, Borrower
performance is ratedas Moderately Satisfactory.


Lessons

At its core, the project was aninstitutional developmentproject, even though 80% o fits
cost went towards remedial works andbasic dam safety facilities. The key lessons from
the project are:

                                     18


Institution-building can be a longprocess when it involves organizations at
multiple levels, establishing new work methods, and upgrading technical
expertise. Insuch cases, the Bank should consider an extended commitment
through a sequence o fprojects or through adaptable program lending (APL).

Institutionsthat carry out regulatory functions require technical expertise and
adequate resources to be able to function ina capable and independent manner.
Inthisproject, shortage o fexperiencedqualified staffandinadequate operating
budgets contributedto the under-performanceo f the state dam safety
organizations.

When new monitoring andreportingprocedures are instituted, their purpose
should bemade clear to all those involved, and appropriate and regular feedback
should be given to those originating the data. Inthis project, there was little
systematic analysis or feedback from higher levels on reporting emanating from
the dam level, which may be affecting its quality andcompliance.

New techniques and equipment should be tailored to the existing level o f
capacity, facilities and funds for ongoing maintenance. A significant portion o f
the relatively sophisticated instrumentationinstalled at dams under this project
has deteriorated for lack o f maintenance or use.

                                                                        19                                                                 Annex A


  Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
                                            P


  INDIA DAMSAFETY PROJECT(LOAN 3325-IN/CREDIT2241-IN)

            roiectData(amounts in US$million)
             _L      --*-__I                                                        --.-==                                                                  P

                                                                   Appraisal                              Actual or                Actual as % of
                                                                     estimate                       current estimate appraisal estimate
   Total project costs                                                  196.8                                       115.8                 59
   Loanlcredit amount                                                   153.0                                        92.7                 60
   Cofinancing
   Cancellation     --~-                                                 0--                                         60.3
--"-_ab                     *->---               P s                                                          =---.-a-       -vL.-                 >------.



 --CumulativeEstimatedandActual
           -                                     -                      Disbursements      - -. --
        w                     -----
            /-          =-                a.  ---      -,-a,---  ----_ID                                            %         *I   --=-
                            FY91       FY92      FY93           FY94       FY95                      FY96             FY97  FY98       FY99                - FYOO     - .~
       --I- ---I ^_I-II_
            ll_-l.l._                 111"           _.                          I_ _____I ~   "                              I                              ^-      ~

   Appraisal                    0         15.6   32.5           55.4        90.6                     124.3            150.4 153.0 153.0 153.0
   estimate
   (US$M)
   Actual (US$M)                0         8.6    10.9           14.8        21.2                     24.8              35.0  50.7      68.9                   85.7
   Actual as % of                 0       55      34             27               23                  20                23     33       45                       56
   appraisal
          __                                               ________                           _ _ _   -           ___ _ _                  _               _
             I_ I__I              __I__-_I                        ___I__I__                        "I                                                           ~


   Date of final disbursement:
- - . ~ - ~ l a ~ ~ ~ - r - . ) - ~ - ~ ~ ~ ~ - ~ , , - ^ x ~ , -                                     *____u-L------                   m__Ima-,`-.-=--




             - ~ ~ ~ - ~ - ~ ~ ~ . ~ . - " ~
                                              ~ . . y I _ L L - v L _ _ E _ . _ - ~ - - ~ ~ ~ ~ - ~ ~ ~ - - - ~ - - ~
                                                                                 Original                                            Actual
                                                                           lllllll_l_


    PCD                                                                                                                           12/08/1989
   Appraisal                                                                                                                      12/01/ I990
    Boardapproval                                                                                                                 05/14/1991
    Effectiveness                                                         09/09/1991                                              07/11/1991
    MTR                                                                   03/31/I994                                              12/01/I994
   Closing date                                                           09/30/1997                                              09/30/1999

Annex A                                 20

                                                   --
                                                                                       l____

    Stage of Project Cycle                 Staff weeks                                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                      86.9                                      181.5
  AppraisaVNegotiation                            28.3                                        78.8
  Supervision                                    211.3                                      328.6
  ICR                                       17.0 (est.)                                       60.0

~ Total
     ~      ~    "   ~     ~    ~       -   .    343.5
                                                 ~   ---~ -mc,--as-~   v .r----rnrasean-
                                                                         ~           -   ~  648.9
                                                                                              .---- -
                                                                                               -       ---- ~ ~  ~ -
Mission Data

             Date            No. of       Specializations          Implementation             Development
        (month/year)        persons        represented                    status               objectives
 Identification/
     Preparation

 AppraisallNegotiation
     December 1990            7          E, Ec

 Supervision
     Aug. 1991                3          EDS,Ec                                  S                  S
     Mar/Apr 1992             2          Ec,EDS                                  S                  S
     AuglDec 1992             2          Ec,EDS                                  S                  S
     Apr 1993                  1         EDS                            * u                         S
     Oct 931Feb 94             1         EDS                                     U                  S
     MTR: Nov/Dec 1994        2          EDS                                     U                  S
     Dec 1995                 2          EDS                                     U                  S
     Jan/Feb 1997             5          ED,EDS,Ec,I,P                           S                  S
     June 1997                5          ED,EDS,Ec,P,I                           S                  S
     Jan 1998                 5          EDS,Ec,H,P,I                            S                  S
     Jun 1998                 5          EDS,Ec,H,P,I                            S                  S
     Jan/Feb 1999             7          EDS,Ec,Ed,H,P,I                         S                  S

     ICR OctlNov 99             6         EDS,H,Ec                              S                   S

Ec: Economist                ED: Design Engineer                    EDS: Experton Dam Safety
H: Hydrologist               I: IrrigationEngineer                  P: ProcurementSpecialist
S: Satisfactory              U: Unsatisfactory

Other Project Data
Borrower/ExecutingAgency:

FOLLOW-ONOPERATIONS
                  Operation                     Credit no.            Amount                 Board date
                                                                   (US$ million)
Dam Rehabilitationand ImprovementProject       -                                         Expected
(DRIP)                                                                                   23-JuI-2009

                                               21                                   Annex B


Annex B. List ofDamsVisited and
Organizations/DepartmentsConsulted

List ofDamSites Visited




Offices/DepartmentsConsulted

Government of India

NationalPlanningCommission(Water Resources)
MinistryofWater Resources(Policy andPlanning)
CentralWater Commission(DamSafety; Hydrology)

States
Public Works Department, Government ofTamil Nadu
Departmentof Water Resources,Government of Orissa
Departmentof Water Resources,Government ofMadhyaPradesh
Departmentof Irrigation, Governmentof Rajasthan

DamSafety Directorate, GovernmentofTamilNadu
DamSafety Organization, Governmentof Orissa
DamSafety Cell, Governmentof MadhyaPradesh
DamSafety Organization, GovernmentofRajasthan

Staffof DamSafetyUnits inthe Governmentsof MadhyaPradesh, Orissa, RajasthanandTamil Nadu.
ChiefEngineersIExecutiveEngineers, dams site Staff at eachdamsite.


WorldBank

ProjectTask Team
Water Sector Team, World BankCountry Office, New Delhi.
SouthAsia Sustainable DevelopmentDivision, World Bank, WashingtonD.C.


                                             23                                       Annex C


Annex C.Borrower's Comments
%.W-2BB9 11:16 From:                                              To:=  522 3123          P. 1




                                                    .\.



              Oelip Kapur                                              0.0.No. 4'1I!$l=FB Ili
              Under Secretary (MI)                                       bovernmeni of lndla
              Vel. NO. 2309351S                            DepartmentofMinistryof AffSlrS
                                                                           EconomicFinance

                                                                   New Delhl, 15thJune, 2000


              Dear Ma. Huppl,

                    -Kindly refer to your letter dated 2V' ~ p r i ~ ,
                                                                   2009 regarding the Project
              Performance Assessment Report of the `Darn Safety Project (Credit No 2241;
              LoanNo. 3325)".

             2.       A copy of the comments on the PPAR received from Ministry of Water
             Reoourwsis endosed,



                                                                             Yours sincarely,


             Encl.2 pager
                                                                                (Dali
                                                                                >r)


             Ma. Monlko Huppi,
             Manager,
             Sector Eveluation Division,
             IndependentEvaluationOroup,
             Work Bank,
             l e l eH Street N.W.
             Waahmgton,D.C. 20433,
             Unite States ofAmerica
             Fax: 202 6223123

Annex C                                   24


            .    I                                                                                   .IC-.
                       Conimcnts in .P:I?ARpartninlng to CWC                            Obvervritlon of        I




      ...--.... "_..
      Tho iapaciry of rlte Central Warar Commis,rion (CWC), the moin
                    - ..--.                                                          Overnll capncrly of 1
                                                                                      .-....-.-..,
                                                                                                cwc
                                                                                                  ---.-----;
      Irnplernmling U~WIG.$ arid the Stare Dam .Sq/icty Orgunizariom                 cwc                  was
      @SO.O)wav anliariced rhrmgh troirdng and involvenienr inpmject                 enhRnced              nnd
      acrcriviricx OIXciaJ$oftlic central and state fpernments, the CWC,             gained             LlSCtilI
      hnd the DSOs reported:thatthc pmjcct inorcased /heir uwarertc.w experiences due ta
      of dons safely imrer ond improved capacity to diqnosc and                      this             project.
      prioritize problems, 'Butthe depth of this understandingappefirs to Limitations
      be uneven across different levels of the government. Basic dam indicated ham been
      hfety thcilities including insirurnentationthat were installed unclcr noted                 for   fiiture
      the proj~xx wore not baked up with sufficient ongoing                          complinnce.
      miiiitenarice and user train.iny,resulting in only a marginal Impact.
                                         =Prudx(Pa rn-31,. P n p13(I'arn4, Pdnt47)
      Thc'CWCneeds to play a stronger d e In advocating for dam safety8              DSO,         CWC        is
      upgrading and shorlnp Its cxpertlsc, and improving coordlnotlon wlth nlrcady working in
      DSOS.                                                                          this directioil.
                                                                     -Pn~o-lx(Pero-4)
      However, chho Bonk was optimbtlcabout t h a m d required to establish The issues involved
      and build new         institutions  for dam safety In 'the states, and hnve                         been
      overestlmoted        the   capacity   of   CWC     to   coordinate    proJect examIned,
      lmplementatlon.                                                                Reinediirl rrctions
                                            -Pogo-r(Pare4), Page-P(Por-3, P0lnt-25)~ will he undertaken
                                                           Pogodl(Pnrn-4, Polny-62)  during              DR'IP
                                                                                     implemtntatlon.
      The CWC was designated as the main Implementing agency and IC's The Narional Drrm
      Dam Safety Organizatlon as the focal point for implemenrlng the Safety Act, which
      projoct. The lack of constltu,tlonal outhorlty and leglslotlonfar CWC to is under process of
      enforce a national proprom of dom safety assurance was recognlzed as enactment                      may
      oprqblem, but theproject dld not addressItJ Implicationssufficiently,          address the issues
                                                           -PagmS(Para=3,Polnt-17J   of       constitutional
                                                                                     ompowermcnt            of
                                                                                     ccntrnI/state        dam
      -                                                                              safety
                                                                                     organizations.
          *a
      lnstitutlonal strengthaning at CWC s CMtB Sofety Orgonizarion was Remedial                       actions
      affected dua to tardiness In redeploying staff In chc unit with the result will be wiclorlnkcn
      that the full staff complrmont was In place only during the extended           during              DRIP
      prolea perlod. Frequent rotatlon of staff required Increased training inipicmenteejon.
      efforts at CWCas well In the four projectstates.
                                                           -Po((o-b(Para-l,Point-19                         "..._
      The proje;        contrlhted to the Dam Safety Organizarion and           tk   Roniedial         nctions
      Hydrology Organlzatlon In the CWC bv providing equlpment and will be undertaken
      rralning. Tainlng for CWC during the proJectincluded study courses,            cluring            DRIP
      workshops, semlnars, and 38 man-months of study tours and training             impIcnientution,
      sbroad, This served to improve CWC's capacity to review hydrology,
      prepare Probable Maximum Preclpltatlon (PMP) atlases, deslgn flood
      computation procedures, prepare models for operation of gated
      spillways, carry out dam break analyses, and prepare guidellnes for
      emergency procedures. But the Impact of tralnlng durlng the project
      may how been reduced to some extent due to retlremants and turnover
      of staff, and relotlvely littlefollow-up tralnlng.
                                                           -Pofla-9@arrs. Polnt-31)

                                         25                                      Annex C


*5.
State and dam site offiuaic largely agree that CWC Is generatlng Remedial             'actions
Importantand tlmelydata for decisbn-making, But officlalsof both the wiII be undcrbkcn
CWC end the state government were not able to provide o clear durin8                    DR I'
ewplanation as to why they were not able to intograte thls data with     Implomenation.     .
better operatlng rules for dam opentlons, In particular, the project
missed a clear opponunlty to fully study the posslble ways of deallng
with the revlsed dcslgn flood at the Gandhbagar    - a dam of national
Importance-and at Itsdownstreamcascadeof dams.
                                               -PnRo.io(Pwa=I, Polnt-33)
Substantial progress has been made In the institutional strengthening RcmcdiaI         BCtions
                                                                                          cc


of CWCs OS0 and Hydrology organlzatlon, and in improving flood will bo undertaken
forecasting facilities. But there was only modest improvement in the during             DRJP
tedinical capebilitles of Damsafety Committees andstate DSOs.            impleiiicntation.
                                               ~PoplZ(Pors.1,PolnqrlO)   -..
Most projea components encountered delays to different extents, Reniedini              actions
Remdlal works were delayed due to lack of preparation while bask will be undcrtukon
dam rafetv facilities were delayed due to delays in procuremont and during              DRIP
moblllzlng contractors at scattered locations (see section on implcnicntation,
lmplcmentatlon). Procurement and Instollation of novel Instruments
and dedlcatedsoftware for flood warnlngsystems was more than three
years behind schedule due to dlfferences between the CWC and the
Bank on deslgn modalities and on depbyment of staff. Final projact
costs appear commensurate with the revised targets for remcdlal
works.
---               --                           -PaRo=lZ(Pap-,Z,, Polnc41)
However, records indlcatethat the CWC does not have up-to-date and RemediaI
                                                                         -I           'actions
comprchcnslve data on the safety status of dams. Further, the states will be undertaken
do not consistently report problems or dam failures to the CWC. Hence durin6            IIRIP
the value of CWC's informal assessment on the overall dam safety in impleineiittqiun.
the countryb limited.
                                               -PaRe-13(P8ra-Z1Polnc-45)
Manv state offklsts feel that the CWCs role In beine nn advocate for Reinediu1
.-.&-I--..  ..C                                                                        aclions
dam safetyat the highest I~vel,sharing Its ewpenlsewlth the states and will be undertaken
helpin@to build their capaciw 1s not up to expectations. At the same during             DRIP
time, the states do not always seem to be lncllned to seek CWC's         implemenmrion.
expertlse even in areas where it has a clear edge such as hydrologyand
bask dam safety fadlitles. A clear oppoflunky for synergy between the
CWC and the stntes is baingunderutillzed.
                                               -Pa#a.Ia(Pored, Polnt43J

Annex C                            26



               Dam Safety
               *damsafety_orissa~yah  To kmhuppi@worldbank.org,Rjammi@worldbank.org
               oo.co.in>               cc
                                       ..
               06'18'2009 02:41 AM   Subj India- Dam Safety Project (Credit No.2241, Loan No.3325)
                                      ect Project PerformanceAssessment Mission.



Office of the Director,
Support Services & Dam Safety,
Secha Sadan, Unit-V, ORISSA, Bhubaneswar-01.       ,
Tele-Fax - (0674) -2531934, E-mail : damsafety-orissa@yahoo.co.in

No.                                                                    /Dated the
To

       Monika Huppi,
       Manager,
       Sector Evaluation Division,
       Independent EvaluationGroup.
kmhumi@worldbank.orq
Rjammi@worldbank.orq


       Sub:- India- Dam Safety Project (Credit No.2241, Loan No.3325) Project Performance
       Assessment
       Mission.

Sir,

       The draft report of the above mentioned mission has been gone through and there is no
comment except a correction at Page 21. The height of Derjang Dam in Orissa state may be
corrected as 27.31m insteadof 144.8 m. The draft report reached the undersigned late. Hence
the comments could not be communicatedwithin stipulatedtime.

                                                    Yours faithfully,


                                                       DIRECTOR, S.S. & D.S.

Memo No.                                                              /Dated the

       Copy submitted to Sri M.K.Verma, IAS,Joint Secretary to Government, Department of
Water Resources,Orissa, Bhubaneswarfor favour of informationwith referenceto DOWR letter
No.15991dated 02.06.2009.


                                                       DIRECTOR, S.S. & D.S.

