Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25002
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-40530)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 31.6 MILLION
TO
THAILAND
FOR A
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
October 30, 2002
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 1996)
Currency Unit = Thai Bhat (B)
B 1.00 = US$ $0.04
US$ 1.0 = B25.0
FISCAL YEAR
October 1  September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAI                 Computer Assisted Instruction
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
M & E               Management and Evaluation
MOE                 Ministry of Education
NCB                 National Competitive Bidding
O&M                 Operations and Maintenance
PIU                 Project Implementation Unit
QAG                 Quality Assurance Group
RIT                 Rajamangala Institute of Technology
Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:  Ian C. Porter
Sector Manager/Director:  Emmanuel Y. Jimenez
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Tanapom Poshyananda



THAILAND
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Perforrnance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              2
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 5
6. Sustainability                                                                     6
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      6
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   8
9. Partner Comments                                                                   8
10. Additional Information                                                           8
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  9
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 12
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 14
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 15
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 17
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    18
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                19
Annex 8. Borrowers Comments (unedited)                                              20






Project ID: P004793                                       Project Name: TECHNICAL EDUCATION
Team Leader: Tanaporn Poshyananda                         TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: October 30, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: TECHNICAL EDUCATION                            LIC/TFNumber: SCL-40530
Country/Department: THAILAND                                             Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: Vocational training (87%); Tertiary education
(10%); Central government administration (3%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:    10/05/1993                            Effective: 04/10/1997         04/10/1997
Appraisal:  04/25/1995                                MTR: 09/11/2000            11/16/2000
Approval:  06/25/1996                              Closing: 04/30/2002          04/30/2002
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVT OF THAILAND/MINISTRY OF EDUC
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                       Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi
Country Manager:     Ian C. Porter                              S. Shivakumar
Sector Manager:      Emmanuel Y. Jimenez                        Sven Burmester
Team Leader at ICR:  Tanaporn Poshyananda                      William Rees
ICR Primary Author:   Robert L. Mcgough
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory" =H4ighly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Subst  o4dest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL    '     (      11~
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAGk,                     ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
Project was reviewed through the QAG-Rapid Supervision Assessment during FY99. Overall assessment of
quality was "Satisfactory", with comments, as follows: "The task team is commended for giving timely advice and
support to the borrower during a financial crisis" . The Realism of Project Performance Ratings was "Highly
Satisfactory", with comments: "The team was consistent in its assessment of issues and risks, and has been
proactive in addressing them".



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project's development objectives were fully achieved. The objectives were to: (a) improve the
management capacity within the RIT campuses; (b) strengthen curricula and linkages with industry; (c)
upgrade workshops and laboratories through the provision of up-to-date equipment and physical
improvements to building; (d) expand the supply and upgrade the quality of instructional materials; and
(e) strengthen the practical skills of key teaching staff in advanced technologies through overseas
training.
3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A
3.3 Original Components:
Six investment programs (components) supported the project's main objectives. It should be noted that
the sixth component was not implemented by RIT. It consisted of a Bank financed sector study
conducted by Mr. William Rees, Task Team Leader for this project. Upon its completon, the sector
study was used extensively by RIT for planning. The six investment programs are follows:
Component I - Institutional Improvement: (a) improve teaching skills of RIT's instructors
through the provision of overseas training in specialized technologies and teaching techniques
; (b) improve managerial capacity of the PIU and Project Institutions through the provision of
overseas training in institutional systems and management practices; and (c) strengthen the
PIU's procurement capacity through the provision of specialized advisory services and training
of local staff in procurement procedures;
Component 2 - Equipment Upgrading: (a) improving the quality of technical training in the
Project Institubons through the upgrading of specialized equipment and computers; and (b)
improving the equipment operations and maintenance systems in the Project Institutions
through: i) the provision of materials, spare parts, supplies and services; ii) the provision of
training in operations and maintenance techniques for the staff of Project Institutions; and iii)
the development of instructional management policies and procedures;
Component 3 - Curriculum Development: Update curricula of technical courses through the
provision of local advisory services;
Component 4 - Instructional Materials: Upgrade instructional materials through: (a) the
development and preparation of instructional materials, such as audio-visual materials,
video-tape instructional packages, and individualized competency-based materials, and (b) the
provision of technical reference materials, textbooks, journals, and technical catalogues;
Component 5 - Upgrading Educational Facilities: (a) refurbish physical facilities of the
Project Institutions, including the constructon of laboratories and workshops; and
Component 6 - Education Sector Strategy: (a) develop a strategy for the Borrower's
education sector.
3.4 Revised Components:
N/A
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Not available
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
- 2-



4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project met its overall development objectives. The justification for this assessment was based
on: (a) satisfactory project. outputs; (b) sustained Government commitment throughout the project
implementation period; (c) good private sector participation; (d) an effective implementation of the
project by RIT; and (e) strong indications of client satisfaction in the implementation and outcomes of
the project. Based on these outcomes, the overall outcome of the project is rated satisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1 - Institutional Improvement:
(a) To improve the skills of RIT instructors, initially, 100 teachers were selected. Each
received four weeks of language training and two weeks of didactics training. Tests in
language and didactics were then given as a selecbon procedure for the final participants
in the overseas training program. 74 RIT instructors passed these tests and were sent to
Germany for 12 weeks of training in eight specific, state-of-the-art technologies. Upon
their return, the 74 RIT instructors trained an additional 110 RIT instructors in the same
technologies. During 2000 and 2001, 181 teachers were trained in equipment utilization.
This outcome generally exceeds the performance indicators and was rated as fully
satisfactory.
(b) To strengthen the project management capacity of the central Project Implementation Unit
and 11 RIT institutions, it was originally planned that 12 senior RIT staff would be provided
with opportunities to visit similar institutions and projects in other countries. The RIT
management decided, with the Bank's concurrence, to modify the activity to comply with a
policy decision of the Ministry of Educabon (MOE) to reduce authorizations for overseas
training, due to the national economic crisis. It was also noted that the modifications would
allow for more intensive training of all staff at the central PIU and participating campus
PlUs in various aspects of project management. As the result: i) six administrators
received seven days of training in England; ii) one key administrator participated in a 15
day study trip to Scotland; iii) five administrators received 2 days of management training
in-country;  iv) 20 PIU staff participated in a 1 day planning workshop; 209 staff
participated in a workshop titled, "Object Oriented Project Planning Workshop using Log
Frame"; vi) eight different project management workshops were offered to a total of 413
participants; and vi) 16 project monitoring and evaluation programs were held on the
participating campuses. It should be noted that the PIU was able to utilize the resources
for this subcomponent to significantly increase the amount of training provided through the
project. This outcome was rated as fully satisfactory.
(c) To ensure the efficient management and implementation of the large volume of
project-related procurement it was planned to provide 12 months of foreign procurement
consultant services. The RIT management, with the concurrence of the Bank decided that
it would be more effective to establish procurement committees of RIT specialists to
support the procurement process With many of the RIT specialists freshly trained in the
latest technologies, they were ideal for this task. This decision has proven to be a good
one as the procurement results have clearly shown that the committees and PlUs were
able to effectively identify the procurement requirements. There were some delays at the
beginning as the PIU sought to find qualified, full-time procurement staff, and to familiarize
them with the necessary rules and regulations of the RIT and the Bank. Throughout the
project, the Bank provided ongoing procurement training and regular consultations to the
PIU staff.  With these inputs, the PIU efficiently managed the actual procurement
processes as required.  With 100% disbursement of procurement requirements, this
outcome was rated as fully satisfactory.
Component 2 - Equipment Upgrading: All procurement, installation and acceptance of 43
equipment packages for 8 study areas was completed by March 2001. Subsequent reviews by
-3 -



Bank missions have revealed that the equipment was carefully selected and installed in the
participating RIT institutions. Utilization rates of this equipment, in most cases, meet or exceed the
planned indicators. In the few cases where the utilization rate was less, workshops have been
planned to determine ways to increase the rate. Rates of satisfaction of using laboratories and
equipment for teachers and students are high. Within the eight instructional areas, they range
from a rating of 3.71 for Refrigeration to 4.50 for Electrical Power Technology on a 5 point scale.
This outcome was rated as fully satisfactory.  Operations and Maintenance: To support the
operations and maintenance of the instructional programs with higher level technologies in RIT,
spare parts for eight study areas were completely procured and stored appropriately for future use.
These 19 procurement packages meet the performance indicator targets for the project. To date,
the maintenance of the project-procured equipment has been provided by the suppliers under
warranty agreements. Associated with this component, existing O&M facilities in RIT have been
upgraded to support the increased needs of the institution. A workshop for 60 participants was also
conducted on procurement and maintenance. This component was rated as satisfactory.
Component 3 - Curriculum Development: Using the well established policies and procedures of
the RIT: (a) the collection and evaluation of curriculum data was completed by September 1998;
(b) the identified competencies for the eight areas of curricula were evaluated by employers by
December 1998; (c) the curriculum designs were completed and approved by February 1999; and
the designs were approved by the RIT Council on April 29, 1999. The curricula for all 8
instructional areas were then evaluated .by experts (industrial sector and RIT) in terms of
acceptance, efficiency and effectiveness. Course outlines for 141 subjects were implemented in
May-June 1999. Evaluations in the classroom have shown that the curricula is 'highly acceptable'
with all of the individual curriculums exceeding the performance indicator target of 3.5 on a 5 point
scale. This component was rated as fully satisfactory.
Component 4 - Instructional Materials: To support the curricula developed under Component 3:
(a) an instructional materials development center was established in October 1999; (b) on each
participating campus, a Self-access Learning Center was established by September 1999; (c)
closed-circuit TV rooms were also established at each campus by September 1999; (d) during
year 2000, five groups of media developers (111 participants) were trained, and committees were
established to implement the purchase of media and textbooks and (e) a total 8,110 English text
books, 14,980 Thai textbooks, 55 sets of reference books, 110 titles of English journals, and 140
titles of Thai journals and 30 sets of English printed materials w/ videotapes were purchased. This
effort exceeded the key performance indicator targets by about 15%. This component was rated
as highly satisfactory.
Component 5 - Civil Works for Refurbishment of Facilities: All civil works were completed
prior to 1999, although there were a few initial delays due to changes in site location and some
slow contractor performance. Evaluations of new facilities suggest that the construction quality
was satisfactory and that there is a high degree of student and teacher satisfaction. It should be
noted that the individual institutional plans for refurbishment were completed and approved on
June 15, 1995 by the President of RIT, prior to the negotiation of the project loan, thus the early
completion of the civil works was possible. This component was rated as satisfactory.
Component 6 - Education Sector Strategy: The Education Sector Strategy document(s) was
completed by the Bank for this project. The title of the report was Thailand: Education
Achievement, Issues and Policies (1998). This document was discussed in detail with the
Ministry of Education, and with the administration of RIT. The document was also considered in
subsequent workshops on RIT sustainability supported by the project. This component was rated
as satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Net Present Value was not estimated in the SAR, therefore, comparisons cannot be made at the
completion of the project.
-4 -



4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project is designed to upgrade the intemal and external efficiency of I1 faculties in 10 institutions to
better meet the needs of both the students served and the changing technologies in a market economy.
Although better measures of impact will be available after the project becomes fully institutionalized, at
this time, there are some positive findings:
(a)  Accessibility, utilization, and satisfaction rates of using project supported laboratories and
equipment: a) accessibility - 100%; b) utilization rates - in most cases the rates met or exceeded
planned indicators; and c)  satisfaction rates by teachers and students were high (3.71 to 4.50 on
a 5 point scale);
(b)  Average student retention rate for the eight project supported study areas was 81.32% as
compared with about somewhat lower (less than 10% lower, on the average) rates experienced in
non-project supported areas;
(c)  The M and E team conducted a follow-up study of graduates of 2001. Some seek
employment, but many, because of the economic crisis, have decided to stay at RIT or transfer into
other universities with a hope for better jobs following their graduation with Bachelor's degrees. RIT
is also expanding its degree programs to meet employer needs, so many students are encouaged to
enter into the new programs. About 80% of graduates have continued their study in B.S. degree
programs at RIT and in other institutions. Of the remaining 20 %, about 15% entered employment
and about 5% owned their own businesses. As RIT trains for both diploma and degree, students
have the option to continue their study following diploma graduation without loss of internal or
external efficiency. At least in RIT, the ongoing students study in related areas. In other institutions,
this may not be the case, but data is not available to clearly define the extent;
(d)  Acceptance of graduates from the new program areas by the employers, in terms of
knowledge, skills and attitude was reasonably high. Evaluations noted an average score of 3.7, on a
scale of 5; and
(e)  As the result of this project, RIT has witnessed a significant increase in linkages with
technology-based industries, particularly in areas where there are critical labor needs. Associated
with this is the demonstrated industrial support (through committee reviews and industry participation
in the planning) of the content and instructional approaches used in the 141 new or revised courses.
As mentioned above, additional measures of institution or development impact will not be available in
the near future as the institutions are just now bringing their new programs on-line as part of their existing
program of offerings. It is estimated that it may require one to two years to ramp-up to full capacity and
to benefit from the gains from new curricula, teacher training, instructional materials and supporting
equipment. The RIT administration has implemented an ongoing evaluation process to measure the
effectiveness of the new program areas and the project's other investments. There are also plans to
utilize similar approaches to revitalize instructional program areas that were not supported by this
project.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project was somewhat negatively affected by the Asian economic crisis in 1997-98 when the
Government faced a difficult financial situation. This led to across-the-board reductions in budget
allocations for most ministries (including MOE), and a slowdown in most project activities, including
authorizations for overseas training. The implementation of the staff training subcomponents were
somewhat effected, resulting in the RIT administration deciding to restructure the subcomponent to train
- 5-



a larger number of teachers and administrators using more local and less foreign resources. It is also
possible that the initial slow-down in the civil works was directly the result of the crisis. Overall, the
project administration was successful in overcoming most of the problems associated with the crisis.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
With the single exception noted above, wherein the MOE, in response the economic crisis, delayed the
approval for the planned overseas training program, there were no major factors subject to Government
control, that affected the implementation of the project.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Initially, the PIU was not staffed with the capacity to effectively implement the project. During the first
two years, the project encountered many problems, e.g. few full-time qualified staff, turn-over of key
personnel, and delays in most components, weak management, poor quality of progress reports,
inadequate financial management system. These issues were discussed at an early stage in the project
and as the result, RIT senior management moved immediately and efficiently to address each of the
issues with close supervision from the Bank, to the extent, that almost all of these implementation
concerns were resolved before the mid-term review.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The initial estimates of project cost were reasonably accurate. The Government disbursed US$ 30.27
million, or 95.78% of the original loan amount of US$31.6 million. There were no cost savings and all of
the components were adequately financed for full project implementation. During the project period, only
minor adjustments to the budget were required.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Prospects for sustaining the project's outcomes are highly likely. At the policy level, the Government
remains strongly committed to the promotion and development of high quality technical education and
training, in full partnership with employers. Likewise, RIT remains fully committed to its long-term
development program that is, in part, provided through the project. To support the institutionalization of
the project outcomes and their long-term sustainability, RIT has initiated a number of sustainability
workshops with staff to determine the issues that must be addressed to fully utilize the investments in
new equipment and facilities. As a result of these workshops, a sustainability plan has been developed.
The current and projected budgets of RIT reflect the capacity to fully sustain the outcomes of the project.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
All of the programs supported by the project are fully integrated into the participating RIT institutions.
These eight program areas are considered permanent additions to RIT's existing scheme of program
offerings, and the programs are staffed with full-time permanent staff. The transition of project outcomes
into regular operations was discussed before the project, and was implemented in the project design. As
the project has supported many of the new courses with higher and emerging technologies, these new
offerings have a high priority, within their respective institutions, for continued development and
implementation. The RIT administration welcomes the program move to higher and emerging
technologies, as this focus fits nicely into the long-term development scheme of the participating
institutions. Senior management of RIT institutionalized the project by requiring that all project activities
and outputs to be the ongoing responsibility of RIT's planning and operational units (i.e., Planning
Division, Campus Affairs Division, Resources Center, Inspectorate Office, Maintenance Center and
management teams of each participating campus). MOE is fully supportive of this transition
arrangement as it provides RIT with more relevant course offerings and the capacity to contribute more
effectively to the demand for employees in the new and emerging technology sectors. RIT has made an
institutional commitment to monitor and to continue to improve the project indicators for some time past
the closing date. At each project institution, M&E units are still maintained to monitor the indicators.
-6-



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The identification mission was able to produce a thorough and comprehensive investment proposal that
did not change much during subsequent stages of project preparation and implementation. A number of
working papers were produced and provided significant input to the preparation of the project. The
preparation mission paid special attention to the holistic integration of equipment, facilities, pedagogy,
curricula and staff development in the project design, and the need for RIT to be market responsive.
Project development was consistent with the Government's technical education sector policies and in line
with the Bank's policy on Technical Education and Vocational Training. Preparation and appraisal teams
were well staffed and the appraisal was comprehensive. The appraisal team did underestimate the
capacity of RIT to plan and initiate effective, large-scale procurement. This issue was discussed in the
early stages of implementation and the plan was modified to allow for the use of local consultants and
staff to support the process, rather than employ foreign technical assistance as originally planned. The
performance indicators were well prepared and continuously updated, making the tracking of the project
actvities straighfforward.
7.2 Supervision:
At the beginning the project was delayed due to several problems mentioned before, but with a closely
monitoring and supervising in a timely manner by the Bank, the project progress was getting better by
the end of 1999. The project director who was the vice president of RIT worked full-time to supervise the
project. Through the Bank's intensive and pro-active supervision, implementation progress was
adequately reported and project performance was realistically rated. Problems were correctly identified
and promptly addressed, and covenants were strictly enforced. Staff gave significant advice and showed
considerable flexibility in solving implementation issues. Supervision missions, at six-month intervals,
were adequately staffed. Relations with the Borrower were excellent throughout the project period.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall the Bank's performance was satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower participated actively in the project's design and preparation, and made many significant
contributions to the soundness of the concept and scope of the project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government was, and remains, strongly committed to the RIT system. The RIT system is
considered the premier technical education and training system for many of the key employment sectors
and is highly regarded. Counterpart funds have been adequate for the project. Covenants were in full
compliance, and there were no overdue audit reports throughout the project years.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency, RIT, was satisfactory. Despite some early delays in
project implementation, mainly due to some construction and procurement delays, the management and
coordination of this project was effective. During the early phases of project implementation, the above
mentioned issues were identified and discussed with the Bank supervision teams. Following these
discussions, RIT central administration moved efficiently and effectively to address each shortcoming.
As the result, the project caught up in its implementation schedule, and was able to fully disburse and
meet all of its objectives. It was also noted that, during the early stages of the project, the central PIU
and those at several of the participating institutional PlUs were less than adequately staffed. As in the
above issues, this quickly changed as the-problem was recognized by RIT's central administration, and
by mid-term review, there was no concern noted in this regard.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
-7-



Overall the Borrower's performance was rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Key lessons learned from this project are:
(a) Early identification of implementation problems, and Borrower commitment to aggressively address those
issues were, in this project, key factors to the success of its outcomes;
(b) Strong identification teams with extensive project design experience offer more assurance that estimates of
implementation capacity, costs, and expected outcomes are accurate and articulated with national priorities and
Bank policies;
(c) As with many projects of that era, this was an input-oriented operation that did not lend itself easily to the
assessment of improvements in the quality and relevance of technical education and training. A future operation
should establish a Performance Management Framework to provide early and continuous assessment of both
outcomes and impact of the project on stakeholders. This should include evaluations to measure the effect of
investments in capacity building, improved training facilities and better trained staff, and the cost effectiveness of
public sector training;
(d) Because of the complexity of project management especially in matrix organizations, Bank projects should not
be launched without serious consideration of, and planning for, the coordination necessary for successful
implementation. The project organization should be carefully defined in context with the needs and characteristics
of the host institution(s);
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower's comments are provided in Annex 11 without editing other than simple formating required for
inclusion into this document.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
-8 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR-          .   Actual/Latest Estimate
Quality of teaching and leaming system in 10 By April, 2002, for laboratories and
RIT campuses and 1 faculty Improved  equipment:
Accessibility will be 100%;          Accessibility is currently high but it does
range somewhat as the demand for specific
programs near capacity limits. From a policy
point-of-view, all eligible students enrolled in
RIT have access to Bank-financed teaching
and leaming programs offered by 11 faculties
at 10 institutions. In reality, utilization rates
affect accessibility. In about half of the
programs, utilization rates remain low enough
to allow for high levels of accessibility. As
the utilization rates move to 80% or higher,
accessibility will be reduced because of
ineffeciencies in enrollment and course
scheduling. This is already the case in four
Utlization rate will be:             programs (see utilization rates below);
80% for Computer, and Mechanical Power
Technology                 ~~~~~~~~Utilization rate is:
70% for Electrical Power and Electronics  85.93% for Computer Technology
Communicatons                        67 .03% for Mechanical Power Technology
60% for Textile Chemistry            82.23% for Electrical Power Technology
55% for Avionics, Mechatronics, and  88.99% for Electronics Communications
Refrigeration                        11 7.22% for Textile Chemistry
54.58% for Avionics
48.89% for Mechatronics
Rate of satisfaction of using labs and  50.06% for Refrigeration
Equipment for teachers and students will be
average of 3.5 out of scale of 5.    Rate of satisfaction for teachers and students
is:
4.17 for Computer Technology
3.53 for Mechanical Power Technology
3.78 for Electrical Power Technology
3.88 for Electronics Communications
3.86 for Textle Chemistry
For student achievement:             3.81 for Avionics
Retention rate will be 80% (students graduate 3.83 for Mech=aton
within 2 years)                       .
75% for Computer Technology
77.7% for Mechanical Power Technology
79.6% for Electrical Power Technology
86% for Electronics Communications
75% for Textile Chemistry
Achievement rates of 90%             89.5% for Avionics
89.5% for Mechatronics
78.4% for Refrigeration
90.7% for Computer Technology
88.4% for Mechanical Power Technology
92.4% for Electrical Power Technology
91.3% for Electronics Communications
100% Textile Chemistry
94.7% for Avionics
89.5% for Mechatronics
The management capacity within the PIU will 12 key administrators will be trained for 1  Six administrators trained in England for 7
be improved and the Project Management  month in 1997                     days in 1998
System established                                                        One administrator trained in Scotiand for 15
days in 1999
Five administrators trained in-country for two
days in 1998 (British Council organized)
9-



20 PIU staff participated in one day planning
9 Object Oriented Project Planning   workshop in 1999
Workshops (using Logical Framework) will  Six Object Oriented Project Planning
be offered to a total of 272 staff and  Workshops (using Logical Framework) were
administrators                       offered to 209 staff and administrators in
1999
Nine different project management
workshops were provided to 435
administrators and key staff (1999 - 2001)
16 Monitoring and evaluaton
workshops/programs were conducted at the
participating institutions
Curricula developed and industry linkages  Five exisfing curricula will be evaluated  Five existing curricula were evaluated in Sep
strengthened                         between Feb - July 98               98
Competency profiles will be developed with  Competency profiles were developed with
industries between Aug - Nov 98     industries in Dec 98
Curricula structure will be set up between  Cunicula structure was established In Feb
Dec 98 and Jan 99                    99 and approved by RIT Council on 29 April,
99
Curricula will be developed in eight areas by  Curricula for eight areas were developed and
Feb 99                               evaluated at high levels (x-3.76) by experts
(industrial and RIT) in terms of acceptance,
efficiency and effectiveness
Course outlines for semester 1/99 were
conducted in May-June 99. 141 course
outiines ih five areas were initated during that
semester
Workshops and laboratories upgraded  All civil works to improve laboratories will be  Most civil works to improve laboratories were
through the provision of up-to-date equipment finished by Sept 99        completed by Sept 99, but some were
and physical improvements to buildings                                   delayed due to change in location and
contractor delays, however all were finished
by Sept 00
Procurement of equipment (43 pkgs) will be  All equipment was procured and installed by
completed by Sept 2000:              All ed
March 01
Instructional materials supply will be  One instructional materials development  An instructional materials development center
expanded, and the quality upgraded   center will be established by Oct 99  was established in September 99
A self-access leaming center will be  Self-access leaming centers were
established in each participating institution by established in each particpating institution by
Sep 99                               Sep 99
Close-drcuit TV will be established at each  Close-drcuit TV was established at each
participating institution by Sep 99  participating institutions by Sep 99
Four groups of media developers will be  Five groups, totaling 111 persons were
trained by Jan 00.                   trained in various aspects of media
development by Sep 00
Media (e.g., CAI, video, and cassette tapes, Media as planned was purchased for 24
etc.) will be purchased for 24 subjects by  subjects by March 01
Sep 99
Textbooks will be purchased by Sep 00 as  Textbooks were purchased by Sep 00, as
follows:                             follows:
English text - 7,000 books           English text - 8,110 books
Thai text- 13,000 books              Thai text - 14,980 books
Reference books - 50 sets            Reference books - 55 sets
English joumals - 150 UUes           English joumals - 110 Utes
Thai joumals - 150 tities            Thai Joumals - 140 ties
English printed matter w/ video tapes - 30  English printed matter w/ video tapes - 30
-10-



sets                                  sets
The practical skills of key teaching staff in  80 technical teachers will be provided with:
advanced technologies will be strengthened
through overseas training             Four-week English language training at  Four-week English language training was
Faculty of Liberal Arts, RIT          provided for 100 teachers from 17 May -11
June 99
Two-week subject matter didactics will be
provided                              Six groups of two-week subject matter
didactics were offered from 16 June - 20
August 99
12-week training will be provided overseas
between Sep - Nov 99 in 8 areas       12-weeks of training was provided for 74
teachers in Germany between 24 Nov 99 and
16 Feb 00
Additional training (replication training)
provided by retuming instructors for 110
teachers between I April and 25 Aug 00
Equipment utilization training conducted for
425 teachers between 4 Aug 01 and May 02
Output Indicators:
-       Indicator/Matrix      -            Projected in last PSRI               Actual/Latest Estimate --    |
End of project
Output indicators were not required or provided at time of project preparation. RIT has been active in
acquiring ISO certifications at most of its institutions. The 1999 National Education Act also established a
mandated system of quality assurance, based on self-assessment. This process is ongoing at RIT and
interim feedback has been excellent. In 2000, the Office for National Education Standards and Quality
Assessment was established to conduct external evaluations. This process is also ongoing at RIT. The
Bank-finance project components will be included.



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million    US$ million
Institutional Inprovement
1. Foreign Consultants                                 0.10            0.10           0.05
2. Overseas Training                                   1.20            1.20              2
Equipment Upgrading, including O&M                   36.10           36.10             71
Curriculum Development, Local Consultants             0.10            0.10            0.05
Instructional Materials                                3.60            3.60              7
Upgrading Educational Facilities                       9.40            9.40             19
Total Baseline Cost                                   50.50           50.50
Price Contingencies                                   2.20            2.20              5
Total Project Costs              52.70           52.70
Total Financing Required               52.70          52.70
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category       lCB           NCB          Other         N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00          0.00          0.00          9.80         9.80
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                      31.50          3.70          1.80         0.00         37.00
(29.60)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (29.60)
3. Services                   0.00           0.00         0.00          0.20         0.20
Consultant                    (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Instructional Materials       0.00           0.00         3.70          0.00         3.70
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.90)       (0.00)        (0.90)
Overseas Training             0.00           0.00         1.20          0.00          1.20
(0.00)        (0.00)       (1.10)        (0.00)        (1.10)
Operations and                0.00           0.00         0.00          0.80         0.80
Maintenance                   (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      31.50          3.70          6.70         10.80        52.70
_   (29.60)        (0.00)       (2.00)        (0.00)       (31.60)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Category of Expenditure (in US$ million equivalent)
-12 -



|              |                             | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage Of AXppraisal|
Category of Expenditure[     Appraisal Estimate -        Actual/Latest Estimate               [
Bank      Govt.     CoF.      Bank      GovL      CoF.     Bank   Go% L  CoF.
Civil Works for                     9.80                          9.80                     100.0
Refurbishment of Facilities
Equipment                29.60      7.40               29.29      7.40              99.0   100.0
Instructional Materials   0.90      2.80                0.00      2.80               0.0   100.0
Overseas Training         1.10      0.10                0.98      0.10              89.1   100.0
Consultants                         0.20                          0.20                     100.0
Operations and                      0.80                          0.80                     100.0
Maintenance
-13 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic Costs and Benefits were not calculated for this project.
- 14 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty        Performance Rating
7                .                   -- ........... .. (e.g. 2 Economists, I FMIS, etc.)  Implementation Dee elopment
- Month,)'ear    Count         Specialty                   Progress     Ob ective
Identification/Preparation
November 1994             5   PRINCIPAL ECONOMIST(I);         S            S
OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
SENIOR TECHNICAL
EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
(1); FINANCIAL
MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
(1)
AppraisalNegotiation
April 1995                5   PRINCIPAL ECONOMIST             S            S
(1); OPERATIONS
OFFICER (1); SENIOR
TECHNICAL EDUCATION
SPECIALIST (1);
PROCUREMENT
SPECIALIST (1);
FINANCIAL
MANAGEMENT
SPECIALIST (1)
Supervision
April, 1997               2   PRINCIPAL ECONOMIST             S            S
(1); OPERATIONS
OFFICER (1)
August 1997               4   PRINCIPAL ECONOMIST;            S            S
OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
PROCURMENT SPECIALIST
(2)
Decembert, 1997           5   PRINCIPAL ECONOMIST (1);        S            S
OPERATIONS OFFICER (2);
PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
(2)
June 1998                 5   OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);         S            S
PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
(2)
December, 1998            2   OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);         S            S
PROCUREMENT OFFICER (I)
December, 1999            4   OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);         S            S
PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);
FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
TECHNICAL EDUCATION
SPECIALIST(I)
June, 2000                2   OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);         S            S
PROCUREMENT OFFICER (I)
November 2001             4   SENIOR OPERATIONS OFFI          S            S
-15 -



(1); PROCUREMENT
SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
SPECIALIST (1); TECHNICAL
EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1
ICR
October, 2002             4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);           S            S
TECHNICAL EXPERT (1);
TECHNICAL
EDUCATION SPECIALIST
(1); RESEARCH
ASSISTANT (1)
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                ActualfLatest Estimate
No. Staff weeks.           US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation            N/A                      209.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                 N/A                       N/A
Supervision                           N/A                     247.6
ICR                                   N/A                       N/A
Total                                 N/A                      456.9
-16 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                      O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
3 Sector Policies                      O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
3 Physical                             O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
3 Financial                            O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
O Institutional Development            O H  0 SU 0 M   0 N  0 NA
LI Environmental                       O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
Social
3 Poverty Reduction             O H   OSUOM      * N  O NA
%3Gender                        O H   OSUOM      * N  O NA
LI Other (Please specify)       O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
? Private sector development           0 H  O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
3 Public sector management             0 H 0 SU O M    0 N  0 NA
D Other (Please specify)               OH   OSUOM      ON   * NA
-17 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
• Lending                                           OHS *s OU OHU
F Supervision                                       OHS OS       OU    OHU
ES Overall                                          OHS OS       O U   Q HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
• Preparation           -                           OHS OS       0 U   O HU
F Government implementation performance             O HS O S     O U   0 HU
• Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       OU    O HU
0 Overall                                           OHS OS OU O HU
-18 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
IBRD Loan Agreement. January 10, 1997
IBRD Staff Appraisal Report. May 28, 1996
IBRD Final Supervision/Completion Mission Aide-Memoire. [insert date when completed]
-19 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Comments (unedited)
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT (IBRD LOAN No. 5043-TH)
Borrower's Evaluation Report
Project Background
1. During the past two decades before the economic crisis Thailand had undergone a rapid
transformation from a predominantly agriculture-based society to an emerging industrial economy
oriented towards manufacturing, services and external trade. In the 1980s the emphasis of
Government policy switched from import-substitution industrialization policies to export-oriented
manufacturing. Real GDP grew at almost 11% annually during 1987-93, and even as the
economy slowed in 1991-1992, growth remained close to 8% per annum. The share of
manufacturing in GDP increased from 16% in 1970 to over 27% in 1993, with most of the
increase occurring in the late 1980s. During the 1990s, agriculture was expected to continue to as
a proportion of GDP, and manufacturing would continue to increase, while becoming more
sophisticated and diversified in terms of both products and technology. Family ownership and
extended family business organizations had given way to a variety of corporate entities with
organized labor forces, modem management systems, and increasingly sophisticated technological
processes. The Government now made few direct interventions in the market and left the leading
role in decision-making to the private sector. Indeed, official policies actively encouraged and
supported private enterprise.
2. In eighth National Economic and Social Development Plan (1997-2001), one policy was the
development of human potential to accelerate the production of engineers, technicians and
artisans. And one of five policies of Eighth National Education Plan (1997-2001) was "to
accelerate the production and development of middle level skilled and higher skilled manpower in
order to enhance national economic potential, progress and stability within the global community,
in the context of Thai tradition and in the spirit of self-reliance."
3. Rajamangala Institute of Technology (RIT), which has responsibility for technical education
in the production of middle level and higher skilled manpower, therefore related works to both
national plans mentioned above and had prepared the Technical Education Project during
1995-1996 and it was approved in June 25 th, 1996.
Project Objectives
4. The Technical Education Project (TTEP) aimed to: 1) improve the management capacity
within the RITs, 2) strengthen RIT curricula and its linkages with industry, 3) upgrade workshops
and laboratories through the provision of up-to-date equipment and the physical improvement to
buildings, 4) expand the supply and upgrade the quality of instructional materials, and 5)
strengthen the practical skills of key teaching staff in advanced technologies through overseas
training. All objectives have been achieved and still remained throughout the project cycle.
Project Description
- 20 -



5. The project comprised components required to upgrade 10 RIT campuses and 1 RIT faculty.
The project financed an institutional improvement program (estimated baseline cost of US$ 1.3
million) which included overseas training for administrators and teaching staff and consultant
services for project management and procurement. Included in the project was the planned
acquisition of up to date equipment for modernizing laboratories and workshops (US$ 35.4
million). This procurement was to be complemented by the provision of curriculum development
(US$ 0.1 million), instructional materials development and acquisition (US$ 3.9 million) and the
improvement of operation and maintenance systems within RIT (US$ 0.7 million). Refurbishment
of facilities (US$ 9.4 million) was included to upgrade existing laboratories and workshop to
ensure that project-financed equipment was available and properly sited to improve further the
quality of service delivery.
Achievement of Project
6. The Technical Education Project comprises of 7 components (outputs) namely; 1) Institutional
Improvement 2) Curriculum Development 3) Civil works for Refurbishment of Facilities 4)
Equipment Procurement 5) Instructional Material Development 6) The Improvement of the
Practical Skills of Key Teaching Staff in Advanced Technologies through Overseas Training and
7) Operations and Maintenance. The implementation achievements of these components were as
follows:
(Note: The ICR describes 6 components, a varience with the above stated 7 components. This is not an error, only
a diference in documentation. In the ICR, the Operations and Maintenance Component was combined with the
Equipment Upgrading Component as shown in the Loan Agreement)
Component 1: Institutional Improvement (Output 1)
7. RIT had tried to improve the management capacity within RIT particularly for implementing
the project. Several workshops, trainings and meeting had been held in order to strengthen the
project implementation. These were strongly emphasized on planning, problem-solving, and
decision-making. Indeed, some workshops really enhanced PIU to gain more experiences and
capability to implement project successfully. There were 11 workshops and training held, namely;
1) project planning workshops using Logical Framework Technique (6 times), 2) introduction to
M&E, 3) development of M&E system, 4) strategies for procurement and maintenance, 5)
strategies for project implementation for sustainable development, 6) establishment of
sustainability plan for future, 7) asset management, 8) planning of monitoring and evaluation
within the participating campuses, 9) monitoring and supervision programs, 10) sustainability plan
for future after closing date, and 11) data analysis by SPSS program. (Further detail see Annex
1).
8. Besides these 11 workshops, RIT provided monthly and quarterly meetings for project
operation committee (POC). All of these had greatly contributed to the management of the
project and had improved the implementation of the project.
Component 2: Curriculum Development (Output 2)
-21 -



9. Curriculum is very important for effective learning achievement, although RIT had its own
existing curricula before the project implementation but some of them were inappropriate and
unsuitable to existing environmental condition. According to the reasons mentioned earlier, eight
curricula were completely developed using the competency profile development (CPD) technique
and they had been approved by RIT council on April 29 th, 1999. In addition, 141 syllabuses
were also developed since the academic year of 1999 and were applied at the participating
campuses since then. Both curricula and syllabuses had been evaluated by experts (industrial
sector) and RIT's instructors. The results of this evaluation were satisfactory and highly
accepted.
Component 3: Civil Works and Laboratories Improvement (Output 3)
10. This component comprised of facilities procurement and refurbishment of laboratories in
order to prepare for the up-to-date technology of the equipment procured including upgrading
them to suit physical condition. Buildings and laboratories for each study area of 10 participating
campuses were improved and refurbished and were completed since 1999. The results of these
tasks were evaluated by instructors and students involved as highly satisfactory and accepted
because all improved laboratories were more convenient, effective and suitable for them and also
suitable for the up-to-date technology of the equipment procured. (Further detail see Annex 2)
Component 4: Equipment Procurement (Output 3)
11. At the beginning period for about 2 years, procurement was delayed because of several
factors e.g. inadequate staff, lack of staff, difficulty of I.C.B., etc., so few equipment was
completely procured and very few loan was disbursed. After strong intervention and support from
the Bank, several teams were set up and realistic time schedule was readjusted as recommended.
The consequence was that procurement and installation of all equipment, 43 packages, were
rapidly conducted and completed by the end of March, 2001. Therefore, personnel involved such
as the instructors and students were satisfied and evaluated them as being of high quality and
efficiency.
Component 5: Instructional Material Development (Output 4)
12. RIT had made a plan to improve and develop instructional materials due to the development
of teaching and learning process. Several activities had been set and the achievement was as
follows;
Instructional Material Development Center was established at Thewes campus since September,
1999, to produce teaching media, and to train RIT staff for media production skills. Twelve
groups of instructors had been trained and 12 sets of instructional materials (CAI) were produced
during 2000 - 2001. Those products were tried out and the finding was that some were of good
quality and some were still needed to be improved before distributing to participating campuses.
13. Ten sets of equipment for self-access learning center for each campus were established since
-22-



September, 1999. This activity aimed at encouraging students for self learning. According to the
M&E results, self-access learning center was very useful and helpful for those students.
14. Ten sets of closed circuit TV instruction rooms had been established since September, 1999.
15. Instructional materials for 24 subjects had been procured from King Mongkut's Institute of
Technology, North Bangkok by March, 2001. All of them had been distributed to each carnpus
and they had been used as a supporting media in teaching and learning process.
16. Textbooks and others has also been purchased, 27, 254 copies of 6,606 titles. All of them
had been.evaluated as satisfactory because they all were useful and up-to-date for these specific
fields.
Component 6: The Improvement of the Practical Skills of Key Teaching Staff in Advanced
Technologies through Overseas Training (Output 5)
17. RIT planned to send 80 of key teaching staff to attend overseas training in order to improve
both teaching technique and advanced technologies. This task was delayed due to the economic
crisis and the Ministry of Education policy prohibiting oversea training. Finally, 74 of 80 staff had
attended the training course in Germany. The rest, 5 staff,4 staff did not pass English test and one
was seriously ill. After returning, those teachers had taught specialized subjects, developed
syllabuses, trained and advised other teachers in their own and other campuses on advanced
technologies gained during overseas training. These replications and multiplying trainings were
conducted in 8 campuses during April-August 2000 for 110 participants. The results of the
trainings were highly satisfactory. This was one of the successes of the project.
Component 7: Operation and Maintenance (Output 4)
18. Operation and maintenance had been done during the project life in order to run the project
successfully in the future. At the beginning equipment was operating well and maintenance was
prepared by purchasing some spare parts for the procured equipment. Therefore, 19 packages of
spare parts were procured and completely finished by March, 2001. This would make the project
sustainable in the future.
The Project Purposes Achievement
19. In the modified plan, at the end of the project in 2002 the objectively verifiable indicators for
the purposes are: For laboratories and procured equipment 1) accessibility to laboratories and
equipment will be 100 %, 2) utilization rate of laboratories and equipment of 55 - 80 % and 3)
rate of satisfaction of using labs and equipment for teachers and students will be an average of 3.5
out of rating scale of 5.
20. For students' achievement, retention rate (graduated within 2 years) of 80% and achievement
rate (graduated more than 2 years but obtained Diploma) was set as KPIs of 90 %.
Accessibilitv
- 23-



21. At the end of project, accessibility to laboratories and equipment will be 100 %. Up to now,
all laboratories and equipment of 8 study areas have been fully utilized. Indeed, both instructors
and students are able to access or utilize them easily. This was indicated in the following table.
Table 1 Accessibility of laboratories and equipment
Study Areas                      Accessiblity 
Target   Actual
1.   Mechatronics                                    100  100
2.   Electrical Power                                100  100
3.   Textile Chemistry                               100 100
4.   Computer Technology                             100 100
5.   Mechanical Power Technology                     100 100
6.   Electronics Communication                       100 100
7.    Refrigeration                                   100 100
8.   Avionics                                        100 100
Utilization rates
22. Utilization rates were calculated from number of hours in using laboratory to number of
hours students in each area studying per semester. For those equipment in laboratory that met or
exceeded the planned indicators they could be used for different areas. For those that did not meet
the indicators, they were very specific equipment or would be used for one or two times during
the semester, but were necessary for the effectiveness of the curriculum (Table 2). If other criteria
for utilization rates are used, e.g. number of actual uses according to the curriculum, the rates
would be higher. However, equipment was used for other purposes e.g. for students' and
teachers' project works, and individualized study. Some were shared with other institutions, were
offered for training for the public. (Definition and how to compute see Annex 4)
Table 2 Utilization rate of laboratories and equipment
Study Areas                       Utilization rate
Target (%) Actual_(%)
1.   Mechatronics                                 55   48.89
2.   Electrical Power                             70    82.23
3.   Textile Chemistry                            60    117.22
4.   Computer Technology                           80  85.93
5.   Mechanical Power Technology                  80   67.03
6.   Electronics Communication                    70   88.99
7.   Refrigeration                                55   50.06
8.   Avionics                                     55   54.58
-24-



Users' Satisfaction
23. Satisfaction of users, both teachers and students, was one KPI of equipment quality which
the target was set of at least 3.5 of 5 scales of satisfaction. Users' satisfaction results of 8 study
areas were satisfactory. All of them except students of two areas were over targeted KPIs (Table
3). The average result indicated that all procured equipment of all study areas was satisfactory
according to users' opinion.
Table 3 Satisfaction of users
Study Areas              Target (X        Actual (X)
Teacher  Student  Average
1.   Mechatronics                       3.5      4.33   3.33    3.83
2.   Electrical Power                   3.5      4.01   3.55    3.78
3.   Textile Chemistry                  3.5      3.91   3.84     3.86
4.    Computer Technology                3.5     4.22    4.12    4.17
5.   Mechanical Power Technology       * 3.5     3.53   3.53     3.53
6.   Electronics Communication          3.5     4.00    3.75     3.88
7.   Refrigeration                      3.5     4.20    3.25     3.73
8.   Avionics                           3.5     3.66    3.96     3.81
Efficiency (by users' opinion)
24. In terms of equipment efficiency, users and other staff who were responsible for each
laboratory and equipment, were of the opinion that they were highly efficient. All mean score (X)
were over 3.5 so that this KPI was already met the set target. (See table 4).
Table 4 Efficiency of laboratories and equipment (by users' opinion)
Study Areas                  Target (X)    Actual (X)
1.   Mechatronics                              3.5           4.00
2.   Electrical Power                           3.5          4.23
3.   Textile Chemistry                          3.5          4.50
4.   Computer Technology                        3.5          4.11
5.   Mechanical Power Technology                3.5          3.66
6.   Electronics Communication                  3.5          4.16
7.   Refrigeration                              3.5          4.66
8.   Avionics                                   3.5          4.33
Relevance of Equipment to Curriculum
-25-



25. According to users' opinion towards laboratories and equipment on the aspect of relevancy
to curriculum. The mean scores for all of them were over 3.5 because those improved
laboratories and procured equipment were obtained relevant to developed curriculum. (See table
5).
-26-



Table 5 Relevancy to curriculum of laboratories and equipment
Study Areas                 Target (X)     Actual (X)
1.   Mechatronics                            *3.5           4.00
2.   Electrical Power                          3.5          4.40
3.   Textile Chemistry                        *3.5          5.00
4.   Computer Technology                      *3.5          3.77
5.   Mechanical Power Technology             *3.5           3.53
6.   Electronics Communication                .3.5          3.33
7.   Refrigeration                           * 3.5          4.40
8.   Avionics                                *3.5           4.33
Achievement of Students
26. An average of students' retention rate for 8 study areas was 81.32%. Mechatronics and
Avionics were the highest, 89.47 %, while Textile Chemistry and Computer Technology were the
lowest, i.e. 75.00 %. In terms of achievement rate, an average was equal to 91.55 %. The highest
was Textile Chemistry (100%) and the lowest was Refrigeration (84.68%) (Table 6). For
Refrigeration, the achievement rate was lower than others because some students transferred to
other fields, since they thought that there was less opportunity to get jobs and to continue their
study to B.S. programmes.
Table 6 Retention and achievement rates of students
Study Areas               Retention rate    Achievement
(%)             rate (%)
1. Mechatronics                           89.47            89.47
2. Electrical Power                        79.59            92.46
3. Textile Chemistry                       75.00            100.00
4. Computer Technology                     75.00            90.67
5. Mechanical Power Technology             77.71            88.43
6. Electronics Communication               86.00            91.34
7. Refrigeration                           78.38            84.68
8. Avionics                                89.47            94.74
Average                      81.32            91.55
Project Impact Evaluation
27. There are two aspects of project impact evaluation, first is the acceptance of graduates from
their employers and second is that the project could provide services to the public in the
surrounding community.
- 27 -



Accentance of Graduates
28. The M&E team has conducted follow-up study of graduates of 2001. Most of them (about
80%) have continued their study in B.S. degree programs, at RIT and other institutes. For 20 %
of graduates, about 15% of them are in employment, the rest  (5%) are running their own
business. The M&E team of both central and participating campuses conducted follow-up and
evaluated the graduates working in various companies relevant to their field. The results of
evaluation showed that employers accepted those graduates in terms of knowledge, skills and
attitude at high level (X = 3.6720, from the scale of 5). However, this data was collected from a
few numbers of the first graduates, and the period of their works is short since they completed
their program in April, 2001.
Public Services
29. The improved laboratories and procured equipment were not only utilized for RIT students
but also offered to public. For example, private schools, private enterprises, community, etc. have
requested for utilizing those equipment. This certainly made the project more cost-effective.
30. Overall, project implementation results were satisfactory. Most achievements met the
targeted KIPs. However, procured equipment and improved laboratories were of advanced
technology so that these could be utilized for the B.S. students. This accorded with RIT's policy
to reduce Diploma and increase numbers of B.S. courses and students.
Performance of the Bank
31. In overall, the Bank's performance from RIT's viewpoint was highly satisfactory. At both
stages of project preparation, appraisal, and supervisions, Bank's performance was really helpful
for RIT. The project preparation was held during 1995-1996. All components, objectives and
activities of the project had been clearly discussed and planned. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
was taken place on May 28th, 1996 and approved on June 25th, 1996. This stage was taken
completely at a very short time due to the good corporation of bank's performance.
32. During project implementation, and throughout the whole of project cycle, the bank staff had
closely supervised and advised RIT's staff (PMU) in implementing and maintaining the project for
all aspects. For instance, at the beginning RIT's PIU who had no experience in operating this
project, the bank staff provided supervision and assistance to RIT's PIU in order to operate the
project more effectively. Procurement and disbursement procedure were not clear for RIT's PIUs
themselves so that RIT's PIT needed a strong supervision from the bank staff. Moreover,
institutional improvement of RIT was also strongly supervised. These made the project
implementation more effective and the disbursement was completed since March 31, 2001 before
the targeted closing date.
Future Operation
33. Transition arrangement to regular operation had been established. This included two
activities, i.e. setting up mechanism for replication and mechanism for self sustaining. All tasks
- 28 -



(outputs) have been transmitted to regular operation, i.e. project management system has been
transmitted to the planning division: course outline and curriculum development have been
transmitted to the academic affairs division; workshops and laboratories and, replication training
have been transmitted to the participating campuses; equipment maintenance has been transmitted
to the training and maintenance centre; and instructional material development has been
transmitted to the resource center.
34. Replication and expansion have been continually conducted. Workshops have been conducted
by those who underwent overseas advanced training. The idea is to share knowledge, experiences,
information and other innovation gained during training with others from the 10 campuses. These
trained instructors should be able to teach more effectively. In addition, instructors from
non-participating campuses have chances to participate in several trainings especially trainings for
the utilization of equipment. (Further detail see Annex 3) Asides from conducted workshops,
course outlines of 8 study areas have been continually developed and Instructional Material
Development Center has continually conducted training to develop and produce instructional
material particularly CAI media.
35. Institutionalization is very important activity of future operation. According to the project
organization, all activities and outputs will be the responsibility of different units as mentioned in
33.
Lessons Learned
36. The qualification and experiences of project staff (PIU) are important factors for the success
of project implementation. However, more important factors are hard work and continuous
learning in order to operate tasks. These proved that success can be obtained by trying and hard
working, and continuous improvement.
37. Institutional capacity building is also learning experiences. The project has been effectively
managed by logical, participating planning and regular M&E system with clear key performance
indicators including established sustainability plan before the projects ends. Therefore, the project
will be suitably operated after the ending of the project.
38. Participatory approach is a very effective strategy to this project. Central PIU, campuses PIU
and all of the staff among each unit have been working well together that makes project
implementation more effective. At the beginning stage, the project had been delayed because of
the complexity of project management and confusing procedures. After RIT had held several
workshops, seminar and meetings all of the staff had opportunities to participate, discuss and
decide so that they were willing to work harmoniously for the success of the project. Moreover,
this approach has been taken for the sustainability plan of future operation.
39. Both RIT's instructors and students are very satisfied with those laboratories and procured
equipment because they utilized them in teaching and learning process more effectively than
before. The main reason is that for these 8 areas, the laboratories are fully installed with modem,
up-to-date technology equipment relevant to the curriculum, instead of odd pieces of equipment
here and there. However, even with more completed laboratories; committed, high qualified and
real practical experienced teachers are essential. Continuous professional development of all staff
-29-



is also necessary for the success of the project.
40. The project then set good example to become eventually high performance work organization.
First, personnel had opportunity to develop team working and decision making skills. Second,
there was process of continuous professional development for technical and management skills.
Third, information was shared for decision-making and participation in management of the work
process. Consequently, these built trust among personnel and secured more commitment from
them. In another word, this project could be regarded as a good practice for a learning
organization.
-30 -



Annex 1
PROJECT MANAGEMENT WORKSHOPS
RIT TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT (Loan No.4053 TH)
No.              Topics                 Time          Place       No. of
Participants
1   Project planning workshops using  May-July 99  Bangkok        209
Logical Framework technique
2   Introduction to M&E            3-4 Sept. 99      Tak           46
3   Development of project 's M&E   14-15 Oct. 99  Khon Kaen       63
system
4  Instructional materials development 7-8 Dec. 99  Chiengmai      50
5  Procurement and maintenance    23-24 Mar. 00    Bangkok         60
6   Strategies for project         7-9 June, 00    Hua Hin         67
implementation for sustainable
development
7   Asset management                14-16 Nov. 00  Songkhla       36
8   Planning of monitoring and      15-16 Jan. 01  Nonthaburi      47
evaluation
within the participating campuses
9  Monitoring and supervision program 20 - 22 Jun. 01  Northern
26 - 27 Jun. 01  Khon Kaen
28 - 29 Jun. 01 North-eastern
2 - 4 Jul. 01    Southern
9 - 12 Jul. 01     Tak
26 - 27 Jul.01  Wang Klai
Kang Won
10  Sustainability plan for future after  29-31 Aug. 01  Petchaburi  44
closing date
11  Data analysis by SPSS program   29 - 31 Mar.   Bangkok         22
____  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~1              02                   11
To               644
-31-



Annex 2
LIST OF PARTICIPATING CAMPUSES AND STUDY AREAS DEVELOPED
RIT TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT (Loan No.4053 TH)
Campus                     No. of Study Areas Improved
1 Bangkok Technicall. Electrical Power Program
2. Electronics Computer Program
3. Mechanical Power Program
4. Electronics Communication Program
5. Refrigeration Program
6. Avionics Program
2 North-Easternl. Electrical Power Program
2. Electronics Computer Program
3. Mechanical Power Program
4. Electronics Communication Program
3 Southernl. Electrical Power Program
2. Electronics Computer Program
3. Mechanical Power Program
4. Electronics Communication Program
4 Northernl. Electrical Power Program
2. Electronics Computer Program
3. Mechanical Power Program
4. Electronics Communication Program
5 Khon Kaenl. Electrical Power Program
2. Electronics Computer Program
3. Mechanical Power Program
4. Electronic Communication Program
6. Takl. Electrical Power Program
2. Electronics Computer Program
3. Mechanical Power Program
4. Electronic Communication Program
7. North Bangkokl. Electrical Power Program
2. Electronics Computer Program
3. Mechanical Power Program
4. Electronics Communication Program
8. Nonthaburil. Mechatronics
2. Electrical Power Program
3. Electronics Computer Program
4. Mechanical Power Program
5. Electronics Communication Program
6. Refrigeration Program
- 32 -



7. Avionics Program
9. Chumphon Khet Udom Sakl. Textile Chemistry
Program
10. Wang Klai Kang Won2. Refrigeration Program
11. Faculty of Engineeringl. Electrical Engineering
Communication
-33 -



Annex 3
FUTHER TRAINING IN EQUIPMENT UTILIZATION
RIT TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT (Loan No.4053 TH)
No.    ED - Packages         Time              Place            No. of
Participants
1    ED 4 - Package    14 - 23 Aug. 01   Southern Campus         11
1     .
ED 6 - Package                                              10
6
2    ED 5 - Package    4 - 13 Sep. 01     North-Eastern          14
8                                       Campus
ED 6 - Package                                              10
5
3    ED 6 - Package    13 - 23 Nov. 01     Tak Campus            15
4
ED 5 - Package                                              14
4    ED2 - Package 5     26 Nov. - 4     North-Bangkok           15
Dec. 01           Campus
ED5 - Package 4                    Nonthaburi Campus        17
5    ED2 - Package 4   11 - 19 Dec. 01   Northern Campus         14
ED5 - Package                                               23
11               _
ED2 - Package 2    8 - 18 Jan. 02  Khon Kaen Campus         9
6
ED5 - Package 1                                             18
ED5 - Package 5                                             13
ED5 - Package 9   21 - 31 May. 02   Bangkok Campus          14
7 
ED2 - Package 1                                             18
ED5 - Package                                               15
_ _ _ _ 1 0          _ _  _ _ _ _  _
ED5 - Package 6    4 - 14 Feb. 02  Nonthaburi Campus        14
8 
ED2 - Package 3                                             21
ED6 - Package 3                                             23
9    ED5 - Package 7   18 Feb. - 1 Mar.   Festo Co.,Ltd          17
._____  02
ED6 - Package 1                      North-Bangkok          18
Campus
- 34 -



10    ED7 - Package     5 - 15 Mar. 02  Wang Klai Kang Won        21
1, 2                                    Campus
ED5 - Package 3   18 - 30 Mar. 02   Nonthaburi Campus        16
ED6 - Package 2                                              19
ED8 - Package 1                                               5
12    ED 8 - Package    25 - 30 Mar. 02  Nonthaburi Campus         5
13    ED8 - Package 6    1 - 6 Apr. 02   Nonthaburi Campus         4
14    ED8 - Package 3   18 Apr. - 3 May  Nonthaburi Campus         5
0 2         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _
15    ED5 - Package 3   6 - 17 May. 02   Khon Kaen Campus          11
ED6 - Package 4                                              16
Total    29 packages                                                425
-35 -



Annex 4
Computation of Laboratory and Equipment Utilization Rate
Utilization of Laboratory  =   Actual Utilization X 100%
Full Utilization
Actual Utilization    = No. of hours for laboratory being utilized
Full Utilization      = No. of hours which the students for each area studying in a
semester
Example:
1. The actual utilization for laboratory of Electrical Machines
Laboratory              Subject           No. of    No. of hours per semester
hours per          (16 weeks)
week
Lab. of Electrical   1. Electrical Machines 1   3              3X16 = 48
Machines             Group A                    3              3X16 = 48
Group B                    3              3X16 = 48
Group C                    3              3X16 = 48
Group D                    3              3X16 = 48
Group E                    3              3X16 = 48
Group F                    3              3X16 = 48
2. Electrical Machines 2   3              3X16 = 48
3. Project doing for       6              6X16 =96
students                                   3X8 =24
4. Training for staff (3
days, 8 hours per day)
Total                  33               456    1                          1
2. Full utilization No. of hours per week of electronic student (First semester of 2001)
Subject                hours per week      hours per semester
(16 weeks)
l.Englishl                      3(3-0-3)=3             3X16=48
2. Calculus                     3 (3 - 0 - 3) = 3      3 X 16 = 48
3. Physics 2                    3 (2 - 3 - 2) = 5      3 X 16 = 48
4. Electrical Circuit 1         3 (2 - 3 - 2) = 5      3 X 16 = 48
5. Electrical Machines I        3 (3 - 0 - 3) = 3      3 X 16 = 48
6. Refrigeration                2 (2 - 0 - 2) = 2      3 X 16 = 48
7. Practice of Refrigeration    3 (0 - 6 - 1) = 6      3 X 16 = 48
8. Free selective Course        3 (3 - 0 - 3) = 3      3 X 16 = 48
Total               22(18-12-19)=30          30 X 16 = 480
- 36 -



Therefore, Utilization Rate  =  456 X 100%    = 95.00%
480
-37-



