Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15578-TH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THAILAND
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
MAY 28, 1996
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



ii
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(April 1996)
Currency Unit = Thai Baht (B)
US$1.00 = B 25.0
B l 00 = US$0.04
ABBREVIATIONS
DNFE               Department of Nonformal Education
DOVE               Department of Vocational Education
DSD                Department of Skill Development
JPPC               Joint Public/Private Committee
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
ICC                Industrial and Community Colleges
KMIT               King Mongkut's Institute of Technology
MOE                Ministry of Education
NCB                National Competitive Bidding
NCDC               National Curriculum Development Center
NESDB              National Economic and Social Development Board
NIE                Newly Industrialized Economy
OECF               Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
O&M                Operations and Maintenance
PIU                Project Implementation Unit
PCR                Project Completion Report
PCU                Project Coordinating Unit
POC                Project Operating Committee
PPAR               Project Performance Audit Report
PPO                Policy and Planning Office
RIT                Rajamangala Institute of Technology
SOE                Statements of Expenditure
S&T                Science and Technology
TDRI               Thailand Development Research Institute
VTE                Vocational and Technical Education
Government of Thailand Fiscal Year
October I - September 30
Academic Year
April - March



iii
THAILAND
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary                ............................................................ vi
I.  INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND MANPOWER CONSTRAINTS  1........ 
A .  Introduction  ............................................................            I
B.  Labor Force  ............................................................2
C.  Demand and Supply for Science and Technology Manpower ....................................2
II.   VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION                           ........................................ 4
A.   The Vocational and Technical Education System    ...................................................4
B.   Issues in Vocational and Technical Education  ....................................................... 10
C    Governm   ent's  Policies  and   Plans      ............................................................ 14
111.  THE BANK'S EXPERIENCE AND LESSONS LEARNED ... ........................ 15
A.   Bank's Experience in Education        ...15
B.   Lessons Learned ............................ 18
C.   Bank's Assistance Strategy ............................ 18
IV. THE PROJECT ............................                                             22
A.   Origin of the Project ............................ 22
B.   Project Background and Rationale   ............................ 22
C.   Project Objectives                         ............................ 23
D.   Project Description  ................                                     .....    23
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, which visited Thailand during
May 1-26, 1995, comprising Messrs. W. Rees (Mission Leader), R. McGough (Technical
Educator), N. Corwell (Vocational Educator), S-Z Sung (Project Management Specialist)
and Ms. 0. Regel (Research Analyst). Peer reviewers were Messrs. N. Corwell (SA2ND)
and J. Segerstrom (EA2HR). The report has been endorsed by Mr. S. Burmester (Chief,
EA1HR) and Mr. J. Shivakumar (Acting Director, EAl).



iv
V.   PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION                                      ..................... 26
A.   Costs ................................................                                      26
B.   Financing .................................................                                 27
C.   Project Management and Implementation  ............................        .................... 28
D.   Monitoring and Review ................................................ 29
E.   Procurement ................................................. 29
F.   Disbursements .................................................                             3 1
G.   Accounts, Auditing and Reporting ................................................           31
H.   Environmental Impact ................................................ 32
I.    Project Sustainability .................................................                   32
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS .32
A. Benefits .32
B. Risks .32
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                                   .... 33
TABLES
1.1   Future Supply of Technicians and Skilled Workers in
Industrial Technology .3
1.2 Imbalance between Manpower Demand and Supply.                                                 4
2.1 Enrollments in VTE Programs, 1994 .6
2.2  Vocational and Technical Education Budget. 1992-1995 .10
5.1 Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure .27
5.2   Financing Plan                                                                             28
5.3 Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements .30
ANNEXES
1.   Demand and Supply for S & T Manpower
2.    Education Budget, 1984-1995
3.    Rajamangala Institute of Technology
4.    Number and Proportion of Students in Public and Private Institutions, by Level
and Type of Education, 1994
5.    Staff Development Plan
6.    Summary of Project by Activities and Institution
7.    Project Expenditure by Year
8.    Organization Chart for Project Management
9.    Implementation Schedule
10.  Bank Supervision Mission Plan
11.  Key Performance Indicators
12.  Schedule of Disbursements
13.  Selected Documents Available in the Project File



v
CHARTS
Chart 1 - Organization of the Rajamangala Institute of Technology
Chart 2 - Structure of the National Education System
Chart 3 - The Continuing Process of Technical and Vocational Education
Chart 4 - Number of Students by Educational Level: Academic Year 1992
Chart 5 - Number of Students at Secondary Education and Higher Education by Grade
and Educational Type: Academic Year 1992
MAP IBRD Number 27972






vi
THAILAND
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          The Kingdom of Thailand
ImplementingMinistry of Education
Agency:
Beneficiary:       Not applicable
Poverty:           Not applicable
Amount:            US$31.6 million equivalent
Terms:             Standard amortization term, grace period and interest rate for fixed
US dollar single currency loans with an expected disbursement
period of 3-6 years
Commitment         0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
Fee:               signing, less any waiver.
Financing          See para. 5.5
Plan:
Net Present Value: Not applicable
Map:               IBRD No. 27972
Project
Identification No:  4793






THAILAND
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND MANPOWER CONSTRAINTS
A. Introduction
1.1         During the past two decades Thailand has undergone a rapid transformation
from a predominantly agriculture-based society to an emerging industrial economy oriented
towards manufacturing, services and external trade.  In the 1 980s the emphasis of
Government policy switched from import-substitution industrialization policies to export-
oriented manufacturing. Real GDP grew at almost 11% annually during 1987-93, and even
as the economy slowed in 1991-1992, growth remained close to 8% p.a. The share of
manufacturing in GDP increased from 16% in 1970 to over 27% in 1993, with most of the
increase occurring in the late 1980s. During the 1990s, agriculture is expected to continue
fall as a proportion of GDP, and manufacturing will continue to increase, while becoming
more sophisticated and diversified in terms of both products and technology.  Family
ownership and extended family business organizations have given way to a variety of
corporate entities with organized labor forces, modern management systems, and increasingly
sophisticated technological processes. The Government now makes few direct interventions
in the market and leaves the leading role in decision-making to the private sector. Indeed,
official policies actively encourage and support private enterprise.
1.2         The overall macroeconomic environment during the past few decades has, in
general, been favorable for educational development. Rapid growth and structural change in
the economy have led to inevitable adjustments in the education and training system. The
need for an educated population as the basis for development together with a strong
commitment to equity goals have led to universal access to primary education, with high
completion rates, as well as to effective nonformal programs to increase adult literacy. After
stagnating through the 1980s, lower secondary education has been expanding in recent years.
The transition rate from primary to lower secondary had reached 86% in 1994 and is planned
to reach 100% by 1997. In principle there is an upper secondary place for each graduate of
lower secondary education, half of which are in vocational schools and colleges.
1.3         The rapid economic development of the country has brought about an
increasing demand for well-trained skilled workers and technicians in all fields. Fueled by
private sector expansion, jobs are being restructured to accommodate new technologies, and
there is a growing demand for employees with higher level skills.  This has become
particularly critical in the manufacturing sector where employment has grown steadily over
the past decade and where rapid expansion is expected to continue.  The vocational and
technical education (VTE) system, which trains skilled workers and technicians, is attempting
to adjust its efforts to changing demand in the labor market. It brings to this task both
strengths and weaknesses and these are described in detail in Section II.



2
B. Labor Force
1.4          Changes in the composition of employment from  agricultural to non-
agricultural sectors are becoming increasingly apparent. Based on the Labor Force Surveys',
the total labor force increased by 37% between 1980 and 1990. During this period, the
number of persons employed in non-agriculture sectors increased by 69%, raising the share
of these sectors from 29% to 36%. Agricultural sector employment increased by 24% from
1980 to 1990.
1.5          The educational attainment of the work force has been growing. The rapid
increase in completion of vocational education is notable, exceeding the rate of growth in
general education attainment. About two-thirds of vocational attainment has been at the
upper secondary level, and one-third at the post-secondary level. The overall level of
secondary education (both academic and vocational), however, is lower than was the case in
the Asian NEEs at a similar stage of industrialization.
1.6         In 1989 formal employment comprised 14% of total employment and it is
expected to grow at an annual rate of 4.0% and 3.4% during 1991-1995 and 1996-2000,
respectively.2 In 1990, the share of employees with vocational education was 14.5%, with
8.3% (or 408,780 persons) at the certificate level and 6.2% (or 306,040 persons) at the
diploma level. This share is expected to increase from 14.5% to 21% between 1990 and
2000. During the same period, demand for formal employees will increase at 6.5% p.a. for
certificate level and 8.9% p.a. for diploma level.
C. Demand and Supply for Science and Technical Manpower
1.7          Reflecting the concerns raised above and the urgent need to strengthen
science and technical (S&T) manpower to remain competitive in the global market,
Thailand's Seventh National Economic and Social Development Plan (1992-1996) set specific
S&T development policy targets. Some of these include: (a) increasing the number of
technicians from 141.5 to 221.5 per 10,000 population; and (b) establishing 50 new district-
level vocational colleges and 25 new polytechnics.
1.8          The current situation for the employment of S&T manpower shows that of the
14.5% of formal employees with vocational education, only 26.1% of certificate holders,
26.5% of diploma holders and 23.2% of university graduates have an S&T background. This
further implies that, as a share of total formal employment very few employees have training
in S&T: 2% at the certificate level; 1.4% at the diploma level, and 2.3% at the degree level.
National Statistics Office: Labor Force Surveys 1991, 1990, 1985, 1980 (Round 3).
2 TDRI/NESDB (1992). "Manpower Planning for the Development of Industrial Service Sectors." The
Study projected growth in labor force supply and demand for S&T manpower at the vocational and
university level. The model takes account a number of factors which impinge on the labor force
participation rates of men and women. The projection is based on a survey of firms and the 1989 Labor
Force Survey (Third Round).



3
1.9         Manpower Demand.   Two alternative scenarios were used in the
TDRI/NESDB study to forecast S&T manpower requirements, according to how fast the
share of S&T manpower in total employment is assumed to increase. In the base case, the
demand for S&T formal employees grows in response to the sectoral GDP growth rates
under the Seventh Plan. Under this scenario, employment demand is expected to increase to
175,070 and 278,580 persons by 1995 and 2000, respectively. The average growth rates of
employment demand for these S&T streams are on average 10.9% during 1991-1995 and
9.5% during 1996-2000. At the diploma level, the demand is expected to increase to
182,100 persons in 1995 and 333,200 in 2000, respectively. The average annual growth
rates are 16.6% during 1991-1995 and 12.9% during 1996-2000.
1.10        In the rapid growth case, the increases in the shares of S&T employees are of
course faster than in the base case. Demand expands with the rapid growth of S&T
manpower's share in total formal employment to reflect the recent situation in the labor
market where excess demand is dominant. Projected employment demand for employees
with S&T certificates are 205,640 and 385,700 persons in 1995 and 2000. The expansion
rate is estimated at 14.5% during 1991-1995 and 13.4% during 1996-2000. Projected
employment demand for employees with diploma level are 237,670 and 552,960 persons in
1995 and 2000. The annual expansion rates range between 23% and 18.4% during 1991-
1995 and 1996-2000. Sectors which have high S&T intensities in their demand structure are
electrical equipment/household appliances, construction, and other services.
1 .11       Manpower Supply. The supply of graduates at the vocational levels with an
industrial technical background is taken from the "Vocational Education Plan" of Department
of Vocational Education (DOVE), Rajamangala Institute of Technology (RIT) and the
Private Education Commission (Table 1.1). Only 37% of certificate graduates enter the labor
force in the base year, the remaining 63% are assumed to continue study at the diploma level.
About 88% of diploma graduates enter the labor market.
Table 1.1: Future Supply of Technicians and Skilled Workers
in Industrial Technology
1994         1995         1996
Certificate in Industrial Technology
Graduates                                56,411       60,468       67,498
Enter Labor Pool                         19,507       19,507       20,935
Diploma in Industrial Technology
Graduates                                34,450       39,600       42,550
Enter Labor Pool                         29,596       33,680       35,827
Source: OECF Project Document (1994)



4
Table 1.2: Imbalance between Manpower Demand and Supply
Growth Rate of              Growth Rate of
1990-2000               Additional Demand/Year      New Labor Supply/Year
(%)                        (%)
Certificate                       6.3                        4.1
Diploma                          10.0                         7.3
1.12        Table 1.2 illustrates the magnitude of the potential gap between the demand
and supply of technicians and skilled workers in Thailand, as derived from Annex 1. This
constraint is both immediate and acute. Today, most employers can find less-skilled blue-
collar workers but that supply is running into quantitative and qualitative limits. Shortages of
university trained technicians, engineers and scientists are posing severe constraints on
industry. The result is frequent job change and pressure on salaries, which are rising by up to
20% a year. Modern industries are requiring an increasing number of skilled workers and are
having to seek them from a proportionately smaller pool. This situation threatens Thailand's
competitiveness in some industries. Investors in labor-intensive industries such as textiles
already are diverting new investments to lower-wage countries such as China and Vietnam.
To enable Thailand to move increasingly into higher value-added technology-intensive
production as it loses its comparative advantage in low-cost labor-intensive industries, its
pool of skilled labor must increase through effective education and training programs. The
capital and technology intensity of manufacturing must increase in order to maintain
international competitiveness. The productivity of labor, little changed in more than a
decade, must rise.
II. VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION
A. The Vocational and Technical Education System
2.1         Vocational and technical education is a major component of Thailand's
education system. It is delivered through both public and private vocational colleges, and
provides almost as many places for lower secondary graduates as do the public and private
general secondary schools. In 1995, it consumed 9% of the national education budget (Table
2.2 and Annex 2). As industrialization accelerates, the VTE system is being called upon to
play a more critical role in the preparation of better-trained craftsmen and technicians, which
form the base of the technical skills pyramid.
2.2          Structure. The structure of the vocational and technical education system is
relatively complex, comprising both public and private institutions. The public network is
administered by several ministries, some of which offer both formal and nonformal training.
The Ministry of Education (MOE) plays the major role in this effort. Within the MOE, the



5
Department of Vocational Education (DOVE) and the Rajamangala Institute of Technology
(RIT) (Chart 1) enroll approximately 60% of all vocational and technical students.  The
structure of the national education system and details of the VTE system are given in Charts
2 and 3 respectively. The structure of enrollments is also given by level (Chart 4) and type
(Chart 5).
2.3           Formal vocational and technical education is conducted at three levels:
secondary, leading to a three-year certificate equivalent to graduates of general secondary
schools3; post-secondary (generally for two years), leading to a diploma; and university level,
leading to a degree.  Secondary (certificate) and post-secondary (diploma) vocational
education is provided in technical, commercial and agricultural fields by the King Mongkut's
Institute of Technology (KMIT) under the Ministry of University Affairs, and by the RIT and
DOVE under the MOE. Private vocational schools also provide both certificate and diploma
programs in agriculture, commerce and industrial fields. These schools may follow either the
DOVE or RIT curriculum. Most formal institutions, both public and private, offer programs
at more than one level; for example, for both the certificate and the diploma, or in the case of
some of the campuses of the RIT, at the certificate, diploma and degree levels. In 1994,
DOVE and RIT institutions enrolled about 406,008 students in certificate, diploma and
degree programs (Table 2. 1). Admission at all levels is through competitive entrance
examinations developed and administered by each individual institution.
2.4           Nonformal training is offered by the MOE through DOVE's 46 polytechnics
and 54 industrial and community colleges and by the Department of Nonformal Education
(DNFE) through its 6,500 institutional/training groups. It is also offered by the Ministry of
Labor and Social Welfare through the Department of Skill Development's (DSD) ten
regional institutes and nine provincial skill training centers. The latter training is generally
targeted at more disadvantaged workers, with a duration ranging from 10 hours to 15
months.
2.5          MOE has a clear policy of gender equity in access to VTE institutions.
Enrollment of women in vocational education, although lagging somewhat behind men, has
shown marked signs of improvement in recent years. Women represented 50% of total
enrollments in 1994-95. For RIT, the female enrollment trends have been steadily increasing
at all levels since 1988 (Annex 3). The majority of female students in DOVE institutions are
enrolled in areas of commerce/business administration (90% of total enrollment in this field),
and home economics (97% of total enrollment). No discriminatory practices exist which
would discourage women from enrolling in trade and industry courses and the present
enrollment pattern is largely the result of the exercise of individual preferences.
3 Prior to 1981 Thai education was organized on a 4-3-3-3 basis: lower and upper primary levels of four
and three years, followed by two three year levels of secondary education. At that time, vocational
secondary completion required ten years of education; academic secondary 13. The 1981 reform put
vocational education on a par with secondary education, permitting vocational graduates to sit for university
entrance examinations.



6
Table 2.1: Enrollments in VTE Programs, 1994
Short-
Total     Course             Certificate      Diploma         Degree
No.     Training    %        No.     %       No.    %      No.    %
DOVE        544,144   211,2194   39    249,914   46    82,000  15         997   -
RIT          72,097          -    -       19,395   27    38,441  53   14,261   20
Sub-        616,241    211,219   39    269,309   43   120,441  20   16,258   2
total
KMIT         19,631          -    -         998   5       1,424   7    17,209   88
DSD          85,381     85,381   100           -   -          -   -         -   -
DNFE        307,792    286,981   93       20,811   7          -   -
Private     364,249          -    -     270,437   74    93,812  26
Total     1,393,294    583,581   42    561,555   40   215,677   15   33,467   3
Source: Ministry of Education: 1994 Educational Statistics in Brief and Planning Divisions of respective Ministries.
2.6         Department of Vocational Education Institutions.  DOVE, under the
Ministry of Education, is the largest public provider of vocational and technical education,
with 277 vocational and technical schools/colleges under its jurisdiction. It administers
secondary (certificate) and post-secondary (diploma) level programs in three fields (technical,
commercial and agriculture) within the technical and vocational training colleges. In 1994,
an additional 10 new  colleges were under construction.  DOVE institutions enroll
approximately half of the total number of students enrolled in vocational schools at the
secondary level. A system of 100 polytechnics and industrial and community colleges (ICCs)
provide mainly short-course training to entry-level workers and for upgrading the basic skills
of existing workers (about 112,000 in 1994) and more formal training to upgrade
qualifications to the certificate level (about 12,500 in 1994).
2.7          King Mongkut's Institute of Technology. KMIT was established in 1971
as a science and technology institute, under the Ministry of University Affairs. It provides a
third institutional stream for certificate (5%), diploma (7%), and degree (88%) studies in
industrial technology. Both KMIT and DOVE are conducting pilot experiments with the
"dual training system." While the approaches vary in detail, the pilots have in common a
4 Includes all short-course training under DOVE.



7
combination of on-the-job training of employed workers with one- or two- day block release
periods per week for theoretical classroom training. The KMIT pilot is being done in
collaboration with a large auto assembler and also assisted by German aid; the DOVE project
serves a number of employers in provincial industrial areas.
2.8          Private Vocational Schools. Private vocational schools and colleges provide
an important flow of graduates at both certificate and diploma levels in agriculture,
commerce and some industrial fields. Private schools are registered with the Government,
which sets limits on the amount of tuition they can charge (para. 2.16). Tuition ceilings have
made it difficult for private schools to offer relatively expensive industrial subjects, although
some do. It is in commerce that private vocational schools outnumber public institutions
because of the lower investment cost required and the continuous successful placement rates
of their graduates. In 1994, private schools enrolled 50% of the students at the certificate
level, and 40% at the diploma level (Annex 4).
2.9                 Rajamangala Institute of Technology.  RIT is the other main
vocational training department operating under the Ministry of Education. Established in
1975, it administers eleven faculties in different disciplines, offering certificate and diploma
courses in varying combinations at 31 campuses (12 urban and 19 rural) located throughout
the Kingdom. At present, the RIT employs about 7,500 permanent staff, of which less than
10% are classified as administrative officers. Since 1981 four-year bachelor degree programs
in engineering, agriculture and business administration have been offered at ten campuses in
response to growing needs for higher-level technical manpower. This program is equivalent
to a university degree. However, credits earned in RIT or DOVE diploma programs are not
accepted in the universities, restricting vocational students to the degree programs of RIT
and the KMIT, or to the Open University, which accepts diploma credits in some programs.
In 1994, the RIT enrolled about 72,000 students (Annex 3) and all campuses are able to
maximize their enrollments every semester. Student dropouts are generally low and few
students repeat programs.  Placement rates for the RIT are quite high, although variable.
The rates range from about 80% to about 95%. In 1995, it is expected that RIT will
graduate about 6,000 persons from certificate programs, 15,000 with diplomas, and about
4,000 with degrees.
2.10         About 67% of RIT technical teachers have a B.S., 28% have masters degrees,
1% have Ph.D.s and less 4% have less than B.S. degrees. Most of these teachers have
limited or no industrial experience. Over the years, through inservice training and preservice
education, many have been trained in pedagogy including instructional methods, curriculum
development and instructional materials development. To upgrade the teaching force, RIT
has an active program under which foreign teachers are invited to teach and conduct research
and to share their expertise with RIT staff. During the past five years, RIT has had 20 to 30
foreign teachers/researchers in residence each year. To further complement this effort, RIT
staff are sent for short and long-term training both local and overseas: 30 annually for short-
term and 15 annually for long-term. RIT's overall student/teacher ratios range from 15 to 1
to 20 to 1.



8
2.11        RIT is financed by the Government and through student fees. The 1995
budget for RIT is B2,278 million or about 2.1% of the MOE budget (Table 2.2). Students
generally pay fees ranging from B50 to B150 per credit hour. Most students take about 24
credit hours per semester. Depending upon their enrolled program, students pay between
10% and 20% of the unit costs for their programs. Added to that cost recovery, some
programs also offer a limited number of programs to industry in production work which is
financed through cost recovery. Some programs also require that students provide the cost
of some instructional supplies/materials. It is estimated that since 1990, about 17% of the
total RIT budget has come from sources (all other income) outside the Govemment budget.
This is a significant effort in cost recovery. Unit costs per year for RIT range widely for
technical programs. It is estimated that the costs for certificate and diploma students are
from about B9,000 to B15,000 per year and for engineering degree programs, B41,000 to
B65,000.
2.12         Vocational and Technical Teacher Training. Currently, there are about
25,000 technical and vocational teachers in the public formal VTE system. Technical teacher
training programs are offered by both RIT and KMIT, which have a combined annual output
of approximately 1,000. The program includes one-year pedagogical courses after the
technical diploma, and four-year courses leading to a bachelor's degree in industrial
education. Graduates are targeted to fill vacancies in public and private VTE institutions.
While the present staff turnover rate in the institutions is low (less than 2%), it has become
extremely difficult to recruit new teachers for existing vacancies and to staff new vacancies
where the VTE systems are being significantly expanded. This is due to the high level of
demand in a rapidly expanding economy for highly-skilled, technically qualified graduates
which are attracted to industry by relatively high salaries. To partially address this problem,
DOVE initiated at one of its technical colleges in 1990, a two-year technical teacher program
for students with a diploma in vocational education. The program was later expanded to
include eight other DOVE colleges in various parts of the country. Competitive entrance
examinations are required and, upon completion, students are awarded a bachelor of
technology degree.  Scholarships are available for selected students at B30,000 per
scholarship. These graduates are bonded to teach in DOVE institutions for four years.
2.13        Established  in  1989, under the administration  of DOVE, the Staff
Development Institute (SDI) is responsible for the inservice training of DOVE personnel.
SDI courses are short-term and subjects offered are limited. In 1995, SDI trained about
2,885 teaching staff or about 17% of all DOVE VTE teaching personnel (estimated at about
17,000 in 1995). An OECF project is currently assisting SDI in the development of longer
and more intensive training courses in advanced technology. Equipment, civil works (five
buildings), foreign consultants, English language training, and teaching scholarships are being
provided by OECF.
2.14         Financing. The public vocational education system is largely financed by
public revenues. Eighty percent of the costs of vocational schooling are provided by
government budgets. The remaining twenty percent is supported by tuition and fees paid by
students and their families. The fees, ranging from B50 to B80 per credit for certificates and



9
diplomas, are the same regardless of the field of study, and thus represent varying portions of
total unit cost for different courses. In addition to official tuition, students and parents are
often required to make additional contributions to schools, usually as a condition of
enrollment. These contributions are not reported in official statistics, but can add twenty
percent or more to individual direct costs at the secondary level. Limited scholarships are
available to needy students. Scholarship funds are raised by headmasters through donations
from local businesses. To provide further financial assistance to lower-income families, the
Government has recently introduced a B 10 billion loan program. The interest rate is 3% and
repayments will be made through an additional income tax which is deferred until the
borrower has obtained employment. To qualify for the loans, annual family income must not
exceed B 100,000.
2.15         During 1992-1995, total expenditures for vocational education and training
averaged nearly 9% of total MOE budget (Table 2.2) and within this share, DOVE and RIT
resources grew steadily.  The estimated average unit cost per student was B14,439,
B 16,198, and B18,804 in 1990, 1992, 1993, respectively (for separate estimates of unit costs
for RIT, see Annex 3). This is expected to increase by about B2,000 per year throughout the
Seventh Plan. Tuition fees can be levied by vocational institutions but there is no specific
rate set by the Ministry of Finance. However, fees charged by these institutions should be
similar to the amount charged by academic upper secondary schools.
2.16         The MOE classifies private vocational schools according to their financial
standing: subsidized and non-subsidized. For private schools with a sound financial position,
no subsidy is given and MOE does not control the level of school fees. However, the tuition
fee charged by these schools should not exceed B3,900 per annum for lower secondary and
B4,300 per annum for upper secondary. For private subsidized vocational schools, the
tuition fees should not exceed B2,340 per annum for the lower secondary level and B2,580
per annum for the upper secondary level. There are two types of subsidized schools: (a)
those receiving 60% of the cost per head; and (b) those receiving 40% of the cost per head.
Currently, the latter type predominates. Private vocational schools which receive 60% are
usually connected with charitable or religious foundations, whereas the 40% subsidized
group are proprietary schools. A survey conducted by the National Education Commission
in 1986 found that approximately 75% of all private schools in the country received
subsidies, which averaged B350,000-B380,000 annually. In the Bangkok metropolitan
region, about 55% of the private vocational schools received subsidies, averaging around
B 170,000 per annum.



10
Table 2.2: Vocational and Technical Education Budget, 1992-1995
Baht Million (US$ Mil lion)
1992            1993             1994              1995
Amount  %    Amount   %          Amount   %   Amount   %
Ministry of Education   69,555.8  100.0  88,177.3  100.0  100,304.1  100.0  110,657  100.0
(2,848.3)        (3,160.9)        (4,107.5)        (4531.4
Deparhnent of         4,598.7   6.6   5,832.8   6.6    6,936.8   6.6  7,760.5    7.0
Vocational Ed.      (188.3)          (238.9)           (284.1)         (317.7)
Rajamnangala Institute    1,501.8   2.1    1,854.3   2.1    2,038.7   2.0  2,278.2    2.1
of Technology        (61.5)           (75.9)            (83.5)         (93.29)
Source: Office of Policy and Planning, Ministry of Education
B. Issues in Vocational and Technical Education
2.17         The development of the VTE system in the course of the past two decades
has been a remarkable achievement.  The system's strengths include a high level of
commitment and professionalism among administrators, teachers and staff, high internal
efficiency, and good completion rates (85-95%).  Student/teacher ratios are generally
satisfactory. Placement rates are high, reflecting robust demand for skilled workers in the
economy. The system served the nation and the economy well until the early 1980s, when
new economic policies and opportunities led to the current pattern of rapid economic change.
2.18         In the medium term, the overall size of the system and its ability to respond
efficiently to the needs of a changing economy are sources of concern. The current
directions of the Thai economy indicate the presence of offsetting trends in the demand for
skilled workers and technicians. On the one hand, exposure to competition and growing
labor shortages will lead to increased capital investment and automation, tending to reduce
demand for skilled labor. On the other hand, the expansion of industry, growth in skill-
intensive small and medium enterprises and the expansion of infrastructure investment will
increase demand. The efficiency of VTE institutions will be increasingly determined by their
ability to identify and react quickly to these changes in the profile of skill demands.
Adjustment of the vocational education system, especially through upgrading skills of
technical teachers, is therefore needed to improve quality and flexibility in responding to
changing employment demand. In addition, measures are needed to address the following
issues: outdated equipment and facilities, rigid curriculum, absence of strong linkages with
industry, and lack of system-wide planning and coordination.
2.19         Technical Teachers. With the rapid expansion of VTE enrollments, the
inability of institutions to recruit sufficient numbers of fully qualified VTE teachers is become
increasingly serious, especially in the fields of electrical power, electronics, mechanics, and
computer science where many teachers qualified in these fields are reluctant to enter the



11
teaching profession due to the availability of higher salaries in private industry. In some of
these industrial/commercial fields, salaries may be two to three times higher than those paid
for VTE teachers. Although teacher turnover is low (para 2.12), the shortages of highly
qualified technical teachers appears to be worsening as most VTE systems in the nation
expand in capacity and into higher technology program offerings. DOVE's estimate of the
annual demand for new VTE teachers exceeds 2,000 for technical teachers, 1,000 for
commercial teachers, and 800 for agricultural teachers. For those remaining in the teaching
force, many carry a heavy workload - ranging from 40 to 60 hours per week. Given the
marked differences in the salaries paid by industry/commerce relative to the public sector,
there is a need to consider incentives to attract VTE teachers and the training of larger
numbers to help reduce the teacher shortfall experienced within the various institutions.
2.20        Over the years the educational qualifications of vocational and technical
education teachers have improved as a result of continuing government commitment to
strengthening VTE and an effective teacher training system (para. 2.10). Within the RIT,
only 4% of teachers are diploma graduates and this is in line with the effort to increase
recruitment of staff with masters degrees to reflect the academic requirements for teaching
the bachelor degree courses offered on RIT campuses. Skill upgrading is urgently needed in
the RIT to enable teachers to effectively teach new technologies. These teachers also need to
have more opportunities to acquire industrial experience and to upgrade their academic
credentials.
2.21         Equipment and Facilities. The types of equipment in the RIT are reasonably
well balanced relative to the programs being offered. There are significant amounts of
medium to high technology equipment installed in the various campuses. A substantial
proportion of the medium technology equipment is obsolete and suffers from years of hard
use by students and less than adequate maintenance. This severely limits the quality and level
of instructional programs offered.
2.22         Although quite insufficient in quantity, the higher technology equipment is
generally up-to-date and well maintained. The lack of this equipment restrains RIT from
introducing new programs in line with changing technology in industry. There has been no
substantial capital investment in RIT campuses for a decade. Equipment is often purchased
not according to the skill level and degree of competence required by the curriculum but
rather in relation to the budget allocation. Recurrent budget support for repairs has been
constrained in recent years. Operations and Maintenance (O&M) budgets are usually quite
small (estimated at less than 1% of recurrent budget) in most institutions. Consumable
materials are usually in short supply and are funded with inadequate budgets. Some cost
recovery is obtained from students who purchase supplies used in their studies, but the
amount is not sufficient to meet the needs. As a result, the supplies are often inadequate to
support the programs offered and the equipment base has aged through less than adequate
maintenance and a lack of replacement following depreciation.
2.23         Similarly, the design of buildings for the various institutions is often based less
on educational specifications and more on finance availability. Buildings among technical



12
institutions are diverse in design and functionality. Some are of excellent design and utility,
but many are old and the majority are in need of maintenance and upgrading.  Some
institutions are over-utilized in specific facility areas while under-utilized in others (typically,
workshops and laboratories). This is often results from an imbalance in the classroom to
workshop/laboratory capacity ratios, which, in turn, significantly reduces the instructional
capacity of the institution.
2.24         Curricula and Instructional Materials. There continues to be a need to
upgrade VTE curricula to meet the changing skill demands. Individual institutions also need
greater flexibility to adjust curricula to local skill needs. The curricula of DOVE and RIT are
centrally developed. The process of modifying such centrally determined curricula to reflect
changes in the demand for skills in the labor market, is bureaucratic and time consuming.
RIT curricula are developed by committees of teachers, subject matter experts and
curriculum specialists.5 Despite the demand for practically-trained technical VTE graduates,
the DOVE curriculum continues to allow students to take a broad range of general subjects
with little occupation-specific technical training. In theory, DOVE colleges have the right to
develop courses locally within the framework of electives. These have to be approved by
DOVE. It is reported that most DOVE institutions prefer to use the central curriculum
because of limited time and technical expertise for curriculum development. Approvals from
DOVE can be slow, taking six months to two years.
2.25         The general nature of the training combined with the system-wide inflexibility
in implementing curriculum changes responsive to the economic environment were major
factors leading to past overproduction of graduates in some areas and shortages in others. In
the late 1980s, there was an over-supply of graduates in commerce as DOVE and RIT
institutions offered such courses under similar curricula. At the same time, shortages of
graduates existed in areas of industrial technology where the intakes of existing institutions
were too small and could not be expanded in a timely manner.
2.26         Instructional materials development is provided primarily by the teachers of
the subjects. The development of instructional media and materials is done through an
Instructional Materials Development Center that is attached to the RIT Registrar's Office.
These materials generally support the core courses and new curricula that are formally
introduced. Additional audio-visual and written instructional materials are produced by the
instructor within their own institutions. Most institutions have some capacity for teachers to
produce their own audio-visual instructional aides and materials. Teachers have complained
that they do not have time to prepare their own materials, but the VTE administrations of
both DOVE and RIT are convinced that teachers should take a major responsibility for their
own instructional materials development. The MOE offers a course on the development of
instructional materials that all instructional staff are encouraged to take.  It has been
estimated that more than 60% of all VTE teachers in DOVE and RIT have been trained to
prepare their own instructional materials. Over the next five years, there will be a need to
upgrade curricula and develop more instructional materials for the higher-level technologies
being introduced by RMT.
5 For a more detailed description of the curriculum development system of RIT see Annex 3.



13
2.27         Linkages With Employment. Linkages with industry are often weak and
job information and placement services need strengthening.  In addition to centralized
curriculum development, the system has not established the types of linkages with employers
that facilitate the flow of labor market information which informs enrollment and curriculum
planning. The national Joint Public/Private Committee (JPPC), established in 1985 to
enhance participation of the private sector in vocational education, is chaired by the Prime
Minister and includes in its membership high ranking ministry officials and representatives of
the Thai Banking Association, the Thai Chamber of Commerce and the Thai Industrial
Association. However, the high status of committee members is reported to make operation
of the JPPC ineffective. The committee has had little impact on the operation of the training
system.
2.28         DOVE and RIT curriculum  policy requires students to do on-the-job
internships. However, the principal responsibility for finding internships rests with students.
Securing internship placements is difficult in a market where many firms are small. School
personnel get involved only if a student is unable to find an internship place. The problems of
establishing linkages of any kind with small firms are persistent. This may be a factor in
explaining the relatively low levels of enterprise participation in teaching and curriculum
development. In the latter case, of course, there is little school-level curriculum development
to which employers might contribute.
2.29        Both DOVE and RIT have established job information and placement services
for their students. DOVE has also taken steps to encourage linkage development, but
success has been hampered again by the prevalence of small firms and by the inability of
individual institutions to adjust their curricula to changing employment and training needs.
Furthermore, DOVE and RIT policies encourage the formation of local school advisory
committees. These committees have been difficult to establish, and have not been very
effective in DOVE schools. They appear to function better for urban schools (both public
and private) near large enterprises. Generally, there are few incentives for enterprises or
schools to invest much time or energy in linkage development.
2.30         Mechanisms to translate vocational education and training plans and priorities
into action at the institutional level are lacking.  The practice of using labor market
information as the basis for broad decisions on training priorities and resource allocations
need to be established in close coordination with various national planning agencies such as
NESDB and research centers such as TDRI.
2.31         Coordination, Planning and Management. The Thai vocational training
system still shows the characteristics of its rapid and uncoordinated growth in the 1970s and
early 1980s. Duplication of programs is widespread and overall planning and coordination is
inadequate to support structural change resulting from changing skill needs. Within each
sub-system, there is a high degree of centralization and little flexibility at the institutional
level. There is no unified vocational and technical education system in Thailand. A degree of
coordination exists: all systems draw on the teacher training programs of KMIT, RIT and the



14
universities for staff; and all use similar curricula. There are no formal mechanisms for joint
planning and coordination, although informal cooperation takes place within the Ministry of
Education. The JPPC, which was established to coordinate vocational education and training
policy, has not functioned effectively (para. 2.27).
2.32         As a result, equivalent training is offered by different agencies in the same
location. Certain professional support functions -- such as curriculum development, and in-
service teacher training are duplicated. DOVE and RIT systems are quite centralized.
Although institutions have considerable autonomy with respect to enrollments, staff hiring
and assignment and curriculum development are all administered centrally. Planning consists
of submission of budget requests from institutions, and authorizations and transfer of funds
from Bangkok.
C. Government's Policies and Plans
2.33         The Government's policies in VTE reflect the need to address the basic issue
of widespread skill shortages in the labor market as well as to improve the quality of training
and strengthen internal management of the VTE system. The Seventh Plan calls for a
substantial increase in the supply of technicians (para. 1.7) through the expansion of
institutional capacity.  This would result in a three-fold increase in total outputs from
200,000 during the Sixth Plan to 600,000 during the Seventh. However, one of the major
constraints to achieving this target is the shortage of technical teachers, resulting from the
demand for personnel with technical skills in industry. This problem has been approached by
developing a special teacher training course for vocational certificate holders accompanied by
scholarships for selected students (para. 2.12). This policy aims at increasing the supply of
qualified teachers but attention needs to be given to incentives to ensure their retention within
the VTE system.
2.34         The Seventh Plan calls for much closer cooperation between employers and
training institutions to ensure greater relevance of training to labor market needs. This is an
area where more effort needs to be made especially in making the overall policy body work
(para. 2.27) and in improving the facilitation of student on-the-job internships. The latter is
difficult in Thailand where small- and medium-scale firms predominate. Thus, more attention
needs to be given to providing the necessary incentives to employers to take on trainees.
2.35         There is also recognition in the Plan of the need to provide skill training for
the economically underprivileged in order to raise their incomes and promote self-
employment. This will be achieved through an expansion of formal and nonformal lower-
level skill training. An important part of this strategy is to strengthen the system of 100
polytechnics and ICCs which provide entry-level training and programs for skill upgrading
(para. 2.6). Trainees in the system are drawn heavily from the lower socio-economic groups.
It is planned to expand the system through the establishment of 25 new polytechnics/ICCs,
but the immediate priority is to improve the quality and relevance of training and to develop
more effective management of the system. The Bank's support for these efforts is being
sought through a planned Vocational Training Project.



15
2.36         The Government is also concerned that adequate resources be available to
finance the planned expansion of the VTE system. This includes an increased role for the
private sector. The Plan calls for the removal of ceilings on tuition charges in private schools
to increase the financial viability of existing schools and to encourage new entrants to the
market. This is especially important in the VTE sector where entry costs are high. Private
schools will also be allowed more freedom in the teaching of curricula and will be allowed
more flexibility in management and administration. A major new incentive was announced
recently by the Government in the form of a B20 billion fund which will allow educational
entrepreneurs in the provinces to borrow up to 50% of the development costs of new schools
at subsidized interest rates.
2.37  It is expected that the Eighth Plan, which becomes effective in FY97, will continue to
stress the need to expand and improve the quality of VTE at all levels, place more emphasis
on improving the relevance of VTE to industry needs and to define a greater role for the
private sector in the provision of VTE.
I.L THE BANK'S EXPERIENCE AND LESSONS LEARNED
A. Bank's Experience in Education
3.1         The Bank has assisted the development of Thailand's education system under
six loans/credits during the period 1966-82. Bank lending amounted to US$154 million or
about 35% of total project costs of US$453 million. The overall direction of Bank lending
under the six projects was consistent with education policy as it evolved under the first five
national plans (1962-86). The first two projects focused on increasing the supply of technical
manpower for industry and agriculture. Later projects had a broader educational focus and
were consistent with the major educational reforms, introduced in 1978, which aimed at
equality of educational opportunity, curriculum reform and improved management of the
education system. Consequently, the later projects focused on the expansion of educational
capacity in the rural areas, the introduction of diversified secondary curricula and the
strengthening of education management6.
3.2          The first education project in Thailand (Ln. 471-TH) supported quality
improvement and expansion of outputs in selected vocational institutions.  The project
financed construction, renovation and equipment for 24 trade, industrial and agricultural
schools and an agricultural teacher training college. The project also included technical
assistance for curriculum development and for upgrading teacher training. The PPAR for the
project (Report No. 770, June 13, 1975) concluded that the project was implemented
successfully. In general, overall enrollment and output targets were met and new well-
balanced curricula were introduced.  The technical assistance program was completed
successfully and this was due, in part, to close cooperation between overseas advisers and
6 For a detailed review of Bank assistance to Thailand under the six projects, see: Education Development
in Thailand: The Role of World Bank Lending, (Report No. 7306, June 24, 1988).



16
local counterparts. Equipment procurement was delayed initially due to the late arrival of
advisers and this delay was exacerbated by cumbersome procurement procedures. These
problems were largely responsible for the project being completed four years behind
schedule. Some items of equipment were judged to be too sophisticated for the schools and,
in the case of some agricultural equipment, not relevant to local conditions. Some difficulty
was experienced in retaining teachers with practical industry-related experience because of
the demand for such skills in the labor market.
3.3          The second education project (Ln. 822-TH), assisted in upgrading education
and research in agriculture and related fields in Kasetsart (Agricultural) University and also
assisted its move to a new  rural campus.  The project financed site development,
construction, furniture and equipment, and technical assistance for curriculum development,
university management and project unit support. The PPAR for the project (Report No.
4563, June 17, 1983) concluded that the major objectives of the project were achieved
although project completion was nearly three years behind schedule. The latter was caused
partly by an unrealistic implementation schedule and also by design and construction delays in
the civil works component.  Targets for new  student places were met.  Equipment
procurement was fully satisfactory and the technical assistance program was also
implemented effectively. Regarding the latter, there was close cooperation between advisers
and local counterparts. The fellowship program resulted in a substantial increase in faculty
with graduate degrees.  One weakness in project implementation was that insufficient
attention was paid to educational aspects of the project institution such as changes in
admissions, enrollments, graduates and the employment experience of the latter. Thus there
was only limited understanding of the educational impact of the project.
3.4          The third education project (Cr. 369-TH) marked a shift in emphasis away
from the narrower focus of meeting technical manpower requirements towards improving
educational opportunities, especially in the provinces. The third project aimed to extend and
improve elementary teacher training facilities in the provinces, introduce a diversified
curriculum in rural secondary schools, improve educational research and curriculum design
and extend science programs and assist long range planning in the Prince of Songkla
University in the south of Thailand.  The project financed construction, furniture and
equipment for selected primary teachers' training colleges, rural high schools, a National
Curriculum Development Center (NCDC) and the Prince of Songkla University. Expert
services and fellowships were included under the project's technical assistance program. The
PPAR for the project (Report No. 4574, June 27, 1983), concluded that the project's
objectives were met, with the exception of the teacher training component. The diversified
curricula for the rural secondary schools were introduced successfully, the NCDC was
operating effectively (although it could benefit from a sharpening of the focus of its research
function), the university science programs were improved and their quantitative targets
virtually achieved. Expansion of rural teacher training opportunities was achieved but not to
the extent envisaged. Initially, there was a substantial underestimation in teacher supply and
the Government reduced teachers' college intakes because of the emerging over-supply.
Thus project-assisted colleges were underutilized. This situation was identified soon after
appraisal and project design should have been rectified accordingly. The technical assistance



17
program was generally successful but there was a need to monitor fellows on their return to
ensure that they entered positions relevant to their training. There was also a need to observe
a realistic mix between short study tours and long-term study for higher degrees. The latter
may not always be the most appropriate method of acquiring skills in certain fields (e.g.
curriculum development). The project closed 3.5 years behind schedule, due in part to
problems in the functioning of the project implementation unit, which lacked clearly-defined
jurisdiction and authority.
3.5          The fourth education project (Ln. 1271 -TH), continued support for the
expansion of diversified secondary education in the provinces and assisted in the
establishment of a national adult education system.  The project financed construction,
furniture, equipment and technical assistance for 50 diversified secondary schools and for
four regional and 24 provincial adult education centers. The project completion report
(PCR) for the project (Report No. 5710, June 14, 1985), concluded that the project was a
success with quantitative targets reached or surpassed.  Project implementation was
facilitated by the establishment of a well-staffed Central Project Unit (CPU), which was given
the authority to simplify procurement procedures. The technical assistance program was
implemented successfully and the individuals who received degree fellowships were, in the
majority of cases, serving in relevant posts. Some difficulties were experienced in the
preparation of equipment lists and specifications for the adult education component due to a
lack of expertise in this area. The project was completed just over two years behind schedule
due partly to scarcity of counterpart funds and shortage of experienced implementation staff
in adult education.
3.6          The fifth education project (Cr. 913-TH), continued support for expanding
educational opportunities in rural areas and for strengthening management of the education
system and public administration in general. The project provided for the establishment of 12
centralized vocational workshops to serve local secondary schools, the upgrading of
vocational programs in 42 rural secondary schools, expansion of educational radio programs
and the creation of inservice management training institutes for educational administrators
and civil servants. The project was implemented successfully and closed on schedule. The
PPAR for the project (Report No. 7284, June 17, 1988) concluded that a strong CPU served
successfully as a coordinator and resource center for the individual implementing agencies.
In general the quantitative targets of the project were met. However, lack of thorough
analysis of the catchment areas for the centralized vocational workshops led to
underutilization of some centers. The overseas fellowship program was generally successful
but there were some initial problems with the language competence of fellows and some
instances of fellows not being retained in the positions for which they had been trained.
3.7          The sixth education project (Ln. 2178-TH), aimed to extend support for
increasing educational opportunities in disadvantaged areas to the lower secondary level and
to strengthen education planning and management. The project financed the upgrading of
480 rural lower secondary schools through the addition of classrooms and workshops and the
inservice training of about 6,000 teaching and non-teaching staff. Technical assistance was
provided for fellowships and experts in the fields of education planning and management. A



18
program of eight studies covering key educational issues was also included in the project.
The project was completed on schedule but over-estimation of project costs led to the
cancellation of about 42% of the loan amount. The PCR for the project (Report No. 8363,
February 12, 1990) concluded that while the physical aspects of the project were
implemented successfully, educational objectives were not fully achieved. Enrollments in
project schools at project completion were 34% below target due to overly optimistic
enrollment projections at appraisal and to other factors such as high tuition and opportunity
costs for students. Transition rates to lower secondary education also declined. The local
inservice training program was generally successful but there were problems in the overseas
fellowship component regarding deficient language competencies and inadequate academic
standards for entry to overseas institutions. The planning and management component was
the least successful because it required significant organizational and policy changes which
could not be achieved within the scope of a single project but required a sustained high-level
policy dialogue between the Bank and Government. The program of studies would have
benefited from a synthesis of their findings and the translation of these into an action plan.
B. Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Experience
3.8          Some of the lessons learned from  experience under previous education
projects in Thailand, although implemented mainly in the seventies and early eighties, remain
relevant to the proposed project. For example, a well-staffed central implementation unit
with appropriate links to participating RIT institutions is essential to ensure successful
project implementation. Another major factor in achieving successful implementation is the
involvement of local officials in project design. During the previous period of Bank lending
for education (1966-82), design of the earlier projects tended to be dominated by Bank staff
and the local sense of "ownership" was minimal. However, later projects involved a much
greater participation of local officials with the result that project implementation was more
effective. In addition, other relevant lessons drawn from Bankwide experience include the
need for: (a) VTE curricula to be closely linked to the demonstrated needs of the labor
market; (b) timely identification of overseas training programs and placement of selected
candidates; (c) special attention to project management and implementation arrangements for
inexperienced borrowers; (d) intensive Bank supervision in a more facilitating rather than
monitoring nature during the early stages of implementation, and (e) a proper balance of
skills on supervision missions. These lessons are included in the design of the proposed
project.
C. Bank's Assistance Strategy
3.9         The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Thailand, (Report No.
13458-TH), which was presented to the Board on September 22, 1994, recognizes that
Thailand needs selective policy and technical advice and financing. Hence, Bank assistance
aims at providing value added in terms of helping to address the most important development
issues, many of which are cross-sectoral and involve the provision of public goods. These
key development priorities, on which Bank assistance would be focused, are: physical
infrastructure provision, human resource development, poverty reduction and improvement



19
in income distribution, and natural resource and environmental management. The CAS
envisaged a lending program of around US$300 million per year during FY96-98 in these
priority areas. It was also indicated in the CAS that strong interest on the part of the
Government in priority areas such as the social sectors could lead to increased lending. With
respect to education, this interest has been declared by the Government through
communications with the Bank, in public pronouncements and through the high priority being
given to education in the Eighth Plan. Consequently, a number of projects were identified
which focused on sector priorities in education.
3.10        The proposed project would assist in human resource development.
Thailand's economic success has been built on the expansion of manufactured exports,
facilitated by substantial foreign direct investment. This export-led growth strategy is now
under pressure due to rising real wages, and skill shortages, coupled with economic
liberalization in labor-abundant economies such as China, Vietnam and India. A key
determinant of Thailand's continued economic success, therefore, will be its ability to upgrade
products and processes towards greater technological sophistication. Whether this can be
achieved quickly depends critically upon the availability of skilled and educated labor.
However, past under-investment in secondary, higher and technical education, together with
sectoral policy and institutional weaknesses, have meant that labor quality constraints have
become increasingly serious.
Education Lending Strategy
3.11        In recent years, post-primary education in Thailand has been unable to meet
the demands of a rapidly expanding economy for technical skills and for workers with a
sound general education. This has retarded productivity growth while skill shortages have
pushed up wages thereby putting pressure on the country's competitiveness.  The
Government has responded with policies that call for the expansion of technical and scientific
education to increase the supply of skills at all levels and also for the expansion of general
secondary education to increase the education level of entrants to the workforce and to
expand the numbers of potential entrants to higher education. A key concern underlying this
expansion is the need to maintain (and preferably improve) the quality of education in the
face of rapidly expanding enrollments.
3.12        The Bank made its last loan for education to Thailand in 1982 in support of
developing lower secondary education (para. 3.7). This was followed by a Government
policy of not seeking Bank financing in the social sectors. In 1990-91 the Bank prepared an
in-depth review of vocational education and a review of key issues in education.  These
reviews were well-received in Thailand but did not lead to any discernible action to
implement the policy recommendations contained therein. The Bank was in no position to
push a policy agenda at that time because it lacked the leverage of a lending program in
education. However in 1993, recognizing the growing inadequacies in the education system,
the Government asked the Bank to look at the possibilities of restarting lending to education.



20
3.13          The education lending strategy is based on the assumption that if the Bank is
to make a meaningful impact on sector development, we must be engaged for the long term.
In line with the CAS, this means that we must be in a position to offer policy advice and, to
be realistic, it must be combined with lending operations if the Bank is to have a significant
impact on policy improvements. Our lending strategy will follow three stages. The first
stage would cover the design of initial lending operations and would constitute the Bank's re-
entry into the sector. Initial lending would assist in raising the quality of technical and
scientific education in technical institutions and public universities and in supporting the
expansion of secondary education in three strategic subjects - science, mathematics and
English.  Such assistance would contribute to the production of better-trained skilled
workers, technicians, engineers and scientists, and better-educated outputs from  the
secondary schools. This would address directly one of the critical development problems in
Thailand, namely, the severe shortages of technically skilled and educated manpower. Thus
proposed initial Bank assistance is fully consistent with Thailand's development priorities and
with the Bank's assistance strategy. The strategic thrust outlined above has been refined into
five proposed projects - Universities Science and Engineering Education, Secondary
Education Quality Improvement (SEQI) I and II, Technical Education and Vocational
Training.7   The main focus in the projects is on quality improvement through staff
development, modernization of laboratories and workshops, curricula upgrading and
improved learning materials.
3.14          The second stage calls for the preparation of a policy-oriented sector study to
be completed by the Bank in FY97. A number of sound education policies relating to system
expansion and quality improvement are currently being implemented and the three proposed
projects would support these policies.  These ongoing policies provide an adequate
framework for the effective implementation of the projects and for the sustainability of their
outcomes. With respect to VTE, current policies (paras. 2.33-2.36) call for the expansion of
skill training at all levels including an expanded role for private institutions. Special attention
will be given to the needs of lower income groups for entry-level and skill-upgrading training.
A special program has been introduced to increase the supply of technical teachers to
alleviate the outflow of teachers to industry. The design of the proposed project (paras. 4.6-
4.12) is clearly consistent with these policies.
3.15          However, in addition to current policies which are pursuing expansion and
quality improvement, there are a number of more complex policy issues which,
administratively and politically, are proving difficult to resolve. This difficulty is reflected in
the fact that the issues are well-known and regularly debated, but reaching a consensus aimed
at their resolution has eluded policy-makers to date. They include: (a) the need to rationalize
the present complex structure of VTE in terms of simplifying its management structure,
improving coordination and planning capabilities, and reducing wasteful duplication of
7 Three projects were originally identified. However, certain components in the SEQI Project and the VTE
Project were ready for appraisal ahead of other components of the projects. Thus teacher education was
appraised as SEQI I with the schools component becoming SEQI IL. The higher-level technical education
component in the VTE Project became the Technical Education Project while the basic skill training
component became the Vocational Training Project.



21
programs; (b) making the VTE system more relevant to industry's needs for skilled
manpower and improving the flexibility of the system to ensure that it can respond effectively
to rapidly changing technology; (c) developing incentives to retain technical teachers in the
face of rising demand from an expanding private sector and formulating a long-term plan for
ensuring an adequate supply of trained technical teachers; (d) improving cost recovery in
public sector institutions and defining an appropriate role for the private sector in the
provision of training. This introduces a number of issues relating to incentives, high cost of
entry, maintenance of standards, overall level of regulation, etc. The proposed sector study
would analyze these issues (and others to be identified) and propose appropriate solutions.
Terms of reference for the study were prepared during appraisal and were agreed with the
8
Government during negotiations.
3.16         The sector review  would form  the basis of a policy dialogue with the
Government, which would be monitored during implementation of the ongoing projects.
Recommendations aimed at addressing major problems would be defined and set out in an
education sector strategy. This strategy would be prepared by the Government and would
guide future improvements in education. It would also serve to guide the policy content of
future projects. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that the education
sector strategy would be available for review by the Bank by March 1997 and that progress
in the implementation of the strategy would be reviewed in conjunction with the Bank by
March 1999. Thus, the third stage of Bank lending would encompass follow-up projects
which would include policy content drawn from the Government's sector strategy. It is
expected that follow-up projects would continue to support quality improvement in science
and technical education. The unmet needs are substantial and continued concentration of
effort by the Bank would ensure that a meaningful impact would be made in these areas.
Project design would emphasize monitoring and evaluation of policy improvements.
3.17         The Bank's strategy aims for long-term involvement in the education sector.
Through continued policy dialogue and carefully targeted lending operations, the
Government and the Bank would work towards a cost-effective, well-managed education
system which would meet the skill needs of an expanding economy and service the broader
needs of a rapidly modernizing society. The initial projects would provide a way for the
Bank to re-enter the education sector and to address quickly some obvious needs for quality
improvement within the context of the existing policy framework.  This would be
accompanied by a policy dialogue, based on sector work, which would analyze major
problems and propose solutions.
8 The sector study will: (a) define the broad objectives of the education system; (b) review education
policies and assess their effectiveness in achieving sector objectives; (c) identify policy problems which are
not currently being resolved; (d) analyze the reasons (administrative, political, socio-economic, cultural) for
the lack of resolution; (e) make policy recommendations for major improvements in the education system;
and (f) formulate a strategy for implementing these recommendations.



22
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Origin of the Project
4.1          The Government requested the Bank in late 1993 to examine the possibility of
project assistance to education. In conjunction with the Government, the Bank identified a
project which would strengthen technical education in selected RIT campuses and also
improve vocational training in the polytechnics/ICC system. Most of the preparation work
was completed by the Government according to guidelines formulated by the Bank.
Preparation of the RIT component proceeded at a faster pace than the polytechnics/ICC
component and it was decided to appraise RIT as a separate project (para 3.13). The project
was appraised in May 1995. Project processing was delayed following elections in July 1995
and the installation of a new Government.
B. Project Background and Rationale
4.2          The education sector in Thailand is relatively well-endowed with resources,
education accounting for about 3.6% of GNP compared with the average for East Asia of
around 3%. Thus the Government has requested the Bank's assistance not primarily for the
resource transfer itself, but to ensure that priority needs are met through the efficient
targeting of resources and that value added is provided through project assistance.  The
proposed project is a response to the Government's request for assistance.   As
industrialization accelerates in Thailand, the VTE system must be able to adapt to the
demand for more advanced technical skills at all levels. The Bank produced a major study of
VTE in Thailand in 1991, which identified the need for continuous skill upgrading through
quality improvement, as an important priority in human resource development.9  The
proposed project, building on available sector analysis, supports the Government's efforts to
raise the quality of technical education. The project would finance a package of quality-
improving investments which would strengthen instructor training, modernize laboratories
and workshops, upgrade curricula, and improve the project management capacities of the
RIT, which is a major delivery system providing technical certificate, diploma and
undergraduate degrees. This focus on quality improvement would complement the RIT's
expansion of training capacity and help to maintain standards of training in a period of
growth.
4.3          The Bank offers a strong comparative advantage in assisting the RIT to
improve all levels of technical education. This advantage has been gained from decades of
cross-country experience in technical education and it is reinforced, in Thailand, by the
Bank's knowledge of issues in VTE acquired through sector work. Thus, the project is the
logical follow-up to previous sector work and provides the investments needed to support
identified quality improvements in the technical education subsector.  Furthermore, the
project's focus on craftsman and technician training in RIT complements OECF operations
which are assisting the upgrading of middle-level training in DOVE's vocational colleges.
9 "Vocational Training in a Changing Economy: The Case of Thailand" (1991).



23
4.4           The project is consistent with the Government's priority for developing
technical and scientific skills and with the Bank's country assistance strategy which identifies
human resource development as one of the key priorities. Regarding the latter, the CAS
emphasizes the vital need to develop technical skills if export competitiveness and long-term
growth are to be sustained. The project is also consistent with the Bank's education lending
strategy in Thailand. This calls for the development of initial lending operations to make an
early contribution in the crucial area of quality improvement while leaving major policy
changes to be identified in policy-oriented sector work (scheduled for completion in FY97)
and incorporated by the Government in an education sector strategy. This strategy would
guide future improvements in education and also serve as a guide to the policy content of
future projects. The value added embodied in the proposed project lies, in part, in its
addressing immediate investment needs in technical education thereby helping to alleviate the
backlog of investments in quality improvement. There is also value added in the Bank,
working in partnership with MOE, applying its rigorous project design techniques to
identifying quality-improving investments and in packaging them into a coherent project
design, which can be implemented efficiently. Finally, value would be added through the
Bank's assistance in identifying needed policy changes and in supporting their
implementation.
C. Project Objectives
4.5           In support of the Government's overall strategy to modernize the VTE system
with the aim  of making it more relevant and responsive to the changing needs of the
economy, the overall objective of the proposed project would be to improve the quality of
technical education programs in 11 selected RIT campuses.10 Specifically, the project would
aim to: (a) improve the management capacity within the RITs; (b) strengthen curricula and
linkages with industry; (c) upgrade workshops and laboratories through the provision of up-
to-date equipment and physical improvements to buildings; (d) expand the supply and
upgrade the quality of instructional materials; and (e) strengthen the practical skills of key
teaching staff in advanced technologies through overseas training.
D. Project Description
4.6           The project would comprise components required to upgrade the 11 RIT
campuses as described below. The project would finance an institutional improvement
program (estimated baseline cost, US$1.3 million) which would include overseas training for
administrators and teaching staff, and consultant services for project management and
procurement. The project would also include the acquisition of up-to-date equipment for
modernizing laboratories and workshops (US$35.4 million) which would be complemented
by the provision of curriculum development (US$0.1 million), instructional materials
10 The campuses were selected on the basis that thev: (a) provided a wide level of geographic participation;
(b) were geographically located near heavy industrial areas and would be capable of developing strong
linkages with the major industries of the region; (c) had a core of teachers with the academic knowledge and
technical skills to teach higher-level technologies; (d) offered instructional programs at certificate, diploma,
and degree levels; and (e) were targeted for upgrading in accordance with the policies of MOE and RIT.



24
development and acquisition (US$3.6 million), and the improvement of O&M systems within
the RIT (US$0.7 million). Refurbishment of facilities (US$9.4 million) would be included to
upgrade existing laboratories and workshops to ensure that the project-financed equipment
would be adequately accommodated and that practical teaching facilities would be available
to improve further the quality of service delivery.
Institutional Improvement (US$1.3 million)
4.7   (a)    To improve the skills of RIT's instructors in relation to modern industrial
practices, the project would finance 3 months of overseas training for 80
senior staff in state-of-the-art technology in selected fields, to be identified by
the staff Each of these persons would study the new technologies in their
area of specialization.  They would also be taught the modern methods
required to teach the new skills to others. This sub-component would include
a total of 240 months of overseas training.
(b)    To strengthen the project management capacity of the central Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) and the 11 RIT project institutions, key RIT
central office staff and senior instructors of RIT campuses would visit similar
institutions and projects in other countries to study modern project and
institutional management practices, including techniques for establishing
linkages with industry. The exposure to alternative management systems is
necessary as most staff have not had project or institutional management
experience outside Thailand. This sub-component would include a total of
one month of overseas training for 12 RIT management staff Staff training is
summarized in Annex 5.
(c)    To ensure efficient project management and implementation, the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) in RIT would be assisted by a foreign procurement
consultant for 12 months after project start-up to assist in the initial
equipment procurement activities and training of local staff.  Terms-of
reference for the consultant have been agreed.
Equipment (US$35.4 million)
4.8          To improve the quality and relevance of technical training to meet industry's
needs, the project would upgrade equipment in 11 RIT campuses. Preliminary equipment lists
and outline specifications by field of specialization have been prepared for the 11 campuses
and are acceptable to the Bank. Annex 6 contains a list of the fields of specialization by
project institution. The equipment has a strong focus on areas of more advanced technology
especially in electronics, communications, electrical and mechanical power and computers.



25
Curriculum Development (US$0.1 million)
4.9          The upgrading of workshops and laboratories and the advanced training of
key teaching staff would lead to an improved learning environment. This would be further
reinforced by updating the curricula for those courses where new equipment and technologies
are introduced. The curricula would be developed utilizing the well-established policies and
procedures of RIT. These aim at keeping RIT abreast with technological changes in industry
and adjusting its programs to meet evolving skill needs. The project would finance about 60
months of local consulting services to support this effort.
Instructional Materials (US$3.6 million)
4.10        As curricula are upgraded for the courses where new  equipment and
technologies are being introduced, instructional materials would also need to be upgraded to
support the delivery of teaching services. This upgrading would include the development and
preparation of custom-made audio/visual materials, video tape instructional packages,
individualized competency-based instructional materials, and other relevant materials. In
addition, the project would also provide technical reference materials, textbooks, journals and
technical catalogues.  During the first two years of the project, instructional materials
development would be done by teams/workshops of senior teachers with the assistance of the
RIT Instructional Materials Development Center.  Each participating institution would
identify the materials needed to support its programs.
Operations and Maintenance (US$0.7 million)
4.11         As much of the equipment being purchased by the project supports higher
level technologies, it is vitally important that improvements be made to the operations and
maintenance systems currently utilized by RIT, particularly as they relate to the larger, more
expensive equipment units. Also, it is expected that the project will experience relatively high
initial O&M costs as the new higher technology equipment is delivered, installed, calibrated,
monitored and tested. The project funds would be utilized to support the increased O&M
costs for the higher technology equipment. These costs would include materials, spare parts,
supplies, services and other associated expenditure required to operate and maintain the tools
and equipment of the 11 participating campuses over the duration of the project. A small
portion of the funds (US$50,000) would also be used to finance workshops, seminars and
other costs associated with the refinement of the O&M and instructional management
policies and procedures within RIT. Each campus director would be responsible for the
planning and implementation of the workshops/seminars. Some funds (US$100,000) would
also be included for the operations of the P113, mainly desktop computers and other office
equipment.
Civil Works for Refurbishment of Facilities (US$9.4 million)
4.12         In order to upgrade teaching facilities in general, and more specifically, to
ensure that the new equipment, provided under to project, would be adequately
accommodated, it would be necessary to refurbish many existing workshops and laboratories



26
in the selected project institutions.  Refurbishment activities would not involve land
acquisition or resettlement. During negotiations, the Government informed the Bank that
the individual institutional plans for the refurbishing of physical facilities (including the timing
of construction and linkages to equipment procurement) have been completed and were
approved by the President of RIT on June 15, 1995. The plans have been reviewed by the
Bank and found to be satisfactory.
V. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Costs
Summary of Costs
5.1         The total cost of the project is estimated at US$52.7 million equivalent
(B11,318.3 million), including contingencies. The estimated cost by category of expenditure is
summarized in Table 5.1. Detailed costs and expenditures are provided in Annex 7.
Basis of Cost Estimates
5.2         Base costs are estimated at April 1996 prices. The estimates for civil works
are in line with costs that were incurred, within Thailand, for similar types of construction
projects. Estimates for the costs of equipment and supplies/materials are based on current
prices for similar imported or locally available items. Costs for local and intemational
consultants are in line with recent education and training projects for appropriately qualified
experts. Unit costs for short term (3 months) foreign technical teacher training are estimated
at US$4,500 per month, including airfare, cost of living and training costs. Study tours
overseas are estimated at US$5,000 per month for one month trips.
5.3         Price contingencies of US$2.2 million (about 4% of baseline costs) were
calculated for both local and foreign costs in accordance with the following expected annual
average price increase percentages: foreign cost, 2.4% in FY96 and thereafter and local cost,
4.5% p.a. throughout.
5.4         The foreign exchange component of US$36.5 million, representing 69% of
total project costs, has been calculated on the basis of the following foreign exchange
percentages: (a) equipment - 80%; (b) civil works - 40%, (c) local consultants - 20%; (d)
instructional materials - 50%; (e) O&M - 20%; and (f) foreign consultants and overseas
training - 90%;



27
Table 5.1: Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
------- (Baht Million)---- -------- (USS Million) --- Foreign  Base
Local Foreign   Total  Local Foreign  Total Exchange Costs
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works for Refurbishment   141.3    94.2    235.5   5.7    3.8      9.4   40       19
of Facilities
B. Equipment                     177.1   708.6    885.7   7.1   28.3   35.4   80           70
C. Institutional Improvement
1. Foreign Consultants          0.3      2.8      3.1   0.(    0.1       0.1   9(        -
2. Overseas Training             2.9    25.7     28.6   0.1      1.0     1.1   9(        2
Subtotal Institutional             3.2    28.5     31.8   0.1       1.1     1.3   9(       3
Improvement
D. Curriculum Development
Local Consultants               2.9     0.7       3.7   0.1      0.0     0.1   20        -
E. Instructional Materials        45.1    45.1     90.2    1.8      1.8     3.6   50       7
Total Investment Costs           369.2   877.1  1,246.8  14.8   35.1    49.9    70)        99
11. Recurrent Costs
O&M                            13.5     3.4      16.9   0.5    0.1       0.7   20        1
Total Recurrent Costs             13.5     3.4      16.9   0.5     0.1     0.7   20         1
Total Baseline Costs             382.8   880.5  1,263.7  15.3    35.2    50.5    70       100
Price Contingencies             22.4    32.3     54.6    0.9    1.3      2.2   59        5
Total Project Costs a/           405.6   912.7  1,318.3  16.2   36.5    52.7   69          105
a/ Excludes taxes and duties estimated to be US$2.5 million.
B. Financing
5.5            The total project cost of US$52.7 million equivalent would be financed by a
proposed Bank loan of US$31.6 million equivalent, covering about 60% of total project
costs excluding taxes. The Government would be responsible for the remaining 40% or US$
21.1 million. The loan would be a fixed rate single currency loan, payable in 15 years with
three years of grace and would carry the Bank's standard US dollar fixed rate for 12 years
maturity. The loan would finance 90% of the total cost of overseas training, 80% for
equipment, and 25% for instructional materials. About 87% of the foreign exchange cost of
the project would be financed by the loan.



28
Table 5.2: Financing Plan
-------------(USs$ million) -----------
IBRD
Category of             Government   IBRD    Total  Share
Expenditure                                            (%)
Civil Works for                 9.8       -     9.8
Refurbishment of Facilities
Equipment                       7.4    29.6    37.0    80
Instructional Materials         2.8     0.9     3.7   25
Overseas Training               0.1     1.1      1.2   90
Consultants                     0.2       -     0.2     -
Operations & Maintenance        0.8       -     0.8     -
Total                          21.1    31.6    52.7    60
5.6          When fully operational, the project would generate incremental recurrent costs for
equipment-related consumable materials and O&M estimated at US$0.26 million in each of the
1I participating institutions. These additional expenditures could be accommodated by the
institutions without difficulties.
C. Project Management and Implementation
5.7          The overall responsibility for project management and implementation would
lie with MOE. A Project Steering Committee (PSC) would be established to provide policy
guidance and general oversight of the project and it would carry out similar functions for all
education projects financed by the Bank and other donors. A Project Coordinating Unit
(PCU) with a staff of six (including a project management adviser) would be established and
would be responsible for coordinating the implementation of education projects financed by
the Bank and other donors. The PCU would also serve as the secretariat of the PSC.
5.8          Detailed implementation of the proposed project would be the responsibility
of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the RIT. The RIT Vice President for
Research and Training would be the Director of the PIU and the Dean, Faculty of
Engineering of RIT would be the Project Manager. The Project Manager would be in
charge of day-to-day implementation activities. The PIU would have a core staff of 22
drawn from RIT's specialized divisions and campuses. Additional staff may be drawn from
other divisions, if necessary. The PIU would organize task forces (or groups) for ad-hoc
assignments, with members drawn from RIT campuses for short periods. The staff of the
PIU would be organized into four functional units responsible respectively for procurement,
disbursements, training and fellowships, and general administration, monitoring and
evaluation. The establishment of the PCU and the PIU and their staffing with key personnel
would be a condition of effectiveness. The Project Manager would be assisted by a Project
Operating Committee (POC), chaired by the RJT Vice President for Research and Training,
to provide advice and assistance on operational issues. Membership and terms of reference



29
for the PSC, PIU, PCU and POC have been agreed and are included in a working Working
Paper. An organization chart for project management is presented in Annex 8 and the
implementation schedule in Annex 9.
Status of Project Preparation
5.9          The advanced stage of project preparation would allow implementation to
commence immediately after loan signing. Project institutions have been identified and
equipment lists and specifications prepared. Project management authorities have been
identified and competent staff are available to handle implementation activities.
Implementation arrangements have been agreed.
D. Monitoring and Review
5.10         In view of MOE's lack of recent experience with Bank-funded projects,
above-average supervision coefficients of about 15 staff weeks per year would be required in
the first 2-3 years of project implementation. The Bank would supervise the project three
times annually during the first 2-3 years of project implementation. It is expected that the
remaining years would require two missions each year with a third being scheduled only if
necessary. Supervision missions would also monitor progress in preparing the education
sector policy study (paras. 3.14-3.15) and the policy dialogue between the Bank and the
Government, which would follow from the sector study. Overall implementation would be
the responsibility of the task manager who would be assisted by a procurement expert to
handle equipment and an operations officer to oversee the implementation of the training and
fellowship programs. Annex 10 presents a Bank supervision plan for the project.
5.11         Key performance indicators have been developed and were agreed upon
during appraisal.  The indicators (Annex 11) would be utilized to monitor project
performance and to gain some insight into project impact. During negotiations, the
Government agreed to integrate the indicators into the overall monitoring system and use
them systematically as part of project supervision. The indicators may be modified and
adjusted as implementation progresses. During negotiations, the Government also provided
assurances that, in conjunction with the Bank, it would undertake an annual review of project
progress on the basis of the agreed monitorable indicators.  This review  would be
documented in an annual progress report and would be provided to the Bank for review and
comments within 90 days following the end of each fiscal year. The third annual review
would include a detailed assessment of implementation experience to date and discussions on
the development of future projects.
E. Procurement "
5.12         Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 5.3. Civil works
contracts, to be financed by the Government, would be mainly for the refurbishment of
facilities and would be procured under NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Equipment
" The Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", dated January 1995 and
revised in January 1996 will apply to all goods procured under this Project.



30
would be grouped, to the greatest extent possible, in packages of US$200,000 or more
(estimated value US$31.5 million) for procurement under ICB utilizing standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank. Equipment packages in contracts estimated to cost less than
US$200,000 may be procured up to an aggregate limit of US$3.7 million through NCB
procedures acceptable to the Bank or, for contracts below US$50,000 through national
shopping 12 procedures (aggregate limit US$1.8 million). Local equipment manufacturers
would be extended a margin of preference of 15% of the CIF price, or the prevailing customs
duties, whichever is the lower, on bid evaluation under ICB. Instructional materials' 3
(aggregate amount US$3.7 million) would be procured on the basis of direct purchase after
negotiating for discounts with publishers or their authorized distributors.  Candidates for
(overseas trainintg would be selected in accordance with local procedures acceptable to the
Bank. The prior review threshold for equipment contracts financed by the Bank, is US$7.5
million, in line with the regional guidelines for Thailand. No equipment contract is expected
to exceed the threshold amount, however the first three contracts of each year of project
implementation would be reviewed by the Bank. All remaining contracts would be subject to
post review. Supervision missions would conduct all post reviews. It is planned that about
25% of all ICB contracts would be post reviewed.
Table 5.3: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
Total
Procurement Method                including
---------------------JUS$million-------------------------  contingencies
Category of Expenditure       ICB          NCB        Other /a     NBF
Civil Works for                      -           -            -       9.8           9.8
Refurbishment of Facilities                                        (0.0)         (0.0)
Equipment                         31.5          3.7          1.8        -          37.0
(29.6)       (0.0)       (0.0)                 (29.6)
Instructional Materials              -           -          3.7         -           3.7
(0. 9)      -          (0. 9)
Overseas Training                    -           -           1.2        -           1.2
(1. 1)                 (1. 1)
Consultant Services                  -           -            -       0.2           0.2
(0.0)         (0.0)
Operations & Maintenance             -            -           -       (1.8          0.8
(0.0)         (0.0)
Total                              31.5                     6.7      10.8          52.7
(29.6)                    (2.0)    (0.0)        (31.6)
3.7
(0.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan
NBF:  Not Bank-financed
National shopping would be used only for the purchase of goods that are ordinarily available from more
than one source in the country of the Borrower at competitive prices. See Bank's "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", January 1995, revised January 1996, paras 3.5-3.6
3 See Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised
January 1996. para. 3.7.



31
F. Disbursements
5.13        The proposed Bank loan of US$31.6 million would be disbursed on the basis
of:
(1) Equipment           US$29.6    100% of foreign expenditures;
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost); 65% of local
expenditures for other
equipment items procured
locally.
(2) Overseas Training    US$1.1      90% of total expenditures.
(3) Instructional Materials  US$0.9  50% of foreign expenditures.
5.14        Disbursements in respect to contracts for equipment estimated to cost less
than US$7.5 million equivalent and for expenditures on overseas training and instructional
materials, would be made against statements of expenditure (SOE) certified by the Ministry
of Education. Documentation would be retained by MOE and available for review by the
Bank during supervision missions. Administrative and accounting capability in MOE is
adequate to support the SOE procedure. Full documentation would be required by the Bank
for any contract above US$7.5 million equivalent. To the extent practicable, withdrawal
applications would be aggregated in amounts of US$200,000 or more prior to submission to
the Bank for reimbursement out of the proceeds of the loan. In view of the satisfactory
budgetary procedures and financing of Bank-assisted projects in Thailand, it was agreed to
accept the Government's preference not to establish a special account. The proposed Bank
loan would be disbursed over a period of 5.5 years (Annex 12) which is one year less than the
standard disbursement profile for Thailand (all sectors). The shorter period is justified by
the strong management and implementation capacity built into the project and the
Government's commitment to complete the project in five years. The completion date of the
project would be October 31, 2001 and the closing date April 30, 2002.
G. Accounts, Audits and Reporting
5.15        The Government would cause the project institutions to maintain project
accounts in accordance with sound accounting practices:  During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that audited accounts would be sent to the Bank within six
months of the end of the financial year. Audit reports would include a separate opinion for
expenditures under SOE procedures. The Government would also cause each project
institution to submit an annual progress report to the Bank and to provide implementation
status reports for visiting missions. Within six months of the closing date, an Implementation
Completion Report would be prepared jointly by the Bank and Government.



32
H. Environmental Impact
5.16         The project would have no adverse impact on the environment. It would help
to improve the quality of training in skills that would directly impact on the implementation,
maintenance, and operation of environmental works and projects. For example, project
institutions would train skilled workers and technicians in the areas of: electronics; controls;
chemical processing; civil works; petroleum processing; and equipment maintenance. Many
of these skilled workers and technicians would seek employment in water and sewage
treatment plants, power generation plants, road construction, mining, etc.
I. Project Sustainability
5.17        The Government clearly recognizes the vital role of the VTE system in
producing the skilled manpower necessary to sustain the country's industrial growth. Raising
the quality of VTE so that the system can keep pace with rapid technological change is a high
priority. The RIT is a key part of the system and thus it is likely that the investments
included under the project will be implemented successfully and sustained in the longer term.
Furthermore, the Government has sought Bank assistance on its own initiative because it
values the Bank's ability to produce projects which are soundly designed and properly
focused on sectoral needs. This reinforces the view that the project would be efficiently
implemented and its benefits sustained in the longer term. As noted previously (paras. 3.14-
3.15), the present education policy framework is adequate for the implementation of the
proposed project, although there are important longer-term policy problems to be addressed.
However, these problems would not adversely affect sustainability of the proposed project.
They will be addressed in a sector study and recommendations for their resolution will be
implemented in conjunction with future projects. Prospects for the sustainability of project
outcomes have been further reinforced by the high priority being given to education
development in the Eighth Plan.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1          The project would assist in upgrading the training of skilled workers and
technicians, thus increasing their employability and raising productivity in the workforce.
Under the project, better-trained instructors, improved curricula and up-to-date equipment
would help to ensure that skilled workers and technicians would be better able to cope with
rapidly changing technology in industry. In the longer term, the project would contribute to
strengthening Thailand's capacity to pursue more technology-intensive industrialization.
B. Risks
6.2          The main risk associated with the project concerns the capacity of MOE/RIT
to implement the project. Although some staff remain in MOE who have had experience
under previous projects, this is now out of date. Thus special attention will be given to
staffing the PIU and to overall coordination through the PCU. Project risks would be



33
alleviated by the employment of project management and procurement advisers, through the
allocation of additional resources to project supervision in the early years of implementation
and by means of the annual reviews of implementation.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1         During negotiations the Government agreed:
(a)  to the terms of reference for the education sector policy study
(para. 3.15);
(b)  to prepare an education sector strategy for review in conjunction
with the Bank by March 15, 1997 and to review progress in the
implementation of the strategy with the Bank by March 15, 1999 (para.
3.16);
(c)  to implement eleven institutional plans to refurbish physical facilities in
project that were approved by the RIT President on June 15, 1995 and
reviewed by the Bank (para. 4.12);
(d)  that in conjunction with the Bank, the Govermnent would undertake
an annual review of project progress based on agreed monitorable
indicators which had been integrated into the overall monitoring system
(para.5. 11);
(e)  that the third annual review would include an overall assessment of
implementation experience to date and also include discussions on the
development of future projects (para. 5.11);
(f)  that audited accounts of the project, including a separate opinion for
expenditures under SOE procedures, would be sent to the Bank within
six months of the end of each financial year (para. 5.15); and
(g)  that implementation status reports would be prepared for presentation to
visiting Bank supervision missions (para. 5.15);
7.2         The condition of loan effectiveness is that the PCU and the PIU would be
established and staffed with key personnel (para. 5.8).
7.3         Subject to the above conditions, the project constitutes a suitable basis for a
fixed rate US dollar single currency Bank loan of US$31.6 million equivalent to Thailand for
a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace.



34
ANNEX 1
THAILAND
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Demand and Supply for S & T Manpower (case: Rapid Growth)
Unit: Person
1994     1995     1996      1997     1998      1999      2000
Supply
Certificate in Industrial   19,507   20,118   20,935   21,798   22,746   23,580   24,651
Technology
Diploma in Industrial       29,596   33,680   35,827   37,594   39,468   41,368   43,298
Technology
Bach. Eng.                   5,828    6,155    6,526    7,081      7,737    8,359    8,989
Demand
Certificate in Industrial   22,543   25,431   28,498   31,336   35,386   39,754   45,089
Technology
Diploma in Industrial       35,553   41,515   47,851   52,888   61,629   70,711   82,215
Technology
Bach. Eng.                   9,982   11,346   12,785   14,065    15,714    17,335    19,115
Source: Thailand Development Research Institute. 1991. "Educational Options for Future of Thailand -
Vol. I. The 1991 Year-End Conference.



35
ANNEX 2
THAILAND
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Education Budget, 1984-1995
Unit: Million Baht
--GDP --              National Budget ------    ----Education Budget
(NB)
Growth              Growth   % of                Growth    %       %
Fiscal    Amount    Rate    Amount    Rate    GDP                      Rate      of    of
Year                  (%)                 (%)              Amount    (%)    GD         NB
p
1984      973,412     7.0      192,000     8.5     19.7    38,670.6    4.1      4.0   20.1
1985     1,014,399    4.2      209,000     8.9     20.6    38,565.6    0.3      3.8   18.5
1986     1,099,541    8.4      211,650     1.3     19.2    39,438.7    2.3      3.6   18.6
1987     1,234,030    12.2     227,500    7.5      18.4    41,111.0    4.2      3.3   18.1
1988     1,465,736    18.8     243,500    7.0      16.6    43,860.7    6.7      3.0   18.0
1989     1,744,014    19.0     285,500    17.2     16.4    47,358.1    8.0      2.7   16.6
1990     2,191,000    11.6     335,000    17.3     16.7    59,572.9    25.8    3.0   17.8
1991    2,520,000     8.4      387,500    15.7     16.1    74,860.6   25.7    3.1   19.3
1992     2,833,000    7.9      460,400    18.8     17.6    85,664.5    14.4    3.3   18.6
1993     3,168,000    8.4      560,000    21.6     18.9   108,069.7   26.2    3.7   19.3
1994     3,602,000    8.7      625,000    11.6     17.4   121,973.1    12.9    3.4   19.5
1995    4,092,000     8.8      715,000    14.4     17.5   135,137.6    10.8    3.3   18.9
Source: Office of Policy and Planning, Ministry of Education and NESDB



36
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 7
THAILAND
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
RAJAMANGALA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
RIT is one of the most effective technical training systems in Thailand. RIT
was established in 1975 to provide technological education at three levels:  certificate,
diploma, and bachelor's degree. It currently offers instructional programs in 31 institutions.
Besides teaching, the RIT also provides research and extension services in: (a) two centers
for agricultural research and training; (b) one center for garment industry research and
training; (c) one center for human resource development (petro-chemical industry); and (d)
one center for the development of continuing education.
Table 1: RIT Enrollment by Level and Year 1988-94
Certificate Program
1988        1989      1990         1991       1992        1993         199
Male                        10,987     10,961      10,836      10,624     10,085       9,256
Female                      10,109     10,302      10,422      10,322     10,264      10,139
Total           20,951      21,096     21,263      21,258      20,946     20,349      19,395
Diploma Program
1988       1989        1990        1991       1992        1993        1994
Male            17,298      17,620      18,286     19,207      20,158     21,732      23,279
Female          11.337      11,361      12.285     12,939      13,688      14,543     15,162
Total           28,635      28,981      30,571     32,146      33,846      36,275     38,441
Bachelor's Degree Program
1988       1989        1990        1991       1992        1993        1994
Male             3,415       3,983       4,603      5,467       6,460       8,185      9,204
Female           2,033       2,289      2,836       3,516       4,253       4,642      5,057
Total            5,448       6,272       7,439      8,983      10,713      12,827     14,261
Table 2: Enrollments by Program by Technical Specialty 1988-1994
Certiricate Program
1988       1989       1990       1991       1992       1993        1994
Agriculture          718        667         588        491        438        424        432
Home                1,330      1,345      1,223      1,123        948        927         853
Economics
Industry            8,381      8,316      8,630      8,686      8,622      8,118       7,320
Business           10,240     10,504     10,559     10,664     10,619      10,559     10,394
Administration
Fine Arts            273        264         263        294        319        323         396
Total             20,951      21,096     21,263     21,258     20,946     20,249      19,395



37
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 7
Diploma Program
1988     1989      1990     1991     1992      1993      1994
Agriculture     4,803     4,294     4,393    4,067     4,420    4,417     4,312
Home             2,202    2,064     2,060    2,003     2,015     1,903    1,709
Economics
Industry        11,431    12,370    12,981    14,260    15,307    17,128    18,839
Drama and                                                30        33       24
Music
Business         8,317    8,264     9.056    9,704     9,976    10,632    11,341
Administration
Fine Arts        1,882    1,989     2,081    2,112     2,098    2,162     2,216
Total           28,635    28,981    30,571    32,146    33,846    36,275    38,441
Administration and Organization. The RIT operates as a Department of
the Ministry of Education. The head of the Institute is the President (See Chart 1 for
organization chart). He reports to the Permanent Secretary of MOE. The President receives
advisory input from the RIT Council comprised of representatives from the Institute and the
private sector. At present, the RIT has about 7,500 permanent staff (Table 4) employed on
its 31 campuses (12 urban and 19 regional). The total number of enrollments in 1994 was
about 72,000 students (Tables I and 2).
Financing. The RIT is financed by the Government and student fees. At
present the budget for the RIT is about B2,278 million or about 2.1% of the MOE budget
(Table 2.2). Students generally pay fees ranging from B50 to B150 per credit hour. Most
students take about 24 credit hours per semester. Depending upon their enrolled program,
students pay between 10% and 20% of the unit costs for their programs. In addition, a
limited number of programs are offered to industry in production work which is financed
through cost recovery. Some programs also require that students provide the cost of some
instructional supplies/materials. It is estimated that since 1990, about 17% of the total RIT
budget has come from sources outside the Government budget. Unit costs per year for RIT
range widely for technical programs. It is estimated that the costs for certificate and diploma
students vary from about B9,000 to B15,000 per year and for engineering degree programs,
B41,000 to B65,000 (Table 3).
Foreign Assistance Inputs. Since 1988, the RIT has received aid from
Canada, Japan, New Zealand, Germany, United Kingdom, Australia, Austria, United States
of America, and Belgium. Most of the assistance has been targeted on a few instructional
areas and has been in the form of training (local and foreign) and visiting teachers/consultants
to support the improvement of teaching methods and curricula. Some projects have provided
small amounts of equipment as a component of their agreement. More recently Austria has
provided additional equipment and technical assistance.



38
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 7
Table 3: Tuition Fees and Estimated Unit Costs for RIT
(Unit = Baht)
Student Fees                                                 Business, Arts,   Industrial
(per credit hour)  3 Yr. Cert.    Diploma     Engineering   Home Economics Teaching
12-3 years 14-5 years 12-3 years 14-5 years 12-3 years 14-5 years |
Theory Fee                 50            60      120     120      100      100     120      120
Practice Fee               70            80      150     150      120      120     150      150
Other/(per
Semester)
Industry                 6,900        4,600  25,000   45,000   15,000  27,000   15,000   27,000
Others                   3,900        2,600
Unit Costs                                                                        (Baht per year)
Industry        14,000 - 15,300 9,000 - 10,760   41,200   61,200   28,200   40,200   35,200   46,200
Other           11,100 - 12,300  8,000 - 8,760   45,250   65,250   31,500   43,500   38,250   50,250
Instructional Programs
The instructional programs are divided into two main streams, degree
programs and non-degree programs. Each academic stream is served by a separate teacher
corps and is administered under separate units within the RIT.
Degree-level Programs. The Institute has 11 academic faculties which offer
about 41 degree programs on 21 campuses. These faculties include: (a) Agriculture at
Bangphra; (b) Agriculture at Nakhon Si Thammarat; (c) Agriculture Engineering and
Technology; (d) Business Administration; (e) Drama and Music; (f) Education; (g)
Engineering Technology; (h) Fine Arts; (i) Home Economics; (j) Liberal Arts and (k)
Science and Fishery Technology. In 1994, 14,261 students were enrolled in degree programs
at RIT .
The faculties are responsible for the provision of academic services to support
two curriculum groups of undergraduate programs. The first group offers technical B.S.
degrees in the areas of agriculture, home economics, business administration, engineering and
fine arts. The second curriculum group offers vocational and technical teacher education
B.S. degrees for teachers of agriculture, home economics, drama and music, business
administration, engineering (trade and industrial) education, and fine arts.



39
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 7
Non-degree Level (Certificate and Diploma) Programs. As mentioned
above, a separate teaching force offers certificate and diploma courses. They are in varying
combinations and total about 91 programs.  They are offered on a total of about 30
campuses.
The instructional programs at the certificate level are provided on about 21 of
RIT's campuses though out Thailand. These campuses offer about 34 courses in the areas of
technical (23), agricultural (1), business administration (5), home economics (4), and fine arts
(1). In 1994, 19,395 students were enrolled in certificate programs at RIT.
The diploma courses are offered in about 28 campuses. They include about
108 subjects in the areas of technical (60), agriculture (10), business administration (11),
home economics (7), fine arts (20) and drama and music (1). In 1994, 38,441 students were
enrolled in diploma programs at RIT.
Internal Efficiency
Management Capacity. The RIT is a large and complicated technical
training organization. With more than 70,000 enrollments and a wide variety of programs, it
must be considered a large college by most standards of comparison. The management of
RIT is well structured and fully capable of managing the diverse operations of the Institute.
Its organizational structure is well conceived and conservative given the large number of
campuses that must be administered and coordinated (Chart 1). The central and local
administrators are generally well experienced and most have had many years of tenure with
RIT. As most of the training and experience of RIT administrators is from local sources,
there is a need for them to have more international exposure to the administrative policies
and procedures of other countries with large institutions and similar programs. Of the
employed staff (totaling about 7,550), less than 10% are classified as administrative officers.
Student Flows. Although difficult to analyze, due to the complexity of the
programs and enrollment procedures, a review of the available data suggests that the student
flows are reasonably efficient overall. Typically, the campuses are able to maximize their
enrollments every semester. Student dropouts are generally low and there are few students
recycled in the programs.
Teachers. The teachers' academic qualifications are reasonable, but on the
low side, for the types of programs offered by the Institute. About 67% of the teachers have
B.S. degrees and 28% have masters degrees. About 1% of the teachers have doctorates and
4% have less than B.S. degrees. Most have limited or no industrial experience in the areas



40
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 7
for which they were trained and are teaching. This is a significant shortcoming in RIT. Over
the years, through inservice training and preservice education, many teachers have been
trained in pedagogy including instructional methods, curriculum development and
instructional materials development. To further support this effort to upgrade the teaching
force, the RIT has an active program whereby foreign teachers are invited to teach and
conduct research at the Institute and to share their expertise with local counterparts. During
the past five years, the Institute has typically had from 20 to 30 teachers/researchers in
residence each year. Likewise, there is a significant effort to send a limited number of
teachers on short-term and long-term fellowship programs in a number of countries.
Typically about 15 long-term fellowships (local and foreign) are made available for selected
staff each year. About 30 short term scholarships (local and foreign) are also made available
each year.
Most of the teachers of technical subjects need upgrading to enable them to
teach the emerging technologies in their respective subject areas. They also need to have
more opportunities to acquire industrial experience and to upgrade their academic
credentials. The overall student/teacher ratios range from 15 to I to about 20 to 1.
Table 4: Personnel Employed in RIT 1990 though 1993
Position             1990         1991          1992          1993         1994
Admin/Officer             609           619           538          559           560
Teacher                  3,602         3,620        3,715         3,835         3890
Support Staff            2,452         2,606        2,602         3,078         3,100
Total                    6,663         6,845        6,855         7,472         7,550
Facilities and Equipment. As mentioned above the RIT has 31 teaching
institutions and 5 research and training centers. Overall, the facilities vary in their adequacy,
but many are in need of major upgrading and refurbishing. Over the years, inadequate
attention and funding has been given to the maintenance of the buildings. As the result, many
need refurbishing. In particular, there is a need to upgrade the laboratories and workshops
that support the higher level technologies required by industry.
The types of equipment in the RIT are reasonably well balanced for the
programs being offered. There are significant amounts of medium to high technology
equipment installed in the various campuses. Much of the medium technology equipment is
obsolete and suffers from years of hard use by students and less than adequate maintenance.
This severely limits the quality and level of instructional programs offered by the Institute.



41
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 7
Although quite insufficient in quantity, the higher technology equipment is
generally up-to-date and well maintained. Maintenance in the institutions is considered
important, but faces limitations of inadequate budget allocations and a lack of staff capacity.
There is a significant need to upgrade the equipment in RIT and to establish a more viable
approach to equipment operations management and maintenance. Of particular need is the
introduction of training equipment to support emerging higher technology training.
Curriculum and Instructional Materials Development. All curricula used
by RIT are centrally developed and approved by the Ministry of Education and the Ministry
of University Affairs. The process is formalized and relatively slow. The process begins with
the RIT's Curriculum Board (chaired by the President) which sets policy and approvals for
curriculum reform and new curricula. Following that, curriculum committees for each field
are established. The curriculum committees have participation from industry and access to
labor market information. These committees manage the curriculum development processes.
They decide on the specific activities that need to take place and then appoint working
committees of senior teachers from the various college campuses. These teachers research
and write the necessary documents required.  Following the completion of the draft
curriculum, the documents are sent to the Curriculum Board for review and approval.
Following the approval, the curriculum is then sent to the RIT Council for approval.
Following the approval by the RIT Council, the curriculum is then sent to the Ministry of
University Affairs and the Ministry of Education. Following that, it is printed and distributed.
Existing curricula are evaluated every three years. Minor modifications are
often made every year as required. New curricula are evaluated on a yearly basis until all
problems are worked out. It is estimated that in 1994, about B1.9 million was allocated to
support curriculum development for the RIT.
The development of instructional media and materials is done through an
Instructional Materials Development Center that is attached to the RIT Registrar's Office.
These materials generally support the core courses and new curricula that are formally
introduced. Additional audio-visual and written instructional materials are produced by the
instructors within their own institutions. Most institutions have the capacity to produce
commonly used instructional materials. The MOE offers a course on the development of
instructional materials that all instructional staff are encouraged to take. Over the next five
years there will be a need to upgrade curricula and develop more instructional materials for
the higher-level technologies being introduced by the Institute.



42
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 7
Instructional Methodology. The RIT actively encourages the use of modem
instructional methods including audio-visual technology, demonstration approaches with
video camera, mock-ups, etc. Considerable effort is made to train teachers who need to use
these approaches in their instructional programs. There is a need for more teacher training in
the use of methodology that features higher levels of
technology (e.g., computer based modeling, computer or digital-based simulators, and
interactive learning). There is an inadequate amount of related equipment to support the
teaching process.
External Efficiency.
Placement rates for the RIT are high, although variable. It is estimated that
the rates range from about 80% to about 95%. Such high rates should be expected as the
economy is rapidly expanding and there is a high demand from the private sector for
personnel with the training that is received at RIT. In 1995, it is expected that the RIT will
graduate about 6,000 persons from certificate programs 15,000 with diplomas and about
4,000 with degrees.
Employer satisfaction is considered high for RIT graduates. The RIT has
determined this through an ongoing follow-up program where students and employers are
asked to provide the evaluation of the programs offered by the RIT. Every year a 60%
sample (random) of graduates are selected for participation in the study. Of that sample
about 40% receive mailed questionnaires. The remaining 60% are interviewed by RIT
personnel along with their employers. Of the mailed survey, there is typically a 50% return.
The collected data is analyzed and the findings are given to the President for review and
consideration. A report also goes to the Curriculum Board as input to future modifications
of curricula and instructional materials.



43
ANNEX 4
THAILAND
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Number and Proportion of Students in Public and Private Institutions, by Level and
Type of Education, 1994
Educational                              Teachet              Undetgraduate  Graduate
Levelrrype        General    Vocational Training   Otbers    Degree         Degree   Total
1/
Total             10,856,971    779,500              22,093        733,343    38,745  12,527,531
Public            9,483,059    415,251     96,879    22,093       674,802    35,646  10,667,730
Private           1,373,912    364,249                   -        118,541     3,099   1,859,801
Public:Private         86:14      53:47     96,879    100:00         92:08     92:08       85:15
100:00
Preprimary          1,390,417                                                           1,390,417
Public              986,089                                                             986,089
Private             404,328                                                             404,328
Public:Private        71:29                                                               71:29
Primary            7,969,672                                                           7,969,672
Public            6,790,385                                                           6,790,385
Private           1,179,287                                                           1,179,287
Public:Private         85:15                                                               85:15
Lower Secondary    2,236,070                                                           2,236,070
Public            2,075,449                                                           2,075,449
Private             160,621                                                             160,621
Public:Private         92:08                                                               92:08
Upper Secondary      651,299    543,147                1,906                           1,196,282
Public              617,225    272,710                1,906                             891,841
Private              34,004    270,437                   -                              304,441
Public:Private         95:05      50:50               100:00                               75:25
Higher                          236,488     96,879    20,187       733,343    38,745   1,125,642
Public                         142,676     96,879    20,187       614,802    35,646     970,190
Private                         93,812          -        -        118,541     3,099     215,452
Public:Private                    60:40     100:00    100:00         83:17     93:08       86:14
Source: Policy and Planning Division, Office of Permanent Secretary MOE
1/ Number of enrolled students in institutions under the jurisdiction of Department of Teacher Education, Ministry
of Public Health, and the Ministry of Transport and Communication
N4t-'tz: Variances in figures are the result of rounding errors in this chart or others.



44
ANNEX 5
THAILAND
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Staff Development Plan
(Number)
CY               1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   Total
Staff training (short-term)           40      40                             80
for Technical Teachers
Project management             6       6                                      12
and planning
Total                  6      46      40       -       -       -      92



_  >  S  e       ", 0; oo    
5rr:~~~~~CDC  _eDQ
e~~~      ~G                CD 3     3
Ci~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
c  -  - - - - - _      Electrical Power
--  ,  ,  , _  _  _ _ _  _  _ _  , Electronics -Computer
cc.         -  -  - -  - -          . Mechanical Power Tech.
 -  -  - - -  - - -  - - Electronics - Communications
-P ,       _ ,             -,, _,,, _, Refrigeration                       0
. .  .  . .  .  .  .  . . ,  ,  , Textile Chemistry
. ,,,  _,,,,,,,,  Mechatronics
.s    ,  ,, ,,       _   Avionics
v   o.  -.-,,...   , . ....   ..... .. .  . .
c-                        ,  , _    - -  - - Electrical Power
- - - -  -  -  -    Electronics - Computer                           EO
g-  -  -  - - -  -  - - _  _ _, Mechanical Power Tech.
-            - - -  -  - -  - -  - -   Electronics - Communications
:.   -,    _,          _ ,, _,,, _, Refrigeration
,~~~~~~                .  .          Textile Chemistry          :3     _ 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  :_ ...    ..
.s ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ..,............._
- -  -   - -  -- - -    - - Taining(Short-term)0
.. .  ..........Study Tours (Administrators)
, __  _  _  _ _ _  _  _ _ _ Curriculum Development
-    -  - -  - -  - -  -  - -Instructional Materials Development
 -  -  - -  -  - -  -  _       0 & M Procedures and Services Dev. -
9 X3NNV



46
ANNEX 7
THAILAND
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Expenditure by Year Including Contingencies
Baht Million                       ----US Million
1997   1998  1999 2000 2001   Total  1997 1998  1999 2000 2001 Total
L Investment Costs
A. Refurbishment of Facilities  117.2  127.3   -    -    -   244.5  4.7  5.1        -    -    -  9.8
B. Equipment                  272.3 421.2 230.8     -    -    924.3  10.9  16.8   9.2     -    - 37.0
C. Institutional Improvement
1. Foreign Consultants       3.3      -     -    -    -       3.3  0.1     -      -    -    -  0.1
2. Overseas Training         14.9  15.3     -    -    -      30.2  0.6  0.6       -    -    -   1.2
Subtotal Institutional         18.2  15.3      -    -    -      33.5  0.7  0.6      -    -    -   1.3
Improvement
D. Curriculum Development
Local Consultants            2.5   1.3      -    -    -       3.8  0.1  0.1       -    -    -  0.2
E. Instructional Materials     45.9  47.5     -    -    -       93.4  1.8  1.9      -    -    -  3.7
Total Investment Costs        456.0 612.7 230.8     -    -  1,299.5  18.2  24.5   9.2     -    - 52.0
IL Recurrent Costs
O&M                          2.5   3.5   4.4  5.1  3.4    18.8  0.1  0.1   0.2  0.2  0.1  0.8
Total Recurrent Costs           2.5   3.5   4.4  5.1  3.4    18.8  0.1  0.1   0.2  0.2  0.1  0.8
Total Project Costs           458.5 616.2 235.2  5.1  3.4  1,318.3  18.3  24.6   9.4  0.2  0.1  52.7



47
ANNEX S
THAILAND
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Organization Chart for Project Management
Permanent Secretary
sident of RIT             Prject Coordinating Unit
P-resident of RIT      |          (PCU)
Director of PIU              P       O ai
Vice President of Research and      Pr Conjiite (POC)
L       ~~TrainingComte  PC
Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
[-Project Manager
Consultants
Functional LLUniI   Functional Unit     Functional Unit    Functional Unit
General Admin.            II                III                 IV
and              Epuipment           Training           Planning
Disbursesnents      Procurement         Fellowships           Key
and Civil Works      Study Tours       Performance
Indicators &
M&E



THAILAND
Technical Education Project
1996       [      1997       ]      1998               1999              2000       |       2001       |      2002        [      2
ID    Task Name                                  2       1 3   4[1    23    4   1   2   3   4   1    23          4 14 2                 1 |2 |3 |4 |1   23 3 4 1    2
2    Negotiations
3    Board Presntation                            *  U30
4    Loan Signing                                      7/30
5    Effcctiveness                                      *131
6    General Procurement Notice (GPN)                       11/1
7    New Project Statup Seminar                             11/4
B    PIU Established and Staffed                            11/4
9
10   INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
11    Curriculum Dev./Instructional Mat'ls Dev.
12      Consultants - Curriculum
13    Staff Development
14      Technical Teacher Training (Short-Term)
15      Project Imp. Tmg. (Study Tours)
16    Education Mgt. Development Activities
17     Inservice Seminars to Upgrade
18        Instructional Mgt. Procedures (total 8)
19      Review and Incorporation of Revised                  .                 .                                                                         -
20       Procedures
21    Project Monitoring and Evaluation
22      Monitoring Activities                                                  .                                           -
23      Project Evaluation (Ongoing)                         .
24      Project Evaluation (Final)                                                                     -                                    _                               . _



THAILAND
Technical Education Project
1996              1997               1998               1999               2000              2001               2002               2
ID    Task Name                                  2   3   4   1 12   3   4   1  2 13   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1  2 L31 4  11  2
25
26    CIVIL WORKS
27    Prep. of working drawings and specs.P1P1
30    Preparation and approval of bidding, docs.
33    Invitation for bids
36    Bid evaluation
39    Review and approval of recommended awards
42    Award of contracts--
45    Construction  Period_______                                                                           __________
46    Delivery of conipleted works                                                                   ___________________
47    Warranty Period                                                                                                    __________________
48
49    PROCUIREMENT OF EQUIPMENT &
so      INSTRUCIONAL MATERIALS,
51      INCLUDING O&M
52    Preparation of equipment lists and specs.
53    Preparation and approval of bidding does.
56    Invitation for bids
59    Bid evaluation
62    Review and approval of recommended awards
65    Award of contracts-
68    Delivery, installation and initia testing--
71    Warranty Period
74    Consultants- Procurement- 



THAILAND
Technical Education Project
1996       [     1997       ]      1998              1999              2000              2001i     ~       2002              2
ID  Task Name                                  2 3  411  2 3  4 1  2 3  4 1  2 3  4j1  2 3  4  1 2 3 4  1 23  4J1  2
75
76   PROJECT PROCESSING
77   Audit ReportsK><                                                                                              K                   >                 >K
85   Project Completion103
86   Project Closing Date                                                                                                                                   43
87   Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
10131
LAp



51
ANNEX 10
THAILAND
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Bank Supervision Mission Plan
TM  = Task Manager    PS = Procurement Specialist 1              00 = Operations Officer
Length
Timing                (in weeks)          Nature of Mission      Team Composition
Year 1 of Project 12
Month 1                   2                    Start-up             TM, PS, 00
Month 3                   2                  Supervision              TM,PS
Month 7                   2                  Supervision            TM, PS, 00
Month 12                   2                 Supervision               TM, PS
Year 2 of Project
Month 3                   3                Annual Review            TM, PS, 00
Month 7                   1                  Supervision              TM, 00
Month 12                   2                 Supervision              TM, PS
Year 3 of Project
Month 3                   3                Annual Review            TM, PS, 00
Month 7                   1                  Supervision              TM, 00
Month 12                   2                 Supervision              TM, PS
Year 4 of Project
Month 3                   3                Progress Review          TM, PS, 00
Month 9                   2                  Supervision              TM, 00
Year 5 of Project
Month 3                   3                Annual Review            TM, PS, 00
Month 9                   1                  Supervision              TM, PS
Year 6 - Following
Project Completion
Month 3                   3                  ICR Mission            TM, PS, 00
The Procurement Specialist will also have expertise as a Technical Educator and will therefore combine
two roles.
12 Project year begins on Date of Effectiveness.



THAILAND
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Key Performance Indicators
1996            1997            1999            2002            2003
Baseline    Intermediate    Mid-term              ICR         Full Impact
Project Goal and Objectives                   Key Performance Indicators               Year           Years            Year            Year            Year
Major Goal: Improve the quality of technical education in II selected RIT campuses
Objectives:                                 Impact Indicator:
I. Improve the management capacity within   I.I  In the programs targeted by the project, the  Baseline  Utilization Rate  Utilization Rate  ---          Fulfilled:
the RITs                                       participating RUT campuses will reach an   student flow  60%            70%                             Utilization Rate
80% classroom to laboratory utilization rate rate determined                                            80%
by the end of the project              in 1997
Output Indicator:
1.11  12 key RIT administrators will be      ---             Fulfilled:
provided with an opportunity to study                   12 trained
the management operations of similar
projects in other countries (total duration                                                                                 LA
for each administrator is one month)
Impact Indicator:
2. Strengthen curricula and linkages with   2.1   Based on the figures for the base-line year,  Number of  ---            ---             5%               Fulfilled:
industry                                      the number of industry recommended      courses offered                                                  10%
courses in the RIT programs supported by  in 1997
the project will increase by an average of   used as base-
at least 10% in the participating institutions  line for indicator
Input Indicator:
2.11  Local curriculum consultant services will be ---       about 30         about 30        Fulfilled:
provided for a period of 60 person-months               person-months   person-months   Total of 60
provided        provided        person-months
Output Indicators:                                                                      provided
2.12  All new courses will have completed    ---             30% completed   30% completed  Fulfilled:
curricula by the end of the project                                                     100%
completed
2.13  All existing courses where new technology  ---         30% completed   30% completed  Fulfilled: 
is being introduced, will have upgraded                                                 100%                                X
curricula by the end of the project                                                     completed



THAILAND
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Key Performance Indicators
1996             1997             1999            2002             2003
Baseline      Intermediate        Mid-term           ICR         Full Impact
Project Goal and Objectives                   Key Performance Indicators               Year             Years             Year            Year             Year
3. Upgrade workshops and laboratories through     Output Indicators:
the provision of up-to-date equipment and  3.11  Equipment will be provided according to an  ---       25%                50%             Fulfilled:
physical improvements to buildings             agreed upon schedule of implementation                                                      100% completed
3.12  Construction and facilities modification will ---       ---               60%              Fulfilled:
be completed according to an agreed upon                                                   100% completed
schedule of implementation
Input Indicator:
3.13  12 person-months of procurement        ---              About 6 months    Fulfilled:
consultant services will be provided                    provided          Total of 12
Output Indicators:
4. Expand the supply and upgrade the quality    4.11  The RIT Instructional Materials     ---              Fulfilled:
of instructional materials                     Development Center will organize and                    All teams are
coordinate teams to develop and produce                 organized and
the materials                                          trained
4.12  By the end of the project, all courses fully   ---                        Fulfilled:
provided with required instructional                                       100% complete
materials and supplies
Impact Indicator:
5. Strengthen the practical skills of key    5.1   Based on scores obtained on examinations  1996 graduate        ---          10% increase in      ---           Fulfllled:
teaching staff in advanced technologies        prepared by the respective institutions, the  examinations                   classes where                  Impact measured
through overseas training                      students will show a 20% increase in their  used as base-                    teachers have                  by examinations
assessed skills and knowledge in project  line for indicator               received training                 20% increase
supported programs where short-term
overseas teacher training has been
provided
Output Indicator:
5.11  80 selected teachers will be provided with                  40 trained        20 trained      Fulfilled:
short-term, specialized training to upgrade                                                  total of 80
their teaching knowledge and skills                                                            trained



54
ANNEX 12
THAILAND
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
DISBURSEMENTS
IBRD Fiscal Year        Disbursements                            Disbursements
and               (US$ million)          as % of             Profile (%)
Semester        Semester    Cumulative       Total         Thailand All Sectors
1997       1         0.0          0.0            0                    0
2         2.0          2.0            6                    3
1998       1         5.0          7.0           22                    6
2         8.0          15.0          47                   18
1999       1         8.0          23.0          73                   26
2         5.0         28.0           89                   38
2000       1         1.0          29.0           92                  54
2         1.0          30.0          95                   66
2001       1         0.5          30.5           97                  78
2         0.5          31.0          98                   86
2002       1         0.4          31.4           99                  94
2         0.2          31.6          100                  98
2003       1          -             -            -                   100
Completion Date: October 31, 2001
Closing Date:      April 30, 2002



55
ANNEX 13
THAILAND
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
A. Reports and Studies Related to the Sector/Subsector
A-I   World Bank. July 1991. Decision and Change in Thailand: Three Studies in
Support of the Seventh Plan.
A-2   World Bank 1991. Vocational Training in a Changing Economy: The Case of
Thailand PHREE Background Paper Series No.PHREE/91/33.
A-3   Thailand Development Research Institute. 1991. "Educational Options for
Future of Thailand - Vol. I. The 1991 Year-End Conference.
B.    Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B-1   Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund. 1994. The Proposal for Strengthening
Vocational and Technical Manpower Production Program.
B-2   Rajamangala Institute of Technology. 1994. Feasibility Study.
C.   Selected Working Papers
C-1   Department of Vocational Education. 1995. Project Proposal.
C-2   Rajamangala Institute of Technology. 1994. Project Proposal.
C-3   Terms of Reference



Organization of the Ralamangala Institute of Technology
RAJAMANGALA
INSTITUTE OF
TECHNOLOGY
COUNCIL
PnESIDENT
| InlemnalAudit Unil           VIEPEIE|ertr
Assistants to the
Preskidetl
Offlces         ~~Research and Tralining        Olice of Ilie Presidenit         Operating Centers           Campuses & Faculties
C-ntrs                    (AcII ileslsralon)
Regisirar and Educallotial    Larnpamrg Agriculiural         ftllil(iig & Site Developmcnt  Cenler of Hl-orictilicre       12 Motropoiltan Campuses
SOrvices                     fllsearcal & Trailning Cenler  Ca,niilis Allairs Divisioii     Propagation & Conilntilnig    19 Roglonal Campuses
Oflice of Ihe Inspoclors      Sakori Nakhon Agilcnailirmi    fi,nu1co Division               Edttcalion                    I I Facullios
Ollico of Special Prolacis     Rosearch & Tratinig Conler    Personnel Division             LanjuanJaU Center
Tloe insilutle ol Inilofnnallon  Inslitiule of Tocirnihal    Planning Division              Chiooratavan Taining Cenler
Te!cilioolJy                  loesearch and] Developmroni   Ploclremonl & Constructiont    of Toclnology
Ceniral Llilary               ilistitile ol Cirernical nosoalith  Olvision                 Conlor of Tropical Frull
Garment indusiry               Shtulent Service Division      Crops Development &
Researlc & Training Center    Wellare Division               Technology Tranisfer
HRD Center of E. Seabord                                     Stalf Development Cenler.
Petro-Chemical Industry                                     5 Regions
Machinery Service and
Training Center                                                                                                          w
6adshv504191       (I



The Slruclure of the National Education System
PIlf PRIMARY        PnIMAFRY EDUCArION                SECONDAnY EDUCATION              I1IIGI En EDUCATION                   GnADUATE
Fi)U(:AI ION                                                                           UNDEnGRADUATE
Teadcer Trinling
Lowor             Upper              i     2
Univosslty
-    I 2   3   4   5   6                                                        1   2    3 | 4   5   6
VocalloVTecin"cal
1
Military/ Police
A ENTlANCE EXAMINATION
O  CERTIFICATE
* D)IPLOMA
* DEGOFEE                                    Mislc/Dmamnilc Ails
~~EPNo~- EL  -40EJ-
* '  Ago   3 3-G   |    | 7 | n | 9 |   | 11 | 12 |    | 13 | 14 |   |    | IG| 11 I            19
sads/w504 i9a



The Conlintilng Process of Techinical and Vocational Education
PnIMARY EDUCATION             LOWEn                    UPPEn                    I IIGI fEf EDUCATION                GRADUATE
SECONDAnY        G       SECONDAnY
EDU(AI ION               EDUCATION
21       3   4   5   6           7 |_                -         tI]l       ,       I  1 2 1 3 1 4 1-0X1
U.Ldefgraduale
_    _    ,                                         (B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~raduate
_    0         ~~~~TechnJca Dlploma
f      2||o    Vocational Diploma                              x
;i    Depailmenl ol Vocallog I Educalboni (DOVE)
i  -t  | 1 2 13 1x-   {  o      T [2
O TowmhalUon ol each level w
0   Coilificato                            ~~~~~~~~~~Ralchamongala lInsliltuo of Technology (RIT)
O  Dlploma                                                      I rl                   3
,& Dilporna In Toachoer Trnilrsti
a Degree                                                                                                                                      C"
KlIxj Moixkhtil Insltilul ol TeciviologJy (KMIT) 
NON FonMAL EDUCATION SYSTEM,
IIIb



59                                Chart 4
Number of Students by Education Level: Academic Year 1992
Persons (millions)
1_
11-
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
0
1988       1989       1990        1991      ,942
I Higher Education
a Upper Secondary Education
* Lower Secondary Education
M Elemntary Education
* Pre-elementary Education
cak\c4\wl704a



60                                     Chart 5
Number of Students at Secondary Education and Higher Education by Grade
and Educational Type: Academic Year 1992
Graduate Degree
Higher Ed. 4th and 5th year
High Ed. 3rd year
Higher Ed. 2nd year
Higher Ed. 1st year
Grade 12
Grade 11
Grade 10
Grade 9
Grade 1
Grade 7
I==              I                     I1 I=  1
350  300 250  200 150  100  30   0   50  100  150 200  250 300  350
Persons (thousands)
BE=   General Education Type                   Vocational Education Type
Higher Education                       Teacher Training Type
(Undergraduate Degree
and Higher)
cak\c4\wl704a



MAP SECTION
5,






MYANMAR                                                                                                             'DR 1 PDR .
I         eCh...gR.
,  '   Z         s      . _  o            LAO  PEOPLE'S                           THAILAND   |
i    I \  (-1 - j-' f                    DEMOCRATIC                              ' -r            A
/Mr  Hon SConBQTI
REPUBLIC                              ,     '  ,
j ChrorsMo                        
;             3tS~~Gorfthn      "        seS" 
ch-9 M.,  T'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A. 
V8L / '                 OS  tV            /   __          ,/                                 t  - .                 NA AYSIA
J~~~ *                   lmpn           /        'S                ' 
>     -    t --,-   R (E  G  1 ) O          - r O                                         N                               I
T*ko /S, Ao)                           r -g                                i,i
, / t - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N  O  R  T-H  E  A  S  T'   kLd.1-0n-
N  -  a  -.  H  o   >o  ~~~~~~~~~~<>" ~     ~      _KrK-'K--
B.   V.J  -.  'V                                 UA,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .-T-hF P.E
<            /mrhon] ' >'                     'K -                     ,KSnKen     AKlOAn S   )
ToE  ^S~LkaII0 _~                               I                        I i    _   R,E  G  liO  N    ! I
Ik              .J                             *          IN Se_ nr"
i*\  k                                                      Ubo rhenisr /  N;R/HEASTN'&LN\ ;5. - K., \
.~~~~~~~P,kh                                           Khoe Koen '  )   /    '   hy n 
(yD
MYA',NMAR)R   G /0 N
rr
C             CEorlo    y*                   rIcEho, ~~~~C~, plhoKSa
M Y ^ N M A R;  R=lchabU q S VoicICo,,ooo    BW'So,'                                      /   ROOk$O 
%    v        I   ,S4*O  TLh*'q    Bonko TeInirl   I
Sea    1                                          >isn..Cr   UI 
Ar i45,o ''V/oT-                                        CAMBODIA
;CENKhTA Kh\;  .
Wong  Klai Kongwon,                                   '
r                    ~~~~Gulf
-I,                   ~                                   .of
<,,,_..~         Xi,
Thailand
10-                                                                                                                             10I-  -- 
THAILAND
(        Tho-1    1                  TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
K                                       * @    PROJECT INSlITUTLONS
S  0  U  T  H  j(D  PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS
PIro'gngOO        _   Tk,.so, *r  NAT1IONA CAPITAL
'N ^' RIVERS
R  E  G  I 0  N
F     b                                      . . _   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
SOub.           j                                         ..     REGION BOUNDARIES
-        .    PIordog                       -* -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
,   -'   Songhllo
Oor.So..            (D Southern
S  poi,o,,9                              R Ps  KILO M ET ERS   200
0  0          100    10      200
Ns~~~~~~~1                       1100 IhE5
MALAYSIA!   \   ,
rv.Ztdr Om           rX ,hwo                                                                                                              N   't
_0I'                                                          I04'                             N
I                                                                              K,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~









I MAGI NG
Report No:       15578 TH
Type: 5AR



