Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16835
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 3083-ME
June 27, 1997
Infrastructure Sector Leadership Group
Mexico Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit                                    Mexican Peso (Mex$)
New Mexican Peso (MXN)
US$1.00                                          Mex$ 2326.00 (March 15, 1989)
US$1.00                                          MXN$  7.80 (January 23, 1997)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
kVA (kilovolt-ampere)           =                1,000 VA (volt-ampere)
kV (kilovolt)                                    1,000 V (volts)
kW (kilowatt)                                    1,000 W (watts)
MVA (megavolt-ampere)                            1,000 kVA
MW (megawatt)                                    1,000 kW
kWh (klowatt hour)              =                1,000 Wh (watt hour)
MWh (megawatt hour)             =                1,000 kWh
GWh (gigawatt hour)              -               1,000,000 kWh
MVA (megavolt ampere)            -               1,000 kVA
MVAR (megavar)                                   1,000,000 VAR (reactive volt-ampere)
ton (T)                                          1,000 kg
Tcal (teracalories)                              88.02 TOE = 10^12 calories
TOE (ton of oil equivalent)     =                0.0102 Tcal
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I st - December 31 st
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CFE           =   Comisi6n Federal de Electricidad (Government owned national electric utility)
CLFC          =   Compaffia de Luz y Fuerza del Centro (Government owned Electricity distribution company,
serving the metropolitan area of Mexico City and environs)
CONAE         =   Comisi6n Nacional de Ahorro de Energia
FRA               Financial Rehabilitation Agreement (Between Government and CFE)
IDB           =   Inter-American Development Bank
INAH          =   Instituto Nacional de Antropologia e Historia (National Institute of Anthropology and History)
NAFIN         =   Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (Government owned national development financial institution)
PEMEX             Petr6leos Mexicanos (Government owned national oil company)
SARH          =   Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos (Ministry of Agriculture and Hydro
Resources)
SEDUE             Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia (Ministry of Urban Development and Ecology)
SEMIP             Secretaria de Energia, Minas e Industria Paraestatal (Ministry of Energy, Mines and State
Enterprise)
SHCP          =   Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito P[blico (Ministry of Finance and Public Credit)
SRA               Secretaria de Reforma Agraria (Ministry of Agrarian Reform)
SPP               Secretaria de Programaci6n y Presupuesto (Ministry of Planning and Budget)
SAR           =   Staff Appraisal Report
SEMARNAP   =   Secretaria del Medio Ambiente, Recursos Naturales, Agricultura y Pesca (Ministry of the
Environment, Natural Resources, Agriculture and Fishery)
Vice President                           Shahid Javed Burki
Director                                 Olivier Lafourcade
Country Sector Leader                    Richard Clifford
Staff Member                             Marcelo Osorio



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY                 .      .............................................................i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives        1.......................................................
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ......................................................  2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project  ...........      4
D. Project Sustainability       .......................................................  9
E. Bank Performance .......................................................       I 0
F. Borrower Performance ......................1........................ . .......  1
G. Future Project Operation .....................   ..................................   12
H. Key Lessons Learned ...................      ....................................  13
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
APPENDICES:
A. AIDE MEMOIRE OF THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
B. SUMMARY OF THE TRANSLATION OF THE BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
C. OPERATIONAL PLAN TO MONITOR CFE'S FUTURE OPERATIONS
Available in Project Files.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 3083-ME
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Hydroelectric Development
Project in Mexico, for which Loan 3083-ME in the amount of US$460 million equivalent was
approved on June 8, 1989 and made effective on January 18, 1990.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1996, the original closing date. It was fully
disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on October 4, 1995.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Marcelo Osorio (LASLG) and Ms. Maria Clara Mejia
(LATEN) and reviewed by Mr. Luis Cosenza (Task Manager) of the Infrastructure Group within
the Latin America Sector Leadership Group (LASLG). Other Bank Resettlement and
Environmental Specialist contributed to assess final outcomes: William Partridge, George Ledec
(LATEN); Scott Guggenheim (EARS); Salomon Nahmad (LAMXC); Shelton Davis (ENVSP);
Theodore Downing (Consultant). Mr. Manzoor Rehman (Consultant) contributed to the ICR by
preparing some statistical tables. Preparation of this ICR began at the time of the Bank's
completion mission during February, 1997. It is based on materials in the project file. The
borrower contributed to the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project execution.
(Appendix B).






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 3083-ME
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Hydroelectric Development Project was the twelfth operation approved by the Bank
for the power sector in Mexico. Project preparation was supported mainly by an engineering loan
which financed studies to improve the situation of Comision Federal de Electricidad's (CFE)
thermal power plants and distribution networks. The US$460 million Bank loan financed four
project components: the Aguamilpa and Zimapan hydroelectric plants; environmental and
resettlement programs; energy conservation and efficiency studies, and other studies (system
optimization, management and tariff studies) (para. 17). Most of the funds were allocated to the
construction of the two hydroelectric plants. The Borrower was Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
(NAFIN), who acted as a financial intermediary, and the Government was the Guarantor of the
operation. NAFIN onlent the proceeds of the loan to the Comision Federal de Electricidad (CFE)
which was the executing agency for the project components other than the energy related studies,
which were executed by Comision Nacional de Ahorro de Energia (CONAE) (para. 1).
Project Objectives
2.     The project objectives were to assist the sector in: (a) promoting the efficient use of
electricity through realistic pricing policies, energy conservation and improvement of sector
operations; (b) diversifying the sources of power generation and reducing the participation of oil-
based generation; (c) strengthening CFE's financial situation by increasing electricity rates and
implementing a Financial Rehabilitation Agreement; (d) making electricity available to an
increasing number of consumers; and (e) improving CFE's ability to deal with the social and
environmental aspects of hydroelectric power projects (para. 2).
3.     The project objectives addressed the main problems in the energy sector. One of these was
the high consumption of energy per unit of economic output, which was due partly to an inefficient
use of energy, fostered by very low prices and lack of conservation programs. The project
objectives were consistent with the Government's economic strategy and energy sector policy. The
energy policy sought to reduce the size of the subsidies to the power sector and keep petroleum
exports as a source of foreign exchange.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.     The project accomplished its objectives substantially, except for that related to the
improvement of the financial situation of CFE which was only partially achieved, and the
likelihood of project sustainability is high:
a) Efficiency in the use of electricity increased. Use of the standards prepared by CONAE under
the project for electric appliances has produced substantial energy savings. In addition,
CONAE established 15 regional centers to provide assistance to private and public companies
in preparing feasibility studies for energy efficiency projects (para. 8).



ii
b) Cogeneration and the installation of private power plants are now allowed in Mexico. In
March 1991, the Government enacted guidelines for cogeneration ("Reglamento de la Ley de
Servicio Piublico de Energia Electrica en Materia de Autoabastecimiento") to allow electric
cogeneration and issued an inter-ministerial resolution to allow the installation of private power
plants under a modified BOT system, the "Construcci6n, Arrendamiento y Transferencia con
Cesi6n de Derecho de Propiedad" (para. 9). However, the cogeneration program has not
enjoyed much success because the peso devaluation, and the insufficient tariff adjustments
made thereafter, resulted in artificially low electricity tariffs which make cogeneration
financially unattractive (para. 20).
c) The construction of the Aguamilpa (960 MW) and Zimapan (292 MW) power plants
represented an increase of about 16% in the hydroelectric installed capacity which existed at
the start of the project (1988). Average annual energy expected to be produced by both power
plants totals 3,422 GWh, which represents a 13.6% increase over the hydroelectric generation
in 1988. CFE also built other hydroelectric projects so that in the 1989-94 period,
hydroelectric capacity increased by 21 % from 7,749 MW to 9,413 MW (para. 12).
d) CFE managed some substantive improvements in its productivity and operations (paras. 21-
22), although CFE's finances suffered in 1993 due to a Government's decision to lower the
tariffs for large industrial consumers.
e) The number of customers increased from 15.5 million in 1989 to 20.1 million in 1995.
Electricity coverage is about 95% now (para. 14). Quality of electric service is good:
interruption time is low (251 minutes per customer in 1994); number of complaints has been
reduced (18 complaints for every 1000 customers in 1994); and period of connection to new
customers is acceptable (3 days).
f) CFE's ability to deal with the social and environmental aspects of hydroelectric project
developments improved (para. 15). An Environmental Management Unit and a Social
Management Unit were established within CFE to coordinate, plan and implement social and
environmental mitigation programs.
Summary of findings, future operations and key lessons learned
5.     The project was completed in December 1995, which was six months ahead of the SAR
schedule. The loan was closed as scheduled on December 31, 1996 (para. 17). The Aguamilpa
power plant has been in satisfactory commercial operation since July 1994, one year ahead of the
SAR schedule, while the Zimapan power plant has been in satisfactory commercial operation since
December 1995 (para. 18).
6.     The project cost amounted to US$1,687.9 million before interest during construction
which is about 47.5% higher than the estimate of the SAR (US$1,143.7 million). The difference,
US$544.2 million, is due to higher than estimated construction cost of the Zimapan power plant
(para. 32). The cost of the engineering and administration, resettlement and electromechanical
equipment for the Zimapan power plant was underestimated during appraisal, while its
construction experienced a substantial cost overrun. The cost estimate for engineering and
administration estimated as a percentage of the project cost, increased in accordance with the
project construction cost; the cost estimate for resettlement was based on experiences in less



iii
complex cases; and the estimate for electromechanical equipment was based on informal quotations
provided by potential suppliers. The cost overrun in the construction of the Zimapan power plant
were due to: (i) geological conditions (along the line of the power tunnel and power house) less
favorable than expected at the design stage; (ii) inclusion of some elements to increase the safety of
the project which were not originally contemplated; (iii) the construction of infrastructure not
required by the project itself but demanded by the communities living the project area, such as the
Zimapan-Boquilla road; (iv) large amounts claimed by the civil works contractor as compensation
for change in conditions, items for which there were no unit prices and late payments, among
others; (v) political pressure on CFE to close the reservoir and inaugurate the project before the
presidential period was over, while in the process having to accept some excessive demands of the
comrnmunity leaders and local government; and (vi) budgetary ceiling imposed by the Government
on the project which caused delays and extra costs to the contractors (para. 34). The Bank
supervision missions detected these problems along project implementation and collaborated
actively with the Borrower to solve them and complete the Project within schedule.
7.     The Comisi6n Nacional de Ahorro de Energia (CONAE) was responsible for the following
studies: (i) preparation of technical standards for electrical appliances and industrial electrical
equipment; (ii) improvement of the efficiency of water pumping and air conditioning equipment and
establishment of demonstration centers; (iii) establishment of regional centers to promote energy
efficiency; (iv) identification of the training needs for the implementation of energy conservation
programs; and (v) selection of options and incentives to foster cogeneration. Implementation of the
first study, preparation of technical standards for electrical appliances and industrial electric
equipment, has already produced effective results. CONAE estimates that these standards have
resulted in some 25% reduction in their electricity consumption (para. 20).
8.     CFE introduced several measures to improve its efficiency; staff was reduced from 63,909
m 1989 to 62,360 in 1995, mainly due to the elimination of CFE's own construction unit, as most
of this type of work is now outsourced. The ratio of the number of customers to the number of
employees increased from 182 in 1989 to 247 in 1995; thermal plant availability increased from
77.9% in 1989 to 87.3% in 1995; however, electricity losses also increased, from 11.0% in 1989 to
12.0% in 1995. CFE's financial position improved from 1989 to 1991 but declined somewhat in
1992 and deteriorated in 1993 and even more in 1994 as a consequence of the crisis that affected
Mexico (para. 13). The covenanted operating ratio (1.0) was achieved in 1990 and 1991 but it
could not be maintained and declined slightly to 0.96 in 1992 and 1993 and sharply to 0.82 in
1994. Average tariffs increased by 23.0% in real terms from 1989 to 1992 but declined after the
peso crisis (para. 7). Subsequently, CFE has begun to progressively adjust tariffs again. At
present, the average revenue per kWh is the equivalent of US cents 4.54 which is 10.8% higher in
US current dollars than was the 1989 average revenue per kWh (para. 13).
9.     Project implementation was negatively affected by a budgetary ceiling imposed by the
Government on all public sector institutions as a measure to combat inflation (para. 26). This
ceiling caused delays in the construction program and, consequently, resulted in contractors' claims
and increased construction costs. In 1993, the construction budget for Aguamilpa and Zimapan
was reduced by 57%. To minimize the effects of this reduction, CFE concentrated the available
resources in one of the two power plants, Aguamilpa, with Zimapan suffering most of the
budgetary constraints.



Iv
10.    Another factor that negatively impacted project implementation was the economic crisis
that affected the country in 1994 (para. 13). It affected the Project in several ways: first, CFE's
finances deteriorated as tariffs declined in real terms as a consequence of the devaluation of the
peso. Second, the resulting low tariffs hampered the development of cogenerating plants, as
private generation was not able to compete with CFE's artificially low tariffs (para. 27).
11.    The resettlement programs were affected by the lack of an overarching legal and policy
framework that specifies principles, responsibilities, procedures and mechanisms to deal with
involuntary resettlement. Due to the lack of a policy framework, CFE had to improvise strategies
and assume responsibilities that should have corresponded to other governmental agencies (para.
28). The requirement for the establishment of a policy framework is an important lesson for future
projects (para. 52).
12.   It is likely that achievement of most of the project objectives wvill prove to be sustainable.
The Aguamilpa and Zimapan power plants are operating (juitc satisfactorily. The highly qualified
Board of Consultants contributed constantly with recommnendations to improve the safety of the
works. As a result, these power plants were built to very high standards, and a trouble-free long
life can be expected (para. 35). Efforts to promote an efficient use of electricity continue.
CONAE continues working very actively in the preparation of standards for the manufacturing of
electrical appliances. Creation of the fifteen regional ccnters lo promotc electricity savings ensure
that this program will continue in the future (para. 39).
13.    The Bank's performance was satisfactory ovcrall despite somc weakness in the supervision
of environmental aspects. The Bank properly identificd the sectoral issues that had accumulated
during the extended period in which the Bank was not involved in the sector. The Bank also
assisted CFE and the Government to identify and address environmenltal and resettlement issues,
but failed to demand the establishment of compensatorv protected areas ecologically similar to the
areas flooded, in accordance with the Bank's Wildlands Policy (para 41). However, resettlement
plans were not available at the time of the appraisal and. consequently, their cost estimates were
not adequately supported. During project implementation, the Bank's assistance was timely and
appropriate. Bank staff, aware of the negative impact that the macrocconomic crisis would have on
project execution, made arrangements to modify Loan Agreement 31149-ME in order to allocate
uncommitted funds to the Zimapan power plant which vsas suffering major cost overruns (para
42). Problems related to compliance with the Financial Rehabilitation Program (FRA),
particularly regarding tariffs, emerged in late 1993, and were noticed at that time by a Bank's
supervision mission. However, the Bank did not strongly insist that CFE and the Government take
steps to maintain tariff levels in constant terms and eventually accepted the reduction of electricity
tariffs for large industrial consumers in late 1993 (para. -X3j.
14.    The Borrower's performance was satisfactory despite some inconsistency on the
management of the tariff policy. The Government improved CFE's financial situation and
performance by monitoring the implementation of the FRA, by capitalizing CFE's debt and by
authorizing tariff increases during the initial years of operations (para. 21). However, in late
1993, the Government made a highly inconsistent decision on tariffs that negated the advances
achieved during the initial years of the project and had severe adverse impact on the sector. As a
consequence of the decision to lower the industrial electricity tariff, CFE's finances deteriorated
significantly (para. 13), and the program to promote cogmneration did not succeed because of the
resulting low tariff level (para 20).



v
15.    NAFIN played a limited role as CFE had enough experience and capability to mange the
loan without the support of an intermediary financial instution (para. 47).
16.    CFE's performance was satisfactory in spite of problems resulting from budgetary
constraints (para. 48), low tariffs (para. 13) and difficulties faced in the resettlement of population
(para. 28). The construction of two large and complex hydro power plants as scheduled attests to
CFE's technical and management ability. CFE improved the design of the two hydro power plant
to increase their safety and was open to discuss and follow the recommendations of the Board of
Consultants appointed for the project. CFE also submitted information and reports as required by
the loan agreement, and implemented a satisfactory dam monitoring system. CFE was open to
learn from the experiences of othcr countries and adopted the recommendations made by
consultants in order to improve its performance by reorganizing its operations and implementing
new norms and procedures (para. 48).
17.    CFE's management of the environmental aspects of both projects and the resettlement in
Aguamilpa was also satisfactory but it was less so when obstacles were encountered in the
resettlement program for Zimapan. Suitable specialists were hired and institutional changes were
made to incorporate resettlement and environmental management within the project's overall
management. Agreements with other involved governmental institutions were made, and a highly
participatory process was put in place by CFE. Approximately 155 families from three indigenous
communities affected by the construction of the Aguamilpa hydroelectric power plant were
satisfactorily resettled. Resettlemcnt of three indigenous and three mestizo communities directly
affected by the Zimapan hydro power plant with a total of 2,452 inhabitants had mixed results.
While communal lands and traditional economic activities were restored and even improved for the
indigenous families, the economic situation of the displaced mestizo famnilies did not improve
because the reservoir flooded the only irrigated lands suitable for agriculture available in the
project area. The affected communities rejected land that CFF had purchased to replace those
flooded by the reservoir and subsequently asked that the land be sold and that they be compensated
in cash. The money was quickly spent in consumer goods and only in a few cases was used to
purchase new land. As a result, both those that had rights to the communal agricultural land, as
well as others who were landless and worked as wage labor in the irrigated fields, were left without
jobs and therefore without a sustainable source of income (para. 30).
18.    Project performance wvill be monitored through specific and comprehensive programs. The
stability of the main physical project components will be monitored through the instrumentation
installed in the project dams and other key structures; CFE's performance and the standard of
living of the population resettled under the project will be monitored and evaluated through the
indicators included in table 0 (para. 5).
19.    There are four main project-related and four sector-related lessons learned from project
execution:
Lesson 1. To minimize the cost overruns in the construction of hydro power plants, the following
should be taken into account: (i) the bidding documents for the construction of civil works should
include unit prices for all possible work concepts and site conditions to avoid the need for
negotiated prices after the signing of the contract; (ii) suitable assistance from experienced
international construction managenment firms should be required; (iii) budget ceilings during the
construction of complex hydroelectric projects should be avoided. They are the cause of not only
construction delays but also of costly contractor claims derived from the underutilization of the



vi
construction equipment and workers; and (iv) the construction of main civil works should be
carefully coordinated with the program for constructing the new settlements to avoid costly
renegotiations with the resettled communities and with the civil works contractors (including those
responsible for the physical works needed for the resettlement) (para. 34).
Lesson 2. The resettlement and social studies should start early, at the prefeasibility stage, in
parallel with the technical, economic and environmental studies, and should include the design of
not only the physical works needed to resettle the affected communities, but, more important,
programs for restoring the economic and social well-being of the population to be resettled (para.
41).
Lesson 3. Progress in the construction of physical works accompanied by delays in the social and
resettlement components in the compensationlrestoration of affected assets, will result in
negotiations under extreme pressure and a subsequent tendency to solve problems and complaints
by means of monetary compensation or costly expenditures in the physical works of the new
settlement (para. 30).
Lesson 4. Establishment of an independent monitoring system to accompany and assess the
resettlement process is a key tool in managing relocation processes of indigenous communities, as
proved by the success in Zimapan and Aguamilpa. Likewise, putting social teams in direct contact
with the affected communities during the entire relocation process has proved to be of great help to
ensure the success (para. 49).
Lesson 5. A sector related lesson is that the establishment of an overarching legal and policy
framework that specifies principles, responsibilities, procedures and mechanisms to deal with
involuntary resettlement is fundamental for the implementation of projects with complex or large
resettlement programs (para. 49).
Lesson 6. Another sector-related lesson is that the financial rehabilitation of a power utility is
sustainable only if the tariff setting process is independent of political events and influence (para.
13). This independent process is possible only if there are both an adequate regulatory framework
and an independent commission responsible for tariff setting.
Lesson 7. Another sector-related lesson is that the key requirements for the implementation of
successful energy conservation programs are: (i) electricity tariffs for public service must reflect
the economic cost of service, and (ii) implementing agencies must be provided with sufficient
independence so that they can train and retain their staff (para. 20).
Lesson 8. The participation of an intermediary institution, such as NAFIN in this project, and the
corresponding costs, could be avoided when the executing agency has adequate related experience
(para. 47).



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 3083-ME
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives
1.    The Hydroelectric Development Project was the twelfth operation approved by the Bank
for the power sector in Mexico. Project preparation was supported mainly by an engineering loan
which financed studies to improve the situation of Comision Federal de Electricidad's (CFE)
thermal power plants and distribution networks. The US$460 million Bank loan financed four
project components: the Aguamilpa and Zimapan hydroelectric power plants; environmental and
resettlement programs; energy conservation and efficiency studies, and other studies (system
optimization, management and tariff studies) (para. 17). Most of the funds were allocated to the
construction of the two hydroelectric plants. The Borrower was Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
(NAFIN), whose role was to act as a financial intermediary, and the Govermment was the
Guarantor of the operation. NAFIN onlent the proceeds of the loan to the Comisi6n Federal de
Electricidad (CFE) which was the executing agency for the main project components. The
Comisi6n Nacional de Ahorro de Energia (CONAE) was responsible for the execution of the
energy related studies.
2.    The project objectives were:
(a)    promoting an efficient use of electricity through realistic pricing policies, energy
conservation and improvement of sector operations"
(b)    diversifying sources of power generation and reducing the participation of oil-based
generation;
(c)    strengthening CFE's financial position by increasing electricity rates and implementing
a Financial Rehabilitation Agreement (FRA);
(d)    making electricity available to an increasing number of consumers; and
(e)   improving CFE's ability to deal with the social and environmental aspects of
hydroelectric power projects.
3.    The project objectives were intended to deal with the main problems of the energy sector.
A major problem was the high consumption of energy per unit of economic output, which was due
partially to an inefficient use of energy, fostered by very low electricity prices and lack of
conservation programs. To address these problems, the project included a program to promote
energy conservation and efficient use of energy, and a cogeneration study (para. 17).
4.    A second problem was the high dependency of electricity generation on non-renewable
resources, due partly to a biased pricing policy which favored hydro-carbons. The Project included



2
the construction of two large hydro power plants, Aguamilpa with 960 MW and Zimapan with 292
MW to diversify the sources of power generation (para. 17).
5.     A third problem was the poor financial situation of CFE. To deal with this problem, a
Financial Rehabilitation Agreement (FRA) had been signed between the Government and CFE,
which included commitments for substantial rate increases in real terms, improvements of
productivity (efficiency targets and operating costs) and actions to institutionally strengthen CFE.
The Project included commitments from the Government and CFE to: (i) extend the period of
validity of the FRA until December 31, 1994; (ii) limit CFE's short-term borrowing to no more
than 10% of its annual cash operating expenses; (iii) reformulate the criteria for establishing
electricity rate increases to link them to their economic costs; (iv) limit Government contributions
to 10% and borrowing to 50% of new investments; and (v) set performance and financial targets
for CEE. Furthermore, the Project included several studies: (i) an Operation Improvement Study
for a better operation of CFE's electric power system; (ii) a Management Study to streamline
CFE's organization and management systems; and (iii) a Tariff Study to set up a tariff system
based on marginal costs for medium voltage consumers (para. 17).
6.     The project objectives were consistent with the Government's economic strategy and
energy sector policy. The Government's economic strategy included a program of structural
reforms aimed at opening up the economy to external competition, limiting the role of the State in
the productive sectors and fostering the development of non-traditional exports. In addition, the
stabilization program that was put in place in November 1987 was designed to sharply reduce
inflation by addressing the fiscal deficit issue by, amongst other measures, raising the prices for
goods and services provided by public enterprises, and by following a restrictive monetary and
fiscal policy and implementing short-term price and wage controls. The energy policy was to
reduce the size of the subsidies to the power sector and keep petroleum exports as a source of
foreign exchange.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
Overall Objectives.
7.     The project accomplished its objectives substantially, except for those in the financial
arena which were only partially achieved. CFE 's finance position weakened in 1994 as a
consequence of the large devaluation of the peso which occurred in that year which caused a
deterioration of electricity tariffs in real terms. The following paragraphs assess the achievements
of the project objectives.
8.    Promoting an Efficient Use of Electricity. The CONAE prepared and issued several
technical standards to improve efficiency of locally manufactured electrical appliances, trained its
staff in the implementation of programs to save electricity and to promote energy conservation, and
established regional centers to provide assistance for electricity efficiency projects. Use of the new
standards has produced substantial energy savings. Standards for refrigerators alone have
produced savings estimated at 186 GWh per year and a reduction of about 118,000 tons of C02.
CONAE established 15 regional centers to provide assistance to private and public companies in
preparing feasibility studies for electricity saving projects (para. 20).
9.     To promote cogeneration and private participation in generation, the Government enacted
guidelines for cogeneration ("Reglamento de Ia Ley de Servicio Niblico de Energia Elctrica en



3
Materia de Autoabastecimiento") on March 1991. Subsequently, an inter-ministerial resolution
was issued to allow the installation of private power plants under a modified BOT system, the
"Construcci6n, Arrendamiento y Transferencia con Cesi6n de Derecho de Propiedad".
10.   Finally, the Government traditionally controlled sector investment through the review and
approval of the Ten-year Investment Plan ("Programa de Obras e Inversiones del Sector Electrico-
POISE") prepared yearly by CFE. In 1994, this responsibility was transferred to SEMIP, which
began a publication of a report "Prospectiva del Sector Electrico" (Power Sector Prospective),
which includes an indicative plan for the power sector in place of the POISE (Ten Year Investment
Plan).
11.   Following the recommendations of a tariff study financed by the loan, a new tariff schedule
was implemented introducing the concept of "time-of-day" tariff, currently 35% of the energy is
sold under this tariff.
12.   Diversifying Sources of Power Generation from Oil-based Generation. The construction
of the Aguanilpa (960 MW) and Zimapan (292 MW) power plant under the project represented an
increase of about 16% over the hydroelectric installed capacity existing in 1988. Average annual
energy produced by both power stations totals 3422 GWh, which represents a 13.6% increase over
the hydroelectric generation in 1988. Considering all hydroelectric plants built by CFE in the
1989-1994 period, hydroelectric installed capacity increased by 21 % from 7,749 MW to 9,413
MW. The Aguamilpa power plant has been operating normally since July 1994; it generated 2124
GWh in 1995. Operation of the electro-mechanical equipment is normal, leakage through the dam
is normal (about 50 Its/seg) and settlement and movement of the dam is smaller than expected. The
Zimapan power plant is operating normally since December 1995; it generated 1070 GWh in 1996
(para. 18).
13.   Strengthening CFE's Financial Condition. This objective has not been fully achieved.
Although CFE accomplished some substantive improvements in its productivity (paras. 21-22),
operations and resource management, its financial condition deteriorated during 1993 and 1994
because average tariffs declined as a consequence of a decision to reduce tariffs to a group of
consumers and to the economic crisis that affected the country in that period. From 1993 to 1995,
CFE's revenues decreased by 30%, rate of return dropped from 5.7% to 1.2%, operating income
decreased by 78% and the self-financing ratio went from 69.5% to -51.6%. The target for the ratio
of total operating revenues to the sum of total operating expenses (1.0) was achieved in 1990 and
1991 but it could not be maintained and declined slightly to 0.96 in 1992 and 1993 and sharply to
0.82 in 1994. Average tariff increased by 23% in real terms from 1989 to 1992 but declined
subsequently. During 1993 and 1994 residential tariffs were kept constant in real terms, while
high voltage tariffs were reduced about 20% in real terms as a result of an adjustment of the tariff
structure (to reflect economic costs) and a general reduction of charges for large industries to
supposedly improve their competitive position prior to the signature of NAFTA. Furthermore,
during the severe economic crisis that Mexico faced in late 1994, the Mexican currency was
devalued by about 100% in a five-month period and the producer price index increased by about
30%. This crisis caused a further deterioration of the average tariff level, which as a percentage of
long-run marginal costs decreased on average from about 80% in early 1994 to 50% in March,
1995. After that, CFE started to progressively adjust tariffs again and expects to have all tariff
levels in line with their corresponding long-run marginal costs by end of 1998.



4
14.    Making Electricity Available to an Increasing Number of Consumers. The number of
customers increased from 15.5 million in 1989 to 20.1 million in 1995. Electricity coverage is
about 95% now. Quality of electric service is good: interruption time is low (251 minutes per
customer in 1994); number of complaints has been reduced (18 complaints for every 1000
customers per year); and period of connection to new customers is acceptable (3 days).
15.   Improving CFE 's Management of the Social and Environmental Aspects of Hydroelectric
Power Projects. Substantial improvement was achieved by CFE on its environmental and social
management, although CFE has yet to develop and implement a set of policy guidelines. Both
Aguamilpa and Zimapan are perhaps the first successful relocation/rehabilitation process of
indigenous population in Bank projects (paras. 29-30). This has demonstrated that involuntary
resettlement need not be an insurmountable obstacle for timely project execution but instead a
development opportunity to improving the standards of living, provided it is properly planned and
executed with the informed participation of those affected. Aguamilpa has also demonstrated the
need of culturally sensitive strategies for the implementation of successful resettlement and
rehabilitation programs. During project implementation, CFE created a Central Unit of
Socioeconomic Affairs and also a Unit for Environmental Affairs. Both were staffed with
interdisciplinary teams that were adequately trained. These units played a key role in the relocation
of the affected population and in the mitigation of environmental impacts. In spite of these
achievements, intemalizing the lessons learned and adopting official guidelines for directing
resettlement and rehabilitation in hydroelectric projects, is still a pending task.
Economic Analysis.
16.   In order to verify that the proposed hydroelectric projects are part of the least-cost solution
in the SAR, the Aguamilpa and Zimapan Hydroelectric Projects were compared with an equivalent
thermal project based on oil fired steam power plants for base load and diesel-oil fired gas turbines
for peak load. The resulting present value, calculated at an 1 1% rate of discount, was 41% higher
for the thermal project, as compared to the Aguamilpa and Zimapan. A similar calculation was
made with the actual cost of the Aguamilpa and Zimapan and an updated estimate of the
investment and operation costs of an equivalent thermal project as prepared by CFE. The resulting
present value, calculated at the same 11% rate of discount, is 5% higher for the thermal project
(Table 9). The SAR also included the calculation of the rate of return of CFE's total investment
program. Updating this calculation has been deemed unnecessary because the project cost is only
marginal to CFE's total investment cost and, therefore, the result of this calculation would be
meaningless. Furthermore, for reasons totally exogenous to the project, CFE's investment progran
suffered major changes from the appraisal date, making comparison not only meaningless, but also
practically imposible
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
17.    The project was completed in December 1995, six months ahead of the SAR estimate.
The loan was closed as originally scheduled on December 31, 1996. As previously mentioned, the
project included four basic components:
(a) construction of the 960 MW Aguamilpa and the 292 MW Zimapan Hydroelectric Power
Plants and resettlement of the population living in the reservoir areas;



5
(b) preparation of a social and environmental programn designed to strengthen CFE's ability
to construct and operate hydroelectric projects with due consideration to the affected
people and the environment;
(c) energy related studies on energy conservation and efficient use of energy, cogeneration
and optimization of the operation of CFE's power system; and
(d) management and electricity tariff studies.
18.   The Aguamilpa hydroelectric power plant has been in satisfactory commercial operation
since July 1994, one year ahead of the SAR schedule. Its construction period was shortened by
one year as a result of an special agreement with the civil works contractor. The Zimapan
hydroelectric power plant has been in satisfactory commercial operation since December 1995.
19.   CFE created an special Unit to deal with the socioeconomic and environmental affairs of
project implementation and staffed it with interdisciplinary teams that were properly trained. This
Unit played a key role in managing the relocation of the affected population and in the mitigation of
the environmental impacts. Moving the resettlement and environmental team to the field from the
beginning of construction and keeping it there all along the process, produced positive results in
terms of the social assistance provided to the affected population and in fostering good relations
between communities, CFE and local governmental institutions.
20.   The CONAE carried out the energy related studies included in the project such as: (i)
preparation of technical standards for electrical appliances and industrial equipment; (ii)
identification of methodologies to improve efficiency of water pumping and air conditioning
equipment and establishment of demonstration centers; (iii) establishment of regional center to
promote energy savings; (iv) a study on the training needs for the implementation of energy
conservation programs; and (v) a study on options and incentives for cogeneration.
Implementation of the results of first study produced effective results, as the new standards for
refrigerators have resulted in some 25% reduction of their electricity consumption. So far,
CONAE has issued II technical standards, has other 5 standards ready to be issued and 7 more in
preparation and has established 15 regional centers to promote energy efficiency and conservation.
CONAE is also prepared to provide technical assistance to industry for the preparation of
feasibility studies to support credit applications for financing energy conservation programs. It has
trained its technical staff and has access to the laboratory facilities of several universities. On the
other hand, CONAE lacks institutional autonomy, which renders it vulnerable to political
influence. This has resulted in a high turnover in its management and technical staff. The
recommendations to improve efficiency of water pumping equipment have not been implemented
yet because of political opposition. As the electricity tariff for water pumping is heavily
subsidized, efficiency and conservation proposals fall on deaf ears. The cogeneration programs
have not progressed much either because CFE's electricity tariffs have fallen to artificially low
values (para. 13) which make cogeneration unattractive (para. 27).
21.   To strengthen CFE's financial condition, the Government and CFE agreed on the
implementation of a Financial Rehabilitation Agreement (FRA) which included productivity,
operational efficiency and resource management targets, as well as Capitalization of CFE's debt by
Government, a commitment to tariff increases and steps to improve CFE's investment policies.
CFE introduced several measures to improve efficiency; staff was reduced from 63,909 employees



6
in 1989 to 62,360 in 1995, mainly due to the elimination of CFE's own construction units, as most
of this type of work is now hired with outside contractors.
22.    To improve CFE's efficiency, the FRA included productivity and technical indicators to be
monitored. The main indicator to measure productivity was the ratio of the number customers to
the number of employees. The ratio effectively increased from 182 in 1989 to 247 in 1995. With
respect to the technical indicators, the most relevant are the availability of the thermal plants and
the electricity losses. Thermal plant availability has increased from 77.9% in 1989 to 87.3% in
1995 but electricity losses has also increased, from 11.0% in 1989 to 12% in 1995 for CFE's
system and from 14.0% to 15.9% for the entire system.
23.   In an effort to diversify its financing sources, CFE raised US$250 million in the
international capital markets backed by peso-denominated receivable. This was the first of 2 such
operation by CFE, but it had limited success and was purchased entirely by the underwriting bank,
Citibank.
24.    Under the project, CFE took steps toward greater regionalization as recommended in the
Management Study. CFEs activities were organized into strategic business units (SBU): (i) 154
generating units; (ii) 13 distribution units; and (iii) a transmission unit. Each SBU is provided with
operating and financial information (cost, transfer prices and financial statements), and they
compete for resources within CFE.
25.    The Government initiated an institutional reform in the power sector that was expected to
create a competitive environment for CFE: it enacted legislation in late 1992 to allow the
development of independent power generation projects (IPPs), created an Energy Regulatory
Commission (CRE) in early 1994 as an advisory body to the Ministry of Energy and Mines
(SEMIP), and in 1994 and 1995, SEMIP issued regulations on wheeling charges, energy sales to
the grid by self-producers and cogenerators, and back-up power charges, which are necessary for
the successful operation of IPPs. Unfortunately, the impetus for reform and competition
subsequently dwindled and consequently the process remains mired in its incipient stages.
26.    A factor external to CFE that affected project implementation was the budgetary ceiling
that the Government imposed on CFE as part of its macroeconomic management. This budgetary
ceiling caused delays in the construction program of the project and, consequently, increased
construction costs. In 1993, the budget for Aguamilpa and Zimapan was reduced to 43% of their
requirements. To minimize the effects of this reduction, CFE concentrated the resources in one of
the power plants, Aguamilpa, with Zimapan suffering most of the budgetary constraints.
27.    Another factor out of the control of CFE that imperiled project implementation was the
economic crisis that affected the country in 1994 (para. 13). It affected the Project in several
ways: first, CFE's finances deteriorated as the tariffs declined in actual terms as a consequence of
the devaluation of the peso. Second, the lowered tariffs hampered the possibilities of cogeneration,
since private generation was not able to compete with CFE's artificially low tariffs (para. 20).
Resettlement Issues.
28.    The resettlement programs were affected by the lack of an overarching legal and policy
framework that specifies principles, responsibilities, procedures and mechanisms to deal with
involuntary resettlement. Due to the lack of a policy framework, CFE had to improvise strategies



7
and assume responsibilities that should have corresponded to other governmental agencies. The
requirement for the establishment of a policy framework is an important lesson for future projects
(para. 52).
29.   In the Aguamilpa power plant, approximately 155 families from three communities (two
indigenous Huichol settlements, Colorado de la Mora and Playa de Golondrinas, and one mestizo
community, Los Sabinos) living in the reservoir area were resettled. Almost 70% of the affected
land was indigenous community land and 30% was private property. In the case of the Huichol
communities, the best land near the rivers were affected. The Resettlement Plan consisted of a
series of actions designed to replace the affected land, to build the new villages and to the
restoration of the socioeconomic environment. Solar energy, drinking water, a community center,
schools and other facilities were built in each new settlement. Resettlement of the affected
population finished a year before filling of the reservoir. The successful resettlement of indigenous
communities in Aguamilpa became a model for future projects.
30.   In Zimapan, there were three indigenous and three mestizo communities, 2,452 persons,
directly affected by the power plant. The relocation of the indigenous communities was a success
but in the case of the mestizo families, the results were mixed. Some 141 Otomi indigenous
families displaced by the Zimapan plant were relocated in new settlements. Their productive
system was not dismantled and communal land and agricultural activities were not only
reestablished but improved; 140 houses were built and services replaced and considerably
improved. In contrast, the 412 mestizo families displaced by the Zimapan plant suffered the
disruption of their agricultural activities. They were relocated in an urban setting with construction
standards far above those applicable to rural areas; however, the economic situation of the
population did not improve. The reservoir flooded the only land suitable for agriculture located in
the project area and the nearest irrigated farm land in the area was located more than one hour by
car far from the settlements. Unclear and lengthy procedures for buying and preparing the land to
replace lost irrigated land, the uncertainty regarding the availability of water for irrigation and the
requirement that the irrigation system be collectively managed, created community distrust.
Lacking detailed agro-environmental studies, CFE offered to pump water from the reservoir to
irrigate the semi-arid lands located in the plateau above the reservoir. Further studies demonstrated
that this was not feasible due to high pumping costs and to the degree of contamination of the
reservoir water, which made it unsuitable to cultivate vegetables and other market crops. As a
result, frustration and distrust set in and negatively affected the negotiations that had to be carried
out during project construction. Subsequently, new legislation was enacted to allow the sale of
communal land, and based on this, the leaders of the resettled communities rejected the land
purchased by CFE and requested that an equivalent amount of money be deposited in a special
account in the name of those with land rights. After extremely difficult negotiations with leaders
who had lost their agrarian roots, payment in cash was finally made in compensation for the lost
land. The money was quickly spent in consumer goods and only in a few cases was used to buy
new land. As a result, both those with rights to the communal agricultural land, as well as landless
workers that used to work as wage labor in the irrigated fields, were left without jobs and a
sustainable source of income. Installation of a maquila industry by private investors has somewhat
alleviated the economic plight of some of the poorest families, especially those headed by women,
by creating 120 new jobs. The physical facilities for the maquiladora were provided by CFE as
part of the resettlement process.



8
Environmental Aspects.
31.    The "Gerencia de Protecci6n Ambiental" managing the environmental aspects of CFE's
projects was strengthened and gained substantial and unique experience under the Project. The
Aguarnilpa and Zimapan plants involved many of the environmental issues that are typical of large
hydroelectric dams, including their impact on native fish, flooding of archaeological sites, floating
aquatic weed proliferation, and risks of water- or vector-borne disease spread. Two of the most
significant problems for both subprojects were loss of natural habitats and reservoir water quality.
The Aguamilpa reservoir inundated about 13,000 hectares (ha) of land, of which about 12,575 ha
were covered by tropical deciduous forest. The Zimapan reservoir flooded about 23,000 ha, about
90 percent of which was botanically rich desert vegetation. Both reservoirs also faced water
quality problems, largely due to upriver pollution. In terms of specific mitigation actions,
particularly noteworthy are the biological inventory and plant and animal rescue activities at
Zimapan. According to CFE, 3,901 animals of 74 species were rescued and relocated under the
Zimapan subproject. However, the project failed to address biodiversity concerns through the
establishment of compensatory protected areas, ecologically similar than the areas flooded. At
Zimnapan, three new protected areas totaling 1,120 ha (much smaller than the natural area flooded)
were proposed, but never implemented under the project (para. 41).
Project Cost.
32.    The project cost amounted to US$1,687.9 million before interest during construction
which is about 47.5% higher than the estimate of the SAR of US$1,143.7 million. The difference,
US$544.2 million is due to higher than the estimated construction cost of the Zimapan power plant.
The construction cost of the Aguamilpa power plant was US$850.3 million, which compares
favorably with the US$858.0 million estimated in the SAR. The cost includes the compensation
agreed with the contractor of civil works to shorten the construction period. A more detailed
comparison of costs estimated in the SAR for Aguamilpa and the actual costs are as follows, in
milion of US Dollars:
SAR          ACTUAL
Engineering and Administration           128.7          121.3
Civil Works                              473.0          485.2
Resettlement and Environment              12.5           17.9
Electro-mechanical Equipment             207.4          204.2
Transmission Line                        36.4            21.7
858.0          850.3
33.    Tne construction cost of Zimapan was US$829.2 million, which is 98% higher than the
estimate included in the SAR. A comparison between the costs estimated at the SAR and the
actual costs are as follows, in millions of US Dollars:
SAR          ACTUAL
Engineering and Administration           49.5            94.4
Civil Works                             269.0           416.1
Resettlement and Environment             17.6           172.2
Electro-mechanical Equipment             56.3           135.6
Transmission Line                        25.6            10.9
418.0          829.2



9
34.    The main causes for the substantial difference between the actual cost and the estimate in
the SAR were: (i) the cost of the engineering and administration, resettlement and
electromechanical equipment for the Zimapan power plant was underestimated at the time of the
SAR. The cost estimate for engineering and administration was estimated as a percentage of the
project cost. As the actual project cost was substantially higher than the estimate, the engineering
and administration cost increased accordingly. The cost estimate for resettlement was based on
CFE's experiences in less complex resettlement programs that required far less socioeconomic
restoration. Finally, the estimate for electromechanical equipment was based on informal
quotations provided by potential suppliers, which, under the formal bid, quoted substantially higher
prices; (ii) the civil works contract had a substantial cost overrun because of geological conditions
that were less favorable than those expected at the design stage, addition of some elements not
originally contemplated in the Project, and substantial claims submitted by the contractor. The
geological conditions along the line of the power tunnel and power house were less favorable than
expected at the design stage; these conditions led to the use reinforced concrete in some portions of
the tunnel and to a change in the orientation of the powerhouse. New works, originally not
contemplated, were included. Some were needed to increase the safety of the project, such as the
construction of a second spillway discharge tunnel, the construction of additional injection
galleries, and the paving of the road to the power house; others were needed to satisfy the requests
of the communities living the project area such as the Zimapan-Boquilla road. The claims
submitted by the civil works contractor were based on changes in contractual conditions, items for
which there was no unit price and late payments. Although many of these claims were duly
justified, some of them could have been avoided or reduced had CFE had the experience and the
resources to anticipate and deal with contractors' claims, particularly in major underground works;
(iii) excessive demands made by community leaders and local governments, The political pressure
on CFE to close the reservoir and inaugurate the project before the presidential term was over,
forced CFE to accept some excessive demands made by community leaders, local governments and
supported by the more than 50 contractors involved who welcomed any new additional work. CFE
was forced to resort to cash compcnsation and to accept extravagant requests as a way to reduce
opposition to the project and assure compliance with its construction schedule (para. 30). It is
therefore not surprising that the cost of resettlement reached extraordinary levels; and (iv) the
budgetary ceiling imposed by the Government on the project which caused delays and extra costs
to the contractors. Because of this budgetary constraint, the construction of this power plant
suffered delays and the cost of storing and insuring as it waited for the completion of the civil
works. Budgetary constraints also resulted in the underutilization of contractors' resources which
eventually resulted in claims which CFE had to pay. The Bank supervision missions detected these
problems along project implementation and collaborated actively with the Borrower to solve them
and complete the Project within schedule.
D. Project Sustainability
35.   It is likely that achievement of most project objectives will prove sustainable. The
Aguarnilpa and Zimapan power plants are operating satisfactorily. The highly qualified Board of
Consultants contributed constantly with recommendations to improve the safety of the works. As a
result, these power plants were constructed with verv high standards, and expectations for a long a
productive useful life are well founded.
36.    One of the most outstanding results of the resettlement process in Aguamilpa has been the
strengthening of the communal organization and the creation of new social capital, fundamental to
the sustainability of new settlements. In 1990, in the midst of the relocation process, a strong



10
communal organization was established: "Union de Comunidades y Ejidos Indigenas de Nayarit
(UCEI)", encompassing 14 indigenous Huichol communities (several of them affected by the
construction of Aguamilpa and 2 of them displaced and relocated by the Project). The reservoir
has become an asset for the economic development of the local communities by diversifying family
income structure, including transportation, fishing and some domestic business (para. 29). Fishing
represents 60% of the productive activities of the indigenous communities relocated. However, its
sustainability will depend on the quality of the water of the already highly polluted river and on the
environmental changes that the reservoir will undergo. Fishing and public health will be monitored
by the corresponding governmental agencies to ensure that water quality does not threaten either
one.
37.    On the other hand, the sustainability of the new settlement in Zimapan for the mestizo
population is not guaranteed. The consequences of the loss of the only productive communal
property can not be yet fully assessed (para. 30), but there is a risk of social disruption and
economic impoverishment, specially for those that depended on wage labor in communal lands,
those that did 3not benefit from the compensation in cash and those that spent the money solely in
consumer goods. Women, children and the elderly are among the most severely affected.
38.    CFE has begun to decentralize its operations and has granted greater autonomy and
accountability of its business units. These changes, albeit modest and not yet far reaching, are
conducive to sustaining the achievements generated by the Project (para. 24).
39.   Efforts to promote the efficient use of electricity continue. CONAE actively prepares
standards for the manufacturing of electrical appliances. Operation of fifteen regional centers to
promote electricity savings ensure that this program will continue in the future. However, lack of
CONAE's institutional autonomy, and the high turnover in its management and technical staff are
matters of concern (para. 20).
E. Bank Performance
40.   The Bank's performance was satisfactory overall despite some weakness in the supervision
of environmental aspects. In 1984, the Bank identified properly the sector issues that had
accumulated during an extended period in which the Bank had been absent from the sector (the
previous loan to the power sector had been completed in 1974) and assisted CFE in defining and
preparing a new project. Two years later, in October, 1986, discussions with the CFE had
progressed enough to allow the identification of a new project. This was to be the partial financing
of the 1987-1990 time slice of CFE's investment program to support the following objectives: (i)
improvement of CFE's financial position; (ii) adherence to a least-cost program; (iii)
implementation of an institution-building program; and (iv) opening CFE's procurement to
international competition.
41.    Project preparation and appraisal took about one and a half years. Four preparation
missions visited Mexico during this period, including missions to help the Government to identify
and address environmental and resettlement issues. The basis for defining the project, CFE's ten
year investment program, was reviewed in detail with the assistance of consultants. However,
resettlement plans were not available at the time of the appraisal and, consequently, their cost
estimate did not have adequate support. Submission of the resettlement plan was a condition for
Board presentation. This condition was met but the corresponding resettlement costs were not
updated at that point in time (para. 34). The Bank however failed to demand the establishment of



11
compensatory protected areas ecologically similar to the areas flooded by the reservoir (para. 31)
as a condition for project effectiveness and to include the investments required for their
demarcation and management in the project cost in compliance with the Bank's Wildlands Policy
(OP 4.04).
42.    Project implementation was supervised by twelve Bank's missions from 1990 to 1995
(table 12). Although the frequency of the missions (about two per annum) might have been
insufficient considering the complexity of the Project, the composition of the missions was
adequate; they included a variety of specialist in key fields, particularly in the social and
environmental aspects. On technical matters, the Bank relied mainly in the periodic assessment
and advise provided by the highly qualified Board of Consultants (para. 35). The Bank responded
timely and effectively to the financial crisis that affected the country in 1994. Bank staff, aware of
the negative impact on project execution of the macroeconomic crisis, discussed with the borrower
and made arrangements to modify the loan agreement of Loan 3189-ME in order to allocate
uncommitted funds to the Zimapan power station which was by then in need of additional
financing. This situation was the result of cost overruns caused, at least partly, by the crisis.
43.    Problems related to meeting the targets of the Financial Rehabilitation Program,
particularly regarding tariffs, emerged in late 1993, and were noticed at that time by a Bank's
supervision mission. However, the Bank did not strongly insist that tariff levels be maintained in
constant terms and eventually acquiesced to the reduction of electricity tariffs for large industrial
consumers in late 1993 (para. 13).
44.    Bank performance regarding social aspects both during planning and implementation was
adequate. Prior to project approval, the Bank insisted on having adequate socioeconomic and
environmental data-base and mitigation plans and insisted upon hiring specialists and involving
pertinent governmental agencies, especially for the treatment of indigenous issues in both projects.
During implementation, the Bank provided support continuously through supervision missions,
assisting the borrower to solve unexpected problems encountered in the resettlement process.
45.   The Bank devoted much less attention to supervising the environmental aspects. No
environmental specialist visited either the Aguamilpa or Zimapan subprojects since at least 1993
and the Bank failed to demand the establishment, prior to project effectiveness, of compensatory
protected areas ecologically similar to the areas flooded, in accordance with the Bank's Wildiands
Policy (para. 41). Both Aguamilpa and Zimapan are large hydroelectric dams with significant
environmental issues (para. 31), which should have received greater attention from the Bank
during both project preparation and supervision.
F. Borrower Performance
46.    The Borrower's performance was satisfactory despite some inconsistency on the
management of the tariff policy. The Government made major advances in improving CFE's
financial situation and performance by implementing the FRA, capitalizing CFE's debt to the
Government and authorizing tariff increases during the initial years of the Project (para. 21).
However, in late 1993, the Government made a highly inconsistent decision on tariffs that negated
the progress made during the early years of the project and had severe adverse consequences for the
sector and for the Govermnent budget. The decision, probably prompted by political
considerations to gain support for a free-trade policy, was to reduce electricity tariffs for large
industrial customers (para. 13). As consequence of this decision, which lowered the average



12
electricity tariff, CFE's finances deteriorated significantly, and the Government had to provide a
substantial subsidy to CFE from the central budget. Additionally, the program to promote
cogeneration did not succeed because CFE's tariffs had been lowered to the point where
cogeneration was no longer feasible (para. 20).
47.   NAFIN played a limited role as CFE had enough experience and capability to mange the
loan without the support of an intermediary financial instution (para. 47).
48.    CFE's performance was satisfactory in spite of problems resulting from budget ceilings
(para. 26), inadequate tariffs (para. 13) and significant problems in the resettlement of the
population of the Zimapan area (para. 30). The construction of two large and complex hydro
power developments as scheduled confirmed CFE's technical know-how. CFE's staff was
constantly alert to introduce improvements in the design of the two hydro power plants to increase
their safety and was open to discuss and follow the recommendations of the Board of Consultants
appointed for the project. CFE submitted information and reports as indicated in the loan
agreement, and implemented a satisfactory monitoring system. CFE was open to learn from
experiences in other countries and adopted the recommendations of consultants to improve its
performance by reorganizing operations and implementing new norms and procedures.
Deficiencies were detected in construction management, resettlement and in the ability to sustain
the reform effort so as to reap the benefits of competition.
49.   In the social area, CFE's performance was also satisfactory although when obstacles were
encountered in the Zimapan project, its resolve began to wane (para. 30). Specialists were hired
and institutional changes were made to incorporate resettlement and environmental management the
project's overall management. Agreements with other involved governmental institutions were
made as well. CFE's performance on environmental management in both projects and resettlement
in Aguamilpa should be highlighted. It is important to mention that once the project started
implementation, a highly participatory process was put in place by CFE. There were hundreds of
working sessions with the different committees of the communities in order to address their
questions, suggestions and concerns, including the problems generated by the process. Soon after
completion of the physical relocation in Zimapan, CFE quickly attempted to transfer the economic
rehabilitation responsibility to the state government. The process was aggravated since some
government agencies did not easily collaborate with CFE. It took the Secretaria de Pesca de
Nayarit nearly two years to issue fishing licenses to the Huichol population and it has taken more
than three years for the affected community to get effective support from state governmental
agencies to initiate alternative production projects.
50.   CONAE's performance was satisfactory, in spite of the significant turnover of key
management and technical staff.
G. Future Project Operation
51.   Future project operation will be monitored through three specific and comprehensive
programs. The safety of the main project structures will be permanently monitored through the
instrumentation installed in the project dams and other key structures, and their records evaluated
on an annual basis in accordance with CFE's monitoring program entitled "Programa para atender
en 1997 las Principales Centrales Generadoras en las Regiones de Generaci6n Hidroelectrica
Grijalva, Balsas, Santiago, Ixtapantongo, Yaqui-Mayo y Papaloapan" (Appendix B, Attachment
1). The second program will monitor the changes in the social conditions of the populations



13
resettled under the project. This will be accomplished by means of the indicators included in
Table 6. Finally, monitoring of CFE's financial and management performance would be
accomplished through an extension of the FRA.
H. Key Lessons Learned
52.    There are four main project-related and four sector-related lessons leamed from project
execution. Related to the Project, one of the main lessons is related to the social aspects of
involuntary resettlement, since the Project required the resettlement of two distinct population
groups with very different results. In the case of the Aguamilpa hydroelectric power plant, and for
part of the population resettled in Zimapan, the resettlement program was successful despite the
fact that it included resettlement of indigenous groups. In contrast, the resettlement of the mestizo
population for the construction of the Zimapan hydroelectric power plant was very costly and far
less successful.
Lesson 1. To minimize the cost overruns in the construction of hydro power plants, the following
should be taken into account: (i) the bidding documents for the construction of civil works should
include unit prices for all probable work concepts and site conditions to avoid the need for
negotiated prices after the signing of the contract. To request unit prices only for a minimum
number of items will inevitably lead to negotiating prices for items not contemplated and since
these negotiations typically take place under adverse conditions for the client, the contractor will
usually have a privileged negotiating position; (ii) suitable assistance from experienced
intemational construction management firms should be required in order to minimize cost overruns
and construction delays. Zimapan and Aguamilpa were the first two major hydro power plants that
CFE built by hiring private construction companies. Previously, CFE designed and built power
plants by force-account. In this context, it would seem clear that it would not have been reasonable
to expect that CFE would be experienced in the management of large civil works, including major
underground construction contracts; (iii) budget ceilings during the construction of complex
hydroelectric projects should be avoided. They are the cause of not only construction delays, but
also of costly contractor claims derived from the underutilization of the construction equipment and
workers; and (iv) the construction of main civil works should be carefully coordinated with the
program for constructing the new settlements to avoid costly renegotiations with the resettled
communities and with the civil works contractors (including those responsible for the physical
works needed for the resettlement) (para. 34).
Lesson 2. The resettlement and social studies should start early, at the prefeasibility stage, in
parallel with the technical, economic and environmental studies, and should include the design of
not only the physical works needed to resettle the affected communities, but, more important,
programs for restoring the economic and social well-being of the population to be resettled (para.
41). In addition to the traditional institutions for decision-making, other participatory modalities
that assure voice to women and youth are highly desirable. Adequate social analysis is needed to
fully understand the social structure of the population and lack of a wide, highly inclusive and
participatory approach for the decision-making process will often lead to failure (para. 49).
Lesson 3. Progress in the construction of physical works accompanied by delays in the social and
resettlement components and in the compensation/restoration of affected assets, will result in
negotiations under extreme pressure and a subsequent tendency to solve problems and complaints
by means of monetary compensation or costly expenditures in the physical works of the new
settlement. Cash compensation for the loss of productive land is not an adequate strategy for the



14
restoration of the economic well-being of the resettled population, particularly in the case of
farming communities (para. 30). What is important is to preserve job opportunities, which is not
accomplished through cash compensation
Lesson 4. Establishment of an independent monitoring system to accompany and assess the
resettlement process is a key tool in managing relocation processes of indigenous communities, are
proved by the success in Zimapan and Aguamilpa. Likewise, putting social teams in direct contact
with the affected communities during the entire relocation process has proved to be of great help to
ensure success (para. 49).
Lesson 5. A sector related lesson is that the establishment of an overarching legal and policy
framework that specifies principles, responsibilities, procedures and mechanisms to deal with
involuntary resettlement is fundamental for the implementation of projects with complex or large
resettlement programs (para. 49).
Lesson 6. Another sector-related lesson is that the financial rehabilitation of a power utility is
sustainable only if the tariff setting process is independent of political events and influence (para.
13). This independent process is possible only if there are both an adequate regulatory framework
and an independent commission responsible for tariff setting.
Lesson 7. Another sector-related lesson is that the key requirements for the implementation of
successful energy conservation programs are: (i) electricity tariffs for public service must reflect
the economic cost of service, and (ii) implementing agencies must be provided with sufficient
independence so that they can train and retain their staff (para. 20). If qualified staff leave the
continuity of the programs is greatly affected.
Lesson 8. The participation of an intermediary institution, such as NAFIN in this project, and the
corresponding costs, could be avoided when the executing agency has adequate related experience
(para. 47).



15
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3083-ME)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievements of objectives      Substantial    Partial_   Negligible    Not Applicable
Financial objectives                                        x
Institutional development                      x
Physical objectives               x
Enviromnental objectives                       x
B. Project Sustainability            Likely      Unlikely     Uncertain 
Highly
C. Bank performance                Satisfactory  Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                                 X
Preparation                                    x
Appraisal                                      x
Supervision                                   x
Highly
D. Borrower performance            Satisfactory  Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                                    x
Implementation                                 x
Covenant Compliance                           x
Highly                                    Highly
E. Assessment of outcome           Satisfactory  Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
x



16
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3083-ME)
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan No.       Loan Amount                                       Year of
and Project Name    (USSmillion)              Purpose               Approval           Status
Loan 0012-ME          24.1    First Power Project                    1949          Closed 1956
Loan 0013-ME          10.0    Second Power Project                   1949          Closed 1950
Loan 0024-ME          26.0    Third Power Project                    1950          Closed 1953
Loan 0056-ME          29.7    Fourth Power Project                   1952          Closed 1959
Loan 0186-ME          11.0    Fifth Power Project                    1957          Closed 1960
Loan 0194-ME          34.0    Sixth Power Project                    1958          Closed 1962
Loan 0316-ME         130.0   Seventh Power Project                   1962          Closed 1965
Loan 0436-ME          16.6    Eighth Power Project                   1965          Closed 1968
Loan 0544-ME          90.0    Ninth Power Project                    1968          Closed 1972
Loan 0659-ME         125.0   Tenth Power Project to finance the Sector   1970      Closed 1972
Program for the period 1970-71
Loan 0834-ME         125.0   Eleventh Power Project to finance the   1972          Closed 1975
Sector Program for the period 1972-74
Loan 3189-ME         450.0   To fund CFE's transmission and          1990          Closed 1994
distribution program for 1991-92



17
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3083-ME)
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date planned 1'    Date actual/
Event                                    latest estimate
Identification                              8/86             8/86
Preparation                              10/86-5/87        10/86-5/87
Appraisal                                   11/87            11/87
Negotiations                               9/1/88          9/88-4/89
Board Approval                              6/89             6/8/89
Signing                                     8/89            9/25/89
Effectiveness                               9/89            1/18/90
Last Disbursement                          6/30/96          10/4/95
Project Completion                         6/30/96          12/1/95
Loan Closing                              12/31/96          12/31/96
1/ As provided in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) No. 7391 -ME.



18
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3083-ME)
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(in US$ million)
Bank Fiscal          Appraisal          Actual         Actual as %      Date of final
Year                  estimate                         of estimate      disbursement
FY90                    46.0             51.6             112%
FY91                    73.0             92.2             126%
FY92                   145.0             232.6            160%
FY93                   244.0             322.4            132%
FY94                   339.0             374.9            111%
FY95                   406.0             435.3            107%
FY96                   460.0             460.0            100%             10/4/95



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3083-ME)
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation.
Key Implementation Indicator in
SAR report                                                 1989       1990       1991       1992       1993       1994       1995
Performance Indicators
Emnployees 1/                      Estimated (Sector)    79,700    81,700    83,700     85,800     87,900     90,000     92,200
Actual (Sector)     77,045     78,993     81,263     82,396     82,515     82,630     85,604
Actual (CFE)        63,909     64,427     64,902     63,614     62,545     60,560     62,360
Customers/employee                 Estimated (Sector)      184        184        185        185        185        185        185
Actual (Sector)        201        206        212        218        227        235        235
Actual (CFE)           182        190        199        213        226        244        247
Energy losses%                     Estffmated (Sector)   13.1%      13.1%      13.0%      13.0%      12.8%     12.7%      12.6%
Actual (Sector)      14.0%      13.8%      14.5%      14.5%      15.0%      15.2%      15.9%
Actual (CFE)         11.0%      10.8%      11.0%      11.3%      11.4%      11.3%      12.0%
Average heat rate (kcal/kWh)       Estimated              2560       2550      2540       2525       2510       2500       2500
Actual                2562       2556       2550       2505       2484       2460       2433
Thermal Plant Availability (%) 2/  Estimated              75.0       75.5       76.0       76.0       76.0       76.0       76.0
Actual                 77.9       78.9      78.5       83.8       85.5       86.0       87.3
Rate of retum (%) 3/               Estimated              1.90%      3.3%       5.0%      7.1%       7.5%       7.9%      8.0%
Actual               12.1%      13.4%      15.2%       5.7%       5.7%      4.1%       1.2%/
Debt Service Coverage (times) 4/    Estimated               1.8        2.7        4.6        6.7        7.1        6.8       6.1
Actual                  0.6        1.8       2.5        2.6        2.2        4.2         1.1
Self-Financing Ratio 5/             Estimated            48.1%      60.9"%     63.3%      69.70%     71.9%      69.5%      71.2%
Actual                 NA         NA         NA       58.7%      69.5%      77.8%     -51.6%
Government Contributions 6/         Estimated            43.7%      11.7%       3.7%       3.5%       3.4%       3.4%       3.4%
Actual                 NA         NA         NA        0.0%       0.0%       0.0%      86.8%
Borrower and other Financing 6      Estimated            26.5%      34.3%      38.4%      33.1%      31.9/     34.3%      31.9%
Actual                 NA         NA         NA       41.3%      30.5%      22.2%      64.8%
Accounts Receivable (days of billing)    Estimated          60         60         60         60         60         60        60
Actual                  56         70         75         74         66         58         62
Market Indicators
Peak Demnand (MW)                   Estimated            17,340     18,250     19,500     20,830     22,200     23,700    25,250
Actual                 NA       15,340    16,430      16,853    17,693      18,728     19,213
Energy Sales (TWh)                 Estimated (Sector)   89,283     95,023    101,046    109,046    116,322    123,162    131,563
Actual (Sector) 7/  90,661     93,720     96,835     99,811    103,472    111,680    115,589
Actual (CFE) 8/     96,430     99,669    105,419    107,875    111,850    121,582    126,349
Net Generation (TWh)                Estimated (Sector)    102,744    109,385    116,209    124,192    132,319    141,115    150,463
Actual (Sector) 9/    105,443    108,750    113,248    116,804    121,730    131,660    137,491
Actual (CFE) 10/    108,360    111,703    118,492    121,582    126,232    137,117    143,651
Nurnber of Customers year endmdg('000) Estimated (Sector)  14,640   15,060     15,460     15,900     16,260     16,650     17,030
Actual (Sector)      15,470     16,285     17,239     17,975     18,690     19,4341   20,143
Actual (CFE)         11,631     12,254     12,899    13,548      14,166     14,797    15,375
1/ Pernanent employees in the areas of operation, maintenance and administration (excludes construction work force)
2/ CFE's thermal plant in operation, including only oil-fired steam, coal frred steam, geothefmal steam and combined cycle
3/ Net Income/Average net fixed assets in operation
4/ Gross cash generation/total requirenents
6/ As compared to Investment Program
7/ Includes sales to sector's final customers and exports
S/ Includes sales to CFE's customers and bulk sales to LYFC
9/ Excludes power plants self-consumption
10/ Excludes power plants self-consumption



20
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3083-ME)
Table 6A - Key Indicators for Project Operation
Indicators                  Unit        1997        1998         1999
Performance                            _          I_T_T_I
Customers/Operations Employee          Custom/Empl
Customers/Distribution Employee        Custom/Emp             _
Sales/Operations Employee               kWh/Empl
Installed Capacity per Generating Employe   MW/Empi
Efficiency                                                     _
Thermal Plant Availability                                          __
Hydro Power Plant Availability              %
Averagy Heat Rate                        kcal/kWh  _
Energy losses                          % of net gen. _
Technical                                          _
Interruption time per customer           Minutes/
Customer  _
Number of claims per 1000 Customers    Claims/1 000
Customers
Installation to New Customers Period      Days    _
Financial                                          _
Rate of Retumr                              %
Debt Service Coverage                    Number    _
Self-Financing Ratio                        %      _
Accounts Receivable                       Days
Aguamilpa Hydro Power Station
Gross Generation                          GWh
Net Generation                            GWh
Plant Factor                              Factor
Availability                                             _
Zimapan Hydro Power Station                        _. 
Gross Generation                          GWh
Net Generation                            GWh
Plant Factor                              Factor
Availability                                %



21
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3083-ME)
Table 6B - Key Indicators for Project Operation
Indicators                  Unit        1997        1998        1999
Qualitiy of Waterv'                   l           l           l_l_l
Temperature                           |           l           l _l
pH                                    l           l           l _v_l
Electric Conductivity
Total Solids
Solved Solids
Depositable Solids*
Floating Material*
Oxigen
Phosphates
Nitrates
DBO5
Grease and oil
Fecal material
Mercury*
Lead*
Economic Indicators of Displaced Popul tion
Employment                                 %
Migration                                                                  _
Familiar Income                            %
Familiar Expenditures                                                      _
Farming, Commercial and Self-
consumption production                  Ton/Year
New Productive activities               Number of
New Jobs
Buying-sale of farming land                Ha.
Social Organization of Displaced Population
Women Participation                        %
Sick Rate and Mortality Rate                       __%
Displaced Population Adaptation to the New Village
Building of New Homes                    Number
Sale and Rent of Homes                     %
Improvement and Maintenance of the
Urban Facilities                         Yes/No
CFE will monitor the quality of water in Taxido and Aguamilpa in 1997. The Comision Nacional del
Agua will monitor quality of water in the reservoir and El Jileno Dam except (*).



22
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3083-ME)
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study          |Purpose as defined at appraisal         Status           Impact of study
1. Energy Conservation     Promotion of energy conservation and              Savings of about 186 GWh per
efficient use of energy in Mexico                year and reduction of about
1 18,000 ton of C02 have been
obtained by improving
efficiency of electric appliances
Completed
2. Co-Generation Study     Analysis of co-generation posibilities in         Co-generation has not
Mexico and incentives required                   significantly increased due to
CDE's low tariffs. When these
tariffs reach their marginal costs
co-generation is expected to
Completed  substantially increase.
Reducing energy losses through operating
practices and/or new investments                 Operating practices have
3. Operations Improvement                                                    improved but energy losses have
Study of CFE's Electric Power                                                not decreased due to the lack of
System                                                           Completed  investment in distribution.
4. CFE's Management Study   Preparation of an organizational                 A system to monitor
development program to improve                   performance based on an
performance                                      incentive program and on
performance indicators have led
to important performance
Completed  improvements.
5. Second Phase of a Tariff   Definition of medium voltage tariffs and
Study                      purchase of metering and data processing          Medium voltage tariffs are
equipment                             Completed  based on marginal costs now.



23
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3083-ME)
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate US$M)      ActuaUlatest estimate (US$M)
Concept                                   Local    Foreign     Total      Local    Foreign     Total
Costs     Costs      Costs     Costs      Costs      Costs
1. Aguamilpa Hydro Power Station            399.7      266.6     666.3      689.6      160.7      850.3
2. Zimapan Hydro Power Station               187.0     124.7      311.7     576.4      253.3      829.7
3. CFE's Evironmental and Resettlement
Programs                                      2.0        1.4        3.4       1.3        0.0        1.3
4. Studies
Energy Conservation Study                   1.7       1.1        2.8        2.7       0.1        2.8
Co-Generation Study                         0.4       0.2        0.6        0.0       1.2        1.2
Power System Optimization Study             0.4       0.3        0.7        0.0       1.0        1.0
Management and Tariff Studies               0.5       0.3        0.8        0.0       1.6        1.6
Total Base Cost                             591.7      394.6      986.3    1270.0      417.9    1687.9
Physical Contingencies                       94.2       62.8      157.0       0.0        0.0        0.0
Subtotal                                    685.9      457.4    1,143.3    1270.0      417.9    1687.9
Price Contingencies                          85.9       57.2      143.1       0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Cost                                  771.8      514.6    1,286.4    1270.0      417.9    1687.9
Interest During Construction                  0.0      153.2      153.2       0.0      153.2      153.2
Total Financing Requirements                771.8      667.8    1,439.6    1,270.0     571.1    1841.1



24
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3083-ME)
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)      Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local   Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign       Total
Costs    Costs     Costs       Costs      Costs       Costs
Financing Requirements
Project Costs                       772.0   514.8      1286.8    1270.0       418.0       1688.0
Interest during construction          0.0   153.2        153.2       0.0      153.2        153.2
Total                               772.0   668.0      1440.0    1270.0       571.2       1841.2
Sources of financing
IBRD Loan 3083-ME                    82.0   378.0       460.0      403.7       56.3       460.0
IBRD Loan 3189-ME                     0.0     0.0         0.0       74.0       51.4       125.4
Government and CFE                  690.0   143.0       833.0      792.3      198.4       990.7
Other Loans                           0.0   147.0        147.0       0.0      265.0       265.0
Total                               772.0   668.0      1440.0    1270.0       571.1      1841.1



25
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3083-ME)
Table 9 - Economic Comparison of Hydro vs. Thermal Plants
(Costs In USS million, 1988 constant prices)
Year             Aguamilpa & Zlman                                         Oil-Fired Steam & Gas Turbines
Capital  I O&M Costs     Total       Capital  IEnvironment  O&M Costs       Fuel        Total
1989                                  00           00          00           00          00           00
1990        1753                     1753         400          00           0.0          00         40.0
1991        524.7                    524 7       120 0        26 0          0 0         0 0        146.0
1992        447.6                   447 6        220 0        30.0          0 0         0 0        250.0
1993        323.0                   323.0        202 0        31 0          0 0         0 0        233.0
1994        1455                     145.5         00          00          528         800         132.8
1995         555                      55.5         00          00          528         800         132.8
1996                      6.5          65          00          00          528         800         132.8
1997                      85          65           00          00          52.8        800         132.8
1998                      65           65          00          00          52.8        800         132.8
1999                      6.5          6 5         0 0         0 0         52.8        80.0        132.8
2000                      6 5          6.5         0.0         0 0         52 8        80.0        132.8
2001                      6.5          6.5         00          00          528         80.0        1328
2002                      6.5          6.5         00          00          528         80.0        132.8
2003                      6.5          6.5         0 0         0 0         52 8        80.0        132 8
2004                      6 5          6 5         0 0         0 0         52.8        80.0        132.8
2005                      6 5          65          0 0          0 0        52.8        80.0        132.8
2006                      65           65          00          00          528         80.0        132.8
2007                      6 5          6.5         0 0         0 0         52 8        80 0        132.8
2008                      6.5          6.5         00          00          528         80.0        1328
2009                      6.5          6 5         0 0         0 0         52 8        80.0        132.8
2010                      6.5          6.5        50.0         10 0        52 8        80 0        192.8
2011                      6.5          65        1500         200          528         800         302.8
2012                      6.5          65        1360         200          52.8        800         288.8
2013                      65           6.5         0 0          0 0        52 8         80 0       132.8
2014                      6.5          6 5         0.0         0.0         52 8        80 0        132.8
2015                      6 5          6.5         0.0         0 0         52 8        80.0        132.8
2016                      6.5          6.5         00           00         528          80.0       132.8
2017                      6.5          65          00          00          528         800         132.8
2018                      6.5          6.5        40 0         0 0         52.8         80.0       172.8
2019                      6.5          6.5        700          160         52.8         800        218.8
2020                      65           65         700          10.0        528          800        212.8
2021                      6.5          6 5        66 0         11 0        52 8        80 0        209.8
2022                      65           6.5         00          0.0         528         80.0        132.8
2023                      6.5          6.5         0 0         0 0         52 8        80.0        132.8
2024                      6.5          6 5         0 0         0 0         52 8        80 0        132.8
2025                      6 5          6 5         0 0         0 0         52.8         80 0       132.8
2026                      65           65          00          00          52.8         800        1328
2027                      65           65          00          00          528         80.0        1328
2028                      6 5          6 5         0.0         0 0         52.8        80 0        132 8
2029                      6.5         6.5         50.0         100         528         80.0        1928
2030                      6.5          6 5       150 0        20 0         52 8        80 0        302 8
2031                      6.5          65        1360         200          52.8         80.0       288.8
2032                      6.5          6 5         0 0         0 0         52.8         80 0       132.8
2033                      6.5          65          00           00         52.8         800        132.8
2034                      6.5          6 5         0 0         0 0         52.8        80 0        132 8
2035                      6.5          6.5         0 0         0 0         52 8        80.0        132.8
2036                      6.5         6.5          0 0         0 0         52 8        80.0        132.8
2037                      6.5          6 5         0 0          0 0        528         80 0        132.6
2038                      6.5          6 5         0 0          0 0        52.8        80.0        132.8
2039                      6.5          85          00          00          52.8        80.0        132.8
Rate                         Present Value
Hvdro                 Thermal
i=10%                   1188.8                   13354
i=11%                   1145.2                   1202 1
i=12%                   11041                    1090 3
1=16%                    961.1                    782 7
i=18%                    899.9                    680 9



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3083-ME)
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section      Cov.    Present   Original            Description of Covenant                      Comments
type     Status   Fulfillment
Date
Loan           3.01(a)    3        C                 Lend the proceeds of the Loan to CFE
Loan             3.02    3         C                 Procure goods and services in accordance
with Bank Guidelines.
Loan           4.01(a)    1                          Maintain, or cause to be maintained, a
______    ______    _____     ______    _______   Special Account
Loan         4.01(b)(i)    I       C                 Keep separate records and audit the Special                                                r
I__________Account.
Loan        4.01 (b)(ii)    1      C                 Fumish audit reports to the Bank not later
________ _______  ____  than six months after the end of each year   Audit Reports have been free of qualifications
Loan        4.01(b)(iii)    I      C                 Furnish to the Bank certified statements of
the Special Account
Loan         4.01(c)(i)    1                         Maintain, or cause to be maintained, records
and accounts reflecting expenditures made on
the basis of statements of expenditures
Loan           6.01(a)   12       CD       12/25/89  Signature of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
Loan           6.01(b)    7       CD       12/25/89  Progress satisfactory to the Bank on the
environmental and resettlement programs
Project        2.02(a)    2        C                 CFE to enter into and duly perform its  CFE met the FRA's targets during the FRA's
obligations under the Financial Rehabilitation validity period, 1989-1994. After that, CFE's
Agreement, FRA                         financial performance deteriorated as a
consecuence of the devaluation of the peso
which occurred in 1994.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3083-ME)
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section      Cov.    Present   Original            Description of Covenant                      Comments
type     Status   Fulfillment
Date
Project        2.02(c)   10        C                 CFE to enter into contractual arrangements
with the Guarantor providing for the transfer
to the Guarantor of the portion of the Loan
________  _____ _ rauired for Part C of the Project
Project        2.06(a)    5        C                 Maintain, until completion of the Project, a  Board's performance was excellent. Board
qualified and experienced board of     was composed by Messrs. Giovanni Lombardi
consultants                            (Swiss), Don Deere (US), Jorge Hacelas
(Colombian) and Oscar Vega Arguelles
(Mexican).
Project        2.06(b)    5        c                 Proposed to the Bank, not later than one year CFE provided the ICR mission a Report with
before the completion of each dam included  the Programs to monitor all its hydroelectric
in the Project, appropriate arrangements for  power stations in 1997, including the dams at
their post-construction inspection and  Aguamilpa and Zimapan.
_________  __________  ________        operation
Project       2.07 (a)    7        C                 CFE to implement Part B of the Project in   Implementation of the Resettlement Plan for
accordance with the Environmental and  Aguamilpas was fully satisfactory, while the
Resettlement Plan                      one for Zimapan was expensive, not fully
effective and implemented with delay.
Project        2.07(b)    7        C                 CFE to, from time to time, review the
Environmental and Resettlement Plan to
address environmental or resettlement
matters
Project        2.08(i)    5        C        9/30/89   CFE to present to the Bank terms of reference
for the studies included in Part D
Project       2.08(ii)    5        C        6/30/91                                         The studies were considered satisfactory by the
Carry out the studies of Part D        Bank



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3083-ME)
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section      Cov.    Present   Original            Description of Covenant                      Comments
type     Status   Fulfillment
Date
Project       2.08(iii)    5       C       12/31/91  CFE to exchange views with the Bank on the
conclusions and recommendations of the
studies and provide to the Bank a plan of
.________ ___action for implementation
Project       2.08(iv)    5        C                 Implement the plan of actions recommended The Studies' recommendations have been
in studies of Part D                   implemented with the exception of some of the
recommendations of the Tariff Study, which is
being revised by CFE.                             co
Project          2.09    5         C                 CFE to complete Final Engineering Design
for the Zimapan power Plant
Project          2.10    9         C      Periodically CFE to provide, on a semiannual basis,  Progress reports were satisfactorily submitted
progr~ess rcports on project implementation   by CFE
Project          3.01    5         C                 CFE to carry on its operations in accordance
with sound administrative, financial and
public utilities practice
Project          3.02    5         C                 CFE to operate and maintain its plant,  CFE, assisted by EDF, developed a
machinery, equipment and other property in  performance monitoring system wich is
accordance with sound engineering, financial working satisfactorily.
and public utilities practices
Project          3.03    2         C                 CFE to take out and maintain insurance with
responsible insurers
Project        4.01(a)    1        C                 CFE to maintain records and accounts in
I_______ ________ _______                  accordance with sound accounting practices



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3083-ME)
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section      Cov.    Present   Original           Description of Covenant                      Comments
type     Status   Fulfillment
Date
Project        4.01(b)    1        c                 Furnish to the Bank, no later than six months
after the end of each year, audited financial
statements
Project        4.01(c)    I        c                Maintain separate records and accounts on
expenditures made on the basis of statement
of expenditures and ensure that the audit
reports contains a separate opinion on them
Project        4.02(a)    2       CD                 CFE to update, each year, its Ten-Year  This covenant was complied by CFE until
Investment Plan                        1994. In 1994, responsibility for the issuance
of the Power Sector Ten-Year Investment Plan
was transferred to the Ministry of Energy.
Project        4.02(b)    2        C                 CFE to undertake only the projects included
in the Ten-Year Investment Plan
Project          4.03    2        NC                 CFE to maintain an average ratio of total    Actual ratios were: 1.06 in 1990, 1.02 in 1991,
operating revenues to total operating  0.96 in 1992, 0.96 in 1993 and 0.82 in 1994.
expenses of not less than 0.95 during 1990
and of not less than 1.0 during 1991 and
thereafter
Guarantee      3.04(i)   10        C       9/30/89   Submit to the Bank, through SEMIP, terms of
reference for the Studies included in Part C of
the Project.
Guarantee     3.04(u)    10        C       9/30/91                                         The studies were considered satisfactory by the
Carry out the Studies included in Part C  Bank
Guarantee     3.04(ii)   10        C       12/31/91  Exchange views with the Bank on the
conclusions and recommendations of the
Studies included in Part C.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3083-ME)
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section      Cov.    Present   Original            Description of Covenant                       Comments
type     Status   Fulfillment
Date
Guarantee      3.05(a)   10        C                 Perform all its obligations under the
Financial Rehabilitation Agreement
Guarantee      3.05(c)   10        C        9/30/89   Amend the Financial Rehabilitation
Agreement to include terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank
Guarantee      3.06(i)   10       CD       9/30 each  Review the progress of carrying out the Ten- The Government complied with this clause
year    Year Investment Plan with the Bank and CFE until 1993. In 1994, responsibility for the
Power Sector Investment Plan was transferred
to the Ministry of Mines who reviewed the         o
Plan without Bank participation.
Guarantee      3.06(ii)   10       C                 Take all measures necessary to ensure
compliance by CFE with its investment and
other obligations.
Guarantee      4.01(a)    I        C                 Maintain, or cause to be maintained, separate
records and accounts to reflect the operations,
rcsources and expenditures in respect of Part
Guarantee      4.01(b)    1        C       6/30 each  Furnish to the Bank a certified copy of the
year    audit report respect of Part C.
Guarantee      4.01(c)    1        C                 Maintain separate records and accounts
reflecting expenditures made on the basis of
statement of expenditures, and ensure that
such separate accounts are included in the
annual audit.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3083-ME)
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section      Cov.    Present   Original            Description of Covenant                      Comments
type     StaLtus   Fulfillment
Date
Covenant Types:
1 = Accounts/audit                                   7 = Involuntary resettlement
2 = Financial performance/revenue generation from    8 = Indigenous people
beneficiaries                                        9 = Monitoring, review and reporting
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds            10 = Project implemenetation not covered by categories 1- 9
4 = Counterpart funding                              11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
5 = Management aspects of the project or executing   12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
agency                                               13 = Other
6 = Environmental covenants
Status
C    covenant complied with                          NC   not complied with
CD = complied with after delay                       CP = complied with partially



32
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3083-ME)
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                       Actual
Stage of Project
Cycle                Weeks        US$ (000)       Weeks        US$ (000)
Preparation to Appraisal          NA             NA            58.0          105.2
Appraisal - Board                 NA             NA            86.3          191.4
Supervision  1/                   NA             NA            134.1         348.4
Completion                        6.0            21            6.0            37.5
TOTAL                                                         284.4          682.5
n.a. not available
1/ Planned data for FY94 and FY95 only. Actual data from FY88 thru FY96.



33
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project   Month/year   Number    Days in    Specialized staff               Performance rating I/
Cy#e                      of          field       skills /
persons                represented
Implemen    Development    Types of
-tation          impact       problems 2/
status
Identification      03/85          2           6             DC,E
Preparation         10/86          2          11              E,F
Preparation         03/87          2          25              E,F
Preparation         05/187         2           8             S,A
Pre-appraisal       05/87          4          10           E,Ec,S,A
Pre-Appraisal       09/87          2          10             A,A
Appraisal           11/87          5          21          E,F,F,Ec,A
Post-Appraisal      03/88          1           7              E
Pre-Negotiation     05/88          2           9             E,F
Pre-Negotiation     02/89          2          12             E,F
Pre-Negotiation     03/89          1           5              E
Post-Ngotiation     04/89          3           3             A,S,S
Post-Appraisal      11/89          4           5            E,F,A S
Supervision         08/90          4          17            E,S,F,A                                            1
Supervision         02/91          4          12            E,F,A,S             1              1               1
Supervision          9/91          4          18            E,S,A,S             1             1                2
Supervision         03/92          5                       E,S,A,E,F,           1             1                1
Supervision         10/92          3           8            E,A,A               1             1                1
Supervision         05/93          4                        E,A,S,F             1              1               1
Supervision         11/93          5          16           E,A,F,AS,            1             1                1
Supervision         04 /94         1           4              E                 1             1                1
Supervision         12/94          5          11          E,F,E,S,S,C          HS             HS               HS
Supervision         05/95          3           3             E,F,S             S              5                1
Supervision         06/95          3          12             E,F,S             S              S                1
Supervision         12/95          2           3              E,S              S              S                1
SupeTvision
1/       1 - Problem free or minor problems 2 - Moderate problems; S - Satisfactory; HS-Highly Satisfactory;
2/       L.O. - Loan Officer; L - Legal; P - Procurement Specialist; W - Water Supply Specialist; S - Seismic Specialist; A -
Achitecture;
ED - Education Specialist; U - Urban Planner; H - Housing Specialist; E - Engineer; F - Financial Specialist; TM -
Task Manager.



34
APPENDIX A:
TRANSLATION OF THE
AIDE MEMOIRE OF THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION



35
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
MEXICO
HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3083-ME)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
February 10-14, 1997
1.     INTRODUCTION
1.     A World Bank Mission visited Mexico from February 10 through 14, 1997, to supervise the
Hydroelectric Development Project. The mission comprised Maria Clara Mejia, Marcelo Osorio, and
Luis Cosenza.
2.     The purpose of the mission was to carry out an overall assessment of the project whose physical
execution was completed at the end of 1995. The project was partally financed with resources from
Loans 3189-ME and 3083-ME. The first of these loans was closed in 1995 and the corresponding
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) was prepared in 1996. The second loan was closed at the end
of 1996 and the ICR is under preparation. Ths project implementation completion mission will seek
information to complete the ICR. Besides gathering information as to the current project status, the
mission focused on identifyring the indicators to evaluate the eventual impact of the project.
3.     The Mission acknowledges the cooperation and the hospitality received during its visit. The list
of individuals met is attached as Annex I to this Aide-Memoire. The following paragraphs summarize
the findings and recommendations of the Mission. According to standard procedures, the Bank will
confirm the Mission's recommendations upon review of the dmft Report.
II.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.     The Project objectives were as follows: (a) to promote the efficient use of electricity through
realistic price policies, conservation of energy, and improvement of sector operations; (b) to diversify
generation sources; (c) to strengthen CFE's financial position through an increase in rates and the
implementation of a Financial Rehabilitation Agreement; (d) to expand the coverage of the power
system; and (e) to improve CFE's capability to handle environmental and social aspects of hydroelectric
projects.
5.     Some of the objectives, such as the diversification of generation sources, the expansion of the
electric system and the improvement of CFE's capability to handle environmental and social aspects of
hydroelectric projects were fully met. The other two objectives, the efficient use and conservation of
energy and the financial strengthening of CFE were partially and temporarily achieved.
III.  AGUAMILPA AND ZIMAPAN HYDROELECTRIC PLANTS
6.     The Mission and CFE analyzed different aspects of the Project, with special ernphasis on cost
overruns, resettlement works, the status of the environmental and social situation of the two plants and
the resettled population, and the management indicators currently in use in CFE. The Mission also



36
collected information to prepare the ex-post economic evaluation of the project. As part of its work, the
Mission visited parts of the Zimapan works, including the town of Bella Vista del Rio.
7.     The Aguamilpa hydroelectric plant construction costs totaled US$850.3 million, a figure close
to the estimated value at the time of project appraisal (SAR), estimated at US$858.0 million. On the
other hand, the cost of the Zimapan plant, US$829.2 million, was much higher than the initial estimated
value of US$418.0 million. The cost overrun, approximately US$410 million, was due to the following
main works: (a) change of the pressure tunnel lining to reinforced concrete; (b) construction of a second
tunnel for the spillway; (c) changes in the orientation and design of the powerhouse; (d) construction of
unplanned access roads; (e) higher than budgeted costs for the electromechanical equipment; and (f)
works and resettlement costs above those budgeted. The main causes that explain the difference between
the budgeted and the actual costs of this plant are: (a) optimistic expectations used as a basis for plant
design, especially with respect to the pressure tunnel; (b) some items of extraordinary works without
contractual unit prices. These prices had to be agreed upon during the construction process, when CFE's
ability to react was limited; (c) greater contractor resources with respect to CFE to support the claims
that normally arise during construction of this type of works; (d) initial underestimation of the value of
electromechanical equipment; and (e) the action plan for resettlement (at the time of preparation of the
project's budget in May 1989) lacked enough details which led to underestimate the cost of the
resettlement program.
8.     As to the construction-related aspects, it should be remembered that CFE traditionally built
hydroelectric projects through force account, thus its experience in managing contracts of a similar size
than those that resulted from the project and in negotiating claims, was relatively limited.
Notwithstanding the above, the Mission considers that the main lessons derived from project execution
are the following: (a) during construction of large works such as hydroelectric projects, a support team
should be constituted comprising experts on legal issues, contract administration and assessment of
claims, as well as on financial issues, so that they provide continuous assistance in administering the
contracts and in providing professional and quick solutions to the claims presented by contractors.
Additionally, consideration should be given to the introduction of incentives for the staff participating in
the supervision of works, including the experts that will administer the contracts and negotiate the
claims; (b) the bidding of works with a high degree of geological uncertainty should, as far as possible,
include price quotations for all works items considered to be potentially needed, in order to avoid
negotiation of unit prices after the works have begun; (c) quotation of prices for electromechanical
equipment do not constitute sufficient information on which to make budget projections. It is necessary
to supplement this information with other that may be derived from recently constructed projects; (d) the
construction of hydroelectric projects is most difficult in situations in which invariable budgetary ceilings
are used. The very nature of the works makes it impossible to accurately budget annual expenses, and
when subjected to a rigid ceiling, there are contractor claims for delayed payments or other components
are sacrificed, such as those related to social works, in order to comply with payments to the contractor;
and (e) the construction of large size projects becomes even more problematic if there is a limit beyond
which the contract may not be increased. In these cases, the solution of cost overruns which are typically
present in these works becomes difficult and slow, resulting in cost overruns due to interest on overdue
payments. A way should be identified to simplify the required processes to expand the value of contracts
to avoid additional cost overruns due to delayed payments.
9.     With respect to the periodic inspection of hydroelectric project dams, CFE confirmed that it is
preparing an annual plan for this purpose and that as a result of this, it is preparing reports with the
results of the inspections and studies. The plan corresponding to 1997 is attached as Annex 2 to this
Aide-Memoire.



37
10.    As to the envmental impact, the measurements camied out show that waste waters
discharged by the facilities are not a problem and that there is no apparent sign of proliferation of algae
or macrophytes that may constitute a public health risk. Likewise, the monitoring of the water quality in
the Taxid6 creek carried out through July 1996, shows that the dam waters have not polluted the source.
The Taxido spring is especially important as it constitutes the only drinking water source with adequate
volume to supply the resettled population in Bella Vista del Rio as well as other borderline towns and
settlements belonging to the community of Vista Hermosa. The results of the water quality monitoring
of the Taxido spring are shown in Annex 3. CFE reported that it will re-initiate the monitoring program
in March 1997, and that it will continue to do so up to February 1998. If pollution levels are found to be
beyond the values established by the national standards, CFE will build a water treatment plant or take
another measure agreed upon to solve the problem. With regard to the fishing potental of Aguamipa,
which constitutes an important source of income for 14 Huichol communities, including the 2
communities resettled, CFE will review the reports prepared by the Fisheries Secretariat, Nayarit
District, and will include the results in an annual report along with those of the water quality of the
Taxido spring. A copy of this report will be sent to the Bank.
11.    The resettlement and rehabilitation program for 115 families of the Huichol community
(Colorado de la Mora and Playa Golondrina) and the mestizo community (Los Sabinos) displaced by the
construction of the Aguamilpa Plant, has achieved the proposed objectives. The community lands were
reinstated and taditional subsistence agricultural activities were reestablished, including fishing at the
dan. Resettlement was based in the participatory action of the affected communities and respect for
their culture. The three resettled communities have reached a satisfactory level of socioeconomic and
self-management stability. New economic activities have sprung up, such as local tourism services,
motorboat passenger transportation, and some cottage industries. Aguamilpa constitutes the first
successful experience in resettling indigenous communities in projects financed by the Bank.
12.    The outcome of resettling 140 families affected by the construction of the Zimapan Plant in the
State of Hidalgo and resettled in Paso del Arenal, El Epazote and Aljibes, is also very satisfactory.
Negotiations with the community took place without major obstacles. The productive land was
restituted in enhanced conditions, as well as the towns and services.
13.    The situation of the 412 families displaced from Rancho Nuevo, Vista Hermosa and La Vega in
the State of Quer&taro and resettled in Bella Vista del Rio is somewhat different. The negotiation
process was quite conflictive. Cash indemnities as well as acceptance of the excessive demands made by
the Resettlement Committee were the means negotiated and acceptable to the parties to reduce opposition
to the project and to avoid delays in construction of the works, with the ensuing cost overruns and
exacerbation of conflicts within the affected communities. Although towns and services were not only
reestablished but also considerably improved, the restitution of productive irrigated land did not take
place. At the end, the only irrigated lands generating profits and employment for landless community
people were not replaced but compensated with cash payments. As a result, the community does not
have productive agricultural lands and was left with only seim-arid lands, with agricultural restrictions
that impede their productive and sustainable use. However, various efforts undertaken by CFE to
promote new economic activities, such as providing camp facilities for future businesses, have allowed
the installation of a private maquila company that generated 80 jobs for community women.
Nevertheless, the community has lost its economic foundation based on agricultural activities for self-
consumption and has become exclusively dependent on migration. This situation was already present
before project construction.



38
14.    The Mission considers that the main lessons learned with respect to social and environmental
issues are the following: (a) it is advisable to strengthen and complete the regulatory framework as well
as the coordination mechanisms defining the responsibilities and rights of the parties, the mechanisms for
conflict resolution, and the responsibilities of the institutions involved in resettlements; (b) the social
studies should be carried out in parallel with the technical, economic, and environmental studies from the
initial pre-feasibility stages. Late resettlement plans once a decision has already been made on the
project, generate conflicts and cost overruns; (c) information and timely consultation with the affected
communities regarding productive restitution alternatives based on technical and socioeconomic
feasibility studies is the best tool to avoid conflicts and generate trust and transparency; (d) the social
analysis should consider gender differences and the divisions existing within the communities so as to
promote consultation and decision mechanisms seeking the participation of all groups and avoid the
adoption of decisions by a minority; (e) rather than the physical resettlement of populations, the social
rehabilitation and economic re-establishment of the affected communities is what defines the success and
sustainability of resettlement programs; (f) the tendency to invest more money and to accept unjustified
claims to reduce conflicts and to ensure compliance of construction schedules, originates internal
disputes within the communities and negatively affects the resettlement; (g) strict coordination and
planning of main civil works and required works for the resettlement of displaced populations is needed
to avoid negotiations under extreme pressure and costly solutions; and (h) the restitution of productive
land in cash has not proven to be an adequate strategy for the economic rehabilitation of communities
that have traditionally depended on the land for their subsistence.
15.    An important project objective was the financial rehabilitation of CFE, thus a Financial
Rehabilitation Agreement was executed between CFE and SHCP. The Agreement included 17
performance indicators, which are shown in Annex 4. An analysis of this Annex shows an improvement
in the "price/cost ratio" indicator up to 1994, the termn of the Agreement. Unfortunately, since then
CFE's financial situation has once again deteriorated, this time as a result of the substantial devaluation
suffered by the Mexican Peso, which has not adequately been compensated by a rate adjustment.
16.    The Mission maintains that the lesson derived from CFE's financial rehabilitation process
consists in proving that the sustainable financial recovery of the sector is only possible if the rate issue is
resolved. This, in turn, requires the adoption of an appropriate regulatory framework and leaving rate
setting as the responsibility of an independent commission, i.e. separating the ownership of sector
companies from the policy setting and the regulatory functions.
17.    During the process of searching management indices to follow up on project benefits, the
Mission was informed that as a result of the studies financed with loan proceeds, CFE has adopted a
plan of incentives to benefit, among others, the staff of generation plants. The management indicators
constituting the foundation of the system are agreed upon annually and they are very adequate for the
future fol1ow up and analysis of the project and of the hydroelectric plants partially financed with loan
resources. These indicators are attached as Annex 5 to this Aide Memoire. Since CFE, for its own
reasons, will closely follow up these indicators, the Mission and CFE have agreed that these same
indicators will be used to follow up the project. Additionally, the indicators to be used to follow up on
the performance of the two hydroelectric plants, Aguamilpa and Zimapain, were selected. The above
cited Annex presents the values of these indicators for 1995 and 1996, which shows the satisfactory
operation and adequate maintenance to date.
18.    Besides the technical indicators shown in Annex 5, it is also necessary to develop indicators
applicable to social and environmental aspects. These indicators were also agreed upon and are included
as Annex 6 to this Aide-Memoire. Even though CFE does not routinely follow up these indicators, it



39
was agreed that CFE will begin the process in order to collect and update the information annually. The
CFE and the Mission agreed that the indicators mentioned in this and in the previous paragraphs, as well
as in the annual plan for dam inspections, will be included in a report to be sent to the Bank during the
course of the following month of March of the corresponding year.
IV.  ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL PROGRAMS
19.    As a result of the Project, CFE has been able to strengthen these areas. Prior to project
approval CFE did not have a high level unit responsible for planning and managing environmental and
social issues, including resettlement. Community relations had been performed by the engineering
departments in charge of the design and operation of each project. These activities were performed on an
ad hoc basis, generally by staff with no experience in social and natural sciences. To implement the
environmental and social aspects of the project, CFE created the Social Development Management
Office and the Environmental Management Office with technical, multidisciplinary teams with clear cut
responsibilities and authority that allowed to take on this task. Today, both Management Offices are
staffed by 9 and 35 professionals, respectively, and their duties include the issuance of technical and
administrative standards and procedures applicable to all CFE actions and projects. Annex 7 shows a
listing of the environmental standards prepared by the Environmental Management Office and officially
adopted by the entity, as well as the standards and procedures on social issues that have been developed
by the Social Development Management Office which will be soon approved. The strengthening of
the two Management Offices as well as intemalization of the of Zimapa.n and Aguamilpa
experience through procedures, internal policies, and manuals is essential to simplify and make
more efficient the processes related to environmental and social issues in future CFE projects.
20.    The Bank will send to CFE (Social Development Management Office) examples of
national and state resettlement policies from other countries as well as the methodology used in the
Yacyreta Project in Argentina, to evaluate the resettlement carried out.
V.    EFFICIENT USE OF ELECTRIC POWER
21.    As part of the project, a series of studies were carried out to: (a) study and issue standards
to foster energy efficiency for industry and business; (b) study and identify methods to improve the
efficiency of water pumping and air conditioning equipment, establishing demonstration centers;
(c) study and establish regional centers to promote energy efficiency; and (d) study and identify
training needs to undertake energy conservation programs. As to cogeneration, the project included
the study of appropriate alternatives and incentives for cogeneration. Finally, the project included
the purchase of laboratory equipment and staff training. This project component was carried out
by the National Commission on Energy Savings, CONAE, under the Secretariat of Energy.
22.    Of all the studies mentioned above, the work related to the preparation and issuance of
standards has been the most successful. CONAE has issued 11 standards, 5 more standards are
under preparation and 7 standards are at the draft stage. Of all current standards, CONAE
estimates that those applicable to household refrigeration appliances have resulted in a reduction of
25% in electricity consumption. Considering that the Mexican market demands a million
refrigerators annually, the energy savings are impressive (estimated by CONAE in 186 GWh
annually, with an associated reduction of 117,900 tons of C02). Notwithstanding the above, other
standards such as those related to water pumping, with a potential savings of three times that
corresponding to refrigerators, have not been implemented (in spite of having been enacted) given
the related political problems and the significant subsidy included in the electricity tariff.



40
23.    With respect to cogeneration, the programs suffered by the strong devaluation occurring at
the end of 1994, which in real terms reduced the value of electricity tariffs in half. Despite the
adjustments made since then, rates have yet to recover their value, making cogeneration
unattractive. In addition, there are still several issues to be resolved allowing the connection of
cogenerators to the CFE network as well as connection fees and wheeling charges.
24.    CONAE has established 15 generation centers to promote energy efficiency and
conservation. Besides, staff was trained; however many of these staff are no longer working with
the institution. As to purchase of laboratory equipment, CONAE's policy currently provides that
this type of service be provided by the universities and other institutions.
25.    CONAE intends to focus its efforts in advising businesses so that these may prepare
feasibility studies to obtain financing from commercial banks. To this end, it is preparing a web
page to be placed in the Internet which will allow it to provide advice to all those concerned.
26.    The Mission considers that the preliminary lessons derived from the implementation of this
component are the following: (a) it is not feasible to carry out energy conservation and efficiency
programs when the rates do not reflect the cost of service or when subsidies are granted that distort
the price levels; (b) the high personnel turnover suffered by CONAE has affected project execution
and it has particularly resulted in the loss of institutional memory as to the lessons that may be
derived from its execution. The lasting solution to this problem requires changing CONAE into an
institution that enjoys more autonomy and independence; (c) the transfer of resources to CONAE
through CFE caused several difficulties that had an impact on contracting and payment of
consultants. This has prompted CFE to consider that the use of this procedure in the future is not
desirable.
VI.   OTHER STUDIES
27.    As part of the Project, studies related to the operation of the electric system, improvement
of the administration and rate setting functions, were also included. As a consequence of these
studies, the concept of business strategic units (UENs) was developed as quasi-companies
responsible for their own management, which is being successfully applied in generation plants.
The concept of annual negotiation of performance contracts based on management indicators and
on incentives for those meeting the indicators agreed upon was also adopted. Once again, this
seems to work successfully in generation and may be one of the most important and positive
outcomes of the project.
28.    As to rate setting aspects, rates deteriorated because of the peso devaluation that took
place between 1993 and 1994. This devaluation has not yet been compensated by appropriate rate
adjustments, so that the average rate has decreased in current U.S. Dollars from US$0.061 per
kWh in 1993 to US$0.04 in 1996. Average rates in effect per type of consumption are as follows,
in New Mexican Pesos:



41
Type of Consumption                Rate
Residential                        0.376
Commercial                         0.894
Services                           0.636
Agricultural                       0.193
Medium Size Company                0.435
Industrial                         0.302
Power and Electricity              0.351
29.    With respect to the study of marginal costs, the Mission was informed that the study
served as the basis for the calculations that CFE currently prepares periodically. The results of the
study may therefore be considered successful. The Mission requested CFE to provide the Bank, by
February 28, a summary report on the marginal costs and average rates in effect by CFE by level
of voltage.
VII.   Preparation of ICR
30.    To be able to complete the draft ICR, the information listed in Annex 8 to this Aide
Memoire must be submitted. It was agreed that CFE will send this information to the Bank at the
latest on February 28. For its part, the Mission estimated that if this deadline is met, the draft
ICR will be sent for review by the authorities on April 1, 1997.
Mexico, D.F., February 14, 1997
(signed) For CFE - German Sandoval
(signed) For the Mission - Luis Cosenza J.



42
APPENDIX B
SUMMARY OF THE TRANSLATION OF THE
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION



43
ELECTRIC POWER FOR THE PROGRESS OF MEXICO - CFE
SUBDIRECCION DE CONSTRUCCION
COORDINACION DE PROYECTOS HIDROELECTRICOS
GERENCIA TECNICA
HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 3083-ME
FINAL REPORT
October 1995
COMISION FEDERAL DE ELECTRICIDAD



44
HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 3083-ME
FINAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.     EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Project Objectives
Implementation of Project Objectives
Technical Aspects, Design, Procurement of Goods and Services, Costs, Construction and
Operation of the Financed Projects
NAFIN Performance During Project Implementation
World Bank Performance
Performance of other Entities
2.     THE AGUAMILPA PROJECT
Original Design and Changes Made During Construction
Project Execution and Problems Encountered
Project Costs
Financing
3.     THE ZIMAPAN PROJECT
Original Design and Changes Made During Construction
Project Execution and Problems Encountered
Project Costs
Financing
4.     ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMS
Aguamilpa
Zimapan
5.     RESETTLEMENT PROGRAMS



45
1.    EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Project Objectives
The objectives set for the Project were:
*     Promotion of the efficient use of electric power
*     Diversification of electric generation sources
*     Expansion of electric service coverage in the country
*     Improvement of CFE capabilities in the execution of environmental and resettlement
programs
*     Implementation of the Financial Rehabilitation Agreement
Implementation of Project Objectives
Promotion of the Efficient Use of Electric Power. This objective is deemed to have been met. An
assessment of the Electric System operational efficiency and identification of justifiable actions to
enhance its efficiency were carried out by the consulting company Electricite de France (E.D.F).
The study was initiated on November 27, 1990 and was concluded on February 7, 1992. The
performance of the consulting firm was satisfactory and the requirements stated in the terms of
reference of this study were met. Currently, the recommendations included in the study as to
Generation, Load Dispatch, Fuels Handling, Design of Plants and Transmission are being
implemented.
In addition, the National Commission on Energy Savings (CONAE), reporting to the Secretariat of
Energy, contracted the execution of a series of studies on energy savings and cogeneration to
analyze the current situation and to define new criteria for a better use of energy. The performance
of the contracted consulting companies was satisfactory and currently the recommendations derived
from those studies are being implemented.
Diversification of Power Generation Sources. This objective has been met. At the end of
December 1988 there were 29.3 GW installed with a participation of 7,749 MW (32.3%) of
hydroelectric plants. The objective for 1994 was to have 33.6 GW of which 8,839 MW (26.3%)
would come from hydroelectric plants. With the additions and modifications to installed capacity
during 1994, one of which corresponds to start-up operations of the Aguamilpa Hydroelectric Plant
(3 x 320 MW), there is an installed capacity of 31,649 MW by the end of December of which
9,121 MW come from hydroelectric plants (equivalent to 28.82% of total capacity), surpassing the
goal of the National Energy Modernization Program by 282 MW as to energy originating from
hydroelectric plants.
The 1994 increase of installed capacity with respect to 1993 was 8.37%, with 39.2% of this
growth corresponding to the Aguamilpa Project and 60.8% to other electric generation sources.
During 1995, it was programmed to add 2,077 MW of which 732 MW (representing 35.2% of
total capacity by additions) correspond to hydroelectric projects. The Zimapan Hydroelectric
Project (2 x 146 MW) represents 39.9% of the hydroelectric additions programmed for 1995.
Expansion of Electric Service Coverage in the Country. This objective is deemed to have been
met.With the additions and modifications to the installed capacity during 1994, one of which
corresponding to the start-up operations of the Aguamilpa Hydroelectric Project, it was possible to
expand electric service national coverage from 92.18% (in 1993) to 94.24% (in 1994), increasing
coverage from 18.7 to 19.4 million users.



46
Improvement of CFE Capabilities to Execute Environmental and ResettlementPrograms. This
objective is deemed to have been met. Through the creation of the Social Development and the
Environmental Protection Management Offices, CFE's management capabilities in these areas have
increased significantly. The implementation of criteria and guidelines to study, handle, and follow
up environmental and social issues, from the planning stages to project completion, was also
achieved.
Implementation of the Financial Rehabilitation Agreement. It is considered that CFE
satisfactorily met the objectives set in the Financial Rehabilitation Agreement, achieving 97.05%
compliance during 1994, average compliance during the 1990-1994 period of 96.58%, and
improving by 34.5% the behavior of the 17 indicators considered for the evaluation of the entity.
The achievement of values higher than the goal on 12 of the indicators should be highlighted, and
although five of them register non-compliance, only on three of these did indicators record
deviations greater than 5%. The importance of the cost/price ratio should be noted, which was
basically affected by factors external to CFE such as those corresponding to the impact of
exchange rate variations and the fuel price policy. The fuel oil price presented important increases
during 1994, and the average sale price of electric power remained practically constant.
The following table summarizes the results obtained at the end of 1994.
MANAGEMENT                    UNIT OF                     YEAR 1994                  COMPLIANCE
INDICATORS               MEASUREMENT            ACTUAL    DEC.
PERIOD   GOAL                  %         WEIGHTED %
PRODUCTIVITY                                                                         99.02         43.57
Operational Staff Increase     %                         0.32%        0.00           100           9.97
Users/Operation Worker                                   262.09       260.09         100           10.00
Sales/Operation Worker         GWh/wkr                   1.585        1.458          100           6.00
Installed Capacity/Generation
Worker                         MW/worker                 1.82         1.95           93            5.60
Transmission Lines/ Transm. Lines
Worker                         km/workers                47.62        47.36          100           6.00
Users/Distribution Worker                                440.92       437.23         100           6.00
OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY                                                               99.74         22.94
Average Availability in Base   %                         85.98        81.49          100           8.00
Thefmoclectric Plants
Average Availability in         %                        85.56        84.49          100           3.00
Hydroelectric Plants
Thermal Efficiency in Base     %                         34.29        34.64          99            5.94
Thermoelectric Plants
Energy Losses                  %                         10.99        11.66          100           6.00
SERVICE QUALITY                                                                      100           15.00
Down Time/User                 Minutes                  251           292            100           5.00
Complaints/1000 Users                                    18           22             100           5.00
Connection Time of New Users   Days                      3             5             100           5.00
ADMINISTRATIVE/
FINANCIAL                                                                            86.33         15.54
Administrative Service
Expenses/Operational           %                         7.17         6.91           96            5.77
Products
Inventory Coverage in
Operational Stores            Months                   34.46         25.97         67             4.04
Price/cost ratio               $/s                      0.82          0.95           86            1.73
Staff growth in National offices  %                      0.04         0.00           100           4.00
TOTAL               %                                                                   97.05



47
Technical Aspects, Design, Procurement of Goods and Services, Costs, Construction and Operation of the
Financed Projects
The whole design of the main civil works was done by CFE and the electromechanical work was
contracted under the turnkey modality, considering the design, supply, tests and start-up of the
equipment. In the specific case of the Zimapan curtain, experts were contracted to support the
design.
To contract the main civil works, an international bidding competition was carried out. The
procurement of electromechanical equipment was also bided internationally, requesting full
financing from suppliers. The supplementary civil works and the construction of resettlement
towns were contracted with national companies, taking into account the need to have economic
spillovers that would benefit the places where the projects were constructed.
Contracting for the studies charged to CONAE and to CFE was made through a process of direct
invitation to companies and institutions. For the advisory services on social and environmental
issues, experts accepted by the World Bank were contracted. The same method was used to hire
institutions to develop a "monitoring" program for the works performed in each area.
Cost
The summary of the cost of the Hydroelectric Development Project is as follows:
CURRENT
ITEMS                                   MILLION DOLLARS
COST         BANK SHARE (1)
PART A
A. 1 Construction of the Aguamilpa Generation         850,3         330,3
Plant
A.2 Construction of the Zimapan Generation            829,2         124,4
Plant
A.3 Expert Consultant Services for Parts A. 1          0,5           0,0
and A.2
PART B Social and Environmental Program                 1,3          0,0
PART C Energy Related Studies:                          4,3           3,0
* Conservation
* Cogeneration
PART D Other Studies:                                   2,3           2,3
* Inprovement of electric system operations
* Improvement of administration system
* Rates
TOTAL                           1.687,9      460,0
(1) It does not include US$125.4 million remaining from Loan 3189-ME which were applied to the
Zimapan civil works.
All construction works were performed through contractor companies, with the exception of the
initial diversion works of the Rio Santiago towards Aguamilpa. These works were executed by
direct admninistration. Once the contract was awarded, the contractor continued with the works.



48
CFE was in charge of supervising the execution of works, relying on specialized contractors to
supplement its coverage.
The Aguamilpa Plant began to supply energy to the Electric System in July 1994 and the Zimapan
Plant in September 1995.
NAFIN Performance During Project Implementation
Overall, it is considered that NAFJN's performance as financial agent was of great assistance in
getting CFE to fully apply the loan granted. This is because of its negotiating ability with the
Bank, as well as its willingness and care to resolve the contingencies presented in a timely fashion.
During the initial stages of Project execution, some contingencies emerged when trying to handle
some technical aspects with NAFIN that needed to be taken care of to have continuity in the flow
of resources. However, once the degree of involvement in the matter was defined jointly with the
World Bank, this situation was completely resolved.
World Bank Performance
Within the scope of its jurisdiction, the Bank's handling of the loan operation was always adequate.
The Bank invariably showed great willingness to reach agreements to the satisfaction of all parties
on the issues that eventually resulted in a conflict.
Following are some suggestions, which in the opinion of the different CFE areas that interacted
with the Bank, may be convenient to consider for future operations.
Expand the authority of the Bank's Representative in Mexico City, especially with respect
to processes requiring granting the Bank's "No Objection". This would allow a more
expeditious administration and operation of loan resources.
Seek to maintain the continuity of financial, technical, and anthropological experts
accompanying the Project Officer during evaluation and supervision missions during
project execution. This would allow a clearer interpretation of the issues that may arise, as
well as on the proposals and recommendations to find solution altematives consistent both
with the reality and with the practical possibility to implement them.
Expand the coverage of Bank financing schemes so that future operations be financed
under the "turnkey" concept, to ensure the comprehensive nature of the project.
As a first order of business for future operations, it is deemed advisable that following the
execution of the loan legal documents, a seminar be conducted with the participation of
representatives of the Bank, the Treasury and Public Credit Secretariat, the appointed
financial agent, and the executing agency. This would allow the exchange of viewpoints
on the design of joint strategies that would allow better project administration, operation,
and execution. This suggestion is made with a view to share, define, and determine the
scope of jurisdiction and responsibility among the different stakeholders during project
development.
During loan execution, there were some complications related to Bank authorization to pay
estimates for the civil works contracts. This was caused because when cost adjustments



49
by escalation were included, the authorized amount expressed in Pesos was rapidly reached
even though the amount allotted expressed in U.S. dollars was not reached. This was due
to the exchange rate situation and the inflation prevailing at that stage of the Project. It
would be convenient that the figures approved by the Bank at the time of awarding a
contract be expressed only in U.S. dollars and that the payment of estimates and cost
adjustments be considered regardless of the corresponding exchange rate up to the
depletion of the loan amount assigned to the Project.
Performance of Other Entities
With respect to CONAE, the administrative cost represented by the processing and operation of the
resources assigned to that Institution was assumed. To achieve better transparency in the flow of
resources, it would convenient that in the future funds for two different executing bodies not be
involved in the same project. This issue became a problem with the changes made in its
management staff during the previous Administration, which caused lack of continuity in the
development of studies, as well as delays in the original contract execution timetables, which
finally had an impact on the timely payment of contracted consultants.
The experience generated by this type of projects, is not necessarily part of the wealth of
experiences that should be institutionally maintained. Even though it is important to have other
entities aside from the Commission playing a monitoring role so that they act as an alternative
monitoring mechanism, it would be convenient not to lose the experiences achieved both by CFE
and the Institutions that were present in the resettlement Program implemented by CFE, and to
make them part of a wealth of information that may be used on future projects.
On matters of Environmental Protection and derived from the experience acquired, it is convenient
that from now on agreements be made committing to a greater extent the different Government
levels and agencies so that they support, intervene and be accountable for the activities falling
within the scope of their responsibility. Thus, CFE may turn its attention with greater efficiency
on those aspects under its direct jurisdiction.
From a technical-administrative viewpoint, valuable experiences were also obtained, some of which
are being applied in new projects, such as:
-     The environmental regulatory unit should be involved starting with the
development specifications to contract works and environmental impact
statements. Besides, it should have predominant participation in the formation of
the Environmental Protection Operational Units (EPOU) which in the field will act
as a support to the General Construction Residency. It should also be involved in
the development of specific environmental study contracts beginning with the
selection of bidders to compete.
The EPOU, whether carrying the project's environmental responsibility by direct
administration or acting as supervisor of the project's construction company,
should issue periodic technical-administrative reports.
At the end of the construction phase, the EPOU should prepare a final report on
the activities.



50
During the final construction phase, there should be a clear transmission of
environmental duties to those responsible for the operation of any hydroelectric
project, as the latter must monitor the compliance with the environmental
regulations for that phase. Besides, it is quite likely that during the operational
stage some studies initiated during the construction phase of the project must be
continued.
The environmental regulatory unit should prepare a series of environmental
procedures mandatory to all CFE areas involved in the design, construction and
operation of hydroelectric projects. Likewise, it should prepare others regulating
the technical relationships between CFE and the Contractors in order to ensure
that the Contractors comply with CFE policies on environmental matters.
2.     THE AGUAMILPA PROJECT
Original Design and Changes Made During Construction
In accordance with the original design, it was provided that the body of the curtain would be
constructed essentially with pay gravel. However, the need to build it sooner and to have available
a greater volume of excavation materials, made it convenient to use basically rock-tangling instead
of pay gravel thus modifying the size of the materials placed and the curtain dimensions.
The original project provided that the substation and the transformers be installed in a cave. For
safety reasons, the design was modified and the installation remained in an extemal platform.
With a view to ensure that no landslides occur, given the poor stability found on the slope where
the spillage was built, the characteristics and sizes of the latter were modified so that in case of
operation, the discharge would take place at an elevation lower than that originally foreseen.
Given the requirements established by the National Water Commission and as a supplementary
measure to alleviate the environmental impact caused by the suspension of the river flow, it was
necessary to include a water discharge for irrigation to be used during the filling of the dam. This
device was not included in the original design.
At the request of local authorities and given the convenience of transporting more easily the
electromechanical equipment received, a road easement was built allowing the freight to reach the
works without going through the City of Tepic. This infrastructure was not considered in the
original design.
Project Execution and Problems Encountered
At the beginning of 1991, an extraordinary inflow took place with a higher expense than the
maximum recorded in the hydrological studies. This inflow caused damages and landslides in the
derivation tunnels and in the access roads, besides causing flooding of the chamber where the
curtain was under construction. Rehabilitation of the damages caused an increase in the amount of
work to be performed without the possibility of modifying the timetable for the completion of the
works.
To satisfy the expected electric power demand, it was decided to speed up the project construction
program, thus completion was advanced one year with respect to the schedule established in the



51
studies developed jointly with the World Bank. This meant that the Contractor reduced the
execution term originally agreed upon by six months.
Project costs
COSTS IN MILLION (Current Prices)
ITEM                            SAR ESTIMATE (1)               ACTUAL
_____________________________________ _N_  X  US$          N$         US$
Engineering, administration and supervision of     229.5           99.9        311.5     121.3
construction
Civil works                                        844.0          367.4       1,678.0    485.2
Resettlement and the environment                   22.3           9.7          43.3       17.9
Electromechanical equipment                        370.0          161.1        670.6     204.2
Transmission lines                                 64.8           28.2         55.6       21.7
Physical contingencies (emergencies)               222.8          97.0
Price contingencies (escalation)                   217.5           94.7
TOTAL (2)                     1,970.9          858.0      2,759.0     850.3
(1) SAR: Staff Appraisal Report, May 1989.
(2) Direct costs are reported based on accounting expenses, including financial charges associated
to partial short-term loans managed by the contractor of the main civil works.
TIhe items where actual costs show the largest differences from that estimated in the SAR are the
civil works and the electromechanical equipment.
Even though the difference between the actual cost and the estimate of civil works derives from a
great array of concepts, most of these are linked to the shortening of the construction program,
which at the time was subjected to a cost/benefit analysis which indicated the convenience of
having the energy produced by the project in advance. The items representing the main increase
are described below.
Infrastructure. The difference in costs was mainly due to the increase in the amount of
open air excavation derived from the construction of the additional roads required to reach
different areas of the works simultaneously, based on the needs of the construction
program. The bridge over Rio Santiago had a higher cost than expected.
Derivation. The main increase derives from the Contractor receiving the derivation tunnel
with less progress than that foreseen by CFE to be done by direct administration and that it
was necessary to modify the excavation procedure to speed up the construction of the two
derivation tunnels. Likewise, the Contractor was requested to rehabilitate the derivation as
a result of the damages caused by the extraordinary inflow that occurred in January 199 1.
Curtain. The items representing the difference in costs correspond essentially to additional
activities not foreseen in the contract, such as the installation of the rock conveyor band to
accelerate construction, instrumentation and finishing, among others. Additional injection
treatments were also required, given the geological conditions of the rock in the curtain
area, to form the waterproofed screen and guarantee that the dam would not spillover.
Power house and spillway. The items having a main influence on the increase of the
estimated amount are represented by the excavation required to construct the subterranean
road allowing to reach several work fronts at the same time, by the open air excavation



52
derived from the convenience of constructing the transformer area outside instead of in a
cave, as originally planned, and to the convenience of modifying the spillover design
extending it to allow the discharge at a lower level than that considered initially.
One of the aspects having a significant impact on the cost variation of civil works is constituted by
the increase in labor costs. In accordance with the Bidding Documents, unit prices where labor
was to be involved were to be calculated considering as minimum reference the tables of salaries
for unionized workers. In practice, as the works progressed, it was apparent that the salaries
offered did not attract the required labor, as the labor market pushed towards increased costs. To
give continuity to the works it was necessary to offer higher salaries, with the subsequent impact
on unit prices. To adjust to these new needs, a study was contracted that finally led to the
implementation of an "ADJUSTMENT FACTOR FOR REAL WAGES" (FASAR) through which
higher salaries were offered based on longer working hours and increased productivity. This factor
was accepted by CFE and applied to work estimates in a similar manner to the escalation factors,
throwing the adjustment by reason of the increase on labor costs.
As to the electromechanical work contract, the totally of the scope foreseen was covered and a
series of amending agreements were executed to cover issues not included originally, which cause
the difference between the real cost of this item and its estimated cost. In summary, these issues
are:
*      Accelerated manufacturing of equipment associated to the reduced construction program
-  Increase in supplies due to change of project in the transformers' area
*      Increase in supplies due to inclusion of irrigation intake valves
Increase in miscellaneous supplies
-      Inclusion of import taxes that originally were paid at the CFE consolidated level
It should be noted that given the high financial cost, it was decided that the domestic component
(essentially constituted by the setup) be paid at a variable price with own resources.
Financing
Million of current U.S. Dollars
ITEM                                                FINANCING
ACTUAL          Own          IBRD         Other
l ________________________________________     COST         Resources                   Loans
Engineering, administration and
supervision of construction               121.3         121.3           0.0         0.0
Civil works                                485.2         154.9          330.3        0.0
Resettlement and the environment            17.9         17.9            0.0         0.0
Electromechanical equipment                204.2         50.1            0.0        154.1
Transmission Lines                          21.7         21.7            0.0         0.0
TOTAL                     850.3        365.9          330.3        154.1
3.   THE ZIMAPAN PROJECT
Original Design and Changes Made During Construction
In the original design of this project, the concrete curtain was to be supported in the Canlon del
Infiernillo slopes through pulvines communicating through a system of inspection and drainage
galleys. The conditions found in the field forced doing without the pulvines and to construct a cave
on the right shore to mount the upper part of the curtain. The design called for a spillway with a



53
single tunnel, but the extraordinary inflow that occurred in 1991 made it necessary to include an
auxiliary tunnel for safety reasons.
It was necessary to "tum around" the power house from its original orientation due to geological
circumstances. This was done to avoid potential stability problems derived from a fault found in
the excavation area.
The original project envisioned that the substation and the transformers be installed in a cave.
However, for safety reasons, the design was modified and the installation was left on an external
platform.
Project Execution and Problems Encountered
As in the case of Aguamilpa, the Zimapan Project was subject to a series of contingencies derived
from the extraordinary inflow which occurred in January 1991. This event forced to raise over the
upstream cofferdam and caused damages on part of the roads for construction, independently from
its impact on the continuity of the construction program.
On the other hand, the Company contracted for the main civil works reported delays in the progress
at the beginning of the works. A review of the conditions in which the works were organized,
indicated the need to create additional camps to allow workers to stay close to their field of activity
and avoid continuous transfers to camps located far from the site. As an additional measure,
partial progress commitments were created which were met progressively until the required
progress goals were achieved.
Due to public expenses controls established at the national level, there was a delay in the
manufacturing of electromechanical equipment given the impossibility to pay advances to the
contractor because of the need to meet the financial ceilings established.
Project costs
COST IN MILLION (Current Prices)
ITEM                           SAR ESTIMATE (1)              ACTUAL
N$          US$         NS         US$
Engineering, administration and supervision of  84.8            36.9        342.5     94.4
construction
Civil works                                     460.7           200.6      1,467.6    416.1
Resettlement and the environment                30.1            13.1        561.4     172.2
Electromechaniical equipment                    96.5            42.0        516.0     135.6
Transmission lines                              43.9            19.1        32.8       10.9
Physical contingencies (emergencies)            137.8           60.0
Price contingencies (escalation)                106.4           46.3
TOTAL (2)                    960.2           418.0      2,920.3    829.2
(1) SAR: Staff Appraisal Report, May 1989.
(2) Direct costs are reported based on accounting data.
The main differences between the real and the estimated cost in the SAR are found in the expenses
of the construction residency, in civil works, in the electromechanical work, and in the human
resettlements program.
With respect to the residency expenses, the initial estimate, based on previous experiences,
consisted in considering these expenses as a percentage of the direct estimated cost of the project.



54
As the actual cost is higher than the estimated cost, the residency expenses are increased
proportionally, which is justifiable by the need to open more supervision fronts during an extended
period of time, in accordance with the requirements of the large extension of the works.
As to the civil works, there are many items to which cost differences may be attributed, but one of
the main reasons derives from a very optimistic initial estimate of the amount of works, derived
that based on previous studies, more favorable geological conditions were expected than those
actually found. Following is a description of the items representing the main differences.
*      Infrastructure. The construction of the Zimapan-Boquilla road was not planned and its
construction was decided to support the infrastructure development in the State. As to the
road to the engine house, the geological and surface situation found, forced making cuts in
slopes higher than those estimated to provide greater stability to banks. Likewise, it was
also necessary to increase the application of concrete and reinforcing steel to obtain the
required stability. It became more convenient to pave the road than finishing it with only
asphalt concrete given the duration of the applied materials.
*      Conduction tunnel. As the expected rock quality was not found and because of the
convenience of reducing the hydraulic load losses, it was decided to line the tunnel with
hydraulic concrete instead of launched concrete with the subsequent cost increases. It was
necessary to apply great quantities of massive concrete and reinforcing steel in different
areas alongside the tunnel, required on geological grounds. Likewise, it was necessary to
resolve the problem created by a large cave found alongside the tunnel's path.
*      Curtain. The need to construct a greater number of encasement and injection tunnels
forced to increase the excavations. On the other hand, it was necessary to stabilize a wide
area on the gorge where the curtain was constructed, modifying the anchorage and drilling,
with the subsequent cost increase.
*      Power house. Due to geological reasons, it was necessary to turn around the cave to
construct the power house, thus it was necessary to increase the length of the tunnels and
galleries, with the subsequent increase in excavations. It was necessary to fill a large
number of bores on the cave because of the geological problems encountered.
*      Spillway. There was a strong increase in the excavations because of the convenience to
construct an auxiliary tunnel for the excess works and because of the need to construct an
access tunnel to the spillway which was not required in the original design. This also had
an impact on the increase on the volume of reinforced concrete to be set.
One of the aspects that had a significant impact on the cost increase of civil works was constituted,
as was the case in the Aguamilpa Project, by the increase in labor costs.
As to the electromechanical works contract, the initial estimate was low, even though it was based
on documented supplier's quotations and on similar equipment costs to those that were to be
installed. It should be noted that the amount of the successful bid in the electromechanical works
competitive bidding was more than double the original estimate. Among the factors that further
increased the costs are:
*      Adjustment due to financial charges on amendments to equipment delivery programs
*      Increases on miscellaneous supplies



55
Incorporation of import taxes that were originally paid at CFE's consolidated level
As to the resettlement program, its actual cost was much higher than initially estimated, which was
also lower. That is, the combination of the high actual cost with the low initial valuation
exacerbate the difference. The problems encountered during negotiations with the affected people,
especially with the population of the State of Queretaro, plus the local pressures to resolve the
problems in the short run, gave way to the creation of unfavorable negotiation conditions. This
required a systematic push to waver to the pressures (frequently excessive) of the population.
More than 60% of the Resettlement Program costs corresponded to construction of towns and the
new village of Bellavista del Rio in the State of Queretaro, implied almost 47% of the total
Program costs.
Financing
MILLION OF CURRENT DOLLARS
ITEM                                             FINANCING
ACTUAL        Own         IBRD      Other
COST       Resources              Loans
Engineering, administration and supervision of
construction                                  94.4         94.4         0.0       0.0
Civil works                                  416.1        166.3        124.4    125.4
Resettlement and the environment             172.2        172.2         0.0      0.0
Electromechanical equipment                  135.6        23.2          0.0      112.4
Transmission Lines                            10.9        10.9          0.0      0.0
TOTAL                     829.2        467.0        124.4    237.8
(1) Included as "other loans" are an additional IBRD financing in the amount of US$125.4 million
resulting from an undisbursed balance of Loan 3189-ME.
4.  ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMS
As part of the conditions for loan effectiveness, it was agreed with the World Bank that CFE
should prepare a Resettlement and Enviromnental Impact Plan (PRIA) for each project. It was
also agreed that teams should be integrated in the field to be specifically in charge of implementing
such plan. These groups were formally constituted during the final phase of negotiations with the
Bank, at the beginning of the works before construction.
From a practical viewpoint, it may be stated that the initiation of project construction and the
issuance of the General Law of Ecological Balance and Environmental Protection (LGEEPA,
January 1988) coincided. This forced CFE to renew efforts on environmental matters to meet the
new regulations in all new projects and to regulate all those under construction, such as Aguamilpa
and Zimapan. As a condition for the construction of the projects to be approved by the authorities
responsible for environmental protection, there was an initial commitment (derived from the
regulations) to develop the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for each project. This, in turn,
originated a new commitment with the World Bank.
On the other hand, and also associated to the commitments established with the World Bank, the
services of experts and institutions were contracted to execute an advisory and monitoring programn
in accordance with the provisions of the PRIA.
As recommended by the World Bank, in July 1990 a High Level Technical Committee (CTAN)
was created for the Aguamilpa and Zimapan Projects, with the participation of the Technical



56
Managers (i.e., Design) and Hydroelectric Project Construction, the Manager of Civil Engineering,
who at that time was in charge of an Environmental Protection Assistant Management Office, and
external advisors. Especially since 1992, this Committee was decisive in the development of the
environmental protection strategies to be followed.
In 1992, CFE decided to create the Environmental Protection Management Office (GPA) as a
central regulatory area and to support the operational areas already in existence. The recently
created Environmental Protection Management Office was incorporated to CTAN and the Civil
Engineering Office was dissolved. Through an agreement with CTAN, in February 1993 GPA
took charge of closely supervising the activities of the local field groups. Thus, the environmental
actions were redirected towards longer range objectives, although maintaining those related to
meeting legislation requirements and the agreements made with the authorities.
Besides, and following World Bank recommendations, five workshops were carried out to
exchange experiences among local environmental protection groups from the Aguamilpa and
Zimapan Projects.
The Environmental Protection Management Office, in coordination with the international group
E7, in September 1994 organized in Mexico City the International Environmental Protection
Seminar on Hydroelectric Projects. During 1994, a series of seminars took place on environmental
legislation directed to operational superintendents of CFE electric generation plants.
Aguamilpa
The newly created environmental protection operational group, known as the Ecology and
Environmental Unit (UEMA provided technical support on environmental matters. At the
beginning, the group was formed with technicians that were not experienced in multidisciplinary
applications (which are typical of environmental problems). That is, initially there was no
adequate planning or programming of environmental protection actions to be implemented in the
works. But the lack of experience indicated was not privy to CFE and to the researchers
contracted, but neither were there enough capabilities on the side of the technicians of the
regulatory agency (at that time, SEDUE).
The UEMA focused on the development of the Environmental Impact Statement on the basis of the
scarce information then available.
During the period 1991-1994, five environmental diagnosis studies were carried out in the field,
five environmental forecast studies, three environmental impact studies, six fauna studies, three
flora studies and the ecological organization study in the project catchment area. The latter was
carried out within the cooperation agreement executed between CFE and the former SEDUE.
As mitigation and compensation measures, the rescue of wild animal life was carried out, a low
intake was set up to guarantee a continuous flow downstream of the curtain during the filling of the
dam, a wastewater treatment system was built for the camp sewage and 226 hectares in the office,
workshops, storage and access roads were reforested with local species reproduced in a plant
nursery constructed for this purpose.
As a result of the events listed above, it should be highlighted that the environmental protection
activities in Aguamilpa had to be developed during the progress of works, always in a rush.



57
Despite this, important progress was achieved, among which the following technical achievements
should be noted:
-      The inventory of the regional fauna and flora was carried out, represented by 535 fauna
species and 882 flora species.
-      Knowledge was acquired of the national distribution of 57 flora species not previously
reported in the Project area.
-      The Aguamilpa plant nursery was created, where 710,000 plants of local species were
produced to reforest the above mentioned 226 hectares of different project areas.
-      During the filling of the dam, 6,263 fauna species were rescued, some of them with some
conservation status. The rescue program was deemed a success because there was no
background information or experience on the capture and handling of the different species
rescued.
Support was provided to different research centers and higher education institutions
through its contracting to carry out specific studies.
A contribution was made to enriching the main scientific collections of flora and fauna of
several research institutions.
- The ecological organization study carried out will eventually allow federal, state and local
authorities to agree on action plans to regulate human activities in the area where the
Aguamilpa Project is located, thus achieving in an indirect manner better control of the
river basins in the project area.
The execution of the CFE-SEDUE agreement to regulate the project on environmental
matters promoted better relations between both institutions.
Zimapan
The environmental protection operational group, known as Zimapan Ecology and Environmental
Impact Area (AEIAZ), provided technical support on environmental matters and carried out the
Resettlement and Environmental Impact Plan.
AEIAZ's lack of experience was to be alleviated with support from university research groups.
The lack of practical experience of the latter was apparent, thus AEIAZ activities continued to be
systemic (data gathering) and not of a planning nature, although preparation of the project's MIA
was included.
The AEIAZ, in compliance with its PRIA and as previously mentioned, focused on the
development of the intermediate Environmental Impact Statement on the basis of the scarce
information then available and carrying out some of the general studies related to the
characteristics of the project area.
In October 1989, CFE delivered the MIA for review and analysis to the environmental authority (at
the time, SEDUE) and in July 1990, the agency issued a favorable decision to construct the project,
subject to compliance with 46 conditions.



58
Ten environmental diagnosis studies, five fauna studies (animal life inventory), three
environmental forecast studies, three environmental impact assessment studies and the ecological
organization study were carried out in the project area. Also, the monitoring program on
hydrobiontics, fish, amphibious and vegetation of riparic environment were initiated.
As mitigation and compensation measures, the rescue of flora and fauna was carried out in the dam
area. Two hundred and thirty hectares were reforested at access roads, workshops, storages and
the monitoring program was initiated in accordance with the conditions set up in the MIA decision.
As parallel activities, and following World Bank recommendations, five workshops were carried
out to exchange experiences among local environmental protection groups of the Zimapan and
Aguamilpa Projects
As a result of the events listed above, it is clear that the environmental protection activities in
Zimapan also had to be developed during the progress of works, always in a rush. Despite that,
important progress was achieved, among which are the following technical achievements:
-      Ample inventories of the scarcely explored regional fauna and flora were carried out (179
fauna species and 679 flora species).
-      A new species of flora was collected and described.
-      The flora rescue activities allowed to deepen the knowledge of cactaceous (8,250
individuals rescued belonging to 45 species).
-      The study in depth of the site vegetation allowed the application of practical and successful
measures to protect banks and reforest impacted areas which had never been experienced
before.
-      Based on the biological studies carried out, a dam monitoring program during
hydroelectric plant operations has been proposed.
-      Several specific studies related to environmental problems of the project were contracted,
promoting scientific research and the development of several academic and/or research
institutions.
-      Fauna species were successfully rescued during the filling of the dam, totaling 3,901
individuals belonging to 74 species.
-      The ecological organization study carried out will eventually allow federal, state and local
authorities to agree on action plans to regulate human activities in the area where the
Zimapan project is located, achieving in an indirect manner better control of the San Juan
and Tula river basins.
5.   RESETTLEMENT PROGRAMS
As already mentioned, within the conditions for loan effectiveness, it was agreed with the World
Bank that CFE should prepare a Resettlement and Environmental Impact Plan (PRIA) for each
project. It was also agreed that teams should be integrated in the field to be specifically in charge



59
of implementing such plan. These groups were formally constituted during the final phase of
negotiations with the Bank, at the beginning of the works prior to construction.
On the other hand, and also associated to the commitments established with the World Bank,
services with experts and institutions were contracted to execute an advisory and monitoring
program in accordance with the provisions of the PRIA.
At the recommendation of the World Bank, a High Level Technical Committee was created for the
Aguamilpa and Zimapan Projects, with the participation of the Social Development Manager, the
Advisor contracted to support the Program and the Instituto Nacional Indigenista (the National
Indigenous Institute), in its capacity as executing body of the monitoring program.
As an innovation in handling Resettlements, CFE, through the Social Development Management
Office, incorporated social contents on a priority basis to the Aguamilpa and Zimapan Projects, to
eliminate what social scientists call "involuntary or forced displacement" and make it a voluntary
and participatory resettlement.
This meant a change in institutional attitudes to face the social issues derived from construction of
infrastructure works as well as the combination of technological advances and progress with social
welfare.
Within the frame of this institutional change, mechanisms to building consensus such as open and
continuous dialogue with people of the affected towns, their authorities and the different levels or
agencies involved, should be highlighted. This implied field trips in which the involved parties
participated and allowed the search for effective solutions.
The liaison between the Local Social Development Units and the Manager's Office itself, allowed
to have a greater level of knowledge on the concerns of the populations and, at the same time, to
provide the appropriate mechanisms to resolve the problems that were encountered.
Also, because indigenous communities were affected both in Zimapan and in Aguamilpa, the
Social Development Management Office formulated procedures to mitigate the impact caused
through integration activities, promoting community participation to obtain a greater adaptation to
a new social and productive environment.






1. SUMARIO EJECUTIVO.
1.1 Descripci6n del Proyecto de Desarrollo Hidroelectrico. (Pr6stamo 3083-ME).
El Proyecto de Desarrollo Hidroelectrico incluy6 las cuatro partes siguientes:
PARTE A            Plantas de generaci6n hidroelectrica
A.1             Construcci6n de la planta de generaci6n Aguamilpa
A.2             Construcci6n de la planta de generaci6n Zimapan
A.3             Servicios de consultores especializados para las Partes A. I y A.2
PARTE B            Programa social y ambiental
PARTE C            Estudios relativos a la energia:
* Conservaci6n y Co-generaci6n
PARTE D            Otros estudios:
* Mejoramiento de la operaci6n del sistema electrico, Mejoramienito del
sistema de administraci6n y Tarifas
1.2 Objetivos del Proyecto.
1.2.1 Promover el uso eficiente de la energia electrica.
Se llev6 a cabo un Estudio de Eficiencia Operativa del Sector E1ectrico; ejecutado por la CompaCiia Coiisultora
Electricite de Franice (E.D.F.) y actualmente se estan aplicando las recomendacionies derivadas del estudio en
niateria de Generaci6n, Despacho de Carga, Manejo de Combustibles, Concepcion de Centrales y Transmisi6n.
Asimismo, la Comisi6n Nacional para Aliorro de Energia (CONAE), dependiente de la actual Secretaria de
Energia, contrat6 la ejecucion de una serie de estudios sobre ahorro de energia y co-generaci6n. En la actualidad
se estAn aplicando las recomendaciones derivadas de dichos estudios.
1.2.2 Diversificar fuentes de generaci6n electrica.
El cumplimiento de este objetivo, se expresa en la siguiente tabla
CONCEPTO                      REAL A    PROG.   REAL A  PROGRAMA
DIC 1988    DIC 1994       DIC 1994         1995
POTENCIA INSTALADA                    23.9          33.6          31.6           33.7
(GW)
PARTICIPACION HIDROELECTRICA                 32.3          26.3          28.8           29.2
(%)
1.2.3 Ampliar la cobertura de servicio electrico en el pais.
Con las adiciones y modificaciones a la capacidad instalada durante 1994, una de las cuales corresponde a la
entrada en operaci6n del proyecto hidroelectrico Aguamilpa, fue posible ampliar la cobertura de servicio
electrico en el pais de un 92.18% (en 1993) a un 94.24% (en 1994) pasando de 18.7 a 19.4 millones de usuarios.
RES-FINAL / PRESTAMO 3083-ME
PA GINA I DE 10
6/1 1/96



1.2.4 Mejorar la capacidad de CFE en la ejecuci6n de programas ambientales y de
reasentamientos.
Con la creaci6n de las Gerencias de Desarrollo Social y de Protecci6n Ambiental, se ha incrementado de
manera notable la capacidad de gesti6n de CFE en estas especialidades, habi6ndose logrado ademas la
implantaci6n de criterios y guias para el estudio, manejo y seguimiento de los aspectos sociales y ambientales,
desde las etapas de planeaci6n hasta la conclusi6n de los proyectos.
1.2.5 Implementar el Convenio de Rehabilitaci6n Financiera.
Se considera que CFE cumplio satisfactoriamente con los objetivos establecidos en el Convenio de
Rehabilitaci6n Financiera, lograndose en el afno de 1994 un cumplimiento de 97.05% en los indicadores de
desempefno considerados y un cumplimiento promedio de 96.58% en el periodo 1990-1994, mejorandose en
34.5% el comportamiento de los 17 indicadores. Destaca el logro de valores superiores a la meta en 12 de los
indicadores y aunque cinco de ellos registran incumplimientos, solamente en tres de estos se tieneni
desviaciones mayores al 5%. Sobresale por su importancia la relaci6n precio/costo, que result6 afectada
fundamentalmente por factores externos a la CFE, como fueron los correspondientes al impacto de las
fluctuaciones cambiarias y a la politica de precios de los energeticos, ya que el del combust6leo present6
crecimientos importantes durante el anjo de 1994 y el precio medio de venta de la energia electrica permaneci6
practicamente constante.
1.3 Aspectos tecnicos, disefno, adquisiciones de bienes y servicios, costos,
construcci6n, operaci6n y mantenimiento de los proyectos financiados.
Aspectos tecnicos.- Para ambos proyectos hidroelectricos, conforme a lo previsto, se construyeron:
Infraestructura temporal y permanente, Obras para desvio del rio, Conducciones de agua, Cortina, Casa de
mraquinas, Vertedor, Equipainiento electromecanico, Subestaci6n electrica y lineas de transmisi6n asociadas y
nuevos poblados para reacomodo, realizandose ademas los trabajos necesarios para reasentamientos huinanos e
impacto ainbiental.
Se consider6 que la central de Aguamilpa contara con una potencia total instalada de 960 MW para una
generaci6n media anual de 2,131 GWh y que la central de Zimapan tuviera una potencia instalada de 280 MW
con una generaci6n media anual de 1,291 GWh. Zimapan qued6 finalmente con una potencia instalada de 292
MW.
Disefio.- La totalidad del diserio de las obras civiles principales fue realizado por CFE y se previ6 contratar la
obra electronecfinica bajo la modalidad "Llave en mano", considerando el diserio, suministro, pruebas y puesta
en servicio de los equipos. En el caso particular de la cortina de Zimapain, se contrataron especialistas como
apoyo para el disefio.
Adquisiciones de bienes y servicios.- Para la contrataci6n de las obras civiles principales, conforme a lo
pactado con el Banco, se realiz6 una licitaci6n internacional. La adquisici6n de los equipos electromecanicos se
licit6 tambien internacionalmente, solicitando su financiamiento total por parte de los proveedores.
Las obras civiles complementarias y la construcci6n de los poblados de reacomodo se contrataron con empresas
nacionales, considerando la necesidad de tener derramas econ6micas que beneficiaran a las localidades donde
se construyeron los proyectos.
RES-FINAL I PRESTAMO 3083-ME
PA GIIVA 2 DE 10
6/11/96



Para la contrataci6n de asesores especializados en construcci6n de obras civiles y para, tambien conforme a lo
pactado, se realiz6 una selecci6n de entre los posibles candidatos con reconocimiento del Banco Mundial.
Respecto a los estudios a cargo de la CONAE y de CFE y para la asesoria destinada a los aspectos sociales y
ambientales, la contrataci6n se realiz6 mediante un proceso de invitaci6n directa a empresas e instituciones,
previa aceptaci6n del Banco.
Costo y financiamiento.- El resumen del costo y financiamiento del Proyecto de Desarrollo Hidroelectrico es
el siguiente:
C O N C E P T OS                       MILLONES DE DOLARES CORRIENTES
ESTIMADO    REAL    APORTACION
SAR          (1)    DEL BANCO (2)
PARTE A
A.1       Construcci6n de la planta de generaci6n          858.0       850.3        330.3
Aguamiilpa
A.2       Construcci6n de la planta de generaci6n Zimapan  418.0       829.2        124.4
A.3       Servicios de consultores especializados para las   0.0         0.5          0.0
Partes A. I y A.2
PARTE B   Programa social y ambiental                           4.4         1.3          0.0
PARTE C   Estudios relativos a la energia:                      4.2        4.3           3.0
* Conservaci6n y Co-generaci6n
PARTE D   Otros estudios:                                       2.2        2.3           2.3
* Mejoramniento de la operaci6n del sistemna
electrico, Mejoramiento del sistema de
admninistraci6n y Tarifas
T O  T  A  L                           1,286.8    1,687.9  1      460.0
(1) Incluye un financiamiento por 266.5 para la obra electromecalnica de los proyectos.
(2) No incluye 125.4 millones de dMlares remanentes del Prestaino 3189-ME que se aplicaroni a las obras civiles
de Ziimapan.
Construcci6n.- Todos los trabajos de construcci6n se realizaron a traves de las em presas contratistas, salvo las
obras iniciales de desvio del Rio Santiago para Aguamilpa, que se ejecutaron por administraci6n directa. Una
vez que se adjudic6 el contrato, la contratista continu6 con los trabajos. CFE se encarg6 de la supervisi6n de la
ejecuci6n de las obras, apoyandose en contratistas especializados para complementar su cobertura.
Operacion.- Desde antes de iniciar el montaje electromecanico se cont6 en ambos proyectos con la presencia
de personal tecnico de la Subdirecci6n de Generaci6n, que es el area encargada de recibir las obras terminadas y
de operarlas. La central de Aguamilpa comenz6 a aportar su energia al Sistema Electrico en el mes de julio de
1994 y la central de Zimnapan inici6 en el mes de septiembre de 1995. Conforme a lo esperado, las centrales lhan
operado de manera satisfactoria y los eventuales problemas en el funcionamiento de los equipos lhan sido
resueltos conforme a las garantias ofrecidas por los proveedores. La producci6n, de acuerdo a lo previsto, se
sujeta a los requeriinientos de la demanda. No se dispone aun de estadisticas que reflejen el efecto benefico de
la energia suministrada por las Centrales Aguamilpa y Zimapan.
RES-FINAL / PRESrAMO 3083-ME
PAGINA 3 DE 10
6/11/96



Se tiene implantada la organizaci6n necesaria para garantizar la operaci6n ininterrumpida de las instalaciones,
para procurar el mantenimiento requerido y para asegurar el suministro oportuno de los insumos que exige la
operaci6n de las centrales, incluyendo la capacitaci6n y desarrollo de los recursos humanos.
La estructura orgainica que se ha establecido en cada una de las centrales es la siguiente:
SUPERINTENDENCIA
|  EN ERAL
ADMJNISTRAC l>N                                 UPERINYEMDENCIA
IENKRAl-                                    Do #PROCUCC845N
GENE RALALE
~RSUMIUISTYOB                             IRhAT
Mantenimiento.- De acuerdo a los criterios y normas establecidos por la Subdireccion de Generaci6n, se tiene
previsto aplicar un sistema de revisiones peri6dicas a cada una de las estructuras que constituyen la central,
independienteineite de lo establecido en cuanto a las revisiones posteriores a eventos sismicos. Las revisiones
sistematicas dan la pauta para el mantenimiento preventivo de la parte civil. Los manuales de operacion y
servicio para el equipo electromecanico y la instrumentaci6n proporcionan los indicativos para su
mantenimiento preventivo y correctivo.
Los indices de control de gestion considerados para la operaci6n de las centrales son los siguientes:
Disponibilidad (D).
HP - ( HFSF + HFSMP + HEFSD + HFSFG + HFSCA)
D  =      -     -       ------- - --------- - -- - ----- --------   x 100
HP
Donde:
HP =          Horas del periodo
HFSF =        Horas fuera de servicio por falla
HFSMP =       Horas fuera de servicio por mantenimiento programado
HEFSD =       Horas equivalentes fuera de servicio por decremento en producci6n
HFSFG =       Horas fuera de servicio por falta de agua
HFSCA =       Horas fuera de servicio por causas ajenas al proceso
Indisponibilidad por mantenimiento (INDMP).
HFSMP
INDMP -------- x 100
HP
RES-FINAL i PRESTAMO 3083-ME
PA GINA 4 DE 10
6/11/96



1.4 Opini6n sobre el desempefio de NAFIN en la implementaci6n del Proyecto.
Se considera que la participaci6n de NAFIN como agente financiero fue de grani ayuda para lograr que CFE
pudiera ejercer en su totalidad el credito otorgado, dada su capacidad negociadora ante el Banco y su
disposici6n y atenci6n para resolver oportunamente los imprevistos que se presentaron.
1.5 Opini6n sobre el desempeno del Banco Mundial.
Dentro del ambito de su competencia, el manejo que dio el Banco a la operaci6n del credito fue siempre el
adecuado, mostrando invariablemente una gran disposici6n para tomar acuerdos satisfactorios para todas las
partes en los aspecto que eventualmente presentaban algun conflicto.
A titulo de sugerencias, a continuaci6n se presentan algunos aspectos que en opini6n de las diferentes areas de
CFE que interactuaron con el Banco, seria conveniente considerar para futuras operaciones.
* Ampliar las facultades del Representante del Banco en la Ciudad de Mexico, especialmente en lo referente a
tramites que requieren del otorgamiento de la "No Objeci6n"; lo anterior permitiria una administraci6n y
operaci6n mas expedita de los recursos objeto del prestamo.
* Procurar que los especialistas que acomparian al oficial de proyecto en las misiones de evaluaci6n y de
supervisi6n tengan permanencia durante la ejecuci6n del proyecto, para una mayor claridad en la
interpretaci6n de la problematica que se presente, asi como de las propuestas y recomendaciones para
encontrar altermativas de soluci6n acordes tanto con la realidad como con la posibilidad practica de
implantarlas.
* Ampliar la cobertura de los esquemas de financiamniento del Banco para que futuras operaciones sean
finuaniciadas bajo el concepto de "Ilave en mano", a fin de asegurar la integralidad del proyecto.
* Duranite la operaci6n del credito surgieron algunas complicaciones para que el Banco autorizara el pago de
las estimaciones para los contratos de obras civiles, dado que al incluirse los ajustes de costos por
escalaciones se alcanz6 rapidamente el mionto autorizado expresado en pesos, no obstante de que no se habia
agotado la cantidad asignada expresada en dMlares. Esto se present6 debido a la situaci6n cambiaria y a la
inflaci6n que prevalecian en esa etapa del Proyecto. Seria convenienite que las cifras que el Banco apruebe al
adjudicarse un contrato, se expresen solamente en dMlares y que sea considerado indistinitamente el pago de
estimacionies y ajustes de costos (al tipo de cambio que corresponda) lhasta agotar el monto asignado del
credito.
1.6 Opini6n sobre el desempefio de otras entidades directa o indirectamente
involucradas.
Se considera conveniente que en el futuro no se imvolucren en un mismo proyecto fondos para dos ejecutores
diferentes a fin de evitar la falta de continuidad en el desarrollo de los estudios, asi como retrasos en los plazos
de ejecuci6n de los contratos, lo que en uiltima instancia tiene efecto en el pago oportuno a los consultores
contratados.
En materia de Protecci6n Ambiental y derivado de la experiencia adquirida, es conveniente que en lo sucesivo
se tomeii acuerdos que comprometain en mayor medida a los diferentes niveles y dependencias de gobierno a fin
de que apoyen, intervengan y se hagan responsables de las actividades que caen dentro de su ambito de
competencia, con lo que se podra efectuar una transmisi6n clara de obligaciones ambientales liacia los
diferentes responsables durante la fase final de la construccion.
RES-FINAL / PRESTAMO 3083-ME
PA GINA S DE 10
6/11/96



2. Proyecto Aguamilpa.
2.1 Disefio original y cambios introducidos durante la construcci6n.
'Conforme al disenio original, se preveia que el cuerpo de la cortina fuese construido esencialmente con aluvi6n.
Por necesidades de programaci6n y disponibilidad de materiales se construy6 fundamentalmente de
enrocamiiienlto en vez del aluvi6n, modificandose con esto el volumen de materiales colocados y las dimenisioines
de la cortina.
El proyecto original previ6 que la subestacion y transformadores se instalaran en una caverna. Por razones de
seguridad se modific6 el disefno quedando la instalaci6n en una plataforma exterior.
Con la finalidad de asegurar que no se tuvieran derrumbes, dada la poca estabilidad que se encontr6 en la ladera
donde se construy6 el vertedor, se modificaron las caracteristicas y dimnensiones de este para que en el caso de
operarlo, la descarga se hiciera a una elevaci6n mas baja que la originalmente prevista.
Por requerimientos establecidos por la Comisi6n Nacional del Agua y como una medida complementaria para
mitigar el impacto ambiental ocasionado por la suspensi6n del flujo del rio, fue necesario incluir una descarga
de agua para riego para ser utilizada durante el Ilenado del embalse. Este dispositivo no estaba previsto en el
disenio original.
A solicitud de las autoridades locales y por la conveniencia de transportar con mayor facilidad el equipo
electromecainico que se recibia, se construy6 un libramiento carretero que permiti6 la llegada de los transportes
a la obra sin pasar por la Ciudad de Tepic. Esta obra de infraestructura no estaba considerada originalimlenlte.
2.2 Ejecuci6n del proyecto y problemas encontrados.
Al illiciO de 1991 se present6 una avenida extraordinaria con un gasto mayor que el maiximo registrado en los
estudios hidrol6gicos, la cual caus6 danios y derrlimbes en los tuneles de desvio y en la vialidad para
construcci6n, ademas de provocar la inundaci6n del recinto en que se estaba construyenldo la cortina. La
rehabilitaci6n de los danios provoc6 un incremento en la cantidad de obra a realizar sin posibilidad de modificar
el plazo de terminaci6n de los trabajos.
Para satisfacer la demanda esperada de energia electrica, se decidi6 acelerar el programa de construcci6n del
proyecto, por lo que la terminaci6n se adelant6 un a-no con respecto a lo previsto en los estudios desarrollados
conjuntamente con el Banco Mundial. Esto represent6 que la contratista redujera en seis meses el plazo de
ejecuci6ii pactado originalmente.
2.3 Origen de las principales diferencias en costo.
Aunque la diferencia entre el costo real y el estimado de las obras civiles deriva de una infinidad de conceptos,
la mayor parte de ellos estan vinculados con el acortamiento del programa de construcci6n, que en su momento
se sujet6 a un analisis beneficio/costo resultando conivenienite en cuanto a la ventaja de contar con antelaci6n
con la energia producida por el proyecto.
Uno de los aspectos que tuvo una incidencia significativa en la variaci6n del costo de las obras civiles lo
constituye el aumento en el precio de la mano de obra.
Tocante al contrato de obra electromecanica, se cubri6 la totalidad de lo previsto y se realizaron una serie de
Conveniios modificatorios para considerar aspectos no incluidos originalmente, los cuales son la causa de la
diferencia entre el costo real de este concepto y su costo estimado.
RES-FINAL / PRESTAMO 3083-ME
PA GINA 6 DE 10
6/11/96



Cabe senialar que por el alto costo financiero, se decidi6 que la componente nacional (constituida esencialmenite
por el montaje) se pagara a precio variable con recursos propios.
3. Proyecto Zimapan.
3.1 Disefio original y cambios introducidos durante la construcci6n.
En el diseino original de este proyecto, se previ6 que la cortina de concreto quedara apoyada en las laderas del
Cafi6n del Infiernillo mediante pulvinos y comunicada con un sistema de galerias de inspeccion y drenaje. Las
condiciones encontradas en campo obligaron a prescindir de los pulvinos y a construir una caverna en la inargen
derecha para el empotramiento de la cortina en su parte superior.
Se previ6 en el diserio un vertedor con un solo tunel, pero la avenida extraordinaria que se presento en 1991
bizo conveniente incluir un tunel auxiliar por razones de seguridad para el control de avenidas.
Por razones geologicas fue necesario "girar" la casa de maquinas respecto a su orientaci6n original, a fin de
evitar los posibles problemas de estabilidad derivados de una falla encontrada en la zona de excavacion.
El proyecto original previo que la subestaci6n y transformadores se instalaran en una caverna, sin embargo, por
razones de seguridad se modifico el disefio quedando la instalacion en una plataforma exterior.
3.2 Ejecuci6n del proyecto y problemas encontrados.
Al igual que en el caso de Aguamilpa, el proyecto Zimapin se vio sujeto a una serie de contingencias derivadas
de la avenida extraordinaria que se presento en enero de 1991. El evento oblig6 a sobreelevar la ataguia de
aguas arriba y ocasion6 daFios en parte de la vialidad para construcci6n, independiente de su efecto en la
continuidad del programa de construcci6n.
Por otro lado, la empresa contratada para las obras civiles principales reportaba atrasos en su avance al inicio de
los trahajos. La revisi6n de las condiciones en que estaba organizado el trabajo indico que era necesario crear
campamentos adicionales que permitieran la estancia de los trabajadores en la zona cercana a su frente de
activi,.anes, para evitar el traslado continuo a campamentos mas alejados.
Derivado de los controles del gasto publico establecidos a nivel nacional, se present6 un retraso en la
fabricaci6n del equipo electromecanico debido a la imposibilidad de pagar anticipos a la contratista por la
necesidad de cumplir con los techos financieros marcados.
3.3 Origen de las principales diferencias en costo.
En lo que se refiere a los gastos de residencia, la estimaci6n inicial, basada en experiencias previas, consisti6 en
considerar estos gastos como un porcentaje del costo directo estimado del proyecto. Al ser el costo real superior
al estimado, los gastos de residencia se incrementan proporcionalmente, lo cual es justificable por la necesidad
de abrir mas frentes de supervisi6n durante mas tiempo, conforne a lo que demandaba la gran dispersi6n de la
obra.
En cuanto a las obras civiles, existen una infinidad de conceptos a los que se puede atribuir la diferencia en
costos, pero una de las razones principales resulta de una muy optimista estimaci6n inicial del importe de las
obras, derivada de que en funci6n de los estudios previos, se esperaban condiciones geol6gicas mas favorables
de las que se enconitraroni en la realidad.
RES-FINAL / PRESTAMO 3083-ME
PAGINA 7DE10
6/11/96



Uno de los aspectos que tuvo una incidencia significativa en el incremento del costo de las obras civiles lo
constituye, al igual que en el caso del proyecto Aguamilpa, el aumento en el precio de la mano de obra..
En cuanto al contrato de obra electromecanica se considera tambien que el estimado inicial fue escaso, aunque
estaba documentalmente basado en cotizaciones de proveedores y en costos de equipos similares a los que se
pensaba instalar. Es notorio el hecho que el monto de la oferta ganadora en la licitaci6n de la obra
electromecanica, fue mas del doble de lo que se estimaba originalmente.
Tocante al programa de reasentamientos, su costo real fue muy superior al estimado inicialmente, el cual
tambien result6 escaso. Es decir, la combinaci6n del elevado costo real con la baja valuaci6n inicial, acentuan la
diferencia. Los problemas que se presentaron durante las negociaciones con los afectados, principalmente con la
poblaci6n del Estado de Queretaro, y las presiones locales para resolver en corto plazo los problemas, dieron pie
a no contar con condiciones favorables para la negociaci6n, por lo que se requiri6 ceder sistematicamnente a las
peticiones (frecuentemente excesivas) de la poblaci6n. Mhs del 60% del costo del Programa de reasentamientos,
correspondi6 a la construcci6n de poblados y el nuevo poblado de Bellavista del Rio, en el estado de Queretaro,
implic6 casi el 47% del costo total del Programa.
4. Programas ambientales.
Como una parte de las condiciones para efectividad del Prestamo, se acord6 con el Banco Mundial que CFE
debia elaborar un Plan de Reasentamientos e Impacto Ambiental (PRIA) para cada proyecto y que debian
integrarse en campo grupos especificamnente encargados de ejecutar dicho plan, mismos que quedaron
fornialmente integrados durante la etapa final de las negociaciones con el Banco, al inicio de los trabajos
previos a la construcci6n.
Desde el punto de vista tecnico-administrativo se obtuvieron experiencias valiosas, algunas de las cuales se
estan aplicaiido en nuevos proyectos , tales como la intervenci6n del hrea normativa ambiental desde la
formulaci6n de las especificaciones para contratar obras y elaboraci6n de manifestaciones de impacto ambiental
y ia elaboraci6n de informes tecnico-administrativos peri6dicos y tambien la elaboraci6n de un inforine final de
actividades.
Por recomendaci6n de El Banco Mundial, en julio de 1990 se cre6 el Comite Tecnico de Alto Nivel (CTAN)
para los proyectos Aguamilpa y ZimapAn. Especialmente a partir de 1992, este cornite fue decisivo en el
desarrollo de las estrategias de proteccion ambiental a seguir.
Ademnas, y en atenci6n a las recomendaciones de El Banco Mundial, se realizaron cinico talleres de intercamnbio
de experiencias entre los grupos locales de protecci6n ambiental de los proyectos Aguamilpa y ZimapAni y una
serie de semiinarios sobre legislaci6n ambiental dirigidos a los superintendenfes de operaci6n de las centrales de
generaci6n elctrica de CFE.
En el periodo 1991 - 1994 se realizaron para Aguamilpa cinco estudios de diagn6stico ambiental en campo,
cinlco de pron6stico ambiental, tres de evaluaci6n de impactos ambientales, seis de fauna, tres de flora y el
estudio de ordenamiento ecol6gico del hrea de influencia del proyecto.
Comno medidas de initigaci6n y compensaci6n se realiz6 el rescate de fauna silvestre, se instal6 una toma baja
para garantizar un flujo permanente aguas abajo de la cortina durante el llenado del embalse, se construy6 un
sistema de tratamiento para aguas residuales del campamento y se reforestaron 226 ha de areas de oficinas,
talleres, almacenes, campamentos y caminos de acceso, con especies reproducidas en un vivero construido ex
profeso en donde se produjeron 710,000 plantas de especies locales.
RES-FINAL / PRESTAMO 3083-ME
PA GINA 8 DE 10
6/11/96



Se realiz6 el estudio de ordenamiento ecol6gico que eventualmente permitira a las autoridades federales,
estatales y municipales acordar planes de acci6n para regular las actividades humanas en la zona donde se ubica
el P.H. Aguamilpa
En octubre de 1989 CFE entreg6 a la autoridad ambiental (SEDUE en ese entonces) la Manifestaci6n de
Impacto Ambiental del P.H. Zimapan para su revisi6n y analisis y en julio de 1990 dicha dependencia emiti6 su
dictainen favorable a la construcci6n del proyecto, sujeto al cumplimiento de 46 condicionianites.
Se realizaron para el P.H. Zimapan diez estudios de diagn6stico ambiental, cinco estudios de fauna (inventario
faunistico), tres de pron6stico ambiental, tres de evaluaci6n de impactos ambientales y el estudio de
ordenamiento ecol6gico de la zona del proyecto.
Como medidas de mitigaci6n y compensaci6n se realiz6 el rescate de flora y fauna silvestres en el area del
embalse y se revegetaron 230 ha en zonas de caminos de acceso, talleres, almacenes y campamentos, juunto con
lo relativo a las condicionantes impuestas al proyecto por la autoridad ambiental.
4.1  Indicadores ambientales.
Una vez transferida la responsabilidad al area de operaci6n de las centrales, se realizara lo siguiente:
4.1.1 Central Hidroelectrica Zimapan.
* Monitoreo de la calidad del agua del manantial Taxid6 para prevenir su contamiiaci6n.
* Seguiimniento de la evoluci6n de la calidad del agua del embalse.
* Monitoreo de la calidad de las aguas residuales descargadas por las instalaciones de la central.
4.1.2 Central Hidroelectrica Aguamilpa.
* Seguimiento de la evoluci6n de la calidad del agua del embalse.
4.1.3 M-arco institucional.
La Gerencia de Protecci6n Ambiental continuarA realizando los siguiente:
- Un promedio anual de 25 inspecciones ambientales a las instalaciones de CFE, orientadas a verificar
Oi cumplimiento de la normatividad aplicable.
a Un proinedio anual de ocho eventos internos de capacitaci6n para difusi6n del marco juridico a que se
deben sujetar las instalaciones en materia ambiental.
* Desarrollo de un promedio anual de ocho documentos de normatividad interna para la protecci6n
ambiental (procedimientos, guias y criterios tecnicos).
5. Programas de reasentamientos.
Por recomendaci6n del Banco Mundial y al igual que para el programa ambiental, se cre6 el Comite de Alto
Nivel para los proyectos Aguamilpa y Zimapan.
Como una innovaci6n en el tratamiento de los Reasentamientos, la CFE a traves de la Gerencia de Desarrollo
Social incorpor6 de manera prioritaria contenidos sociales a los proyectos de Aguamilpa y Zimapan, a fin de
eliminar lo que los cientificos sociales denominan "desplazamiento involuntario o compulsivo" y transformarlo
en un reacomodo voluntario y participativo.
RES-FINAL / PRESTAMO 3083-ME
PAGINA 9 DE 10
6/11/96



El enlace entre las Unidades Locales de Desarrollo Social y de la propia Gerencia, posibilit6 contar coII un
mayor conocimiento acerca de las inquietudes de las poblaciones y, al mismo tiempo, proporcionar los
mecanismos id6neos para la soluci6n de los problemas que se fueron presentando.
Asimismo, dado que tanto en Zimapan como en Aguamilpa se afect6 a comunidades indigenas, la Gerencia de
Desarrollo Social plante6 procedimientos orientados a mitigar el impacto causado a traves de actividades de
integraci6n, proinoviendo la participacion comuunitaria para obtener una mayor adaptaci6n al nuevo cntorino
social y productivo.
5.1 Indicadores sociales
5.1.1 Central hidroelectrica Zimapan.
* Nuevos poblados
* Restituci6n productiva
* Proyectos productivos
5.1.2 Central hidroelectrica Aguamilpa.
* Nuevos poblados
* Restituci6n productiva
* Proyectos productivos
La Gerencia de Desarrollo Social implementara los procedimientos y guias necesarios para que las actividades
de monitoreo especificas para los proyectos Aguamilpa y Zimapan sean realizadas por personal de las centrales.
RES-FINAL I PRESTAMO 3083-ME
PAGIINA 1ODE 10
6/11/96



60
APPENDIX C
OPERATIONAL PLAN TO MONITOR CFE'S FUTURE OPERATIONS






SUBDIRECCION TECNICA
GERENCIA DE INGENIERIA EXPERIMENTAL
t    ?~~~;,                  Y CONTROL
841.02-2687/96
PROGRAMAS PARA ATENDER EN 1997
PRINCIPALES CENTRALES GENERADORAS EN LAS REGIONES
DE GENERACION HIDROELECTRICA GRIJALVA, BALSAS
SANTIAGO, IXTAPANTONGO, YAQUI-MAYO Y PkPALOAPAN
Subgerencia de Comportamiento de Estructuras
Departarnento de Ingenieria Electrornecdnica
Departamento de Procesamiento   A Anrlisis
COMISION FEDERAL DE ELECTRICIDAD
'..









IMAGING
Report No   R        6836
Type:     ICR



