Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3083 ME
                (Hydroelectric Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                 COMISION FEDERAL DE ELECTRICIDAD
                     Dated September 25, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3083 ME
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  September  25,  1989, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the Bank) and COMISION
FEDERAL DE ELECTRICIDAD (CFE).
     WHEREAS (A) by an agreement (the Loan Agreement) of even date
herewith between NACIONAL  FINANCIERA,  S.N.C.  (the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent  to four hundred and sixty
million  dollars  ($460,000,000)  (the  Loan),  on  the  terms and
conditions set forth in the  Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that CFE agree to  undertake  such  obligations toward the Bank as
are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by an agreement  (the  Guarantee Agreement) entered into
between the UNITED MEXICAN STATES (the Guarantor) and the Bank, of
even date herewith, a guarantee  of  the Loan has been extended to
Page  2
the Bank on the terms  and  conditions  set forth in the Guarantee
Agreement;
     (C)  by  a   subsidiary   agreement   (the   Subsidiary  Loan
Agreement) to be entered  into  between  the Borrower and CFE, the
proceeds of the Loan will  be  made  available to CFE on the terms
and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS CFE, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with  the  Borrower,  has  agreed  to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. CFE declares  its  commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement
and, to this end, shall  carry  out  the Project, except Part C of
the Project, with due  diligence  and efficiency and in conformity
with   appropriate    administrative,    financial,   engineering,
environmental and power utilities practices, and shall provide, or
cause to be provided,  promptly  as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
     Section 2.02. CFE shall:
     (a)  enter into  and  duly  perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (b)   perform  all  of  its  obligations  under the Financial
Rehabilitation Agreement;
     (c)  enter into  contractual arrangements with the Guarantor,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, providing, inter
alia, for the transfer  to  the  Guarantor  of  the portion of the
proceeds of the Loan required for  purposes of carrying out Part C
of the Project; and
     (d)  except as the  Bank  may otherwise agree, not change, or
fail  to  enforce,   the   Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement,  Financial
Rehabilitation Agreement, or such contractual arrangements, or any
provision thereof.
     Section 2.03.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to the Loan
Agreement.
     Section 2.04. CFE shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating respectively to  insurance,  use of goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition), in  respect  of  Parts  A,  B  and D of the
Project.
     Section 2.05. (a)  CFE  shall,  at  the  request of the Bank,
exchange views  with  the  Bank  with  regard  to  progress of the
Project, the performance of  its obligations under this Agreement,
the Financial  Rehabilitation  Agreement  and  the Subsidiary Loan
Page  3
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b) CFE shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes, or threatens to  interfere,  with  the progress of the
Project, the  accomplishment  of  the  purposes  of  Loan,  or the
performance by CFE of  its  obligations  under this Agreement, the
Financial  Rehabilitation  Agreement,   and  the  Subsidiary  Loan
Agreement.
     Section 2.06. (a) CFE shall, until completion of the Project,
maintain  a  qualified   and   experienced  board  of  consultants
responsible for verifying, through  periodic visits to the project
sites, the appropriateness of the detailed design and construction
methods of dams and related infrastructure works to be carried out
under Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project.
     (b) Without limitation to  or restrictions upon provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section,  Section 3.02 of this Agreement and
Section  9.08  of  the   General   Conditions,  CFE  shall,  under
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank,  cause the dams and related
infrastructure  works  constructed   under   the   Project  to  be
periodically  inspected  in   accordance  with  sound  engineering
practices in order to determine whether there are any deficiencies
in  infrastructure  works  or  in  the  quality  and  adequacy  of
maintenance or  methods  of  operations  of  the  same,  which may
endanger their safety. To this  end  CFE shall propose to the Bank
appropriate arrangements for the Bank's  review not later than one
year before the expected completion  of  each such dam and related
infrastructure works, with respect to post-construction inspection
and operation.
     Section 2.07. (a) CFE shall  implement  Part B of the Project
in accordance with the Environmental and Resettlement Plan.
     (b)  CFE shall, from  time  to time, review the Environmental
and Resettlement Plan with the Bank  and shall revise such plan if
necessary to address environmental or resettlement matters arising
out of, or in connection with, the execution of the Project.
     Section 2.08. CFE shall:
          (i)  by September 30, 1989, present to the Bank terms of
               reference, satisfactory to  the  Bank, for purposes
               of carrying out the  studies  referred to in Part D
               of the Project;
         (ii)  by June 30, 1991,  carry  out such studies pursuant
               to such terms of reference;
        (iii)  by December 31, 1991,  exchange views with the Bank
               on  the  conclusions  and  recommendations  of such
               studies, and provide to the  Bank a plan of action,
               satisfactory to  the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, to
               implement   such   recommendations,   including   a
               timetable for implementation; and
         (iv)  implement such plan  of  action  in accordance with
               such timetable.
     Section 2.09. Without limitation  to  or restriction upon its
other obligations under this Agreement and the General Conditions,
CFE shall complete the  Final  Engineering  Design for the Zimapan
power plant referred to in Part  A.2 of the Project not later than
September  30,  1989.   For   purposes   of  this  Section  "Final
Engineering  Design"  means  the  engineering  design  required to
initiate the bidding process for civil works under Part A.2 of the
Project.
     Section 2.10. Without limitation  to  or restriction upon its
other reporting obligations under  this  agreement and the General
Conditions, CFE shall provide, on a semiannual basis and beginning
not later than  December  31,  1989,  reports,  of  such scope and
Page  4
detail as the  Bank  may  reasonably  request,  of the progress of
carrying out Parts A, B and D of the Project.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of CFE
     Section 3.01. CFE shall  carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
public utilities practices under  the supervision of qualified and
experienced management  assisted  by  competent  staff in adequate
numbers.
     Section 3.02. CFE shall,  at  all times, operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and  other property, and from time
to time,  promptly  as  needed,  make  all  necessary  repairs and
renewals  thereof,  all  in  accordance  with  sound  engineering,
financial and public utilities practices.
     Section 3.03. CFE  shall  take  out  and maintain responsible
insurers, or make other  provision  satisfactory  to the Bank for,
insurance against such  risks  and  in  such  amounts  as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section 3.04. Except as  the  Bank shall otherwise agree, CFE
shall not  sell,  lease,  transfer  or  otherwise  dispose  of its
property or  assets  which  shall  be  required  for the efficient
carrying out of the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  CFE  shall  maintain  records and accounts
adequate  to  reflect,   in   accordance   with  sound  accounting
practices,  its  operations  and  financial  condition,  including
separate  records  and  accounts   reflecting  the  resources  and
expenditures in respect of Parts A, B and D of the Project.
    (b)   CFE shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph  (a)   above   and  financial  statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles consistently applied, by independent and
               qualified auditors;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year:  (A)   certified  copies  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said  accounts  and financial statements
               as well as the  audit  thereof, and such records as
               the  Bank  shall  from   time  to  time  reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditures, CFE shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with  paragraph  (a)   of  this  Section,  separate
               records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one
Page  5
               year after the Bank  has  received the audit report
               for the fiscal  year  in  which the last withdrawal
               from the Loan Account  was  made, all records (con-
               tracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation,  can  be  relied  on  to  support  the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. (a) CFE  shall, each year during implementation
of the Project, carry  out  a  technical  and economic analysis in
order to update the investments  proposed  to be made in the power
sector under the Ten-Year  Investment  Plan and shall, when making
such analysis:  (i)  utilize  least-cost  principles; (ii) utilize
export  prices  for  oil  derivate  products;  (iii)  consider all
environmental and resettlement  costs  associated with making such
investments; and (iv) take  into account financial restrictions on
CFE due to macroeconomic conditions of the Guarantor. Each updated
Ten-Year Investment Plan shall  include  an updated financial pro-
jection to carry out the  Plan,  and an economic justification of,
and a viable  financing  plan  for, major generation installations
not previously included in the Ten-Year Investment Plan. CFE shall
review with the Bank each updated Plan, promptly after it has been
completed.
     (b)  CFE shall execute only the installations included in the
Ten-Year Investment Plan as  the  same  may be updated pursuant to
paragraph (a) hereof.
     (c)  CFE shall, by September  30  of  each year during imple-
mentation of the Project, and at the request of either the Bank or
the Guarantor, review with  the  Bank  and the Guarantor, the pro-
gress of carrying out the Ten-Year Investment Plan.
     (d)  For the purpose of paragraph (a) above:
          (i)  the term "export prices"  means the expected f.o.b.
               prices to be  charged  for  oil derivative products
               exported from Mexico during the period covering the
               economic life  of  the  investments  proposed to be
               made under the Ten-Year Investment Plan;
         (ii)  the term "least-cost principles" means the compari-
               son of the present  value  of capital and operating
               costs of alternative  projects by discounting tech-
               niques utilizing the opportunity cost of capital in
               Mexico, all in accordance with generally acceptable
               principles of economics; and
        (iii)  the term "viable financing  plan" means the plan to
               finance the  proposed  investment  under  terms and
               conditions which will  not materially and adversely
               affect  CFE's  financial  condition  or operations,
               including the carrying out of the Project.
     Section 4.03. Except as  the  Bank shall otherwise agree, CFE
shall maintain an average ratio of total operating revenues to the
sum of total operating expenses plus interest and other charges on
debt, excluding interest charged  to construction, and an adequate
provision of funds  for  CFE's  capital  expenditures, of not less
than 0.9 during 1989, of  not  less  than 0.95 during 1990, and of
not less than 1.0 during 1991 and each year thereafter.
Page  6
     For the purpose of this section:
          (i)  The term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from all sources related to operations;
         (ii)  The  term  "total  operating  expenses"  means  all
               expenses related to  operations, including adminis-
               tration, adequate  maintenance,  taxes and payments
               in lieu of  taxes,  and provisions for depreciation
               on a straight-line basis at a rate of not less than
               2.9% per annum of  the  average current gross value
               of the CFE's fixed assets in operation.
        (iii)  The average  current  gross  value  of  CFE's fixed
               assets in operation shall be calculated as one half
               of the sum of the gross value of CFE's fixed assets
               in operation at the beginning and at the end of the
               fiscal year, as valued from time to time in accord-
               ance with sound and consistently maintained methods
               of valuation satisfactory to the Bank.
         (iv)  The term "capital  expenditures" means all expendi-
               tures incurred on account  of fixed assets, includ-
               ing interest  charged  to  construction, related to
               operations.
          (v)  The term "debt"  and  the  incurrence  of such debt
               shall have the same  meaning  as defined in Section
               4.04 (b) of this Agreement.
     Section 4.04. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
CFE shall not incur any debt,  unless  the net revenues of CFE for
the fiscal year immediately preceding  the date of such incurrence
or for a later  twelve-month  period  ending  prior to the date of
such incurrence, whichever is greater, shall be at least 1.5 times
the estimated maximum debt  services  requirements  of CFE for any
succeeding fiscal year on all  debt  of  CFE, including debt to be
incurred.
     (b)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of CFE
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred;
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into;
        (iii)  The  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
               (A)  the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                    operations  adjusted  to  take  account  of the
                    CFE's rates in effect at the time of the incur-
                    rence of  debt  even  though  they  were not in
                    effect during the  twelve-month period to which
                    such  revenues  relate  and  net  non-operating
                    income; and
               (B)  the sum of  all  expenses related to operations
                    including administration, adequate maintenance,
                    taxes  and  payments  in  lieu  of  taxes,  but
                    excluding  provision  for  depreciation,  other
                    non-cash  operating  charges  and  interest and
                    other charges on debt;
Page  7
         (iv)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues  from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes  and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in   the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of CFE thereunder  shall  terminate  on  the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify CFE thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                   Telex:
          INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
          Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
                                              64145 (WUI)
     For CFE:
          Rio Rodano 14
          CP 06500, Mexico D.F.
          Mexico
                                           Telex:
                                             01775706 CFEMN
                                             ________
                                           Fax:
                                             286-6836
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
Page  8
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf  of  CFE,  may  be  taken  or  executed by its
Director General or  such  other  person  or  persons as CFE shall
designate in writing, and CFE shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                           INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                             RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                           By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                           COMISION FEDERAL DE ELECTRICIDAD
                           By /s/ Jose Angel Gurria Trevino
                                         Authorized Representative
