Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3083 ME
                (Hydroelectric Development Project)
                              between
                       UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                     Dated September 25, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3083 ME
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September  25,  1989, between UNITED MEXICAN
STATES (the Guarantor)  and  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the  Guarantor,  NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the
Borrower) and COMISION FEDERAL  DE  ELECTRICIDAD (CFE) having been
satisfied as  to  the  feasibility  and  priority  of  the Project
described in Schedule 2 to  the Loan Agreement, have requested the
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  by  an  agreement  (the  Loan  Agreement)  of  even date
herewith between the Bank and the Borrower, the Bank has agreed to
extend to the Borrower a  loan in various currencies equivalent to
four hundred  and  sixty  million  dollars  ($460,000,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in  the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of
the  Borrower  in  respect  of  such  loan  as  provided  in  this
Agreement;
Page  2
     (C)  by an agreement  (the  Project  Agreement)  of even date
herewith, between the  Bank  and  CFE,  the  latter  has agreed to
undertake the obligations set forth in the Project Agreement; and
     WHEREAS  the  Guarantor,  in   consideration  of  the  Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement  with the Borrower, has agreed so
to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of  the  Bank,  dated  January  1, 1985 (the
General  Conditions),  with  the  last  sentence  of  Section 3.02
deleted, constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to  and  Section  1.02  of  the  Loan  Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                   Guarantee; Provision of Funds
     Section 2.01. Without limitation  or  restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally  guarantees,  as  primary  obligor  and not
merely as surety, the  due  and  punctual payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges  on, the Loan, and the premium,
if  any,  on  the  prepayment   of  the  Loan,  and  the  punctual
performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, and CFE,
as set forth  in  the  Loan  Agreement  and the Project Agreement,
respectively.
     Section 2.02.  Without  limitation  or  restriction  upon the
provisions  of  Section  2.01  of  this  Agreement,  the Guarantor
specifically undertakes,  whenever  there  is  reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to CFE will be inadequate to meet
the estimated expenditures required  for  the  carrying out of the
Project, to make arrangements,  satisfactory to the Bank, promptly
to provide CFE, or cause  CFE  to  be provided with, such funds as
are needed to meet such expenditures.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. Without limitation  to  or restriction upon any
of its obligations  under  this  Agreement, the Guarantor declares
its commitment to  the  objectives  of  the  Project  set forth in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and to this end shall: (i) carry
out Part C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity  with  appropriate  administrative,  financial,  public
utility and environment practices,  and  shall provide promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for  Part  C  of  the  Project;  (ii)  take  all measures
necessary  or  appropriate  to  assist  CFE  in  carrying  out its
obligations under the  Project  Agreement;  and  (iii) not take or
permit to be taken,  any  action  which would prevent or interfere
with the performance by CFE  of  its obligations under the Project
Agreement, respectively.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to the Loan
Agreement.
Page  3
     Section 3.03. The Guarantor  and  the  Bank hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08
and 9.09  of  the  General  Conditions  (relating  respectively to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance  and  land  acquisition) shall be carried
out: (i) by CFE in respect of Parts A, B and D of the Project, and
(ii) by the Guarantor in respect of Part C of the Project.
     Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall, through SEMIP:
          (i)  by September 30, 1989, present to the Bank terms of
               reference, satisfactory to  the  Bank, for purposes
               of carrying out the  studies  referred to in Part C
               of the Project;
         (ii)  by  September  30,  1991,  carry  out  such studies
               pursuant to such terms of reference;
        (iii)  by December 31, 1991,  exchange views with the Bank
               on  the  conclusions  and  recommendations  of such
               studies.
     Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall:
     (a)  perform  all  of  its  obligations  under  the Financial
Rehabilitation Agreement;
     (b)  enter  into  the   contractual   arrangements  with  CFE
referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of the Project Agreement;
     (c)  by   September   30,    1989,    amend   the   Financial
Rehabilitation  Agreement   to   include   terms   and  conditions
satisfactory to the Bank; and
     (d)  except as amended pursuant  to  Section 3.05 (c) hereof,
and except as the Bank may  otherwise agree, not change or fail to
enforce the Financial  Rehabilitation  Agreement, such contractual
arrangements, or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.06. The  Guarantor  specifically undertakes that it
shall:
          (i)  review the progress  of  carrying  out the Ten-Year
               Investment Plan with the  Bank and CFE by September
               1  of  each  year   during  implementation  of  the
               Project, in order  to  ensure,  among other things,
               adequate consideration  of  economic  and financial
               factors  as   well   as   compatibility   with  the
               Guarantor's macroeconomic policies; and
         (ii)  take  all  measures  necessary  or  appropriate  to
               ensure compliance by  CFE  with  its investment and
               other obligations  under  Sections  4.02,  4.03 and
               4.04 of the Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The  Guarantor  shall maintain, or cause to
be maintained, separate records  and accounts adequate to reflect,
in accordance  with  sound  accounting  practices, the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of  Part C of the Project of
the departments  or  agencies  of  the  Guarantor  responsible for
carrying out such Part of the Project.
     (b)  The Guarantor shall:
          (i)  have the accounts referred  to  in paragraph (a) of
               this  Section  for  each  fiscal  year  audited, in
               accordance   with   generally   accepted   auditing
Page  4
               standards and  procedures  consistently applied, by
               independent and qualified auditors;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year a  certified  copy  of the report of
               such audit by said  auditors,  of such scope and in
               such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said accounts and  the audit thereof and
               said records as the  Bank  shall  from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Guarantor shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to  be maintained, in accordance
               with  paragraph  (a)   of  this  Section,  separate
               records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain or cause to be  retained, until at least one
               year after the Bank  has  received the audit report
               for the fiscal  year  in  which the last withdrawal
               from  the  Loan  Account   was  made,  all  records
               (contracts, orders,  invoices,  bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such separate  accounts are included in
               the annual audit  referred  to  in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that  the report thereof contains,
               in respect of  such  separate  accounts, a separate
               opinion  by  said   auditors   as  to  whether  the
               statements  of  expenditure  submitted  during such
               fiscal  year,  together  with  the  procedures  and
               internal controls  involved  in  their preparation,
               can  be  relied   upon   to   support  the  related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
            Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 5.01. The  Director  General  de Captacion de Credito
Externo of the Secretaria  de  Hacienda  y  Credito Publico of the
Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 5.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Guarantor:
          Direccion General de Captacioo Credito Externo
          Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
          Palacio Nacional
          Primer Patio Mariano, 4o Piso
          06066 Mexico, D.F.
          Mexico
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                                              1777313 SHDCME
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
Page  5
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                     UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                     By /s/ Pedro Aspe Armella
                                         Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
