Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3083 ME
                (Hydroelectric Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                    NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                     Dated September 25, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3083 ME
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  September  25,  1989  between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the Bank) and NACIONAL
FINANCIERA S.N.C. (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) the  United  Mexican  States (the Guarantor), the
Borrower and COMISIiN FEDERAL  DE  ELECTRICIDAD (CFE), having been
satisfied as  to  the  feasibility  and  priority  of  the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake  such  other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement;
Page  2
     (C)  by an agreement  (the  Project  Agreement)  of even date
herewith, between the  Bank  and  CFE,  the  latter  has agreed to
undertake the obligations set forth in the Project Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of  the  Bank,  dated  January  1, 1985 (the
General  Conditions),  with  the  last  sentence  of  Section 3.02
deleted, constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Peso" means the currency of the Guarantor;
     (b)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (c)  "CFE" means Comision  Federal  de Electricidad, (Federal
Electricity Commission) wholly owned  by  the Guarantor and estab-
lished by the Ley  que  crea  la Comision Federal de Electricidad,
published in the Diario  Oficial  of  the  Guarantor on August 24,
1937 as amended through October 1, 1988;
     (d)  "SEMIP" means Secretaria  de  Energia, Minas e Industria
Paraestatal, (Ministry of Energy, Mines and Parastatal Industries)
of the Guarantor;
     (e)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and CFE of even date  herewith,  as  the  same may be amended from
time to time, and such  term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (f)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and CFE pursuant to Section 3.01
(a) of this Agreement, as  the  same  may  be amended from time to
time, and such term includes  all schedules and agreements supple-
mental to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (g)  "Financial Rehabilitation Agreement" means the agreement
between the Guarantor  and  CFE  dated  August  20, 1986, and when
applicable,  as  amended  pursuant  to  Section  3.05  (c)  of the
Guarantee Agreement;
     (h)  "Ten-Year Investment Plan" means the Programa de Obras e
Inversiones del Sector Electrico - POISE, the program of works and
investments for the electric  power  sector of the Guarantor dated
March 3, 1989; and
     (i)  "Environmental and Resettlement Plan"  means the plan of
action to carry out Part  B  of  the Project, including the guide-
lines for  directing  the  process  of mobilization, resettlement,
rehabilitation, compensation  and  environment  protection,  and a
detailed schedule for  implementation,  furnished  to  the Bank on
April 21, 1989.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
Page  3
     Section 2.01. The Bank  agrees  to  lend  to the Borrower, on
the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in this
Agreement, an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent to four
hundred and sixty million dollars ($460,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be  made  in  respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for  the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be  financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the  Bank.  Deposits  into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be  made in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1996 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one percent (1/2  of  1%)  per annum above the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings for  the  last  Semester  ending prior to the
commencement of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Guarantor  and the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  the  six-month period com-
               mencing on each date  specified  in Section 2.06 of
               this Agreement,  including  the  Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                    Transfer of Loan Proceeds;
                     Execution of the Project;
                          Other Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall lend the proceeds of the
Loan to CFE for purposes of  carrying out the Project under a sub-
sidiary loan agreement, satisfactory  to  the  Bank, to be entered
into between the Borrower and  CFE,  and that shall include, inter
alia, the following terms and conditions:
Page  4
          (i)  the funds  lent  to  CFE  shall  be  denominated in
               dollars;
         (ii)  CFE shall pay the  same  charges, interest and have
               the same amortization  period  as  are set forth in
               Sections 2.04 through  2.07  of  this Agreement, on
               all amounts  withdrawn  and  outstanding  under the
               Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
        (iii)  CFE shall pay a fee  to  the Borrower of 10% of the
               interest due and  payable  on amounts withdrawn and
               outstanding under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     (b)  Except as the Bank  shall  otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not change or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth  in  Sections  9.04,  9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08
and 9.09  of  the  General  Conditions  (relating  respectively to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance  and  land  acquisition) shall be carried
out: (i) in respect of Parts  A,  B,  and D of the Project, by CFE
pursuant to Section 2.04  of  the  Project  Agreement; and (ii) in
respect of Part C  of  the  Project  by  the Guarantor pursuant to
Section 3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, the Special Account, and separate records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices,
the resources and expenditures in connection with the execution of
the Project:
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have such separate records  and the Special Account
               for each fiscal  year  audited,  in accordance with
               generally accepted auditing standards and practices
               consistently applied, by  independent and qualified
               auditors;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested;
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank each month certified statements
               of the Special Account; and
         (iv)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing the Special Account, the audit thereof and said
               records as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
Page  5
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one
               year after the Bank  has  received the audit report
               for the fiscal  year  in  which the last withdrawal
               from  the  Loan  Account   was  made,  all  records
               (contracts, orders,  invoices,  bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  CFE shall have failed to  perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
     (b)  as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the  Loan  Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation  shall have
arisen which shall make  it  improbable  that  CFE will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
     (c)  the Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of CFE, or for the suspension of its operations; and
     (d)  a change shall have  been  made in the Environmental and
Resettlement Plan which could  materially and adversely affect the
carrying out of the Project, or any part thereof.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall  have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the event specified in paragraph  (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the  Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed on
behalf of the Borrower and CFE; and
     (b)  that CFE has made  progress  satisfactory to the Bank in
the implementation of Part B.1 of the Project.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Page  6
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Project  Agreement  has  been duly executed and
authorized, and is legally  binding  upon,  CFE in accordance with
its terms; and
     (b)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed and
duly authorized by, and is  legally binding upon, the Borrower and
CFE in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date December  27, 1989 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Director  Internacional  of the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:               Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                  440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA) or
                                           64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          Direccion Internacional
          Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
          Plaza NAFINSA, Insurgentes Sur 1971
          Torre Sur, 11© Piso
          CP 01020, Mexico D.F.
          Mexico
          Cable address:               Telex:
               NAFIN                      NAFIME 383-1775765
               Mexico City                Mexico City
                                       Fax:
                                          548-5191
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
Page  7
                                  Latin American and the Caribbean
                    NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                    By /s/ Juan Jose Paramo
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works and
     Consultants'Ser-
     vices under Part A
     of the Project:
     (a)  Civil works         290,000,000       85%
          under Parts A.1
          (a) through (e)
          of the Project
     (b)  Civil works under   124,400,000       85%
          Parts A.2 (a)
          through (d) of
          the Project
     (c)  Consultants'            600,000       100%
          services under
          Part A.3 of the
          Project
(2)  Goods, Training
     and Consultants'
     Services under
     Part B of the
     Project:
     (a)  Goods                   400,000       100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost)
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
     (b)  Consultants'            600,000       100%
          Services and
          Training
(3)  Goods, Consul-
     tants' Services
     and Training under
     Part C of the
     Project:
Page  8
     (a)  Goods                 1,100,000       100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory costs)
     (b)  Consultants'          1,400,000       100%
          Services and
          Training
(4)  Consultants'               1,500,000       100%
     Services under
     Part D of the
     Project
(5)  Unallocated               40,000,000
                               __________
     TOTAL                    460,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
     (a)  no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures eligible under  categories  (1) through (4) prior
to the date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that  withdrawals in an
aggregate amount not exceeding  the equivalent of $20,000,000, may
be made on account of  payments  made for expenditures before that
date but after August 31, 1988; and
     (b)  no withdrawals shall be made for Category (1) (b) unless
the Final Engineering Design for  the Zimapan Power Plant has been
completed.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to assist the Guarantor in:
(1) achieving its power  sector  financing needs; (2) diversifying
power  generation  sources;  (3)  increasing  the  availability of
electricity to consumers; and (4) improving CFE's capacity to deal
with social and environmental aspects of power projects.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Guarantor and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Hydroelectric Power Plants
1.   The Aguamilpa Power  Plant.  Construction  of  a 960 megawatt
hydroelectric power plant consisting  of:  (a) river diversion and
infrastructure works; (b) a  concrete-faced rock-filled dam; (c) a
spillway; (d) three  pressure  tunnels;  (e)  an underground power
house; (f) three generating units; (g) a substation and associated
transmission lines; and (h) resettlement and environmental works.
2.   The Zimapan  Power  Plant.  Construction  of  a  280 megawatt
hydroelectric power plant consisting  of:  (a) river diversion and
infrastructure works; (b)  a  concrete  arch  dam; (c) a spillway;
(d) a pressure tunnel and  intake  works; (e) an underground power
Page  9
house; (f) two generating  units;  (g) a substation and associated
transmission lines; and (h) resettlement and environmental works.
3.   Consultants' Services. Hiring  of  specialized consultants to
provide assistance  in  carrying  out  Parts  A.1  and  A.2 of the
Project.
Part B:   Social and Environmental Program
1.   Carrying out of  a  program  of  environmental protection and
resettlement of population displaced by the construction of hydro-
electric power plants  under  Parts  A.1  and  A.2 of the Project,
including:
     (a)  creation of local resettlement and environmental teams;
     (b)  carrying out a  study  to  establish  methods to salvage
archeological findings;
     (c)  surveying construction sites and salvaging archeological
findings from such sites; and
     (d)  carrying out a study to determine the effects of, and to
control contamination,  disease  and  aquatic vegetation resulting
from the impounding of the  Santiago,  Tula and San Juan Rivers by
construction of the dams under the Project.
2.   Carrying out of  a  program  of  environmental protection and
resettlement of population displaced by the construction of hydro-
electric power plants, including:
     (a)  development of a set of guidelines for carrying out such
resettlement and environmental protection;
     (b)  strengthening the capacity of  CFE's staff units respon-
sible for socio-economic, environmental affairs and regional plan-
ning related to hydroelectric plants;
     (c)  training  of  CFE  staff,  including  foreign  and local
courses; and
     (d)  acquisition and utilization  of pollution control, moni-
toring and training equipment.
Part C:   Energy Related Studies
1.   Carrying out the following:
     A.   Energy Conservation.
          (i)  A study on, and the establishment of, energy saving
               standards and incentives for industry and commerce;
         (ii)  A study to determine  methods to improve efficiency
               of water  pumping  and  air conditioning equipment,
               including establishment  of  centers to demonstrate
               model equipment;
        (iii)  A study  on,  and  the  establishment  of, regional
               centers to promote energy savings; and
         (iv)  A study to determine training requirements to carry
               out energy conservation programs in Mexico.
     B.   Co-Generation. A  study  of  alternative  means of power
generation and incentives required for industrial co-generation of
power in Mexico.
2.   Acquisition and utilization of  laboratory equipment to carry
out such studies.
3.   Training required to carry out Part C.1 of the Project.
Page  10
Part D:   Other Studies
1.   Operations Improvement. A study  to  improve the operation of
CFE's electric power system,  including  analysis of design crite-
ria,  operating  practices,  and  efficiency  of  transmission and
distribution installations.
2.   Management. A study to  develop improvements of CFE's organi-
zational and management systems.
3.   Tariffs. A study to set up  a tariff system based on marginal
costs for medium voltage consumers.
                           *   *   *   *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
     beginning January 1, 1995
     through   January 1, 2006                       19,165,000
On July 1, 2006                                      19,205,000
__________________
*     The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalent
      determined as of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The interest  rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage
                                           per  annum)  applicable
                                           to  the   balance  out-
                                           standing on the Loan on
                                           the  day  of prepayment
                                           multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.65
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                       0.88
     more than fifteen years
     before maturity
More than fifteen years before                       1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
Page  11
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project shall
be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1  of  this Section hereof, goods manufactured
in the United Mexican States may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and  subject  to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of  the  Guidelines  and  paragraphs  1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Limited International Bidding. Goods  under  Parts B and C of
the Project estimated to cost less than $500,000 per contract,  up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations solicited from  a  list of at least three sup-
pliers from at least  two  different  countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   With respect to the  prequalification  of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof,  the  procedures  set  forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more,  the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply. When
payments for such  contract  are  to  be  made  out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of  the  first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall  apply. When payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of  Schedule  5  to the Loan
Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan  Account  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure. Such contracts shall  be  retained in accordance with
Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of  the  Loan  Agreement or Section 4.01 (c)
(ii) of the Project Agreement, when applicable.
3.   The figure of 20% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Page  12
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
             In order to assist the  Guarantor and CFE in carrying
out the Project, the  Guarantor  and  CFE shall employ consultants
whose  qualifications,  experience  and  terms  and  conditions of
employment shall be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank. Such consultants
shall be selected  in  accordance  with  principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on  the  basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "Eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible  Expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time  to the eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Initial Deposit" means an amount equivalent to
$35,000,000 to be withdrawn  from  the  Loan Account and deposited
into the Special  Account  pursuant  to  paragraph  3  (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.    The  Borrower  shall  make  withdrawals from the
Special Account for payments of Eligible Expenditures on the basis
of the evidence that  the  Bank  shall have reasonably determined,
and shall debit the Special Account  with the amount in dollars so
withdrawn or with the dollar equivalent of the currency other than
dollars in which the payment was  made, determined on the basis of
the rate of  exchange  between  the  dollar  and  such currency in
effect: (i) on the date each  payment shall have been made, if the
payment has taken place  within  90  days  before  the date of the
withdrawal in question has  been  requested;  or  (ii) on the date
each withdrawal shall have been made.
3.   The Bank may, at  the  request  of  the Borrower, withdraw on
behalf of the Borrower from the  Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account the Initial Deposit.  Thereafter, and on the basis
of requests by the Borrower  furnished  to the Bank at such inter-
vals as the Bank shall specify, the Bank shall further so withdraw
from the Loan Account  and  deposit  into the Special Account such
amounts as shall be required  to replenish the Special Account for
Eligible Expenditures, but only to  the  extent that the amount of
any such deposit, together with any amount remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as  of  the  date  of  such request, shall not
exceed, in the aggregate,  the  equivalent of the Initial Deposit.
Except as the Bank  may  otherwise  agree, each such deposit after
the Initial Deposit shall be  withdrawn  by the Bank from the Loan
Account under  the  respective  Eligible  Categories,  and  in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the
evidence supporting the  request  for  such deposit furnished pur-
suant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for a
deposit by the Bank  into  the  Special  Account after the Initial
Deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank in respect of each
payment made by  the  Borrower  out  of  the Special Account, such
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for Eligible Expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Page  13
Schedule, when the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the Categories,  minus  the  amount  of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by  the  Bank  pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions, shall be  equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the  Initial  Deposit,  the  Bank shall be entitled,
after consultation with the Borrower,  to reduce the percentage of
disbursements for Eligible Expenditures  or  take any other action
which will ensure the Bank  that  by  the time of disbursements of
the total  amount  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  all deposits
(including the Initial Deposit made  by  the Bank into the Special
Account) were made for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined at any payment out of
the Special Account:
          (i)  was made for any  expenditure  or in any amount not
               eligible for financing by  withdrawal from the Loan
               Account; or
         (ii)  was not  justified  by  the documentation furnished
               pursuant  to  paragraph  4  above,  the  Bank shall
               notify the Borrower of  such circumstances, and if,
               after a period of 30 days from the issuance of such
               notice, an amount equal to  the amount of such pay-
               ment or  the  portion  thereof  not  so eligible or
               justified has not  been  deposited  by the Borrower
               into the Special Account  or,  if the Bank shall so
               request, refunded, to the Bank, the Bank may, with-
               out in any  way  restricting  or limiting any other
               rights, power, or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
               Agreement,  refrain  from  making  further deposits
               into such Account.
     (b)  if any amount  outstanding  in  the Special Account will
not be required to  cover  further  payments for Eligible Expendi-
tures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, and
unless otherwise agreed  by  the  Bank,  refund  to  the Bank such
amount then outstanding in  the  Special  Account for crediting to
the Loan Account and immediate cancellation.
