Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C                 //t /Y>- 
Report No. P-3663-HAI
REPORT.AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 51.9 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 29, 1983
| alhis documnent has a restricted distribution and maY be used by recipients only in the performance Or 
their official duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank 2uthorization.i



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Units                      Malawi Kwacha (MK) and Tambala
SDR 1.00                 -          MK 1.3577
US$1.00                             MK 1.25
MK 1.00                             US$.80
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 foot (ft)                         0.305 meters (m)
1 mile (mi)                         1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (mi2)      =          2.590 square kilometers (km2)
1 ton (t)                           0.907 metric tons (m ton)
(As the Malawian Kwacha is officially valued in relation to a basket of the
currencies of Malawi's trading partners, the USdollar/Malawian Kwacha
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report were made
at US$1.00 = 1K 1.25.)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADMARC                   Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
AfDB            =        African Development Bank
CCDC            =         Capital City Development Corporation
DRIMP           =        District Roads Improvement and Maintenance Program
EDF             =        European Development Fund
EPD             =        Economic Planning Division
(Office of the President and Cabinet)
ERR             =        Economic Rate of Return
ESCOM                    Electricity Supply Commission
INDEBANR        =        Investment Development Bank
MDC                      Malawi Development Corporation
MHW             =        Malawi Housing Corporation
MTC             =        Min.stry of Transport and Communications
mWS             =        Ministry of Works and Supplies
NRDP            =        National Rural Development Program
PAL             =         Press Agriculture Limited
GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT II
CREDIT SUMMARY a
Borrower:          :  Republic of Malawi
Credit Amount      :   SDR 51.9 million (US$55 million equivalent)
Terms              :   Standard IDA terms
Credit Description :  The proposed credit would provide support for the
Government's program of economic recovery outlined
in a Letter of Development Policies from the
Government to the Bank. It is a follow-up to a loan
made in June 1981. This program is designed to
diversify the export base, encourage efficient
import substitution, adjust incentives, improve the
public sector's financial performance, and
strengthen policy-making capability. Foreign
exchange would be used for essential imports.
Counterpart funds would be used for development
purposes in the Government budget.
Estimated          :  The credit would be disbursed in two tranches.
Disbursements          US$30 million would be available for disbursement
after effectiveness. The remaining US$25 million
would be disbursed after a review of progress in
April 1984.
Risk               :  The principal risk relates to the capacity of the
Government to implement the program in a timely
fashion and overcome external difficulties such as
transport disruptions.
a There is no Staff Appraisal Report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authonzation.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
structural adjustment credit to the Republic of Malawi for SDR 51.9 million
(US$55 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms.
PART I. THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled -Malawi: Growth and Structural Change, A Basic
Report' (Report No. 3082a-MAI) dated February 8, 1982, was circulated to
the Executive Directors on March 9, 1982. Annexes to the report were
distributed on June 26, 1981. Annex I contains the basic country data.
3.        Malawi is a small (118,500 sq. km), densely-populated (about 6.2
million people in 1981) landlocked country in southeastern Africa.  Its
main assets are moderately fertile soils, good water resources and a
climate favorable to crop production. Unlike its neighbors, Malawi has no
known substantial mineral resources.
Background and Development Strategy
4.        When Malawi gained independence in 1964, its economy was
charaterized by surplus labor and few natural resources other than a
favorable climate and moderately fertile agricultural land. It lacked
capital, technology, entrepreneurship, skilled labor and managerial
talent. Being landlocked, it has to depend on other countries for access
to the sea.
5.        Despite these constraints, the Government was determined to
achieve rapid, sustained economic development. It has opted for an
outward-looking, export-oriented growth based on agriculture and agro-based
manufacturing. This strategy has been reflected in the Government's
policies toward the agricultural and manufacturing sectors, and toward the
roles of domestic and foreign investment. In order to attract foreign
capital and managerial skills, government policy has encouraged the
establishment of an open, market-oriented economy with the private sector
as the primary engine of economic growth. The role of public enterprises



- 2 -
has been limited to a few key sectors and to that of investment partners
with the private sector. Relatively low tariffs and limited use of
quantitative restrictions on imports have prevented the emergence of
inefficient local import substitution industries so characteristic of many
other developing countries. The Government has deliberately restrained
those forces which would raise wages above market-determined levels (e.g.,
trade unions, excessive, decreed wage increases), thus encouraging the
establishment of labor-intensive manufacturing firms and agricultural
estates. Moderate wage expansion, coupled with growing labor productivity
in most sectors of the economy, has helped to keep Malawian goods
competitive in international trade. Wage moderation has also kept the
demand for labor high and the resultant rapid expansion of employment
opportunities has helped control the rural-urban income gap and hence the
rate of internal migration.
6.        Public investment has been intended primarily to support private
efforts in the directly productive sectors through provision of essential
infrastructure, public utilities and supporting services. The Government
has opted for a two-pronged approach to agriculture, involving the
traditional smallholder and estate sectors. The smallholder sector has
produced the food crops and a limited amount of export crops while the
estate sector has concentrated on the major exports of tobacco, tea and
sugar (see para. 48 for details). Attaching high priority to public
investment in the traditional sector, the Government undertook a number of
regional integrated rural development projects involving provision of
infrastructure and agricultural inputs and services. More recently, it
embarked on the National Rural Development Program (NRDP), an ambitious
20-year program designed to extend agricultural services to smallholders
country wide. The estate sector has been left largely in private hands
(except for public enterprise participation in sugar and in some tobacco
estates) and the Government has limited its role to that of providing a
favorable investment climate. The Government's decision to emphasize
directly productive sectors and related economic infrastructure has
resulted in relatively slower Aevelopment of the social services such as
lhealth and education until recent years.
Evaluation of Past Performance
7.        In terms of its stated objectives, Malawi has an impressive
record of accomplishments. Aggregate aLid per capita real incomes have
grown rapidly. Real GDP grew at an average rate of 5.5 percent per annum
over 1967-79 and per capita income at about 3.0 percent per annum. Growth
in all sectors (except in subsistence production) exceeded 5.0 percent per
annum. By 1979, GNP per capita in current prices reached US$190. Over the
same period, inflation averaged 9.0 percent per annum.



- 3 -
8.        At independence, Investment constituted only 8.6 percent of GDP
and domestic savings were virtually nil (0.5 percent of GDP). The little
capital formation that took place had to be financed from foreign sources.
But since then, the picture has changed dramatically. Between 1967 and
1979, gross domestic investment grew at an average annual rate of 12.5
percent per annum, raising Investment's share of GDP from 16 to 29
percent. The domestic resource mobilization effort has been even more
impressive. Domestic savings rose from 4 percent of GDP in 1967 to 17
percent in 1979. increasing the share of investment financed from domestic
sources to about 60 percent. Owing mainly to government mobilization of
foreign assistance but with increasing contributions for private and public
enterprise ventures, net foreign long-term capital flows increased from a
total of US$66 million over 1967-69 to US$328 million over 1977-79.
9.        Over the 1967-79 period. export volume grew at an annual average
rate of 4.5 percent while import volume grew at 3.5 percent. Agriculture
accounts for some 90 percent of export earnings. Since 1967, agricultural
estate production grew much faster than smallholder output and during
1967-79. agricultural exports from estates expanded at 15.0 percent per
annum while smallholder exports recorded no growth. Thus the estates'
share of agricultural exports increased from 32 percent in 1967 to 65
percent in 1979 and 80 percent by 1981-82. Since estate exports are
tobacco, tea and sugar, the concentration of Malawi's exports has increased
significantly.
10.       The country's favorable export performance can be partly
attributed to the policy of moderate wage increases and to growing labor
productivity which has kept Malawi's products competitive in the
international market. Over the same period, wage employment exranded
almost as rapidly as the modern sector as a whole (over 8 percent per
annum) suggesting a labor-intensive pattern of growth.
Recent Economic Developments
11.       Notwithstanding these impressive achievements, the Malawian
economy, increasingly dependent on three primary commodity exports,
tobacco, tea and sugar. remained highly vulnerable to international price
fluctuations. (Production of previously important export crops,
particularly cotton. groundnuts and tung oil, declined and worker's
remittances, which were an important source of foreign exchange, were
greatly reduced.) Since 1974 the country experienced periodic balance of
payments disequilibria of increasing severity due primarily to (a) rapid
escalation in import prices. particularly of fuel and intermediate and
capital goods: (b) cyclical swings in export prices of tobacco, tea and
sugar: and (c) signiticantly higher costs of transport for both exports and
imports owing to rising ocean freight charges, port congestion in
Mozambique, and disruptions of the overland route.



- 4 -
12.       While the Government successfully steered the economy through
balance of payments crises in the past, the deterioration in the balance of
payments since 1978 has been less manageable. Between 1977-80 Malawi's
terms of trade fell by 40 percent. The petroleum Import bill more than
doubled, raising its share in total imports from 10.2 percent in 1977 to
12.5 percent in 1980. In 1980 and 1981, agricultural production suffered
from drought, reducing export volumes and necessitating large Imports of
maize, a commodity in which Malawi had been self-sufficient during most of
the 19709.  Finally, disruptions of the transport system through Mozambique
forced Malawi to use more costly air, or alternative rail and road routes.
As a consequence, Malawi's current account deficit rose sharply from an
average of 8-9 percent of GDP in the mid 1970s to an average of 20 percent
in 1978-80 before falling to 12 percent in 1981 and 9 percent In 1982.
Capital inflows, although increased, did not cover current account deficits
and foreign exchange reserves fell from the equivalent of over five months
of imports to less than two months between 1977-82. Moreover, in contrast
to past capital inflows which were mainly grants and soft loans, over 50
percent of the 1978-81 borrowings of US$570 million were on
non-concessional terms. As a result, the debt service ratio climbed
rapidly from 7 percent in 1977 to 26.3 percent in 1981 and would have been
over 40 percent in 1982 were it not for a rescheduling of Malawi's debt.
13.       Economir; growth, savings and investment have declined sharply.
GDP growth fell from 5.5 percent in 1979 to only 0.4 percent in 1980 and
-0.8 percent in 1981 as virtually every sector contracted during the two
year period. Growth was back up to 3.0 percent in 1982 and should be at a
similar level in 1983. While domestic savings declined somewhat,
investment dropped sharply from 34.3 percent of GDP in 1979 to 21.2 percent
in 1981 and 20.3 percent in 1982.
14.       Malawi's fiscal position also seriously deteriorated.  From
independence through 1977/78, government expenditures expanded roughly in
line with GDP, and deficits rarely exceeded 7-8 percent of GDP.
Subsequently, however, rapidly rising expenditures outstripped revenues and
pushed government deficits up to an average of 13.6 percent during
1978/79-1981/82, before falling to 9.4 percent in 1982/83. Government
expenditures in these four years averaged around 33 percent of GDP compared
to 25 percent in the previous six years. To finance these deficits, the
Government resorted to increased domestic borrowing, mainly from the
monetary system, and foreign borrowing, partly on commercial terms.
Inflationary pressures grew and prices rose at an average rate of almost 13
percent per annum between 1979 and 1982.



-5-
Emerging Structural Problems
15.       While the primary cause of Malawi's economic difficulties was a
serious deterioration in the country's terms of trade and transport
conditions, the crisis also revealed important structural weaknesses in the
economy. First, the heavy concentration of exports in a few
estate-produced agricultural commodities; second, the slow growth of
smallholder production for export; third, the modern sector's dependence on
costly imported oil, and the progressive depletion of domestic fuelwood
resources; fourth, the deteriorating financial position of public
enterprises; fifth, the budget deficits described earlier (para. 14);
sixth, a growing imbalance between government recurrent and capital
expenditures; seventh, rigidities in the system of administered prices and
wages.
16.       Concentration of Exports.  Malawi's exports are heavily
concentrated on tobacco, tea and sugar produced on estates. Each,
unfortunately faces uncertain growth prospects, both in terms of supply and
demand. In the first place, the shortage of suitable land will severely
limit any increase in output from extending cultivation. Any expansion
will have to come largely from higher yields. Moreover, a growing shortage
of fuelvood threatens the production of flue-cured tobacco and tea (which
requires wood for drying). In addition, shortage of credit and scarcity of
managerial talent in the country are expected to become a serious
constraint to any rapid expansion of both burley and flue-cured tobacco.
The recent snarp drop in sugar prices and the imposition of quotas by the
United States has shown the vulnerability of this crop. For the estate
sector to recover and expand its foreign exchange earnings, diversifying
into other crops is essential.
17.       Slow Growth of Smallholder Production.  Following a decade of
rapid growth investments, smallholder produced exports of tobacco, cotton
and groundnuts have stagnated over the past ten years despite sizeable
public investments in smallholder agriculture. While such performance can
partly be attributed to limited coverage of past rural development
projects, low producer prices have almost certainly played an important
role. A Government and Bank analysis has shown that, on balance, prices
paid to smallholders by the Agricultural Development and Marketing
Corporation (ADMARC), which handles smallholder crops, have been less
favorable than those paid for estate produced crops sold on the world
market. Within the smallholder sector, maize and rice production have been
subsidized while production of export crops (cotton, groundnuts, and
tobacco) have been taxed. Incentives for expanding meat, poultry and dairy
output, mostly produced by smallholders, also are weak. In addition, the
Government's pricing decisions have been ad hoc and frequently arbitrary;
since prices were changed infrequently, the resultant quantum jumps, made
adjustments difficult for both consumers and producers.



- 6 -
18.       Cost of Energy.  Malawi is totally dependent on Imports for
petroleum. While imports increased only 8 percent in volume between 1977
and 1980, their cost doubled and as a share of total imports rose from 10
to 12.5 percent. Fuelwood accounts for some 80 percent of the total energy
consumed in Malawi. In the rural areas, wood is used for cooking and for
curing tobacco and tea. As a result of population growth and expansion in
tobacco and tea production, the demand for fuelwood Is outstripping
available supplies, leading to deforestation and environmental
degradation. Thus, the Government faces the task of developing indigenous
energy sources in the rural areas and reducing the modern sector's
dependence on imported oil.
19.       Deteriorating Finances of the Public Enterprises.  As a group,
Malawi's statutory boards and public enterprises have functioned well both
by providing essential services with reasonable efficiency and by making a
contribution to their own investment requirements. However, the financial
condition of several has deteriorated since 1978. ADMARC, a government
marketing institution for smallholder crops, which has operated relatively
efficiently, suffered substantial losses in 1980 and 1981 as a result of
higher fuel costs, improper crop handling and poor transport planning. In
1982 a small profit was achieved. Air Malawi suffered large losses on Its
intercontinental service which had to be terminated at the end of 1979.
Domestic tariffs were increased by 60 percent in early 1980 and
international charter rates were raised later that year and moderate
increases were enacted in 1981, 1982 and 1983. Malawi Railways finances
have been adversely affected by rising fuel costs and transport problems at
the ports and on lines through Mozambique. Despite a 1979 tariff increase
of 17 percent, the company suffered an operating loss for the first time
since 1972 and its overall cash deficit, after debt service and renewal
investments, rose substantially. Further increases were affected in 1981
and 1983 but continued external difficulties have exacerbated the railway's
financial problems. Hitherto financially sound Electricity Supply
Commission (ESCOM) also began to experience large cost overruns on its
Nkula project, primarily as a result of transport difficulties. While
annual tariff increases averaging 10 percent from 1979 to 1983, have helped
to alleviate the cash deficit, the company was still experiencing cash flow
difficulties and has had to defer some payments on Government debt. The
Malawi Housing Corporation (MHC) and Capital City Development Corporation
(CCDC) have been channeling Government funds and external loans into
housing and construction of the new capital at Lilongwe, and are now
experiencing difficulties meeting their mounting debt service obligations
out of their low income from rents. MHC recently increased rents for low
cost housing by 40 percent but it is not generating sufficient funds even
to provide for maintenance. The Malawi Development Corporation (MDC) is a



- 7 -
wholly government-owned holding company with Interests in agrlculture and
agro-industry, manufacturing and commerce. Its financial position has
steadily deterlorated in recent years, am the liquidity position of Its
subsidiaries declined with the onset of recent economic crises, and MDC has
had to provide more guarantees for its subsidiaries' borrowing. It has
also accumulated medium-term debt, borrowed mainly on hard terms to finance
equity investments. Given Its large interest payments, MDC suffered
slzable losses during 1980, 1981, 1982 and 1983. The deterioration in the
performance of these public enterprises is having an adverse impact on the
Central Government's budget by increasing the requlrements for subsidies or
for deferment of debt service owed to Government. In addition, the demand
by the public enterprises for new medium-term external credit and for
additional domestic borrowing has increased.
20.       Although nominally a private enterprise, Press (Holdins)
Llmited's operations are so large that they have a profound impact on the
country's economic life. Press is a holding company with wholly-owned
subsidiaries and associate companies in most sectors of the economy,
including agriculture, industry, wholesale and retail trade, building and
construction, transportation, banking and insurance. Until 1979, Press and
its subsidiaries had been consistently profitable, but thereafter, the
group's financial position deteriorated rapidly.  Press' enormous cash
needs have placed severe strains on Malawi's two commercial banks and this
led to restricted domestic credit expansion to the rest of the private
sector. A good start has been made on resolving Press' financial and
operational problems. Given the impact on the country's output, employment
and exports, early resolution is imperative.
21.       Budgetary Deficits and Underfunding of Recurrent Activities.  The
Government has generally managed its finances prudently. During the first
15 years after independence, revenue increased as rapidly as GDP, the
revenue account consistently generated surpluses (since 1972/73) to
contribute to development expenditures, and budget deficits have been
relatively modest. Since 1978/79, however, the Government's fiscal
position has deteriorated. While revenues have increased slightly faster
than GDP, recurrent and development account expenditures have grown even
more rapidly owing to a rapid expansion of development projects. In
addition, there is growing evidence of underfunding of recurrent budget
requirements.  Control over recurrent expenditures has been tight because
of domestic revenue constraints. On the other hand, because of the
availability of foreign finance on concessionary terms, capital projects
have been relatively easy to finance. Thus, the expansion of government
employment and expenditures for goods and services has not kept pace with
the growth of capital expenditures. The problem is particularly acute in
agriculture (and to a lesser extent in road maintenance and in health).
The lack of adequate provision for recurrent operations reduces the
benefits originally expected from project investments.



- 8 -
22.       Rigidity of Price Control. and Wage Policy.  A system of formal
and informal price controls has ovolvad for moat domentically manufacturod
goods in Malawi over the past decade. The Ministry of Trado, Industry and
Tourism exercises formal controls over products such as cement, fortilizers
and sugar; and itemo important to low income consumers --vegetable olls,
bread, milk, matches and fish.  In addition, manufacturers arc requird to
notify and receive comments from the Ministry before raising prices for
practically all other manufactured gods. Disincentives created by the
system have grown with increaead inflationary pressura. Long delays
botween price increase applications and approval have adversely affected
the financial position of many businesses. Similar delays have
characterized granting of tariff increases for the country's principal
statutory bodies.
23.       The Government has also adopted a system of controls designed to
restrain real wage Increases. However, the Government's practice of
holding down wages for long periods and then granting large wage increases
has been destabilizing for the economy. For example, the minimum wage for
urban unskilled workers, which had remained unchanged since 1973, was
increased by 12.5 percent in 1980 and by additional 56 percent In January
1981. (Even with these quantum jumps the minimum wage in 1981 is only
three-quarters of Its 1973 level In real terms.)
PART II. THE GOVERNMENT'S MEDIUM-TERM PROGRAM
24.       Recognizing these problems, the Government, in consultation with
the Bank and the IMF, formulated a medium-term program covering
1981/82-1985/86. The Government's major objectives for the five years
were: (i) a real GDP growth rate of 4.8 percent; (ii) increased
diversification of foreign exchange earnings or savings by developing new
smallholder and estate crops, accelerating smallholder export crop growth,
livestock and forestry industries and expanding agro-business; and (iii)
improvement in the financial performance of the Government and public
enterprises to reduce dependence on external resources and domestic
borrowing and increase foreign exchange reserves.
25.       The policies for achieving these objectives were incorporated in
a comprehensive structural adjustment program which aimed at improving (i)
the balance of payments, (ii) price incentives and income policies, (iii)
resource management, and (iv) the institutional structure. Specific policy
measures were:



(i) Balance of PAmesnt.   Increased prices for
agricutural export crops with periodic
roviews; incrouead rocurrent budgetary
allocation to the Ministry of Agriculture;
revlew of tho officiency of tho Agricultural
marketing organization; studios of the
livestock and tobacco sector., Including
diversification of tobacco estates; a study of
the energy sector and continued adjustments In
onergy prices; and increased agro-industrial
investment.
(il) Price incentive, and incomes.
Government review of the price and wage
control system with a view to introducing more
flexibility and more frequent adjustments;
increased public utility and transport tariffs
with closer monitoring and adjustment in the
future; studies of the railway and the
airline; a detailed plan for implementing
economic rental of housing; and periodic
review of the exchange rate.
(iii) Resource Management. Establishment of the
Department of Statutory Bodies to assist
public enterprises in planning and financial
management; periodic review of Interest rates;
steps to increase Government revenue to its
historic levels in relation to GDP;
strengthened control and monitoring of
domestic expenditure; improved monitoring and
management of public debt; limiting government
domestic and foreign borrowing to ceilings
agreed with the IMF; a new five-year
development program with increased shares for
directly productive sectors and social
services; a commitment to adequate levels of
recurrent financing for key development
ministries.
(iv) Institutional Improvement. Establishment of
an Investment Coordinating Committee to
oversee all major investments; technical
assistance to strengthen key planning and
budgeting ministries; and rehabilitation of
the key public and private sector
conglomerates (notably Press Holdings, Ltd.)
through studies, improved management and
financial restructuring.



- 10 -
Implementation
26.       Initially, implementation of the program was uneven.  On the
positive side, additional funds were allocated to the agricultural sector,
agricultural prices were adjusted, public utility tariffs were increased,
the Investments Coordinating Committee was established to screen all major
investments, a joint energy assessment study was carried out and steps were
taken to strengthen the management and the policies of Press.
27.       At the same time, however, there were areas where execution was
less satisfactory: inadequate expenditure control, delays in adjusting
government charges and prices. continued poor performance of many public
corporations and lack of public debt management. These combined with
continued adverse international developments (rising interest rates and
fuel prices, cyclical swings in export prices of tobacco, tea and sugar)
and poor weather, led to a serious deterioration in the Government's
budgetary position and the balance of payments. As a result, the
Government was not able to make its last two drawings in its two-year IMF
stand-by. There were also delays in starting the various studies
stipulated in the SAL, formal agreement between the Government and Press on
principles of restructuring was slow in coming and the set of agricultural
prices chosen emphasized maize to the detriment of export crops. As a
result, the Bank delayed releasing the second tranche of the SAL, while
continuing discussions with the Government on steps that could be taken to
get the adjustment program back on track. After these discussions, the
Government agreed to modifications in the methodology of setting
agricultural prices, strengthened its ability to monitor and control
external debt and agreed on a debt servicing target. The studies
stipulated in the SAL began to progress well, the budget for 1982/83 was a
realistic one with sufficient resources provided for the major development
sectors, and agreement with the Fund on a new stand-by was reached. The
second tranche was therefore released in April 1982.
The Revised Program
28.       The growth targets set out in the Government's program two years
ago, will not be realized soon. Since then problems with external
transport have continued to play havoc with the country's external trade,
the world economy remains more depressed than had been projected and the
Governmental system of Malawi has been slow to make decisions and meet the
increased demands placed on it. As the letter of Development Policy (Annex
IV) makes clear, the Government will continue to address the structural
problems outlined in paragraphs 15-23. In continuing this program,
however, some modifications and shifts in emphasis are necessary.
Specifically these include:



- 11 -
(i) further incentives for expert crop production;
(ii) continued improvements in institutions dealing with external
debt and investment screening;
(iii) further work with statutory bodies to strengthen them
managerially and financially;
(iv) implementation of the agreement on Press' reorganization and
debt servicing;
(v) further upgrading of the Government's capacity to budget,
plan, implement and monitor its programs; and
(vi) increased revenues and cost effectiveness which are needed
to bring the budget in line.
29.       The Letter of Development Policy takes cognizance of these
problems and outlines an action program for dealing with them. In this
program the Government will build upon the foundation laid during the last
two years, shoring up weak points and branching into other areas that have
emerged as crucial to a successful adjustment. The program will focus on
measures to: (i) increas. performance of the productive sectors; (ii)
mobilize and manage resources better; and (iii) strengthen key
institutions.
30.       To increase performance of the productive sectors, more
attractive prices, better marketing operations and improved procurement and
distribution of fertilizers will provide incentive for smallholders to
raise their output, especially for export. For the estates, steps will be
taken to help them upgrade their management, have greater access to credit
and diversify their production. In the industrial sector, emphasis will be
on relaxing the present system of price controls.
31.       To improve resource mobilization and management, the Government
is committed to increasing revenues proportionate to GDP, emphasising
non-tax sources, to raising the efficiency of capital use through a solid
public investment program, and to expap4ing the parastatals' profits
through improved policies (including pricing) as well as better
management. The work begun under the first SAL in strengthening the
Government's expenditure control, foreign debt management, and planning and
budgeting capabilities will be continued, as will monitoring of recurrent
allocations to key developmental agencies. The Government also will take
steps to reduce the current high costs of its social services in housing,
health and education, raise user charges and eliminate or minimize
subsidies. Agricultural subsidies have been examined too, and a phased
program of eliminating them developed.
32. Strengthening Key Institutions continues to be an important part of
the Government's action program. Toward this end, implementation of
detailed action plans - produced from studies for restructuring ADMARC,
MDC and Press Holdings will continue.



- 12 -
In addition, the program calls for improving the management capacities of
other key parastatals and the Government, particularly the Economic
Planning Division of the Office of the President and Cabinet (EPD).
33.       Economic Framework.  The revised program has been set in a
geT-ral macro-economic framework for the 1983-87 period, which projects an
annaal average growth in GDP of 3.4 percent versus 4.8 percent envisaged
two years ago. As discussed above, given continuing unfavorable conditions
externally and the Government's inability to move as quickly as originally
anticipated, the revised figure probably is a realistic target for GDP
growth. Sectorally, the framework projects agriculture growing at a yearly
average of 3.4 percent, industry at 3.7 percent and the rest of the economy
at 3.4 percent. Table 1 below sets out our estimates of the key
macroeconomic variables with the structural adjustment program and what
they would be without the program. Without improvements in transport,
proper incentives for agriculture and improved resource use and
mobilization, both exports and overall growth would be lower and the
balance of payments gap larger.
34.       One key to attaining these growth rates is improvement in the
export performance, particularly that of agricultural products. After
examining the potential for every major export category, a 5.5 percent
annual growth for total exports in real terms over the next five years
appears to be feasible. Overall export volumes fell by 10 percent in 1981
and another 9 percent in 1982; thus, most of the targeted increase
represents a recovery from the current low levels to those that were
attained in the past.
Table 1: Development of the Malawian Economy with and
without Structural Adjustment Policies
With             without
Structural        Structural
Indicator                       Adjustment         Adjustment
Growth of GDP(%) 1983-87           3.4                2.5
Agriculture                     3.4                2.4
Industry                        3.7                2.6
Export Growth 1983-87               5.5               4.0
Primary                         5.5                4.0
Other                           5.0                4.0
Resource Gap 1987               $105.0 million    $120.0 million
Current Account Deficit 1987   $152.0 million    $175.0 million



- 13 -
35.       A second key requirement is to further reduce the current account
deficit. Having risen to 24 percent of GDP in 1979, the current account
deficit was reduced to 13 percent in 1981 and 1982 largely due to a sharp
fall in imports. The IMF's EFF program calls for the deficit to decline
gradually to 5.0 percent of GDP by 1987.
36.       Malawi's foreign financing needs and expected resources are shown
in Table 2 below. Total available foreign financing for the 1983-87 period
has been based on past trends, as well as expected levels of grants, and
medium and long term loans from Individual sources. Even allowing for two
SALs totalling US$115 million and possible IMF programs throughout the five
years,1 a gap of US$75 million remains to be filled.
37.      -it should be noted that Malawi had very heavy debt repayments due
in the period of 1982-1984, but has recently completed a rescheduling of
both its commercial and official debts. The commercial debt repayments,
due in 1982 and 1983, will be stretched out over the next 6 1/2 years and
official repayments over the next 8 years.
Table 2: MALAWI-Foreign Financing, 1983-1987
CUSS million)
Current Account Deficit         725
Capital Account Amortization   285
Reserve Build-up                 50
Total Requirement              1060
Official Grants                 270
M&LT Loans                      505
Net IMF                          85
SALs                            115
Other Capital                    65
Debt Rescheduling                 35
Total Available                 985
1 The IMF has recently agreed to a three year EFF with Malawi, but
has no commitment for any program beyond mid-1986.



- 14 -
With this rescheduling, Malawi's debt service ratio, which would have
reached over 40 percent in 1982 will be very flat over the period at about
25-30 percent per annum. The debt rescheduling will provide about US$35
million in resources.
38.       Another key to attaining sustained growth with a manageable
balance of payments current account deficit will be substantially reducing
the Government's budgetary deficits, which reached an average of almost 16
percent of GDP during FY80-FY82. Under the EFF, the deficit is targeted to
decline gradually each year to reach 7.5 percent of GDP by FY86 by keeping
development expenditures to 8.8-9.0 percent of GDP; reducing the revenue
account expenditures from 17.6 percent of GDP in FY83 to 15.4 percent by
1985/86, and keeping revenue between 16.6 and 16.9 percent of GDP
throughout the period.
39.       To achieve the growth targets set out, both the saving and
investment rates will need to recover from the depressed levels of recent
years. At the same time, the efficiency of investment will need to
improve. Domestic savings will have to increase from the 1982 figure of
13.5 percent of gross domestic product to 17.8 percent by 1987, and the
decline in investments by both private and public enterprises must be
reversed.
40.       Given the program proposed by the Government and the political
commitment to it, the targets above should be achievable. Malawi already
is pursuing an agriculturally based, export-oriented policy which has been
implemented well in the past. Therefore, the present program does not aim
to introduce radial changes, but has as its major goals enhancing the
efficiency of implementation and strengthening the relevant institutions.
The Productive Sectors
41.       Agriculture.  As in the first SAL operation, monitoring the price
incentives for smallholders, will continue to be a major focus of the
adjustment program.  Over the last two years, a methodology for setting
prices for smallholder crops has been developed, which sets the price
levels which will provide the incentive to expand both overall and export
crop production. With recent increases in smallbolder crop prices, the
terms of trade are shifting in favor of agriculture and the returns per
labor-day for all major crops in most locations are greater than the
opportunity cost of labor. Table 3 below sets out recent price trends in
real terms and shows that for most crops prices are well above the 1980
levels in constant prices. This increase has been achieved despite the
low rates of growth in border prices, the basis for setting export crop
prices, due to small price increases in international markets and large
increases in transport costs to and from Malawi.  A better indicator of the
incentives offered to farmers is the trend in real returns per man-day of
labor which are set out in Table 4. This shows the reversal of the
downward trend beginning for many crops in 1982 and other crops in 1983.
The Association will continue to be involved in ensuring proper application



- 15 -
Table 3: Real Smallholder Crop Prices
(1974 tambala/kilogram)
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Maize (local)          3.7    3.3    5.0    4.2    4.3
Tobacco (NDDF)        33.3   30.0   31.8   39.2   39.2
Groundnuts (Chalim-  18.6   18.6   25.0   21.1   21.0
bana)
Cotton                13.0   14.4   14.8   14.6   14.7
Rice (Faya)            5.6    5.0    5.2    4.4    5.2
Table 4:  Real Gross Margins per Labor Day for Smallholder Crops
(1974 tambala)
1984
1980    1981    1982    1983   (est.)
Maize (local)                 45.4    39.0    60.9    54.0    51.2
Tobacco (Northern Div.
dark-fired)          28.1    24.3    20.6a/  26.8    26.8
(25.6)
Groundnuts (chalimbana)       32.6    24.9    25.7    30.9    36.3
Cotton                       31.3    24.3    28.7    36.3    38.0
Rice (faya)                   48.6    40.1    33.7    38.6    47.5
a   A 15 percent second payment was made in 1981/82 resulting in total
receipts of 25.6 tambala in 1974 prices.
of the agreed pricing methodology and help as needed to improve the system
further. Specifically the question of the comparative advantage of various
crops will be looked at and the effect of pricing policies on the budget,
the balance of payments and other macroeconomic variables will be
examined. In recent years, production of groundnuts, cotton and a number
of minor crops have fallen significantly as the relative returns to maize
have been much more attractive. Incentives provided under recently
increased prices and available technical packages should restore the
production of most of these back to previous levels. Despite a buoyant
international price, the export parity price for cotton is low due to



- 16 -
relatively inefficient and costly cotton ginning and processing and the
high cost of external transport particularly in view of recent disruption
in the shortest and cheapest routes through Mozambique. The Government has
deemed cotton self-sufficiency necessary and will set prices sufficient to
achieve this. In the meantime, it plans to reduce processing and transport
co:;ts through further investments in roads and ginning capacity.
42.       The Government will continue to review annually with the
Association the recurrent budget allocations to the Ministry of Agriculture
to be sure they are adequate, as was done under the first SAL.
43.       ADMARC is the major source of inputs and marketing for
smallholders. It was established in 1971 to increase exports, provide
supplies to those farming on customary land (smallholders), and to maintain
a system for export marketing. While it provides an outlet for all produce
grown on customary land, its monopoly extends only to certain types of
tobacco and cotton. Besides these functions, ADMARC was also given the
task of assisting by credit or investment any "works, undertakings,
projects, schemes or enterprises relating to the development or improvement
of the economy of Malawi". ADKARC was to be run as a commercial enterprise
and its selling price for produce sold within Malawi was to be no less than
the purchase price plus ADMARC costs or, if sold below this price, the
Government was to make good any losses from public funds. Unfortunately,
misapplication of these two provisions has led to some of ADMARC's present
difficulties.
44.       While ADMARC was conceived primarily as a marketing agency,
during the 1970s it gave much more attention to the development aspects of
its mandate. In effect, it used its pricing decisions to tax the
smallholder sector and invest the revenue in the rapidly expanding estate
sector. Until 1978, ADMARC showed large profits and was able to carry out
its investment plans and still provide most of the services needed by
smallholders, including the procurement and distribution of subsidized
fertilizer. By the end of the 1970s, however, ADMARC began to lose money
on its operations due mainly to increased marketing costs (despite a slight
decrease in the volume purchased), due to excessive staffing and buying
points, failure to adapt to more difficult and costly transport, and a
shift to distribution of maize and subsidized fertilizer within the country
relative to more profitable export activities.
45.       Contrary to statutory requirements, ADMARC has not been
compensated by the Government for losses incurred in maize and fertilizer
distribution. In addition, export markets have been eroded or lost due to
poor crop forecasting, irregularity of supply and shipment, and for
groundnuts, poor grading standards and declining quality. By 1980 ADMARC's
trading profits had disappeared and overall operations showed a loss of
almost MK 9 million. As a result, it was unable to order sufficient
fertilizer to meet farmer demand that year. The same happened the
following year when it lost more than MK 10 million. The Finance Ministry,



- 17 -
forced to procure rid±t of the feCLilizet to help alleviate the financial
burden on ADMkRC, was not able to do so in a timely manner, so that a
second consecutive year of shortage occurred. To help ADMARC overcome its
cash flow problem, reduce its deficit and encourage efficient use of
fertilizer, the Government reduced the fertilizer subsidy by 50 percent in
1983 and is committed to eliminate it wholly within three years.
46.       A study of the financial and operating efficiency of
ADMARC, financed by the first Technical Assistance Loan, recommended the
following:
(i) improve ADMARC'a pricing policies through
better planning and analysis; greater use of
interseasonal stabilization funds and
review of the use of subsidies, with any
remaining producer and consumer subsidy costs
being met by Government rather than ADMARC;
(ii) reduce marketing costs by cutting back on the
number of markets;
(iii)  limit ADMARC's investments and other related
interests to those which are or could be
beneficial to marketing or processing. (Thus
freeing both financial and management
resources for these primary functions);
(iv) establish a planning unit to anticipate
events, assess and analyze likely consequences
of alternative plans of action;
(v) strengthen ADMARC's financial management;
(vi) improve crop marketing and distribution by
increasing the role of the informal sector;
and
(vii) improve training and manpower development.
The Government has already reconstituted the Board of ADMARC and created
the post of General Manager to run the company. It has drawn up a program
of specific steps to be taken and a timetable based on the consultant's
report was agreed with the Association at negotiations.
47.       The fertilizer supply problem is being addressed by an IFAD/IDA
jointly financed project administered by the Association. The project will
help improve the Government's and ADMARC's ability to estimate requirements



- 18 -
and procure and distribute supplies to smallholders. Toward this end, a
revolving fund for fertilizer procurement has been established in the
Reserve Bank and funds provided for technical assistance and local staff
training. The program will also evaluate research data and extension
recommendations, focusing on the monitoring of farm demand and success in
the use of fertilizers. The program will assist institution building in
ADMARC to strengthen the parts of it dealing with the procurement and
distribution of inputs through technical assistance in the form of
expatriate personnel and training of local staff.
48.       In Malawi farms are classified as "estates" or "smallholdings"
according to tenure status rather than size. All farms under freehold or
leasehold are classified as estates while those with communal tenure are
smallholdings. This can be misleading as there are large commercial
smallholder farms while most burley tobacco estates are farmed in small
units by tenants. Land tenure determines the crops that may be grown (only
estates can grow burley tobacco) and the access to markets (only
smallholders are serviced by ADHARC), credit institutions (only estates
receive commercial bank credit) and extension services (only smallholders
are served by Government extension agents).
49.       Because the vast majority of Malawi farmers are 'smallholders",
Bank Group assistance to agriculture has focussed on this subsector.
However, the estate sector production has been growing rapidly, by 17
percent per year over 1968-77, largely by conversion of communal land to
freehold and leasehold. The sector produced 80 percent of Malawi's
agricultural exports in 1981 and 1982, but in recent years has suffered
sharp financial reverses. Tobacco prices fell steeply in 1979 and 1980.
A number of estates were not able to meet debt payments to Malawi's two
commercial banks, and were either placed in receivership or put under the
control of the banks' management advisory services. With the recovery of
tobacco prices, the financial positions of the estates have improved, and
the banks have cut back or disbanded their management advisory services.
Yet most estates still suffer managerial and financial weaknesses. The
importance of this sector in generating export earnings requires that the
structural adjustment program include measures to improve its efficiency.
Thus the program will provide for improving their technical and financial
management and for giving greater incentives to diversify production
through strict enforcement of government tobacco regulations, establishment
of a managerial training scheme and development of a credit plan. The
Government does not have a policy on the expansion of the estate sector and
the future of communal forms of tenure. There are increasing land
pressures in Malawi which could become a serious problem in the future.
However, there is insufficient knowledge about the effects of conversion to
freehold or leasehold status on concentration of landholdings and factor
productivity to formulate a policy. The Government has begun the process
of policy formulation with a study on size distribution of farms, yields
and other productivity measures in smallholder and estate agriculture.



- 19 -
50.       The expansion of Malawi's tobacco exports will require improved
control over the quality and volume of production. Malawi tried to control
the quality and quantity of it. tobacco production in the late 1960s and
early 1970s, as it was felt that there was a limited market for its
products. During the rapid expansion of the 1970s effective control was
lost, although regulations still remained on paper. During the 1983 season
a large increase in the production of burley tobacco has led to a sharp
drop in the price and pointed out again the limited market for Malawi's
tobacco. Under the program the Government will again enforce regulations
strictly and encourage diversification to other crops.
51.       The recently completed "Tobacco Sector Study" has compiled and
analyzed a substantial quantity of data which can provide a basis for a
long term strategy for the tobacco sector. This strategy will include the
development of an extension service for the estates, a management training
plan and medium and long-term credit facilities.
52.       The commercial banks provide production credit for seasonal
requirements, but have been reluctant to provide medium and long-term
financing because of their limited overall resources, current heavy
concentration of their portfolio in agriculture, and poor experience on
loan recovery in the late 1970s. Because the amount of funds required is
not likely to be very large, it should not be necessary to set up a new,
separate institution to provide long-term credit to the estates. This
could be done by either the commercial banks or an existing institution
such as the Investment Development Bank (INDEBANK), a well-run development
finance company experienced in evaluating and supervising loans in many
different areas. Both INDEBANK and the commercial banks have expressed
interest in handling the needs of the estates for medium and long term
financing, especially as it relates to estate diversification, if the
Government will provide assistance such as a guarantee scheme or
rediscounting facilities. A timetable for developing a program was agreed
to at negotiations.
53.       Industry.  The Government has emphasized the role of the private
sector in industrial development providing incentives through taxes, profit
repatriation and import rebates. The small size of Malawi's market and
high transport costs afford natural protection to the industrial sector
despite relatively low tariffs. The Government can and does exert
substantial influence on the system. Aa the economy has become more
complex and the internal and external environment more volatile, requiring
more frequent changes, the management of the largely informal system has
become more and more strained. Even though it has functioned reasonably
well in the past, it has become increasingly clear that some of the



- 20 -
Government's approaches toward regulatory practices require some
overhauling.  A study is being undertaken by the Association to evaluate
the system of incentives affecting the manufacturing sector in Malawi and
the recommendations of that study will be used in our dialogue with
Government.
54.       Both the formal and informal price controls are based on a cost
plus pricing system, which has led to cost inefficiences and has limited
the effectiveness of the pricing system in signalling surpluses and
shortages. Production of domestic food, edible oil and cotton crops may be
affected by inadequate retail prices.   The volume of applications to the
Ministry of Trade, Industry and Tourism (MTI) has increased rapidly in
recent years, both because the coverage of price controls has expanded
significantly, and because costs have risen rapidly. It can now take
several months for the MTI to respond to the price applications because
staff are limited. These delays cause a serious financial burden on those
firms experiencing large Increases in their input prices, and considerable
management time is lost in following up on the applications. This weakens
the financial position of these firms, constitutes a serious disincentive
to investment, and adversely affects the overall business climate in the
country.
55.       The program will provide for gradually dismantling the system and
replacing it with one that would remove or alleviate most of the present
drawbacks. This will require the Government to identify a short list of
essential commodities subject to price fixing and review the prices of
these controlled items every year in order to avoid supply problems that
could arise if prices are repressed for a long time, and develop a
timetable for removing the controls on other products, removing the
controls on a substantial number before the release of the second tranche
of the SAL.
Resource Mobilization and Management
56.       Even though the targets for GDP and sectoral growth rates in the
program are modest compared with results accomplished in the 1970s, the
need for resource mobilization is still formidable. The share of both
total investment and domestic savings in GDP has dropped sharply since
1978. Reversing this decline will be difficult because of continued
deterioration in external transport which increases costs, depresses
profits and decreases the willingness to invest; the recent financial
deterioration of the parastatals which restricts their ability to save and
invest: the low elasticity of the Government's revenue system and the
limited scope for increasing tax revenues, especially in a time of low
growth; and pessimism in the private sector engendered by the current
recessionary climate, deteriorating transport and declining regional



- 21 -
markets. The need for additional resources can be minimized by improving
the efficiency of investment. The careful scrutiny of investment projects
both In the central budget and those implemented by the parastatals to
required with priority given to more directly productive Investments.
57.       Malawi has not had a formal public investment program in the
past. That is, the Government had not selected a complete set of projects
based on their priority and then worked out a program based on resources
likely to be available. In addition, information about the investments of
the parastatals was not centralized. Thus It was not possible to assess
public investment, both ongoing and planned, in Its totality. Under the
adjustment program progress has been made in preparation and review of a
public Investment program based on agreed projections of resource
availability, although data on parastatal investment plans still are
incomplete for later years in the period.
58.       The program will contain a continued reduction in the budget
deficit. This requires reductions in expenditure growth since there is
limited scope for additional revenue measures In the near term. With the
budget for recurrent expenditures under heavy pressure from the past
development expenditures of the Government and the need for funds to carry
out existing programs, the development budget is likely to be highly
constrained. This reinforces the need for developing and updating a formal
investment program for this and coming years, so that the limitation of the
development budget can be done efficiently. As was the case with SAL I,
the Government is giving priority to sustaining adequate recurrent outlays
for agricultural services, road maintenance, and education. During the
last two years, funds allocated for these purposes have grown 3-5 percent
faster than the overall budget. The IMF has supported these efforts to
ensure adequate recurrent expenditures.
59.       In the medium term, however, continued reduction of development
outlays could have serious adverse effects on economic growth.   The
Government must therefore address the issue of increasing revenues within
the framework of a medium-term adjustment program. During the 1970s
government revenue had been steadily increasing as a percentage of GDP and
by FY80 was above 20 percent, due mainly to changes in tax rates,
especially the surtax (a form of sales tax) which was introduced in 1970.
In FY81 and FY82 revenues fell to 19.1 percent of GDP and 17.4 percent
respectively. The Government introduced a number of revenue measures in
the 1982/83 budget, including a tax on hotels and entertainment, an
increase in the maximum rate of the income tax on both individuals and
companies, the application of the income tax to insurance companies, and a
measure limiting the ability of holding companies to offset losses against
taxable income. The 1983/84 budget simplified the system of individual
income taxation, eliminated some deductions, increased custom and excise
duties and raised vehicle fees. However, the revenue increases from these
measures are expected to be modest. Additional measures will be needed in



- 22 -
the coming years in order to expand the Government's revenue base and
control costs. The Government has decided to (1) improve the buoyancy of
the tax system, (ii) adjust tariffs, fees and charges, and (iiI) reduce
subsidies and Increase cost recovery efforts. The goal is to keep revenue
growth proportionate to GDP growth. A detailed package of tax and non-tax
revenue measures iN being developed under the IMF's EFF. The Bank will
continue to work closely with the IMF on this Issue to ensure that proper
investment and allocation incentivem are provided.
60.       The social services that the Government provides have become a
serious burden on the budget. Failure to recover costs adequately limits
the Government's ability to expand social services throughout the
population. The Government has been slow to increase fees for Government
services. As a result, the share of non-tax revenues in total revenue has
declined significantly over the years. In view of the limited prospects
for tax revenue increases, a major effort has to be made to expand non-tax
revenues. The program provides for a revIew of existing duties, license
fees and tariffs with a view to making appropriate changes in them,
including more frequent changes in departmental charges and in licenses and
fees and increases in ground rent on leasehold land, which is still very
low, despite some recent changes.
61.     Up until the late 1970's, ADMARC operated with an overall profit,
while paying smallholders less than half the world market price on some
export crops. In recent years, fertilizer prices have averaged only half
of the real costs and the maize account has usually operated at a loss,
turning ADMARC into a loss-making enterprise. As described above, the
adjustment program will continue to adjust export crop prices to
appropriate levels to provide proper incentives, especially for
smaliholders. At the same time the Government will continue to remove the
subsidies on fertilizer and maize to prevent these from draining ADMARC's
or the Government's budget.
62.       Cost recovery for government-supplied services also must be
improved. The Government raised tuition fees for primary and secondary
schools in 1982, for the first time since 1975. In tertiary education,
unit costs are high compared to other African countries, but no fees are
charged and students receive personal allowances. Even though the
university has only 1,700 students, it absorbs 25 percent of all
educational expenditures. The Government has agreed to reduce these high
costs and increase the contributions from students. The goal is to reduce
the Government's budgetary contribution to the university by 20 percent
over the next five years.



- 23 -
63.       In the area of health services, the program will Include a review
cf the various charges for health services and lmmediate neasures to
improve collection. The recently approved IDA Health Project will play a
key role In this area. While in principle, the Water Department alms at
covering costs, It Is not succesoful In achlving its targets In all types
of services provided. There were some rate Increases effected ln 1982, but
under the program the Government will annually go over the system and make
changes necessary to improve revenues. The same is true for the prleo
charged by the Department of Forest Industrles for the salo of their
products.
64.     Governnent-supplied housing to civil servants, parastatals and the
private sector ln MalawL not only is a drain on the budget (at least MK 3
million yearly In subsidies) ln terms of subsidles and the balance of
payments (due to high unit costs and import content), but lnhibLts
development of private housing sector as well. Based on dLseussLons
initlated with SAL I, a Bank housing sector mLssLon outlined possible
approaches to solving the problem. On this bassL, a proposed urban project
has been prepared, with appralsal expected In late November 1983, which
would assist the Government ln Lntroducing the first steps to stimulate
private sector housing production and to reduce housing subsidies.
Agreement is expected during appraisal of the urban project on policies
covering Interest rates in the housing sector, cost recovery pricing and
further studies on measures to reduce Government participation in the
housing sector.
65.       For the parastatals to resume their role as major contributors to
resource mobilization and investment In the Malawian economy, they have to
improve their financial performance significantly. Under the first SAL
program, the Government has taken a number of steps in this direction,
including moderate tariff increases (Air Malawi, Malawi Railways, ESCOM,
and Blantyre Water Board), initiation of a number of financial and
management studies (Malawi Railways, ADMARC, and MDC) and establishment of
the Department of Statutary Bodies (DSB) in 1980 to oversee and coordinate
the parastatal sector. A number of management changes have been made and
the structure of management has been reorganized in certain parastatals.
The DSB has developed a financial reporting system that will enable the
Government to monitor the financial performance of the parastatals.
Surveys have been initiated by the DSB to review the functions and
viability of individual parastatals. The SAL II operation will provide for
the Government to use the studies already launched, to improve the
management and financial performance of parastatals. More specifically,
the Government has agreed to: (i) increases in tariffs and user charges
where needed; (ii) filling high level management vacancies as soon as
possible; (iii) a periodic review of parastatal financial accounts by DSB;
and (iv) implementation of the findings of ongoing studies for operational
and financial improvements.



- 24 -
66.       There has been a noticeable decline in the rate of growth of
credit to the private sector in recent years.  The annual average increase
for the last two years was only eight percent, nominally. However, as a
result of the projected decline in the budgetary gap, the Government's
recourse to domestic credit should substantially decline. This, in tura,
would release credit resources for the use of the private sector.  This
should provide some incentive for the expansion of private sector
activities, including investments. Thus, it is essential that the
budgetary deficit be kept within the ceiling agreed with the IMF so that
availability of credit will not be a constraint on resource mobilization in
the private sector.
67.       Malawi devalued the kwacha by 15 percent vis-a-vis the SDR on
April 24, 1982, in preparation for the stand-by agreement it signed with
the IMF, in August 1982. The adjustment of the exchange rate was
undertaken to enable ADMARC to pay higher producer prices, without
adversely affecting its financial position and to improve incentives for
production of other agricultural products not handled by ADMARC such as
tobacco and tea. The change in the exchange rate is not expected to have
much impact on manufactured exports which are limited more by the extreme
difficulties experienced in external transport and the trade and payment
policies of potential buyers among the neighboring countries. Since that
devaluation the rate appreciated by about 12 percent compared to its major
trading partners. The Government as part of its EFF agreement approved by
the IMF board in September 1983 devalued by 12 percent and agreed to keep
such an appreciation from happening again by a more active exchange rate
management policy.
68.       Deposit rates were increased by two percentage point- in May,
1983. Currently, lending rates range between 13.5 percent and 16.5 percent
with most of the lending taking place closer to the upper end of the
range. When measured against the consumer price index, the maximum lending
rate is positive by approximately 7 percentage points, and the real saving
deposit rate is positive by about 1 point. The Government is committed to
make periodic adjustments as the need arises, to keep rates positive.
69.       In SAL I the Government agreed to strengthen its ability to
monitor and control external debt and to set a target debt service ratio.
A target of 20 percent of exports of goods and services has been agreed to
and a debt monitoring unit established in the Ministry of Finance. A
consultant has been hired to help set up a computerized recording and
monitoring system. This system will help not only in recording debt
already contracted but also help in the formulation of future borrowing
policy that will reduce the ratio to the targeted range. A borrowing
strategy and plan will be developed.



- 25 -
Institutional Improvements
70.       The economic difficulties of recent years have accentuated the
weaknesses in public sector institutions in Malawi. In addition, the
largest private sector company in the country, Press (Holdings), faces
great financial problems which, unless resolved, could adversely affect the
whole credit system of the country. Iv the first SAL a program to
strengthen key planning and budgeting ministries was developed along with
studies of Press and key public sector companies. In this second operation
the Government will implement the recommendations of these studies and
continue strengthening its agencies and institutions.
71.       Press (Holdings).  Because of the crucial role Press plays in the
Malawian economy and the extremely weak financial position of the company,
the first SAL provided for initial steps to be taken toward correcting its
problems. Consultants reports were prepared on the operations of
subsidiaries with some work done on the central management.   Assurances
were obtained that dividends would nct be paid as long as the financial
health of the company remained precarious and future ownership would go to
a trust set up by the owner, the Life President of Malawi.
72.       Press is insolvent and its debts to the commercial banks and
ADMARC are such that these institutions would also be threatened with
bankruptcy if Press were to go under. In the past, some operations were
undertaken for political reasons even when they were commercially
uneconomic.  While the consultants concluded that the value of investments
in non-Press enterprises was overstated in Press' books, most of the
companies are profitable. (Press has 22 companies in its investment
portfolio.) By contrast, the major subsidiaries of the company have at best
a mixed record of performance, are being hurt badly by the liquidity
problems of the group, and, in some cases, are experiencing serious crises
as a result. (Press has 15 major subsidiaries and 8 inactive companies.
These are companies where Press has a majority share and maDages the
company.)
73.       To return Press to profitable operations, the Government has
decided on a major restructuring of the company. A new agricultural
subsidiary (PAL) will be created and will become the major focus of the
company. Minority holdings will be placed in an investment trust (PITH)
and eventually sold off either locally or internUionally. Some of the
remaining subsidiaries will be sold off or closed down. The Government
will take over the claims against Press of the commercial banks and the
external creditors. Special locally registered stock will be issued to the
commercial banks by the Government to pay Press' debt. Press will issue
income notes to ADMARC and income notes and redeemable preferred stock to
the Government.



- 26 -
74.       The objective of the restructuring is to ensure the proper
management and financial viability of the companies retained in the Press
group. Toward this end, Press Holdings' non-commercial functions would be
clearly separated from its commercial ones. This will be accomplished by
creation of a new holding company, Press Group, Ltd. (PGL), which will
initially hold all of Press Holdings' assets and liabilities. Limitations
have been set on PGL's paying dividends, but provision has been worked out
to ensure that Press Trust, the owner of Press Holdings, receives a
reasonable flow of income in consideration of actions taken by the Trust to
implement the restructuring. The restructuring has been done in such a way
as to limit the impact on the Government budget and close consultations
have been held with the IMF throughout the process. Still, given the
financial condition of the commercial banking system and the slow movement
on the sale of assets, the additional burden on the Government's budget
will be substantial. To ensure that the companies are operated on a
commercial basis, corporate guidelines have been drawn up and discussed
with the Association. These set out pricing policy, investment criteria,
overdraft guidelines, rules for intercompany loans, etc. These guidelines
will be endorsed by the new boards of directors of the Press Companies and
will then guide their operations. The supervision mission will ensure that
these guidelines have been adopted and are being implemented. Finally, in
order to reduce the debt burden of the company, detailed studies on
possible asset sales will be c.,ried out. All parties involved in the
restructuring have agreed to the proposals and final legal agreements are
expected in December 1983 or early January 1984. Some actions such as
asset rationalization between ADMARC and Press and the Government's
assumption of Press' shares in banks and Dwangwa Sugar have already been
carried out.
75.       Development Management.  With the implementation of the SAL II
program, the Government is taking specific measures to improve and
strengthen the management capacity in the public sector. Since the late
1970's the Government's management capacity has been severely strained by
the increasing demand of day-to-day operations and manpower shortages at
all levels. Indeed, a number of the problems confronting Malawi can be
traced directly or indirectly to shortcomings in the Government's
institutions and bureaucratic systems. Some of these deficiencies manifest
themselves in terms of weaknesses in the areas of policy formulation,
coordination among various Ministries, public sector investment
programming, reconciliation of annual budgets with longer term development
objectives, and the appraisal and monitoring of public expenditure
programs. Even though under SAL I the Government established an Investment
Coordination Committee to oversee major investments, reinforced the
planning units in some Ministries, improved its debt management
capabilities, and strengthened the planning and financial management of
some parastatals, much remains to be done.



- 27 -
76.       The measures Government will take include (i) strengthening the
staffing of EPD with an emphasis on development of medium term policies,
project identification, evaluation and monitoring as well as coordination
capabilities, 2 (ii) institutionalizing the process of forward budgeting,
estimating revenues and providing improved guidelines to spending
Ministries for budget preparation and (iii) improving the institutional
framework for energy policy and management.
77.       EPD occ'.pies a central position in the process of development
management in Malawi, but it has been constrained by manpower shortages and
the absence of institutional guidelines/framework. The adjustment program
provides for necessary measures to be taken to strengthen EPD, including
the identification of staffing gaps and filling them, as well as
delineating its functions. The UNDP advisors in economic planning, human
resource development and project evaluation, and the IDA financed transport
economist will assist in this strengthening process. Work is expected to
be completed by April 1984.
78.       Malawi does not have an adequate system of forward budgeting.
Even though an effort is made to predict changes in the macro-economic
variables in the coming five-year period in the -Economic Report" prepared
annually, this does not provide the Government with a framework for
expenditure and revenue estimates beyond the current fiscal year. In order
to overcome the existing deficiencies in the system, the structural
adjustment program will include the adoption of the practice of forward
budgeting for development and recurrent expenditures covering a three-year
period. By the time for release of the second tranche, the Government will
have prepared revenue and expenditure estimates for the next three fiscal
years.
79.       Coordination of energy policy and management is a particularly
important problem in Malawi. The Government needs to develop policies to
decrease its consumption of fuelvood and to reduce its dependence on
imported petroleum. The former will need steps to induce the tobacco
industry to improve flue and barn design. The latter will require
improving existing transport arrangements, better monitoring of stocks,
development of a plan for fuel emergencies and strengthening the
institutional framework for coordinating, formulating and implementing
energy policy. The SAL program will include defining the technical
assistance and training needs in the sector. A timetable has been
established for completion of needed studies, preparation of a Government
2 The Government has decided that EPD is a more appropriate
institution to screen investments and has not used the ICC recently.



- 28 -
policy paper on energy and a medium-term investment program.  The
accompanying Technical Assistance II Credit will provide funding for
helping staff the Energy Unit, for a power tariff study and for a pilot
project on fuelwood savings.
80.       In the past public enterprises have as a group been financially
viable and have made a significant contribution to domestic savings and
investment. However during the last few years, their financial position
has deteriorated sharply and their savings and investment levels have
fallen. From 1976-1978 the major enterprises had an aggregate net profit
of MK 66.5 million, while from 1979-1981 they had a net loss of MK 16.0
million. There are a number of reasons for this. The external economic
environment has deteriorated and they were affected. Their management has
been uneven and financial forecasting has been especially weak. Sometimes
decisions have been based on political factors rather than economic or
commercial ones. The most noticeable deterioration in the parastatals has
been that of ADMARC, which has been discussed above. The major source of
financial difficulties has been the operation of CCDC, which borrowed short
term money, often at high, floating rates, and used it to make investments
in housing and other buildings that have only a long-term payoff and that
are often rented at uneconomically low rates.
81.       Under the first SAL and under separate projects, individual
problems of the parastatals are being addressed. Rates of return, and
therefore tariff levels for the Blantyre Water Board and ESCOM, are
mandated in project agreements. A study of MDC is being paid for under the
first Technical Assistance Credit, as was the study of ADMARC referred to
above. Problems of MHC and CCDC are to be addressed under a proposed
urban project. Some of ADMARC's staffing and fertilizer procurement
difficulties will be addressed through the fertilizer project described
above and other aspects such as investment rationalization are key issues
in SAL II. A study of Malawi Railways has recently been completed. These
studies will be reviewed as they are completed and recommendations will be
included in the adjustment program as appropriate.
82.       There is also the need to evaluate the system as a whole with a
view to making changes in the structure. DSB which was established in 1980
to assist parastatals in financial management, planning and staffing, has
served well as a central unit for monitoring the financial activities of
the parastatals. DSB has also played an active role in recruiting
managers, financial controllers and filling other vacancies in the
parastatals. However, there are indications that DSB is attempting to
perform too wide a role in overseeing public enterprise developments. All
parastatals still have a parent ministry and they are also overheen by the
Ministry of Finance. DSB should be the body responsible for monitoring



- 29 -
financial performance, facilitating coordination and improving management,
but leave investment plans, policy decisions and requests for tariff
increases to other agencies. The Government has clarified DSB's role to
ensure it does not duplicate the work of other governmental units.
Transportation
83.       As a landlocked country, Malawi has always had to depend on
external transport routes to reach the sea. Traditionally most imports and
exports have moved by rail on two different lines through Mozambique.
However in recent years there have been difficulties on these lines and
Malawi has had to use other, longer routes using both rail and road
transport and in time of emergency turning to costly air freighting of
essential commodities. Because it appears that the capacity of the
Mozambique routes could be constrained for a number of years, Malawi has
set up a secretariat in the Ministry of Communications and Transport to
improve the coordination of procurement of imports and their routing into
the country, to plan and implement strategies to alleviate the current
restrictive situation on present routes and to develop alternative routes
and services and to coordinate between the Government and the private
sector on these matters. Initial funding for the transport secretariat was
only for a period of six months, ending August 31, 1983. Arrangements have
been made for another eighteen months of funding under our Fifth Highway
Project so that this important work on transport can be continued. The
most cost effective alternative route at present appears to be through
theport of Dar-es-Salaam and then by road and rail through the TANZAM
corridor to northern Malawi. Terms of reference for a study on the
necessary investments and arrangements needed for this route have been
drawn up and agreed to by the Association and agreement has been reached
with the Tanzanians on appointing consultants to develop a plan for using
this route and to carry out detailed engineering work.
PART III. THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
84.       The Government formally requested a first Structural Adjustment
Loan in April 1980. That loan was appraised in September 1980, and a post
appraisal mission visited Malawi in January 1981. During this time a
program of action was developed through a close dialogue between the
Government of Malawi and the Bank. There was also coordination with the
IMF. rhe agreements reached by the Government with both institutions were
the elements of the adjustment program. That loan was approved by the
Board in June 1981. After some delay the second tranche was released in
April 1982 and the loan was fully disbursed by August 1982.



- 30 -
85.       It was realized that the structural adjustment process would take
a number of years to implement and a series of loans/credits from the Bank
and programs from the IMF would be necessary if the Government was to have
the resources needed to carry out its program. This credit was prepared by
a mission to Malawi in June 1982 and appraised in June 1983. It will allow
the Government to maintain the progress made in reforming the Malawian
economy. This credit supports the program described in the Government's
Letter of Development Policy (Annex IV) and provides foreign exchange to
finance critically needed imports. Chart I provides a summary matrix of
the Government's action program (para. 97). The public sector investment
plan and supporting macro-economic and sectoral policy reforms to restore
economic growth and financial stability are complex undertakings which the
Government intends to address as part of a phased program over five years.
Events of the last two years have shown the need to revise some policies
and timetables and address new issues. (A possible third SAL operation is
programmed for FY86 or FY87.) In addition, a related technical assistance
credit is being submitted separately. It supports the structural
adjustment credit and aims at assisting the Government to achieve its goals
of improved energy planning and coordination, achieving substantial
fuelwood savings, improving the debt management of the Ministry of Finance
and the financial management capacity of ADMARC, facilitating the
liberalization of industrial prices and carrying out other parts of the
structural adjustment program.
86.       Credit negotiations were held in November 1983 with a delegation
headed by Mr. C. Mphande, Secretary, Ninistry of Finance. A supplementary
loan data sheet is attached as Annex III. In our discussions with the
Government on the different aspects of the adjustment program we have
reached an understanding on the specific steps which will lead to
implementation of the Government's program and the proposed time-frame for
those measures. There will be regular exchanges of views, the first of
which will take place no later than May 15, 1984 (Schedule 2 of the Draft
Credit Agreement).
IMF Activities in Malawi and Government/IMF/Association Cooperation
87.       In 1979, the Government initiated a number of short-term demand
management measures culminating in a two and one-half year standby
arrangement with the IMF. The economic dislocations at the end of 1979,
however, led to replacement of this arrangement with a new two-year standy
agreement covering the period April 1, 1980 to March 31, 1982. The
Structural Adjustment Program was drawn up within the framework of this
agreement and the Bank participated in the discussions of the budgetary and
financing targets for the second year of the standby. Because of
difficulties in meeting domestic credit ceilings (in part due to
expenditure increases attributed to unexpected maize imports required



- 31 -
because of crop shortfalla), no drawings were made from September 1981
until the standby expired at the end of March 1982. A new one year standby
was approved in August 1982 and the Government has successfully met all the
ceilings of that agreement. In addition a sugar buffer stock financing was
approved in December 1982 and a Compensatory Financing Facility in February
1983. A three year EFF was approved by the IMF board on September 19,
1983.
88.       We have maintained close contact and had good cooperation with
the IMF. The supervision missions of SAL I and the appraisal of SAL II
overlapped with Fund missions in the field. At headquarters there have
been numerous discussions and efforts to ensure that our programs are
complementary. The IMF has provided guidance on exchange rate and interest
rate policy and domestic resource mobilization efforts and they have relied
on the Association's advice on agricultural pricing, the public investment
program and the restructuring of Press and the parastatals. The SAL funds
have played a key role in the IMF's stabilization efforts. There is
agreement on a set of policy actions to be taken by the Government to
implement this SAL and the IMF's EFF. Our economic model shows that the
stipulated growth rate and speed of adjustment will require additional
concessional assistance over the levels assumed by the IMF. We hope that a
Donor's Conference planned by the Government for early 1984 will raise
these funds and facilitate the import level we believe is necessary to
achieve the 3.4 percent growth target that both the Association and the
Fund believe possible.
Allocation of the Structural Adjustment Credit
89.       All of the SDR 51.9 million under the credit would be used to
help finance all imports other than a short list of excluded items as
specified in Schedule 1 of the draft Credit Agreement. It is estimated
that eligible imports in 1984 will total about US$260 million. The
proposed loan would finance about 21 percent of this amount, thus
permitting rapid disbursement.
Counterpart Funds
90.       The Malawian Kwacha equivalent generated by the foreign currency
withdrawal from the credit account would be credited to a special account
in the Reserve Bank of Malawi and used for development purposes in the
Central Government Budget. The Government has stated that it intends to
use these funds to finance essential recurrent and capital expenditures in
the key economic and social sectors (Section 3.01 (a) of the Draft Credit
Agreement).



- 32 -
Disbursement and Procurement
91.       The credit would be disbursed in two tranches in accordance with
progress in the execution of the economic program. US$30 million
equivalent would be available for disbursement after the credit is declared
effective. The remaining US$25 million equivalent would be available for
disbursement after a review of performance in April 1984. The conditions
for the release of the second tranche will be satisfactory implementation
of the overall program, including:
(a) Satisfactory progress on the implementaion of the ADMARC
program, including filling all senior staff positions,
finishing the financial reorganization of the company and
developing an investment strategy;
(b) Decontrol of a substantial number of product prices;
(c) Preparation of three-year projections of revenues and
expenditures;
(d) Measures taken including adjustments in both tax and non-tax
revenues to maintain revenue's share of GDP at the FY82/83
level or higher;
(e) Satisfactory progress on Press restructuring and operations
including the conclusion of all necessary measures to ensure
a debt to equity ratio in PGL and PCL satisfactory to the
Association; observance of the corporate guidelines;
inauguration of the operation of PAL and PITH (para. 73);
rationalization of the company's assets; appointments of
boards of directors; and execution of all legal arrangements
to launch the restructuring;
(f) Adequate budgetary allocations, satisfactory to the
Association, to key developmental departments of the
Borrower;
(g) Proposals on agricultural prices satisfactory to the
Association;
(h) Satisfactory progress in preparation of an estate credit
project for appraisal; and
(i) Satisfactory progress in the preparation of an external
borrowing strategy and plan.



- 33 -
92.       The proposed credit would reimburse the foreign exchange costs of
eligible imports on the basis of evidence provided by the Reserve Bank.
The Reserve Bank would be responsible for the collection of the necessary
documentation, the preparation and submission of withdrawal applications
and the maintenance of necessary accounts for the credit fund. Withdrawal
applications would be consolidated in amounts of at least US$50,000
(Section 2.10 (b) of the Draft Credit Agreement). The Foreign Exchange
Control Department of the Reserve Bank would administer and process the
foreign exchange applications for Imports to be financed out of the loan.
It has around 40 professional/clerical staff and is capable of handling
these additional responsibilities. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that Government would ensure that this Department would continue to
be adequately staffed throughout the project life and that public and
private importers alike shall have adequate assistance in preparing tender
documents (Section 3.03 of the Draft Credit Agreement).
93.       Reimbursement will be made for eligible imports paid for on or
after December 1, 1983. No reimbursement would be made for imports for
which other sources of financing have been secured. Disbursements should
be completed within 12 months from effectiveness.
94.       Procurement would be limited to goods from Bank member countries,
Switzerland and Taiwan. Both private and public sector imports would be
eligible for financing. Contracts for procurement of goods by the private
sector estimated to cost the equivalent of less than US$1 million each
would follow normal commercial practices. Procurement by the Government
involving contracts equivalent to less than US$1 million would follow
Malawi Government regulations, which are acceptable to the Association.
These provide for local competitive bidding over the threshold of
US$50,000. All purchases, both public and private under contracts
amounting to more than US$1 million will be procured through international
competitive bidding. Certain commonly traded commodities may be purchased
through price quotations available from organized international markets.
Whatever procurement methods are used, not more than US$15 million of the
credit would be used to finance the import of any trade classification
group or subgroup. It is expected that around US$5 million would be spent
on petroleum which would be purchased at the posted international price.
Expenditures for goods procured under invoices of less than US$50,000
equivalent would not be eligible for financing out of the proceeeds of the
credit. Reimbursement applications would be consolidated from time to time
in amounts of at least US$50,000 equivalent.
Benefits and Risks
95.       The principal benefit of the credit is that it provides support
and encouragement to a program of medium-term structural adjustment aimed
at restoring economic growth and financial stability. This program, as
outlined earlier, is based on the Government's strategy for agricultural
diversification, promotion of agro-industrial exports and efficient import



- 34 -
substitution, and strengthening its development management capabilities and
certain key institutions in the country. The direct support comes through
provision of additional foreign exchange resources which will allow the
Government flexibility in implementing the needed policy and institutional
changes and the time required for adjustment to take place. Equally
important, is the fact that the two SALs have provided effective vehicles
for an ongoing dialogue on economic policy and for the provision of
technical assistance, under separate technical assistance projects.
96.       The principal risk of the credit relates to the capacity of the
Government to implement the program in a timely fashion. Implementation of
the first SAL showed that the country was vulnerable to external shocks
such as drought or transport disruption and could not adjust to them
rapidly. As a result their DMF stand-by drawings were suspended and the
release of the second SAL tranche was delayed. Malawi is the poorest
country to receive structural adjustment support and it still possesses a
shortage of trained personnel in both the civil service and key private
sector areas. Unexpected disruptions in the economy can lead to the
diversion of key personnel and slow down the ability of the country to
develop more forward looking strategies and programs. Moreover some of the
needed changes in prices, tariffs and taxes could be politically unpopular
and meet with resistance from affected parties.
Summary of Structural Adjustment Actions
97.       The Government's strategy is outlined in its Letter of
Development Policy (Annex IV) and the entire program is summarized in the
matrix which follows.



- 35 -
CHART I
MALAWI:   PROGRAM FOR SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Sector and Policy Issue                Action Already Taken          Steps to be Taken
I. Productive Sectors
1. Agriculture
a.  Price Incentives            A methodolog,y for setting   Program Development:
prices for smallholder       The Government will
crops has been developed    continue to apply
and implemented In 1982       the agreed pricing
and 1983.                    methodology, discussing
annually the proposed
crop prices with the
Association and improve
the system further as
needed.
b.  Recurrent Budget            The Government has given    Action: The Government
Allocations            priority to the Ministry    will continue to review
of Agriculture in re-        annually with the
current budget allocations  Association the
and following a provision   recurrent budget
of supplementary funds in   allocations of the draft
FY82, provided sufficient   budget so that
funds in both FY83 and       agricultural require-
FY84.                        uents are not under-
funded.
c.  Improved Opera-              A report has been prepared  Action:  The Government
tion of Marketing          under the first Technical   will implement the
Organization               Assistance Loan with          program in a timely
(ADMAItC)                  recommendations to improve  manner. filling all
financial and operational   positions by June 30,
efficiency.  The              1984.
Government has reconsti-
tuted the Board of ADMARC,
appointed a General
Manager and prepared a
program of specific steps
and a timetable for their
implementation.



- 36 -
d.  Fertilizer                   In order to improve           Action: The remaining
Subsidies                   efficiency in the use of    subsidies will be
fertilizer and Improve the eliminated in 1985/86.
finances of ADMARC and
the Government budget,
Government plans on
phasing out subsidies over
three years. By 1984/85 60
percent of the subsidies
will have been removod.
e.  Fertilizer SuppIX            The fertilizer supply pro-  Action:  Funds for
Program                      blem is being addressed by  fertilizer procurement
an IFAD/IDA jointly           will be made available
financed project              well in advance,
administered by the           supplies will be
Association.  The project   distributed in a timely
will help improve the         manner, and key
Government's and ADMARC's   personnel will be
ability to estlmate           appointed to all
requirements and procure    currently vacant
and distribute supplies to posts.The Association
small-holders.  A             will supervise
revolving fund for fert-    implementation of the
ilizer procurement has        project at least twice
been established in the       annually.
Reserve Bank, and funds
provided for technical
assistance and local staff
training.
f.  Estate Production            The Government has            Action:  After review by
developed a draft program   the Association, the
for improving estate          Government will revise
agriculture with              the proposed estate
components for extension,   program and develop an
management training and       estate credit project
credit.  Restrictions on    before release of the
crops which may be grown    second tranche.
by estates have recently
been relaxed.



- 37 -
2.  Industp.y
Im1roving Incentives            The Government ham agreed   Action:  A conhultant
that its goal Is             will holp Governmont to
liberalization of the        prepare a program for
system of industrial price  price liberalization.
controls and has agreed on  Dacontrol of a
the torm  of refdrence for  substantial number of
and chosen a consultant to  items Is a condllon of
help dovise a timetable      rolease of the second
for removing gooda from      tranche.
controls. The Government
has agreed with the IMP
that the Ministry of
Trade. Industry and
Tourism will respond to
price lncrease
applications wlthin sixty
days.
II. Resource Mobilization
and Management
1. Public Investments              The Government has pre-       Action:  The Government
pared a public investment   and the Association
program based on agreed      will review annually. at
resource availability and   the time of the budget,
the Association feels the   implementation of the
program. although lacking   program and discuss
data for parastatal          modifications that may
investments in the later    be necessitated by
years is realistic and       changing circumstances.
appropriate.
2. Budgetary Management              Budgetary allocations Eor
key developmental areas      Action:  The GCvernment
such as agriculture.         will continue to ensure
education and road           that the budget provides
maintenance have been        adequate recurrent
agreed with the              outlays for vital areas
Association before the       such as agricultural
budget was finalized,        services, road
maintenance and
education and will
review these allocations
annually with the
Association.



- 38 -
3.  Government Revenues            The Government introduced   Action:  The Government
a number of revenue          has decided to impro e
a.  Tax Revenues                measures in both FY83 and   the buoyancy of the tax
FY84 budgets, including a   system under the
tax on hotels and            on-going EFF and will be
entertainment, an increase  working out specific
in the maximum rate of the  measures annually with
income tax, the              the EW  at the time the
application of the income   budget is prepared.
tax to insurance
companies, a measure
limiting the ability of
holding companies to
offset taxable income,
changes in income tax
deductions, increases in
the surtax and the import
levy and excise duties and
higher vehicle fees.
b.  Non-tax Revenues            The Government has agreed   Program Development:
to adjust departmental       The Government will
charges, licenses and fees  review existing license
more frequently.             fees and tariffs and
make appropriate changes
in them at the time of
the budget preparation.
Government revenues will
not be allowed to fall
below current ratios
with respect to GDP.
c.  Cost Recovery               User fees in primary and    Program Development:
Measures                    secondary schools have re-  The Government will
cently been increased.       develop a program to
Rate increases were          improve the efficiency
affected in water use in    of collection of fees
1982, in forest industries  and charges before the
in 1981 and house rents in  release of the second
1983.  The Government has   tranche.  Present rates
made a commitment to         and necessary changes
reduce its housing           effected at the time of
subsidies.                   the budget preparation.
The Government will
develop a program of
action to address
housing subsidies in the
context of the proposed
urban project.



- 39 -
4.  Parastatal Finance             Under SAL 1, moderate         Program Development:
tariff Increases were        Implementation of
effected including Air       findings of ongoing
Malawi, Malawi Railways,    studies for operational
ESCOM, and BWB. Financial  and financial
and management studies       improvement.
were intitiated in Malawi
Railways, ADMARC, and        Action:  Annual reviews
MDC. The Department of       of parastatal financial
Statutory Bodies, estab-    accounts will be made by
lished in 1980 to oversee   DSB aid. where needed,
and coordinate the           increases in tariffs and
parastatal sector, has       user charges will  be
been effective in the        made.
reorganization of the
structure of management in
certain parastatals. The
DSB has developed a finan-
cial reporting system for
the parastatals, and
initiated studies to
review the functions and
viability of individual
parastatals.
5.  Exchange Rate                  The kwacha was devalued by  Action:  The IMF will
Management                     15% vis-a-vis the SDR on    monitor the exchange
April 24, 1982. in           rate under the EFF
preparation for the          program.
stand-by agreement with
the IMF. A further
devaluation of 12 percent
was effected on Sept. 17,
1983. The Government is
committed to pursue a more
active exchange rate
program to prevent
appreciation of the kwacha
in the future.



- 40 -
6.  Interest Rates                 The Government raised         Action:  The Government
deposit rates by two         will make adjustments as
percentage points in May    the need arises, to keep
1983.                        real interest rates
positive.
7.  External Debt                  Under SAL I, the Govern-    Action:  The Government
Management                     ment agreed on a target       will ensure that the
DSR of 20% and established  system for debt
a debt monitoring unit in   monitoring and planning
the Ministry of Finance.A   is operating before
consultant has been hired   release of the second
to help design a debt        tranche. By that time, a
management system.           borrowing strategy and
plan will also be under
development.
III. Institutional
Improvements
1.  Press (Holdings)               The first SAL provided for  Action:  The Government
intitial steps to be taken  and Press will implement
toward collecting the        the restructuring
problems of this large       program and adhere to
private sector               the agreed corporate
conglomerate. Consultant    guidelines. The legal
reports were prepared on    arrangements for Press'
the operation of subsidies  restructuring will be
with some work done on the  finalized before release
central manageme;t.          of the second tranche,
Studies were completed in   and studies on sale of
July 1982 and June 1983 to  assets carried out.
help the Government
develop a plan for
restructuring Press. The
Government has developed a
program for Press'
restructuring and its
future operations, all
parties to the
restructuring have agreed
to the plan and some
rationalization of assets
has already taken place.



- 41 -
2.  Development                  Planning units in some       Action: The Government
Management                   Ministries were              will take measures to
reinforced. Debt             strengthen the staffing
management cababilities      of the Economic Planning
improved. Planning and       Division of the Office
financial management in      of the President and
certain parastatals were    Cabinet with an emphasis
strengthened.                on mediun term strategy
development as well as
project identification,
evaluation and monitor-
ing and coordination
capabilities.
Program Development:
The process of forward
budgeting will be
developed with three
year projections of
revenue and expenditure
to be prepared before
April. 1984. Improved
guidelines for revenue
estimates and budgetary
allocations will be
prepared. The
institutional framework
for energy policy and
management will be
improved. The technical
assistance and training
needs in the energy
sector will be defined
and funded, and a
timetable will be
established for the
preparation of a
Government action
program and a
medium-term energy
investment program
developed.
3.  Public Enterprises             Studies of MDC. ADMARC.    Action:
and Statutory                  and Malawi Railways have    The Government will
Bo'ies                         recently been completed.    incorporate the findings
The role of DSB has been    and recommendations of
more clearly defined to      ongoing studies into its
avoid duplication of         adjustment program as
efforts by parent            they are finalized.  The
ministries. Finance and      problems of MHC and CCDC
EPD.                         will be addressed under



- 42 -
a proposed urban
project. ADMARC will be
strengthened under the
fertilizer project.
Vacancies in DSB have
been or will be filled
shortly.



- 43 -
PART IV - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
98.       Over the past 17 years, Malawi has received 28 IDA credits
totalling around US$325 million and seven Bank loans totalling US$75
*         million of which two were on third window terms.  Of the Bank Group
assistance, some US$121 million (30 percent) was for agriculture, US$107
million (27 percent) for education, US$65 million (16.3 percent) for roads,
US$45 million (11.2 percent) for structural adjustment, US$38 million (9.8
percent) for power development, US$7 million (1.7 percent) for a health
project, US$3 million (0.8 percent) for a development finance company
(INDEBANK), and the balance of US$13 million (3.2 percent) for water supply
technical assistance and to finance feasibility studies for the proposed
wood industries project. The first Bank loan to Malawi was made on third
window terms in June 1976 and the first standard Bank loan in April 1977.
The most recent operations were a US$26.9 million equivalent credit and a
US$18 million loan for the Fifth Highway project.
99.       IFC's investment in Malawi consists of a loan of US$10.8 million
for a textile mill, another of US$9.9 million for a sugar mill, a US$0.6
million equity investment in INDEBANK and a US$2.0 million loan to Malawi
Motels Limited for tourism. A US$262,000 equity and a loan of US$1.7
million for the production of ethanol from molasses were approved in July
1980. Project implementation has been generally satisfactory. However,
due to depressed world sugar prices and difficulty of transporting sugar to
world markets, the Dwangwa Sugar Corporation is experiencing financial
difficulties and IFC and other project lenders have agreed to a
rescheduling of the finances of the company. Malawi Hotels Limited is in
critical financial condition due to reduced business traffic, weak
management and low tariffs and the loan to this Corporation has been
restructured. IFC is assisting the Board of Malawi Hotels to obtain higher
tariffs from Government and to attract new management to the company. A
Summary Statement of Bank Group Operations is provided in Annex II.
100.      During the next five years, Bank Group assistance to Malawi will
continue to be closely tailored to help Malawi restructure its economy, to
help improve agricultural productivity and the efficiency and effectiveness
of public and private enterprises, and to assist Malawi in dealing with its
external transport constraints. Further investments in transport,
agriculture, education, health and housing are contemplated as well as a
wood processing project and a second line of credit to INDEBANK. The Bank
Group's economic and sector work will focus on five high priority areas
which will over the medium term, help Malawi improve its economic
performance: (a) external transport; (b) agricultural productivity;
(c) public sector management; (d) industrial productivity; and (e)
development of Malawi's human resource potential by addressing the problems
of population growth and the cost effectiveness of the socizl sectors.



- 44 -
PART V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
101.      The draft Development Credit Agreemert between the Republic of
Malawi and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for In Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special
conditions of the credit are listed in Annex III. The conditions of
disbursement of the second tranche is that the Government shall be making
satisfactory progress in carrying out commitments undertaken in its Letter
of Development Policy and in executing Its structural adjustment program
(paragraph (A) of the Preamble, and Schedule 2 of draft Development Credit
Agreement).
102.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION
103.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
November 29, 1983
Washington, D.C.



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 45 -
ANEX I
Page 1 of 6
T A I L K 3U
HALAWI                  -   ttIAL INDICATURS DATA SHEET
HALAiII                               lteFLKENce GRiOUPI (WeWINTEI AVeRAgs) p
noIT                      (HlOST trCeNT e TIMAMi; 
1 bLh      X7L   ReTICANT              Law RLECOCi     E            4DULCO
_ibD     T90    stI4ATr4b         Artich B. OY bANARA     AFrKCA S. Urd SAIIA1A
As" (Sous   IQ. U)
TOTAL                               118.5        118.1      118.1
AGRICULTURAL                         IS.U       93.5         61.6
ar PS CAPITA (UES)                      So.0        70.0       200.0              251.6                     1147.9
Wull  UUDS IP    7E CAPlTA
(KILOGXRAS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)         ..        S0.0        59.0               79.b                      124.2
POPULATION Mm VITzL TA sIStC
POPULATION.HI1-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    341S.u      4513.U      6241.0
URSAN PUPULATIUN (1 OF PUTAL)         4.4         6.4         9.6               19.5                       28.5
POPULATLON oPRuJKCT1oNS
roruLATIuN IN YIAR ZOuQo (HILL)                            11.8
STATIuNARY POPULAIONl (MILL)                               5U.b
YEAR STATIONARY POrp. REACIhED                           2155
POPULATION DENSITY
PER Sq. lOt.                       2r.9       3i.l         31.0               29.5                       36.1
PER SQ. IMt  AGRI. LAND            90.0       114.3       145.1               94.1                      131.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTtURE (2)
0-14 YS                           65.5        46.8        46.b               45.0                       45.9
15-64 YIS                         l5.1         50.5        49.6               52.1                       51.2
65 AND ABOVE                        2.4         2.4         3.E                2.9                        ;.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (U)
TOTAL                               2.4         2.8         2.9                 2.8                       2.H
URBAN                               4.5         6.6         7.D                6.2                        5.3
CRUDE EIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)         5b.1        56.1        S6.2               47.9                       61.6
CItUE DEATII RATE (PER THOUS)        27.1        23.2        22.6               19.2                       15.2
CROSS REPruIDUCTtON RATE              3.4         3.4         3.6                3.2                        3.2
FAMILY PLAIENIGS
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL ETHUUS)
USERS (2 UO  HARRLED  OE)            ..          .....
FOaD Im InImtlow
INDEX OF PID PROU. PHk CAPLTA
(1969-71-10)                        9U.U        91.U        9J.U               E7.t                      95.1
PeR CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (t OF REQUIREMENTS)       95.0       1OD.U 0       4.u                86.0                      97.1
PRtOTEINS (CRANS PER DAY)          61.0        72.U        b5.u               51.2                       5b.U
OF WINCH ANIHAL AND PULSE         14.0        19.0        19.0/               I8.1                      17.2
CHILD (ASES 1-4) DEATH RATE          49.3        45.4        36.2               25.7                       23.b
'ILT.
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)        37.2        41.6        44.0               47.4                       51.9
lNFANT HURT. RATE (PIlR THOUS)      20b.6       191.6       Ib9.1              126.S                      117.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (tPOp)
TOTAL                                ..          ..        33.0/d              24.7                      25.4
URBAN                                *-          *-        70.o77             5.l                       70.5
RURAL                                ..          ..        29.07;              18.3                      12.1
ACCESS T IACRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TUTAL                                ..          ..          ..               2.1 
URBAN                                ,151.J.0/d                               6.57
RURAL                                ..          ..          ..               21.9
POPULALUON IP21 PhYSLCAN          33250.u    3b430.U      4U95u.U            2742u.6                   1181.6
PaP. PER NURSING PERSON           12940.u/0   9U0U.0       38tJU.U/e          343b.4                     ZZ9.U
POP. PM HUSPlTAL BEl)
ToTAL                             870.0       650.0        740.0             1183.2                    1075.4
URlAl                             120.0/.    160.0         80.0/c             380.6                     402.3
RURAL                            1310.0i7;    900.0      148o.07;7          3117.5                     392b.7
ADMISSlONS PER IWSPITAL BED            ..        32.1        39.0
sit
AVERAGE SIZE UP NDUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                                ..         3.4. 
RURAL                                *          5.0o7
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONSIROOM
TOTAL...
UiaEAN                               *                  ~     *                   -*
RURAL                                -**                                          - 
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                                * --
RURAN                                ..         e.t/f        .
RURAL..                                       - .



BEST COPY AVAILABLE                                                - 46 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of b
T A B L R U
MALAWI          _       - NOCIAL INOICATDIS DATA SHCKT
NALAWI                            R--       INI GROUPSaci   (WEur   {Wl;lTED AVERtAGES) p
MOST                       (MOST UNCiUT UTIMATI) l
b  UCNT                                   H          MMLW  INCON  NIDDLCNCOI
19eo6       I970/   eSTIIATg!!       AFRICA S. OP NANARA      AFRICA 5. OF SAIIKA
ADJUSTRD ENROLLNINT RATIOS
PRIMARY,   TOTAL                       ..        33.0         el.u               83.9                        07.2
MA,L                       .         45.U         13.0                7.S                       103.1
FEMALU                     ..       21.0          11.u                51.0                       a8.5
SICUNDARYI TOTAL                      1.U         2.U          4.U                12.1                       17.2
MALI                      1.0          3.0         5.U                16.7                       23.5
MReALE                    0.1         1.U          2.0                 5.1                       14.
VOCATIONAL (1 OF SECONDARY)           23.e          2.9          4.9                 7.3                        3.2
PUPIL-TEAChEeR ArlO
P IPA Y                             41.0         44.0        eS.0                46.4                        42.9
SECONDAKY                            14.0        Ie.0        21.0                25.1                        23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (C)                            2 12.11h     25.0                38.5                       37.1
PASSENGER  AS/THOUSAND POP              1.9         2.2          2.4/i               3.3                       13.8
RADIO RECEIVUIJT,IOUSAND POP          2l.b         23.5        4S.e                45.3                        97.5
TV RSECIVERS/THOUSAND FOP               1.8          ..           ..                 2.2                       Le.6
NEWSPPEaR ("CALLY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER TdUUSAND POPULATION                 .           ..          S.3                4.7                        1h.2
CINEM  ANNUAL ATTENDANCEICAPITA        0.3           ..          0.3L                I.U                        0.b
TOTAL LASOR FORCE (TUOUS)           1570.0       1981.0       Z593.0
VEHAIZ (PERCENT)                    38.7         36.1         37.2               34.5                        38.1
AWRICULTURE (PERCFNT)               92.0         89.0         8b.0               78.9                        3b.6
LSWUSTRY (PEACE4T)                   3.0          4.U         5.0                 9.6                        17.5
PARTICIPATILUN RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               45.9         43.9         41.6               40.9                        37.0
MALE                                 57.5        55.3         Z.9               53.0                        47.1
FEMALE                              34.8         32.9         30.5               23.9                        27.0
ECONOFMC DEPENUSEYI RATLO              1.0          1.1          I.Z                 I.2                        1.3
1EUS DIST11UTI11
PEKCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
N1GHEST SX DF NUUSEIIOLDS             ..         32.6/          ..                 ...
NIGNEG T 2tlZ OF IOUSEIOLDS            ..        50.67          ..                 ..
LOWEST 20t OF I)ULSESOLDS             ..         10.47          ..                 ...
LOWEST 40; 0F NOUSEROLWS              ..         Zl.           ..                  ..
rOVsm TARCET SOPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERrY INCUME
LEVEL USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                        123.0/c             165.9                      534.2
RUt.                                   ..          ..         8.oW               87.4                       Z55.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVEIItY IHCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UA                                    4.           ..        85.0/c             10U.8                       491.5
RURAL                                                        SZ °.7              64.6                       lB6.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ANSDLUTE
POVST  10EI  LEVEL (Z)
UiKIAN                                ..           ..        25.U/c              J9.5
RURAL                                  ..          ..        t5.oW               69..
NOT AVAlLASLr
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T g S
/a  The Broup averages for each indicator are population-weighted aritleutic mans.  Coverage of countries ewng the
Lndlcators depends on availability of data snd is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted. -Dsta sor 1960e  refer to any year between 1959 and 1961l; -Data for 1970".between 1989 and
1971; and data for "Host Recent Estisate' between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; Ie 1962; /f 1967; /g 1972; /h 1966; /1 1978; Li 1975.
Ray 1983



- 47                              BEST COPY AVAILABLE
ANNEX I
Pa~ge3 ocf 6
icr itiiaca_  OF mALA,lliTS
mama.   AtmE.ahgj INS heSlm  Er draws riam  samra.e cImiar111  ladled  the mast meihlritsad mism.s   wtalakmnma                                          isay aymikmSmrmislm
emapermblm  women ~~~~ mlte   ia  or mm          "loe drmti s mmdog   amomi  m          by dlrtwmimm   osaimmi I.   e.t.ic  h    as   Tim daest   amiama,  miii
damaribm  inner. ci acamim,ada7J. iadtmmo . Se a1. d..   -b-mmerm   ol    Wi oar ditiersemame  isime ammrim
adJiacmi em.  samEps vtam) am1g  li asm'e    imEpelOrstm  rs,ate                      anhddi   isoem   Ran   Ai0rylinep as h r   amgns" Smilhms    anar aaa.  w7 thmaicm  -emmrymr-.ml oal
arlmmiat   I  i   rnimaos*mcpdmeti  msrmm   ae  emllmmc    ifi   artbmlamsm   gal mask   Scilate  ad  mimes e-mii, Fb mmjariiy iFl   mmirs.S 
on.l-Ism   maao. Sammo aa?.mlmlim las  erip.g                                                       21.5 sl  Salrmdiel,psyimoaaohmrmtm        aldwba  1wtmii   sct.
arliU,mfti.   aemimaim  if earmvmllafai irma aaei iamsmmrermlw empmmamwmliiT mVailiWiErm     ao mialmi mmrmm -rai mat main   m
1.iipe mms .mriiasbmlme .IF    al mmr TImimla.l  am-a.                                                   liamimeRamlrcte
flrfllil,am       asialim   maprmad  mnlele I.I   ad. mSgm cia-imiamibttmmm Ianmaim.Ilmlil  ms m                                                           Nelevwmer lasl    ila
ilel    i.wn  Itim.bZmcomm    limla   iomkmemalm.   pmndiolcay  pnicm patlF,   amidmal
1 p..:  Eart-1 ..d bit-I.. LE-d.th, .,                                         Olamm   min  mm.tide.tseal kailai, maoova, imlmiaImma.b..
n~iv~r~Uor~iirTlcmmo.   ommaima,miarl ma  aid   mdla.ImIismeameliami;  1. mam.,  imlo   ia  abiemi critic  iim-pm                               lmmlecieedm  a".
mdaib I,,,l oeieliiil Ir  kit.atraSm   ci  sl si.-icm -,Ml prapiem                                  pMmsd h0 limma  late11   .at eslia   remme.    le   emalimiia  parpmd
as                          thislopd  lUhhMl.. Z1IJ1I1j)l                                            spommaisi S kIMymmP.         em    atiI   emrm Lay mamwi.lro
Isho. ltyll.                         A  a   IliIi15m.mal. a    lstuliii3.shiiiit. byta   m.kin'  mimlmmic.mmr I. em I d lmetamam
Line.                                                           im~~~~kmaiiIilWdIIideiiY,  mba seeker al bid.,1w.40,  E
Ptn                                    O.imm mmmi tl,a     mci del  i.F1m..WhAo.W..                          '¾ 1, w.eaI   Moile., *I..effit,imea     *m   mlp 1:1.l..WA aid ieeA
ma It  paramour. ior mammalmmy 1h"'SI:,01mw  emiqimiIwa ml strawoll-    mw  nio.l.
.am,imm  Imainam  Imyal, alma rosmi. li . oysom m11,Imbimmiag471 .4 'm ic                   daillmuam,   mp.amimjlm.W        USESima  ammim-    amspi      mi   .me-mom- .d
nam  aprnSme1mim    li                l  1mhm               learasomopi  pne
.amkcamoamor mimeimm  mm  roillmy   mmsa  m  pcas~mme  memoin.               o  i:.mrwl     I em ma   ai   lamam dmrmtmims         - mela Inri,-v 1kw ..6l
imp _oc .m miam -s  cmlsd r    m t1 m  baim I  l it. rm.c.dmaeamilsymmmaam.as   ,m                                                            asil    al.ciia    odal
maniem Teh.    mlls   is-Ir   mmr aramimigLmi. ai  himmeo.  I   ilmlca.1                            .!.t.Po  forlaimmd.     lmdfaoilmab    tpiciomalm 
lowmim   mI   ma  rmylr.nmll  lesm.40w                                                             mamiia    ma_mmmmalm_mmim  mmimai admmms  npmeme
PI ...,   am..i  .4                                                            I-                               .imms mi    d   rom                          sat.  mabaimamim
elm        1Va     -ilt    -l    .   IIIa-p,...III    b. cdiam                                             aWildIiliearflV0M             ai .ppmmdpmem   mimntma
eE        malaSs  loa-I..mmisl a   mb.   m  arilamili                                               ammlp   midd
laaliamlrmi  i-t   ( ltcatcii -   toca  b-1  .ea  Iymt.   mamma.. c  acl- mid-                       pe1aomy.dmmsmr1.p alm id-              d h-I, sI-Iam        m himakm 1-     t4  emm-
lamtim    omtrat  .mma    abm-Sam   eremab..              mammp    iam.                         U5.ii           -mrc  maim1 I.mm u  -.  mroia SwI.   leil-.St    edmd  -Ii
pe)m.mtmcm   lam1ai54i * chim-mi.  ms! lce-li                          a pmamamga a  mmmc sem               pEaiimm  wadEI  ii  maL    .n.
Crd  smk   am   u   uuwaii]-MiiallmaS.k amm,amEnm md
immmpcmilalemlmcmi,  aze  as   ceidat,                   CWl5I.iytlt
pplu ggame,   Ivye, s.ad SaNt dAim.amn  maInline - ama ilia  ameb I. pmm                                                                    Fa R.,cem       Eaae-a,hmmm
ammmypyr   jilmRmc           - Amic  momb    at mmbimma afor        a  s1-til  ac Is-                      sultan      p  -btat ..
lifmsttiijriitSa   ymim   i  mb  mymmacca  rona   ec-iprirc               adi  5cmlmm        .T. Im mId cmm.-,,,cA I ll   mm-m I-l macmam   lat               md
tasm.                                                                                               limc..,madE-macmimoma-Iim If-matmlma mmI17Ia  Lc"m. :S ' maltml    at"maL.
intui  mimame  - Sememam .   .al         .t.1dl-lmi   .bma   omcm                                           mc   m    srfcldt  lmmctpr                        a   c  k   aevbmmmm    -
cl birthecammel daymcmm   mmimm eaOic. em       I iicmsl Init    plabmma                       rA1  t m'l    abaliab  -liamacte .r..W1.I..t     -     .                       1
p1 1111maam .Whll Rammmom. (mom Ib Is tPIPalimm ....  .KI mmim    rmm tmmmdat t
mit  ieaim -  amr  (u om.  l acmIs   hni,-pmmme   ,  aya                                           oaapk  tmmmemmdpm.cma   aiia,mlmmdT    ramm
mn-  alcii l.kmatcsacm(i -ii  mattaaZ       a  iii-mt,licimm,i   cmmaad aam                                                      ..msmrla    tT   aecmm   10m
ciid m11-ia  s-min  F.sa         a. se-  Limctkcmpmtmfme,,ls, mom ic;,c.-  am-..-  km ammam
mioj  sim  aim ITial.-imaie  mom.1   dllmammoTlilrmm~Ii.mm O.   rm,da  a                                                                              ..ieiAt
aemmot wemiis             i -,--I  cmn-md-  tam_ .WPsm  ma.  mI" mAl     mmd amd                          mm h'aiym Si tapaaa   cmiIm     i.mmmi
rind  md am a  omlaidam  pa  bA.mm.  rcnmalm          -Im.   pme r ndm   m..                      tmmm  Amsa  Iarmdam L. mr am te mum  ine  -v obmmm  mm lP ..ia mtl.     -
atamamaasamad   l aaeialuik a. dbim051  eatta  ommimlm(a-i.                                   irto, mld  eli,  ai  yam, mcmaimaahSmalaa r                   imma-t  cisma  mm
data.                                                                                                 Lola1. FiUC!          I    .    -...T    t.-1  .1.
is r  cmta aemmi  tmlrm                          olmmmi    -4 CaPt, -Pct.                             "aal..tmImm                prmmmia)-1   iicntcii   amsep         1ms  imtdi aced.,
.aacsracmimalmmt al mat mm jmeppttm.amamlotlm  ta ramaimp  pam  mopiam  c-c           f~~iJ~iimiijJ1iCernata.ltmia  liemammumma-  micimmim. ato.. oPr.m- I
din!.  Amailebim  mamuiltam  caeymtmmi dammarta pradacrism, toymmue  main                paplctiam  at att am-.  iblimittoma  mm macian  ymoeimlmm  cc. mi~S.  c
-1-dm,adia Ica    rIa,aMack.; R at aptmmad      ide    ama,in,nde                                 mpmbw   late.  lain ad  tcai data.m.,
an -ltl -m d Is led     j Momm s,h   mdlbImamam  IL. . dlmctatem2Vnl.;.peId                                             - lomm I     br. Imma    oaftm c_54irtaleS  ta-e lamm
maamamc  m  ema  ad   elm Itamryiocmalnarm_emm                                                             jjjjjj,          m gi       im    amaI   omi.. mmti.tttso
arte -ica     ...eIatPuk-   P.:l mle   m'icmmma     imemmlaictm. bdyimtbm I...emrmmtt    lits   oI    ai.   ai,mii   smmd
egd  i  cmdemimim m.alrt.                          5alcltil   rmt  o    aimjpIM  P                                        m    -Ltrret   emlimm  mma,mm,msletcm
-               i immmol  tami  mi-A,  Wi a    lmi ham                                                                                         ao-apnammrmmoa   ltao   lbefm-i  ao
Per cemitammvii! ml   eamals (ane  p.r dar  -imaletm   ommimat m  pm  comwt                                                                                  In,i a    mci dca
mtdrmo.   tmmam   ia mitda.    ac  PmctmmdItich                                                        mim.mep-mta    ofmerm   its pacic.1  cad. linac tInd  M acd,A
OrnseF   ctmma a      m . j j  caoF ip.etim. amid, 11mimem  iii pr.i. Sc timlammarMacm   m   rm  milmt   mc
-                         Thtrd~~~~~~~ Sicctd Pidt macmalt  I -t. ai 10mi "i.O   ae                                                                                 en     lp~lc.   aami  ad   ft as. Se  is)
ft,  mloimci   mmvIm ..iPt at.clm  -ita                             1otmsmpl f   f.i ..101.t1t7iiLutlt1hm.m
pna1mi V    cto dm If     rma1,1   trfm  tbted Sac. tlam pad I.i dTm,                                    basemmiati  A,     34       u.T
mm-c1bm                                                                                          syrfal- mMcm WEcZ)  ca
peam  c  cam ym  ibasami llm  bimmm5  lac, lii  aS  taI data                                    mctac   mavami ic-n   tm-It. cit,-Ic-n   tmmmlheta sIck  m  imloa
140c    lhl    ..tlmcs   lciltl1                    oa.ate  cad11  p    t acal -.                    momtlmly    cam    Iet etma emo mie  seaIce   -mei-m t b,  mt tIc
I            Ito  al)cmsrmiesm their. rnblim    pimaaI` I.  is am-mum 'amiiomemth  im                                                      ppm.ebm  Imail mmiri           -1c  mb    1a ramt
SOrE  abm   cyk1omcdcdmaSit   iiimmmmil  cremf                                i.     r                   fttmsam.d Aec-isr. V-.y1mm :bcct    I                mmts lnn   om   mtmm        r-s-a
Iew.  Ia. ra Zccmi maommabi  Irmm   ama..J  muyttinha cle lcM.. omee v-rPma.e  ci  mplo  1m    eis _ ca                                                      _al ml.. c            a t.
meherm  ml th  ban-bali i, mmt bate c  epinad a dmpmmmysmtt -Ir por                           tI-ml.    t                                      fw2    I
mmcl - misk   atr ..hup1. ho fte 'l,  r-.  ami-d mtl  m-i-ad  k  mprrm.   .AaEFL Lt-p                                       n      --I I                 br    f-
yatia   aamclirImco-arIac                                                                                           Ip                                                  II



.4 T COPY AVAILABLE
- 411 -
*^1
PeqIttui   s 824 - (mId111. dnamh)
aw NW e^zta   Ul          - (lolt)
IWAAiI -88101 NWC A¶YRI
Anml month rep (2)
(bM         Ms                       k.Ul   _____,_r_m__
.dtaitnr                   at enwmt R N)
11M2           1971      1979      lK       1981      I1W2O)           IWO   1084    1915   IflA     I98
_                                   _ .                      _   .        _
m    dmtle         t              1326.7        8.1        1.2     -0.        0.9       2.0              2.6   3.0      3.5    3.11      4.2
WtedSltur                        103.9       -1.2        4.6     .4.9        3.1      2.2              2.7   3.2      3.    3.11       3.8
Imutry                          223.8         29.1       3.9      1.7      -4.8       1.3              2.5   3.0      3.7    4.4       4.9
b9io                             315.0         84       10.7      4.3      .0.9       2.0              2.5   2.9      3.4    3.8       4.3
Cm ptin                           I..1227.4      S          6       0.9       10.6      3.5              1.    1.0      2.2    3.2       3.5
Gram lwnmt                        220.0        O5A       -10.8    -22.9    -2.1    -23.7                2n.2  13.7      9j    IL.        8.3
MIM. Oft  d OW                    297.3        -4.        2A.4      7.9      4.1       .4J1              4.7   !.8      4.9    4.9       4.9
Inrta or qA5                      402.2        29.1        2.1     -2.5      -0.3    -11.7              9.4   4.5      4.      3.9       4.2
rmtimi mvw                         56.3         25.3     -47.3    -34.6       29.6    -34.1              -      -       -       -         -
(M dflatow (19791(I0)                      97.4      100       115       133       156
boh... rat(tSIbmI)                        1.185    1.224    1.231      1.119     0.9Q
Shamt ofaGP ,      . et Pri    (K)             _                   A_W    Twm   (2)
(at araM pr1)b                                        (at cutaz 19D prlm)
1975   196    1985   193D                               19734)       19503    190-a)
Gnu. "btf   pnduct                                  100.0  o1.0    0.o  io.0                                  3.6          2.4         4.4
Apidttwe                                          37.5   32.7   39.7   3R.8                                 5i           3.3         3.9
lnhutry                                           19.4   19.5   18.3   19.1                                 4.7          1.5         3.2
kwIin                                             43.1   42J   62.0   42.2                                   3.9         2.1         4.5
-_e nm                                              A85.6   85.9   91.5   88.2                               5.0          3.2         3.7
-rm. fmw_tlst                                       31A    25.9   19.2   22.0                                 f.3         -1.9        7.2
qrts GM                                             28.8   30.9   29.1   29.9                                 8.7          1.7        4.9
bmtas                                               5 0.9   42.7   3.8  4AL                                   3.2          1.0        4.5
GM. atimul Imbu                                    12.6   13.6    9.5   11.8
m 2S Of G
1S7    1970/71   197517h    1981182
RUmC Fn24
Owwent      .                                               16.1     15.5       16.5       17.4
Grremt  di                                                  18.1     16.5       15.4       23.9
&urplus (4) or Wd      t-)                                  -3.9     -1.1        1.1       4.I
Gw1c.l eItlture                                              4.7     12.4       12.9       11.3
lhmljp fLnruiw                                               2.7     11.2       8.8        10.2
19753-    1951D45   198540
Q2  puth rte (2)                                               5.8      2.9      4.4
a5 per wn t      h xrgmm   cate (2)                            1.9      0.0       1.6
Ihew amemmi gnwoo   raw (2)                                    6.1      1.7      3.1
[at                                                            6S.4     7.7      4.S
lIuinn  _       rp ate                                         0.12     0.13     0.23
lFxe el_tldty                                                 -0.2      0.A      1.0
a G w .   e a            a Mt   r F nt.
b projeu  yomm at n.mtoit pri.-
Eaten Afrim Eilon
1'y 24. 1983



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- .19 -
ANNAX 
agi s S tf 
I'oatlartttu     h22h - (mid4-sEMI, chln.aud)
tw Per Capta IuWm - (lhl1
sia   - RhI1'S Wlstt
Anumm Qurth rate ()
(* at mca Iii non l")
hurntntrtjwt(                                       t
(.1Ilium INS                   hAtml
Inltrmtar                             at euwnL prkw)
IQ28         1978   1979  l26    12l    11261(e                   111   1684  I2IR8   IQ2    112
NwdhnWim uqnta                                   25h.4       -6.3   25.4   28.9   -9.7  -4.2                       b.4    0.2    4.1    4.h    4.8
rim Y                                         237.3       4.5   25.9   21.1   49.7    2.2                      0.5    b.2    4.8    4.8    4.8
Iucr^mQn                                       19-1       -Hll   17.2  151.4   -9.8   44.2                      4.0    4.n    4.0    4.0    4.5
trdhandltw  tIqrta                               227.3       23.0    0.1  -21.2   -0.9  421.0                    14.2    .4    4.9    3.9    4.1
2Wn                                             9.0       2.5    0.0  -23.9  138.9  -..                      -40.0    0.0    1.0    2.t    3.11
rft.trla                                       48.0        1.1   29.0  .8.7   4.4   -4.0                       5.3    2.4    2.8    2.9    1.2
MaLhtiny MM squipat                            58.7       14.n  -17.N  -17.9  -17.n  -22.5                    1.3   25.2    1A.6   b61    b.0
(nthrX                                       2I 1.        13.0    4.5  -32.7    4.8  -28.2                     2.      1.9    2.5    2.9    3.3
Ibqntt primp I                                    -          U.3  100.0  102.2  113.3  101.0                     107.3  214.0  123.2  131.1  239.h
lpnr lrtce til                                   -           a7.7  In0.0  114.7   93.5   97.7                   203.0  112.5  121.5  130   23J.2
Tome of trait  ds                                 -         123.7  100.0   89.1  118.5  203.4                    204.3  302.3  101.4  101.2  202.0
Om.ttimi of Mbdudiae Wal (n) 2)iw                                            Anbt turs) (2)
(at crent prtce)                                          (at mtat  1979 prim)
1975   195D   1985   199D                                     1974        M90        1915-1F
rF tus                                        10D.n  100.0  Ino.n   Io.0                                       9.6         1.4        4.9
primry                                      92.0   8R.3   93.b   93.4                                       8.3         2.7        4.8
Maufacturpn                                  7.4   11.7    6.4    6.6                                      17.8       -2 1.6       L3
lmnt.                                         1m.n  1m.0  I0.n  10n.0                                         -1.4       -0.2         4.0
tOa                                          4.9    5.1    3.4    3.1                                       0.9       -17.0        3.1
2,otrnle                                     9.1   26.9   17.0   20.4                                       5.3        1I          3.2
MAdhinry a  mquplt                          24.5   27.8   30.3   34.8                                       1.0         2.9        7.5
Othtm                                       6.5   50.2   411.R   45.7                                      -4.5         0.0        3.3
s9m  of Trae itth                 lir of Tadeit tdSmr orf WM                              it th
_atrtal oxmtri. (2)               mev1c&w  Cr tls (2)                 COtqal uplqum oi &qrweml (2)
1970     2975     195)            1970       19Th    29l)             1970         1975          1980
DIRWCIGN 0F 1TR1
Eumrcs                                         65.3   76.2      69.0            11.3      30.3      7.0            23.4         13.5           24.0
Pdszzt                                        -                                             
Mumarturs                                     -      -         -               -         -        -                _            _             _
lmrcu                                          56.7   64.8      75.0            24.2      14.5      6.0             1.           2.            19.0
3hrludkd   other dveloplt  mcmtrie.
Etemn Afrfrs Reagi
May 24, 1963



BEST COPY AVAILABLE                                                    -s-
1.puIsf.         6 .73 (mId-181  thuuu.
Vr b  Cqu tta a 1981  - (19181)
uullmtit 
1971t   2979   11191  1tt 32 1i  2                              29211    14    lwIM    lNe    11117  11.1
swivne 7t.9  364.0   11.7  IN.2  11l.11)                                                  11WA   92.1  441.2  41.   19'Vi2  7h1.1
It %hAIti %ttwullIw  fnut                    29.5  212.1    91.0  191.7J   Z69.4                             26.1  122.1   l1.9  4YlhJ  451A  M12.A
I"rtit atr Is, lo ml swIte                    41U.1    u.iN  w2.t   2J.6   442.W                                 1.3  %17.h  hl7,A  h74,2  7M2.A 2241.0
fi uahirha  *rimnllom r.n.h.                2?1.61   111.1   141.0   212.4  227.1                            211.1  121.1  1%6.9   13.9f  4,1.9  917.2
fbi trurpe                                    5.9   41.4   .4.1   -4..   -t.n1                                '4.1   -t.l1   4.0    4.1    .7.5 -.1n.
thirrel enumitt hmirmw                      -2.2  -241.2  -212.1  -9twb.1 -141.1                             -1%f.n  -171.1  -ft1).4 -197.61 -Xt.7 -1.h
l"vtp .Ilrnt I wntOt                           -       -               -        1.                               9.0    7.n N).H    9.  111.0 2I1.61
IrrldI .en aIt Ai.d   4e..s   19."   ln.    41.0                                                                490.   15.0    I.!) n   S.1.9   70n.1   27.
"I. l.e  Clitv                                112.1  1624.2  124.n   91.0    X..                                22.1   IL.2    I.11  1112.4  131.1 291.7
irrlelal                                     1%%)   t.pn   97.9   77.0   91.9l                                12,n   79.tt   29.4  II.NJ  21(.2  112.1
Privet.                                      17.1   13.2    2.21   21.6)  -19I4                             .4*7  .42.n  .22.9   .4.1   111.9   t.9
4f1r lle                                       -1.1  h3.2  9ti.2   %S,          2.4                             223.9   NI.?   24.9   2%1.) 22.4   11.1
f2avn in nnvy                                  I23.2   11.1   -4.2   2n.7   12.9                               -10.0   q..   -10*.n  -20.1  -12.2  -23.4
InienrotlmmIl uvwrrq                           72.2    hl.2   72.4   52.7   16j3                                 N. S   1       4f.1   7N.1.   1n.3  1I. 7
of dhich Gbid                                 -                                        -       -       -                               -       -
buns   mm dt. Iqusts                            2.1    2.4    2.1    1.2    1.0                                  2.2    2.1    2.1      I.4    2.4    1.
nxf inP. AM M
On  21nhrw.t.                                  17%.5  171.1  213.3  I11.0  112.4                               143.0  213.5  225.1   211.7   231.5  'M.
fit id  Drate                                 29.5   41.9   47.9   50.0   4.0                                 49.5   51.0 b2.9   91.9   71.5  37.2
Onwalminl ID                                 44.0   42.0   13.1   44.    44.0                                 71.?    7.4  202.1   92.5   37.,  I2M.9
mc                                          25.0   15.7   17.7   25.2    6.0                                 5.0    1.9    7.5   NR.    9.b    .  22.2
cm                                          0.0 0n           01.0    n .    0.0                              n.n    0.0    061n  n0    n6n   n0n
tIa                                        21.0   24.4   15.1   23.2   24.9                                 b4.2   b0.7   77.5   .3.4   52.9  95.9
(kIwi                                       22.0   21.9   2b.5   21.2   23.2                                 7.4  12.9   17.1   2n.2   24.n  12.9
hb-Oun.hlhvd  in.                            92.0   33.0   0A0.    39.5   43.4                                26.3   21.1   s2.0    2.1   72.4  112.0
ortf t.a  Pqrt Cuits                        nf1   20.0  23.2   12.7    7.9                                   5.6    5.5    t.2   12.2   19.3  23.4
t12                                         3.0   122.      7.b   25.7   22.3                                2.0    3.7   1h.h   29.h    11.2 I    3h.4
nt1rr 2LmtItlaral                           9.0    5.2    9.9    2.1    4.3                                  4.7    7.9   22.4   29.    19.1   t.3
private                                    75.0   55s.    57.9   46.3    9.9                                 5.0    N.0   25.0   17.9   20.2  29.5
Atr.nual IbIt
t4t n ttcutxtimr  mit ntnbiwb              499.0   nlD0   f.ih6.1   716.h  743.2                            7s5.5  7M9.   WTh.4  99.9  11R.9 2569.3
orfclnd                                   34R.0  311.0  422.6  439..  555.4                                627.4  704.2   23.    914  2041.5 145R.2
Prlvatp                                    151.0  2980   214.0  227.0  IR7.31                              21.0    5.4   72.R   91.5   74.1  101.9
thwlshimw    -ht                            225.0   195.0  1712J.  299.2  26.9                               2A4.2  357.9  427.J   52.1  574.3 m31.n
lTtdl Servinw  lu it.                         4n.5   45.O    72.9   91s. I. 133.fl131.4   1n. 1  221.9   23.9   21:.9  119.7
Intnr.t                                   I29h    24.3   33.1   44.9   49.R                                 41.3   37.4   13.7   34.5   19.5  "9.4
1w a0nlm   us hjunjmn                      25.4   25.9   19.7   2h.1   42.7                                 23.9   11.1   29.7   41.9   45.2  n.A.
IrNt1U  an   t VzInItu                        5.2    1.h    l.3.      9.9   25.1                              19.3    15.7   27.1   2h 1    22.5  25.7
Awrqw  lrntermt Antp nm ow tlne (2)             4.5    1.3    5.7    h.H    7.4                                 9b.1    7.7      9l.   1.2    1.h   3.4
(llal te 1                                    2.1    2.5    2.7    4.h         -                                -       -       -       -       -      -
Prlvatr                                      12.1   12.5   InA  h9.7           -                                _       _       _      _       _      _
Aw.regr MPairntv (ito ns lew (warw)           29.4   I234    23.9   30.0   24.jh                               2.      '4.h   29.9   2h.7   24.h  21.3
llft tial                                    7%.4   34.'   32.3    h.4
Privet-                                       5.7    h.9   20.3    5.9         -                                _       -       _       -      _      _
A. 2 of Debt Outstandtn3
at End of lersrober 31. 1921
Maturity strt'cturr of debt oututanding
Matrittie, due withitn    year.                         33.4
Maturities due within to years                          47.6
litereut structure of debt outtatidinR
Interest due within  first year                          5.3
Eastern Africa Region
May 24. 1983



- 51 -
ANNEX II
Page T-of 2
THL STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPZRATIONS IN MALAWI
A, Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1983)
Bank
Incl.
Loan or                                                           Thlrd                   Un-
Credit No.    Year    Borrover          Purposu                   Window    IDA        disbured
Four loans and 16 credits have been fully disbursed                71.20   131.63
711-MAI      1977    Malavi           Water Supply                          7.00        1.13
1610-MAI      1978    INDEBANK         First DFC                    3.00                0.25
857-1AU      1978    Republic of      National Rural
Malavi            Development
Program I                          22.00        5.67
910-14AI     1979       *              Education III                       14.50        3.84
992-MAI      1980                     National Rural
Developent
Program II                         13.80        7.33
1099-MHI      1981                     Highway IV                           33.00a       9.52
1123-M1I      1981                     Education IV                         41.00b      24.75
2027-M&I      1981                     Technical Assistance         1.00                 0.33
1183-KMI      1981                     National Rural Development
Program III                        7.30c       5.43
1272-MAI      1982       -             Lilongve Water Supply
3ng. Project                       4.00        3.24
1330-1AI      1983                     Fifth Education Project              34.00       32.63
1343-MA1      1983                     NRDP IV                              10.60       10.60
1351-MAI      1983                     Health Project                        6.80        6.80
1352-MAU      1983                     Smallholder Fertlllzer                5.00        5.00
TOTAL                                               75.20   330.63
of which has been repaid                             1.81      4.40
amount sold
of which repaid
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA1                     7
TOTAL undisbursed                                    0.58   115.94      116.52
a Credit of SDR 25.9 million.
b Credit of SDR 32.2 mlllion.
C Credit of SDR 6.5 million.
d Credit of SDR  3.6 million (not yet effective)
NOTE:  The status of the project listed in Part A is
described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA
financial projects in execution, whLch ls updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors
on April 30 and October 31.



- 52 -
ANNEX I!
Page 2 of 2
B.  IFC INVESTNENT IN MALAWI
September 30. 1983
Total
Investment                                   Type of                            Held    Undis-
Number        Year      Obligor              Business   Equlty   Loan  Total  by IFC  bursed
~~~-----(US$ Million)-  
326-NAI      1976      David Whitehead      Textiles       -     10.8  10.8    6.7       -
& Sons (Malawi)
Limited
362-NAI       1977     Dwangwa              Sugar          -      9.9   9.9    8.8       -
Sugar Corpora-
tion Limited
434-MAI       1978     Investment and       Development  0.6       -    0.6    0.6       -
Development          Finance
Bank of Malavi       Coupany
502-HAI       1979     Malavi               Tourism        -      2.0   2.0    2.0      1.6
Hotels
Limited
542-MAI       1980     Ethanol Company      Manufactur-
Limited of          lig Alcohol
Nalavi               from
Nolasses     0.2    1.7    1.9    1.9        -
TOTALS     0.8  24.4   25.2   20.0       1.6



- 53 -
ANNEX III
MALAWI
PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTHENT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section 1.    Timetable of Kev Events
(a) Supervision of SAL I October/November 1981, February
1982.
(b) Preparation June 1982, January/February 1983.
(c) Appraisal May/June 1983.
(d) Negotiations November 1983.
(e) Planned Date of Effectiveness January 1984.
Section II.   Special Bank Implementation Actions
Prior to May 15, 1984 or other agreed date, the
Association would review the Government's progress in implementing the
structural adjustment program as set forth in the Letter of
Development Policy.
Section III. Special Conditions
Release of the second tranche of US$25 million would be
dependent of the Government's making satisfactory progress in carrying
out commitments undertaken in its Letter of Development Policy and
executing its economic program.



- 54 -                ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 11
Letter of Development Policy
Mr. A. W. Clausen
President, World Bank
1818 H St., N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Clausen:
I wrote to the World Bank a little mDre than two years ago to
describe the serious economic conditions that Malawi was facing and the
program we had adopted to deal with our problems. At that time the Bank
granted Malawi a Structural Adjustment Loan of US$45 million.
Since then the economy has continued to be confronted with
difficult external conditions, especially transport difficulties and
depressed demand for our export commodities. Still we have been successful
in inplementing significant portions of our structural adjustment program
and after declining by 0.8 percent in 1981, GDP grew by 3.0 percent in
1982.



-55                   ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 11
We shall continue to address the structural problems I identified
in my previous letter, namely the relatively slow growth of smallholder
production, heavy reliance on a few primary commodities to earn foreign
exchange, the modern sector's dependence on imported oil, financial
weaknesses of the statutory corporations, weakened Government budgetary
position, and growing imbalance between Government recurrent and capital
expenditure as well as addressing the continuing transport difficulties we
face.
GOVERNMENT ACTION PROGRAM
Our continuation of the structural adjustment program will include
measures to (i) improve performance of the productive sectors, (ii) improve
resource mobilization and management, and (iii) strengthen key institutions
in the country.
Productive Sectors
We are planning actions to increase the efficiency of smallholder
agriculture, estate agriculture and industry.



- 56 -               ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 11
Smallholder Agriculture. We shall continue to ensure that prices
paid to smallholders keep the country self sufficient in food, encourage
the production of export crops, and give them fair return for their labor.
Particular attention will be paid to cotton to ensure an adequate supply
for domestic needs. At the same time, we have taken steps to strengthen
the agricultural marketing agency (ADMARC) to improve its efficiency and
sharpen its focus on providing service to smallholders. A detailed program
for its restructuring has been agreed with the Association, key personnel
have been appointed and a jointly financed IDA-IFAD Smallholder Fertilizer
Project has been approved to overcome the fertilizer shortages the country
has faced recently. While our budgetary resources are quite constrained
now, we shall ensure that the Ministry of Agriculture continues to receive
adequate funding for maintenance of vital services.
Estate Agriculture. In recent years estates have provided up to
80 percent of Malawi's agricultural exports and if the country is to
correct its balance of payments deficits, the efficiency and diversity of
this subsector must be improved. This is necessary not only to keep
adequate production of tobacco, tea and sugar but also to diversify into
other crops without major expansion of land area. We are developing a
program for management training, extension and credit for the estates. We
shall be enforcing strictly regulations to control the quality and quantity



~ 57      ~      ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 11
of key crops, encourage estates to develop new crops and develop an estate
credit project that we shall be bringing to the Association in 1984. We
have also begun a study on size distribution of farms, yields and other
productivity measures to help us formulate a policy on future land usage.
Industry: The Government has encouraged private sector
development in industry by providing incentives for investment expansion
with generally good results. However, over time, a system of formal and
informal price controls has developed that could create a disincentive for
expansion of industry, new investment and increased efficiency. The
Government is committed to the objective of decontrol of industrial prices
except for those items which are critical for the well being of the lowest
income groups. However, because of social considerations and to minimize
the risk of exploitation of monopolies in small markets, phasing out of
price controls will be gradual and the Government will continue to exercise
control on the prices of a few basic commodities. We have recently hired
the services of a consultant to help us draw up a timetable for
decontrolling the prices of most items. By early next year, we will be
abolishing the need to get clearance for price increases for a significant
number of items.



-58 -                ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 11
Resource Mobilization and Management
Our recent economic difficulties have reemphasized for us the
importance of using our resources as efficiently as possible. We need to
increase our savings and investment rates, maintain the share of Government
revenues in GDP, scrutinize carefully our public investment program and be
sure that we are allocating sufficient recurrent expenditures to maintain
and utilize our capital stock efficiently.
Public Investments. We have recently prepared a revised public
Investment program encompassing investments of both the Government and the
statutory bodies. We have discussed the program with members of your staff
and we are in agreement that the amounts and allocations are appropriate.
We shall be implementing the program over the next three fiscal years,
looking for financing for projects that are not yet funded and ensuring
that projects of lower priority are not implemented. An annual review of
the program will be carried out.
Recurrent Expenditures. In order to put our resources to their
best use, we shall ensure that key developmental departments such as
agriculture, education and road maintenance receive adequate recurrent
allotments and we shall discuss these figures annually with the
Association.



-59-             ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 11
Government Revenuess In the last two years the Government has
introduced a number of new revenue measures to reverse the decline in the
revenue/GDP ratio. We are committed to make further adjustments in the tax
and non-tax systems to realize a bouyancy of at least 1.0 with respect to
GDP while ensuring that proper incentives are given and economic efficiency
is encouraged. We shall ensure that departmental charges and fees are
adjusted as necessary and subsidies such as those on fertilizer are removed
in order to ensure efficient use of resources. In order to expand social
services such as health, education and housing to as large a proportion of
the population as possible, user charges will be adjusted and subsidies and
eliminated or minimized over time.
Parastatal Finances. During most of the 1970s, the statutory
bodies were a source of savings and investment for the economy. The
economic difficulties of recent years have affected these corporations
markedly and they have become a drain upon the Government budget. We have
made tariff increases for Air Malawi, Malawi Railways, and the Electricity
Supply Commission of Malawi and Blantyre Water Board. We shall continue to
adjust the tariffs of the major corporations to give them fair return on
their investments. We shall also strengthen the management and financial
control over the corporations so that they operate more efficiently.



ANNEX IV
- 60 -                Page 7 of 11
Exchange Rate. In April of 1982 the kwacha was devalued by 15
percent vis-a-vis the SDR and bv A further 12 percent in September 1983 in
order to improve export incentives. In future, the Government will pursue
an active exchange rate policy.
Interest Rates. Deposit rates were increased by two percentage
points on June 1, 1983. We believe this step will help to mobilize
domestic savings and has made interest rates positive in real terms. We
will continue to monitor interest rates and make adjustments in the future
as they are needed.
External Debt Management. Two years ago we agreed that the
Government needed to strengthen its debt management capability. We have
set up a statistical unit in the Ministry of Finance, improved our data
base, begun a more systematic collection of debt data and used funds under
the Technical Assistance Loan to hire a consultant to help in improving our
debt monitoring system. We will continue to improve our debt management
system. We have recently reached agreement on rescheduling a second year
of an external official and commercial debts. We are developing our debt
policy formulation capabilities to ensure that our debt situation does not
deteriorate as it did a few years ago and will produce a debt strategy and
plan.



-61 -
- 61 -        ~ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 11
Institutional Improvements
The recent economic crisis has shown that some key institutions in
the country in both the public and private sectors needed strengthening.
ADMARC, MDC and Press. Under the first SAL, the Technical
Assistance Loan was used for studies of ADMARC, the Malawi Development
Corporation (MDC) and Press (Holdings) Ltd., the largest private
corporation in the country. These studies have led to plans for the
financial and organizational restructuring of all of these institutions.
Detailed action plans have been drawn up and discussed with the
Association, and their implementation has begun. In the future we shall
ensure that Press is run as a commercial organization following good
business practices, that ADMARC concentrates on serving the smallholder
farmer and MDC returns to its primary role as a catalyst for investment in
the industrial sector.
Development Management. The recent economic difficulties have
forced the Government to focus on immediate problems rather than the medium
to long term outlook and the formulation of a development strategy. The
latter are important and require additional attention. Under the first SAL



- 62 -
ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 11
we established an Investment Coordination Committee to oversee malor
investments, reinforced the planning units In some ministries, took action
to improve our debt management capabilities and strengthened the planning
and financial management of many of the parastatals. We will continue this
process by strengthening the staffing of the Economic Planning Division,
with emphasis on the sections that deal with the development of medium term
policies. We will also strengthen EPD's project identification,
evaluation, monitoring and co-ordination capabilities. We will improve the
institutional framework for energy policy and management by appointing an
energy advisor to EPD to assist with the development of a medium term
investment plan for the energy sector. Government will also carry out a
tariff study for the electricity commission and develop a pilot preject for
fuelwood savings. We will improve our budgetary management by developing
three year projections on revenues and recurrent expenditure needs.
Statutory Bodies. We will be implementing some of the
recommendations of the studies that have been carried out on a number of
parastatals, such as Malawi Railways and MDC, to improve their efficiency.
We are striving to fill vacancies that exist in key posts such as general
manager for MDC. The Department of Statutory Bodies (DSB), which was



63 -             ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 11
established In 1980 to assist parastatals in financial management, planning
and staffing, has done a good job. The Government will ensure that DSB
does not duplicate the role of the statutory bodies' parent ministries.
Clear directives on DSB's role have been issued.
Transportation
As a landlocked country, Malawi has always faced transport
difflculties. In recent years the problems have become more acute and we
are now explorlng possible additional routes to the traditional ones. We
have recently completed discussions with the Tanzanian Government on
improving the Northern Access Route and have agreed on terms of reference
for a study for the necessary inveatments and wDst efficient nodes of
transport for using this route. We have decided to extend the existence of
the secretariat in the Ministry of Transport and Communications to improve
our ability to deal with the current transport dlfficulties.



- 64 -            ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 11
Rolations with the IMF
We have recently completed a successful one year stand-by
agreement with the IMF and have followed it up with a three year EFF that
was approved by their board on September 19, 19A3. This program will
complement the SAL program that we have worked out with the IDA.
Conclusion
Malawi continues to face difficult problems, but we believe that
with the policies as outlined in this letter and with the continued support
of institutions such as yours, we will be able to return the economy to the
robust growth that it was able to attain In the past. We ask your help for
our endeavors by extending a second structural adjustment operation.
Sincerely yours,
L. Chakakala Chaziya, M.P.
Minister of Finance






