                                                                                  55725
                                                                                  v1

    BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA ­ URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE AND SERVICE
                         DELIVERY PROJECT
                        PROJECT ID: P083353
                     CREDIT NO. 39540 AND 39541

                 Restructuring Memo for Extension of Closing Date


1. The Closing Date for Bosnia and Herzegovina, Urban Infrastructure and Service
   Delivery Project, Credit No 39540 and 39541, Project ID P083353 will be extended
   from December 15, 2010 until June 30, 2011.

2. Although overall project implementation is progressing more slowly than expected in
   the last year of project implementation, the project remains on track to achieve its
   development objective. Overall, US$20 million out of the total available funds in the
   amount of US$25 million have been committed and a total of 68 contracts were
   signed in more than 20 municipalities. Project implementation activities under
   Component 3 (Investments for Improved Efficiency) are progressing in all regions,
   although with delays. Cazin and Pale have finalized all activities. Vares expects to
   complete activities by August 2010. Bosanska-Krupa, which was included late in the
   project after reallocation of funds from Lukavac, has made very good progress and
   implementation proceeds as scheduled. At the same time, however, delays occurred
   in Posusje, Banja Luka and Stolac sub-projects due to technical and procurement
   issues, so that contract completion cannot be expected by December 2010 and
   requires an extension. With support under Component 2, Urban Management Plans
   have been finalized in Tuzla, Banja Luka, Sarajevo, Livno and the Republika Srpska;
   and are under preparation in Srebrenica and Mostar, and will be completed soon.
   High priority investments under the same components are currently implemented in
   Banja Luka, Tuzla, Livno, and Srebrenica. In addition to the above mentioned
   delays, project implementation was significantly delayed in Mostar in 2009, as a
   result of the political stalemate after local elections in October 2008. After long
   delays, the crucial outstanding decisions to approve project implementation activities
   to move forward in Mostar were taken. The action plan submitted to the Bank earlier
   this year had foreseen priority investments in urban traffic management (US$3
   million) and for sewerage collectors (US$1 million), and first tenders were launched
   by March 15, 2010. However, a few tenders have been significantly delayed due to
   lengthy review procedures. Some of the procurement packages include complex
   software and IT equipment which required a more time-consuming review that
   exceeded typical business standards.

3. There are no outstanding issues in financial management. The Project was included
   in the joint fiduciary review conducted during December 2009. The review
   concluded that the financial management system, including accounting, budgeting,
   and reporting, continues to be adequate and satisfies the Bank's requirements. The
   project is in compliance with all environmental safeguards requirements. Under
   Component 1 (Institutional Strengthening), utilities have been continuously trained on
   financial management and prepared business plans that were submitted to the Bank
   for review. Finally, US$13 million had been disbursed, equivalent to 63 percent of
   the funds available. Additional US$5 million was committed. Bidding is in progress
   for numerous activities scheduled during the last year of project implementation. It
   should be noted that the funds were disbursed fast in the first two and a half years of
   implementation and were fully in line with the estimated disbursement. However,
   due to technically more complex subprojects under the water component, few
   rebiddings and delays in Mostar, pace of implementation was slowed down, followed
   by a lower disbursement in the past two years. It is expected that the rate of
   disbursement will continue in the coming months, reflecting the activities underway
   in the construction season. Because of delays, the IP rating remains downgraded to
   MS until signing contracts for the Mostar sub-project.

4. The proposed extension requested by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of Bosnia
   and Herzegovina on June 29, 2010 is necessary to provide time for implementation and
   completion of all sub-projects supported by the Credits. The Borrower developed a
   detailed implementation monitoring plan for monthly follow-up with the Bank.
   However, as some of the delays will affect ongoing procurement, and given that
   completion of all activities by December 15, 2010 seems unlikely, the Borrower
   requested extension of the Closing Date by June 30, 2011.

5. This will be the second extension of the project. Extension was granted earlier to
   align the Closing Date of the initial and additional financing.
