                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR1936



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IDA-39540 IDA-39541)



                                       ON A

                                     CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 17.1 MILLION
                       (US$ 25.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO

                         BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

                                      FOR A

       URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE AND SERVICE DELIVERY PROJECT

                               December 16, 2011




Sustainable Development Department
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective December 15, 2011)

                         Currency Unit =     Bosnian Marka (BAM)
                            1.00 BAM =       0.6655 US$
                             1.00 SDR =      1.5367 US$

                                FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1    –   December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BiH    Bosnia and Herzegovina                 MDTS      Mid-Term Development
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy                      Strategy
CPS    Country Partnership Strategy           NPV       Net Present Value
ECA    Europe and Central Asia                PAD       Project Appraisal Document
EU     European Union                         PDO       Project Development
FBiH   Federation of Bosnia and                         Objective
       Herzegovina                            PMT       Project Management Team
GEF    Global Environment Facility            RS        Republika Srpska
IBRD   International Bank for                 UISDP     Urban Infrastructure Services
       Reconstruction and                               Development Project
       Development                            UFW       Unaccounted for Water
IDA    International Development              UMDP      Urban Management
       Association                                      Development Plan
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation              WTP       Water Treatment Plant
MDG    Millennium Development
       Goal



                          Vice President: Philippe H. Le Houerou
                        Country Director: Jane Armitage
                         Sector Manager: Steve Karam
                    Project Team Leader: Vesna Francic
                       ICR Team Leader: Stephane Dahan
                    BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
      URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 17
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 18
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 19
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 20
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 22
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 26
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 28
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 29
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 30
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 43
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 44
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Urban Infrastructure &
                        Bosnia and
Country:                                         Project Name:             Service Delivery
                        Herzegovina
                                                                           Project
Project ID:             P083353                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-39540,IDA-39541
ICR Date:               12/16/2011               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:                 BOSNIA AND
                                                                           HERZEGOVINA
Original Total
                        XDR 13.80M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 16.05M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 16.05M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 PMT in MoFTER
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       12/11/2003      Effectiveness:             02/23/2005        02/23/2005
Appraisal:            04/26/2004      Restructuring(s):
Approval:             07/08/2004      Mid-term Review:                             09/14/2009
                                      Closing:                   12/15/2009        06/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:      Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Highly Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Sanitation                                                            10                   3
Sub-national government administration                                25                  32
Water supply                                                          65                  65


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction                  33                  4
Other urban development                                               67                  96

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Jane Armitage                        Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:            Stephen George Karam                 Sumter Lee Travers
Project Team Leader:       Vesna Francic                        Seema Manghee
ICR Team Leader:           Stephane Raphael Dahan
ICR Primary Author:        Stephane Raphael Dahan


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the proposed project are threefold: (i) improve the availability, quality
and reliability of basic municipal services and in particular, water supply and sanitation;
(ii) strengthen the ability of cantonal and municipal governments to improve management
and institutional capacity for infrastructure development through Urban Management
Development Plans; and (iii) where possible, foster deeper social cohesion through
improvements in overall living conditions.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                             Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                               approval           Target        Completion or
                                              documents)          Values         Target Years
                  Piped household water connections that are benefiting from rehabilitation works
Indicator 1 :
                  undertaken by the project
Value
quantitative or   0                                                            80000
Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/08/2004                                                   06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Reduction of water losses
Value
quantitative or   73%                                                          38%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/08/2004                                                    06/30/2011
Comments          Indicator applied to Jahorina water sub-system (Pale), only utility where
(incl. %          activities were aligned with that objective. Values communicated by Pale utility
achievement)      during ICR mission.
Indicator 3 :     Share of population with continuous 24 hour water supply in Banja Luka
Value
quantitative or   73%                                            100%          100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/08/2004                                     02/25/2007    06/30/2011
Comments
                  100% achieved. Indicator applied to Banja Luka, only utility where activities
(incl. %
                  were aligned with that objective.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Number of finalized urban management plans
Value
quantitative or   0                                              7             6
Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/08/2004                                     02/25/2007    06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          86%
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Number of finalized business plans for utilities
Value
quantitative or   0                                              6             7
Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/08/2004                                     02/25/2007    06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          117%
achievement)
                  Number of utilities with established feedback mechanism for customer
Indicator 6 :
                  satisfaction
Value
quantitative or 1                                                4            6
Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/07/2004                                         02/25/2007   06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        150%
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                               Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                           Revised
                                                 approval                         Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                               documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Km of pipes rehabilitated
Value
(quantitative     0                                              40           113
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/08/2004                                     02/25/2007   06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          283%
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Number of water utilities that the project is supporting
Value
(quantitative     0                                              6            12
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/08/2004                                     02/25/2007   06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          200%
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Number of staff trained
Value
(quantitative     0                                                           60
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/08/2004                                                  06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                         IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1    11/30/2004       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    06/11/2005       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     1.29
  3    06/21/2006       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     2.01
  4    02/25/2007       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     6.78
  5    01/09/2008       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     8.63
  6    12/18/2008       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   10.79
  7    06/26/2009       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   11.43
  8    11/09/2009       Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory            11.91
  9    03/22/2010       Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory            12.65
                         Moderately
 10    07/30/2010                             Moderately Satisfactory            14.21
                       Unsatisfactory
 11    11/03/2010   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            15.21
 12    05/25/2011   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            19.08
 13    07/11/2011       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   20.02


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country background. The Dayton Peace Agreement, which ended the conflict in 1995,
gave Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) important governance features. BiH was constituted
as a country with a State Council of Ministers holding relatively limited powers, and two
largely autonomous sub-national Entities, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (the
Federation or FBiH) and Republika Srpska (RS) and a small autonomous Brcko District
(see map). The FBiH is divided into 10 cantons, each with its own executive, legislative,
and judicial branches of Government; each canton is divided into municipalities. The RS
is more centralized and divided into municipalities.

Since early 2001 and leading up to Appraisal of the Urban Infrastructure and Service
Delivery Project (UISDP), State and Entity governments were working together more
effectively than at any time since Dayton. Economic reform accelerated in some areas but
was less comprehensive than expected. Difficult policy decisions were either delayed or
proved too difficult to implement in the face of strong ethnic-based resistance and vested
interests embedded in a highly complex institutional environment. Nevertheless, some
objectives were achieved, including strengthening institutions and governance, which
contributed to significant progress in stabilization and association with the European
Union (EU).

Sector background. Local governments in BiH are responsible for delivery of key public
services and 85 percent of the population lives in about 60 municipalities of more than
20,000 inhabitants. Access to urban infrastructure had been high but due to the conflict
and lack of funds, rehabilitation and maintenance were neglected and service quality and
reliability plummeted. For example, in 2004 only 45 percent of households connected to
the public water supply system had full 24-hour service. The water and wastewater
network was in dismal condition; in some cities leakages reached 60 percent and energy
use was high. Most utilities experienced a perpetual financial crisis—collections were
low, tariffs were inadequate, and maintenance was poor. Communal housing was in high
demand, particularly among the many internally displaced people, but the stock of public
housing was seriously damaged in the conflict. The lack of funds, changing population
patterns, and urgent infrastructure needs required municipalities to update their urban
plans and carefully prioritize investment decisions.

Before the conflict, solid urban management capacity prevailed in BiH. However, some
of this capacity was lost following the Dayton Peace Agreement due to deep institutional
reorganization and reallocation of urban management responsibilities. In the water sector,
planning, regulation, and service provision are split among several ministries and
institutional layers—in particular in FBiH—which now requires intensive coordination to
modernize and reform the sector. To address these needs, Government sought financial
support from the World Bank to improve urban services among which, as priorities,
water supply and sanitation services, and to improve urban management tools and
capacity among local authorities.


                                            1
Rationale for Bank involvement. Since the end of the war, the World Bank has been a
major and reliable Government counterpart, staying involved in policy dialogue and
investments during a time when other donor financing declined or shifted to providing
only technical assistance. Since 1996 and the first Urgent Works Project, the Bank has
been extensively involved in water supply and sanitation and solid waste management.
Close coordination with Government has enabled the establishment of a functioning
water supply, sanitation and solid waste program. Other donors involved in the sector
under the FBiH‘s Ministry of Water Management Coordination, included the EU and
USAID providing technical assistance, and KfW and NORPLAN providing funds for
physical investments. In the infrastructure and energy sector, the Bank has achieved
considerable financial leverage with international partners, and it came to be expected
that the Bank would continue to serve as an intermediary to secure other donor financing
and help ensure that resources were used effectively (see PAD, section 1.1).

Contribution to higher-level objectives. The Project supported the Country Assistance
Strategy objective (CAS Progress Report No. 24978, October 15, 2002) of strengthening
weak fragmented governance to build a solid foundation for inclusive growth and
participation. The proposed Project would restore and improve access to municipal
services, particularly safe water supply for most of the population, which would help
achieve a key Millennium Development Goal (Target #10 under the Seventh Goal of
Ensuring Environmental Sustainability—to halve, by 2015, the proportion of people
without sustainable access to safe drinking water and basic sanitation).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The objectives of the proposed project are threefold: (i) improve the availability, quality
and reliability of basic municipal services and in particular, water supply and sanitation;
(ii) strengthen the ability of cantonal and municipal governments to improve management
and institutional capacity for infrastructure development through Urban Management
Development Plans; and (iii) where possible, foster deeper social cohesion through
improvements in overall living conditions.

Key performance indicators related to: (a) institutional strengthening (preparation of
urban management development plants); (b) water supply and sanitation services
coverage and continuity; (c) service efficiency (energy consumption and unaccounted for
water); (d) sustainability of service (financial working ratio); and (e) social indicators
(satisfaction survey).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
Not applicable.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The Project was expected to benefit: (i) six cantons/municipalities (some 1.3 million
people) through institutional strengthening, capacity-building activities and preparing
urban management plans; (ii) their residents, by improving urban services; (iii) at least



                                            2
six water utilities targeted by capacity building activities, and preparing business plans;
and (iv) residents supplied by these utilities, which would enjoy increased access and
improved services. The number of beneficiary utilities was expected to rise following the
utilities‘ selection process, and sourcing potential additional funding from other donors.

1.5 Original Components
Note: Budget amounts allocated to each component were not specified in the PAD.
However, it was envisaged during Project preparation that water and sanitation
investments would absorb about two-thirds of Project budget (US$13.3 million), and
urban activities about one-third (US$6.7 million).

Component 1. Institutional Strengthening: This component financed provision of and
training on financial management for institutional strengthening and capacity building;
drafting of annual Business Plans for each Utility; training on preparing Urban
Management Development Plans (UMDP); a study of the institutional capacity and
role/responsibility of the different levels of Government; and other appropriate capacity
building.

Component 2. Urban Management Development Plans and Investments*: This
component financed preparation of Urban Management Development Plans for selected
areas in order to identify priorities to improve operations and maintenance and maximize
investment benefits. The Urban Management Development Plans were intended to
analyze the present levels of operational efficiency; detail the past levels of maintenance;
identify those physical assets that need to be rehabilitated; and determine components in
the existing systems to meet the demands of service. The component also financed
investments in selected service sectors based on the conclusions of the strategic planning
process. The urban management component targeted: Banja Luka, Livno, Mostar,
Sarajevo, Tuzla and Srebrenica. (*Additional funding was expected to be secured from other donors)

Component 3. Investments for Improved Efficiency: This component financed least-
cost priority investments for system improvement, lowering energy usage and related
investments to water supply and sanitation utilities. Because of the vast differences in
institutional capacity and financial performances in the water supply and sanitation
utilities, the utilities would be grouped in three categories. Group A, selected up front,
would consist of three utilities that had benefitted from financial, institutional, technical,
environmental and social work during project preparation. They would be expected to
become financially viable and cover all their operating and maintenance costs by 2008.
Group B would be selected during the first year of project implementation, among those
that have undergone the same preparation work undertaken by Group A, but would be
expected to reach financial viability by 2009. Group C would target areas lacking social
cohesion after being badly affected during the postwar period. For financial, social and
economic reasons, these utilities could not be expected to reach financial viability during
project implementation. As a result, Group C would be provided with small amounts of
International Development Association (IDA) credit in addition to grant financing that
the Bank will seek to attract from other donors, to perform priority investments in the
water sector.



                                                3
Component 4. Engineering Services: This component would finance: planning and
design; engineering for the preparation of final designs and bidding documents; and
assistance with procurement and supervision of construction for investments.

Component 5. Project Implementation: This component would finance implementation
of the project; incremental operating costs related to all relevant expenses, salaries,
audits; guidance and training for Utilities and local governments on project
implementation; and a stakeholder education campaign on linkages between improved
service and willingness to pay.

1.6 Revised Components
The Project Components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes
The Board of Directors approved Additional financing (AF) of US$5.0 million equivalent
on June 19, 2007, designed to support UMDP implementation in Mostar and least-cost
priority investments in Group C water supply and sanitation utilities for system
improvement, for which financing was unavailable from the ongoing Credit or other
sources; AF objectives/implementation arrangements were unchanged from UISDP,
except the M&E framework (see para.2.3). Implementation was scheduled for 2007-10.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Background analysis. Project preparation built on an extensive dialogue and relationship
with Government since IDA‘s assistance program began in 1996 with the Emergency
Program, Mostar Water Supply and Sanitation Project, Solid Waste Management Project
and the GEF regional environmental program. During Project preparation, water supply
was confirmed as the national infrastructure priority. Thus, initially the Project was
planned as a vertically structured operation, focusing on water sector physical
investments. However, during Project preparation, all levels of government expressed
strong interest in improving urban services delivery more generally, particularly urban
management institutional capacity and undertaking urban management plans. The line
Ministries as well as the Ministries of Finance of both entities also sought to take
ownership of planning and allocating scarce resources based on local decisions as
opposed to donor led programs. Urban management plans were seen as a mechanism to
address planning, data collection and prioritization through a local and consultative
process. This demand was aligned with Government vision of national transition from
post-conflict emergency to sustainable development, as per the PRSP. Thus, the Project
focus expanded horizontally to include urban investments beyond water services, also
identified as priorities in the Mid-Term Development Strategy (MDTS) for 2004-07 and
in the National Environmental Action Plan 2003.

Assessment of Project design.

Project objectives and Government commitment. The ambitious Project objectives had
three outcome categories across multiple beneficiaries: (i) strengthen local government


                                           4
institutions; (ii) improve urban infrastructure/services, especially in the water sector; (iii)
reinforce social cohesion. By articulating upstream planning capacity building and
priority physical investments, the design reflected the Government‘s strategy to shift the
focus from emergency reconstruction to better–planned/sustainable development.
Confirming strong interest, some 60 utilities attended the beneficiary selection workshop
and several used their own resources to satisfy readiness criteria. Also, Municipalities and
Cantons supplied significant counterpart funding (15 percent of the Credit amount)
reflecting strong commitment to the project from different levels of Government from
early on in project preparation.

Many Project interventions with water utilities and local governments were relatively
low-cost/high-impact activities, justifying the expansion of beneficiaries. In the urban
sector, before the war, many beneficiaries understood strategic planning approaches and
had the technical capacity to develop them. Some were already preparing UMDPs and
needed support to complete them. Thus, only limited efforts were needed to re-
institutionalize sound urban planning practices or to update and leverage existing
capacity. Similar opportunities prevailed in the water sector, many utilities had inherited
reasonable capacity and partially functional water systems, and were already
implementing modernization programs, supported by local authorities or other donors.

Social cohesion was a common objective in post-conflict BiH Bank portfolio. Activities
were aligned with this objective in that the Project expanded opportunities for authorities
from both Entities to cooperate during Project implementation and to improve living
conditions in communities affected by ethnic tensions. The PAD appears to acknowledge
that any achievements in social cohesion would be opportunistic (―where possible‖) and a
by-product of other activities. Setting this as a higher-level objective (paragraph A.3)
could have been more consistent with the flexible definition assigned to it.

Project activities. To cover the PDO focusing on local governments, activities were split
between Component 1 (institutional strengthening) and Component 2 (preparing and
partially implementing the UMDPs). But the components were interdependent, which
complicated Project design—institutional strengthening would be achieved primarily
through preparing UMDPs. Among the six beneficiaries, needs varied widely in this
respect. Some needed only to complete their UMDPs (Sarajevo, Tuzla, Banja Luka);
others needed their institutional capacity overhauled (Mostar) and/or full preparation of a
UMDP (Srebrenica). The PAD offered no detailed descriptions of beneficiaries‘ status
and foresaw a national-level institutional capacity study. It is reasonable to assume that
subsequent policy dialogue would give the task team sufficient understanding of
beneficiary context, and that the average US$1.0 million per local government would
achieve the related PDO.

Allocating about US$14 million to improve water services availability, quality and
reliability (PDO) through physical investments was sound in principle. Identifying the
scope of beneficiaries and investments aligned with this objective was left to Project
implementation. The PAD expanded the scope of objectives beyond the main PDO
statement with key indicators of service efficiency and sustainability. Beyond physical



                                              5
investments that could contribute to loss reduction, energy-efficient equipment
installation, etc., the Project included annual business plan preparation and assistance to
the development of customer service culture in utilities. A business plan is in principle a
useful tool to rationalize budgets and to engage in tariff discussions with authorities, but
only if the utility is capable of diagnosing and addressing its operational performance and
needs. Improving sustainability would require substantial additional efforts to address
systemic causes of sector inefficiencies (policy guidance to restore institutional and
regulatory frameworks conducive to service performance). As stand-alone activities,
preparing business plans and developing customer service culture are not sufficient to
achieve the additional sustainability objective; nor were these activities likely to achieve
the ―improved efficiency‖ suggested by the misleading title of Component 3.

Identifying beneficiaries. Lower-tier institutions, particularly municipalities may be the
most stable institutions in the context of the complex institutional framework at State and
Entity levels inherited from the Dayton agreement. The UISDP was demand-driven and
the first Bank Project in BiH to support sub-national institutions by financing investments
based on their priorities and seeking to reinforce municipalities‘ key role in service
delivery. In BiH, governance is often impaired by political and ethnic tensions so
concentrating decision making at the local level is highly appropriate.

The open-ended strategy for identifying utilities revolved around a sound selection
process, which is recognized by IEG as a successful practice 1 : it was (i) flexible,
enabling utilities to benefit at their convenience; (ii) inclusive, creating high-level local
ownership by fostering competition among utilities; (iii) progressive, spreading
procurement efforts by the PMT over several years; and (iv) incremental, capitalizing on
early experiences, more-advanced utilities supported less-developed ones joining the
Project later: selecting urban component beneficiaries with various levels of capacity and
experience and organizing shared training events successfully created mentoring
dynamics between them.

Although there was no evidence of political favoritism, the Project lacked an elaborated
rule-based financing allocation framework and criteria specifying the number of
participating utilities, which are key features of a demand-driven approach. It lacked as
well a financial and economical analysis framework that would enable to set clear
efficiency objectives and to monitor their achievement.

Implementation arrangements. A strategic decision placed the PMT at State level rather
than duplicating it at Entity level. This approach was innovative in BiH, where typically,
each Entity authority wanted tight control over Project planning and implementation. The
decision emerged during Project preparation as a clear consensus among all stakeholders,
who wanted to strengthen BiH‘s institutional arrangements and avoid using scarce



1
  IEG 2009, Improving Municipal Management for Cities to Succeed: an IEG special
study



                                             6
resources to fund duplicate implementing agencies which is generally the normal practice
in BiH.. This enabled Government to (i) concentrate capacity-building in one
implementation team; (ii) simplify implementation arrangements since at Entity level (in
FBiH), water sector responsibility is shared among Ministries; (iii) foster knowledge-
sharing among beneficiaries of both Entities; and (iv) reduce Project management burden
and costs.

Risks and mitigation measures. The PAD discussed several risks, including: (i) the
complexity of mixing urban delivery services with water supply and sanitation; (ii) public
unwillingness to pay for improved services; (iii) BiH lack of interest in foreign technical
assistance; (iv) new facilities‘ excessive operation costs; and (v) fiduciary capacity. These
risks did not impact the Project. Successful mitigation measures contributed to a strong
sense of ownership among beneficiaries and efficient support to sub-implementing
entities compensated for their initial low capacity. Risks associated with procurement and
financial capacity appear to have been the most significant; but a dedicated PMT drove
the Project, despite low-capacity Entities. Considering the complex administrative setup
in BiH, implementing a multi-sector project in both FBiH and RS could have entailed
significant governance structure risks. Appointing a single Project management team for
investments in the two entities appears to have successfully reduced this key risk and
ensured cohesion across the range of sub-implementing agencies, political
administrations and geographical areas.

One key risk not highlighted during Project preparation but later identified for Mostar in
the AF Project paper was the potential for implementation delays in some municipalities
in the existing challenging national political environment, a risk that materialized in
Mostar and Lukavac. The water utility lost municipal support after a political turnaround
and eventually the Project had to drop this activity and reallocate funds to other
beneficiaries. Section 2.2 discusses the utility selection process, which efficiently
mitigated this risk during project design by creating a beneficiary ―wait-list‖.

2.2 Implementation
Implementation efficiency. Project design aimed to broaden areas of intervention over a
range of beneficiary sizes and capacities (20 subsidiary agreements were signed) but
during implementation, this presented coordination and supervision challenges. Multiple
factors helped overcome the challenges; Project design was based on effective policy
dialogue, a strong and trusted relationship between the Government and Bank developed
for close to a decade which captured strong buy-in from all beneficiaries. The
competitive selection process attracted highly motivated utilities and their preparation
efforts to meet readiness criteria enabled rapid implementation during early Project years.
Most Project interventions were relevant and conducive to significant outcomes, despite
the lack of a formal financing-allocation framework. A particularly successful strategy
was pooling beneficiaries according to capacity and readiness levels, which allowed the
PMT to space procurement and monitoring efforts during the Project and gain experience
with more-advanced clients before assisting the less-advanced. Annual review workshops
that included different elements of training for all beneficiaries were instrumental to
develop beneficial mentoring relationships between clients with different levels of
experience and capacity, which the PMT strongly encouraged. The Project engendered a


                                             7
tremendous spirit of cooperation reflected in these mentoring relationships, through
which advanced beneficiaries provided substantial support to the neediest clients in the
preparation of bidding documents, in contracts management, strategic planning, and even
beyond formal Project activities. The highly professional and dedicated PMT appears to
have been crucial to providing close support and intensive training to all Project
Implementation Teams (PITs), and generally key to Project success.

Establishing a single State-level PMT reduced the burden of managing beneficiaries in
both Entities and in various sectors. The PMT benefitted by including professionals from
both Entities, which enabled to build links and easy collaboration with each Entity.
Strong cooperation between the Bank team and clients all through supervision allowed
for close monitoring of sub-projects and adequate intervention/guidance where needed.

Implementation delays. Implementation progress was very impressive considering the
challenging post-conflict context. Disbursement pace was steady, especially during early
Project years when investments focused on Group A utilities. Two significant
implementation delays occurred in later Project years; the team was proactive in raising
issues with the client and Bank management, including through the Mid-term review, and
in pursuing alternatives. In Mostar, a political stalemate froze the city council for more
than a year after local elections, delaying all Project activities in October 2008, and the
Lukavac water utility lost municipal support after a political turnaround. In both cases,
the team worked with the Borrower to reallocate funds if issues remained unsolved.
Indeed, Lukavac funds were reallocated to Bosanska Krupa, where the selected utility
managed to prepare and procure all activities within six months and finalize them before
Project closing. Once again, the utility selection process enabled the Borrower to identify
eligible alternate beneficiaries that were sufficiently prepared to fast-track into the Project.
Implementation delays in the Mostar sub-project and in Group C activities prompted a
Project extension of 18 months. Savings from exchange-rate fluctuations increased
Project funds by more than US$2.0 million in later years and major efforts were needed
to ensure that most activities were finalized on time, indicating high quality Project
supervision. Other minor implementation delays were related to rebidding and complex
IT procurement procedures.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design. Several deficiencies in M&E framework design were identified: (i) the
results table in the PAD included no baseline or target values; (ii) the three main outcome
indicators and many others were defined in purely qualitative terms; (iii) generally, no
indicator unit or calculation methodology was provided; (iv) UISDP was designated an
urban Project but water sector indicators dominated the framework; (v) as explained in
section 2.1, some indicators reflected outcomes peripheral to Project activities; and (vi)
all indicators were presented as aggregated values across all selected beneficiaries,
including water supply services performance indicators.

In part, this results from Project design flexibility (in particular, Component 3 and
Component 2 priority) where it was impossible to predict the relative composition of the



                                               8
Project due to its demand-driven approach. Indicators and baselines were updated with
ECA Quality team support after the 2006 Group B utilities selection. Performance
indicators were disaggregated to utility level. The framework applied each indicator to
each Group A and B utilities, whereas typically investment scope for each utility was
connected to only one or two indicators (e.g., water loss reduction was monitored in
Banja Luka but investments focused on the treatment plant). The updated results
framework retained several indicators related to higher-level objectives such as water
services sustainability, but Project activities‘ contribution could be only marginal in most
cases. Finally, the social cohesion focus shifted to social capital; this was discussed in
Social Assessment studies, but the proposed indicator was not formally linked to any of
the social capital dimensions discussed in that study.

M&E implementation. After the 2006 framework update, Project M&E was carried out
regularly, including progress monitoring reports. The third PDO, improving social
cohesion, could not be monitored, nor could baseline and target values be assigned
because the calculation methodology was unclear. Similarly, target values remained
undefined for the first PDO and one intermediate indicator. A deeper revision of the
M&E framework could have been considered after the scope of activities was known.

M&E utilization. Project progress was documented in monitoring reports. A review of
ISRs indicates that the task team raised issues for management consideration in a timely
and transparent manner during supervision, thereby flagging emerging risks and seeking
guidance. The PMU monitored progress through reports received from regional-level
Project implementation teams but efforts and quantitative achievements towards the
development objectives were not covered.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
The Project triggered World Bank Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) and Projects
on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50); Environmental Assessment was carried out.

Environmental safeguards. In addition, Environmental Mitigation Plans (EMPs) were
carried out, specific to each of the four sub-project investments identified before
appraisal. For sub-projects identified after appraisal and those included in AF,
Environmental Screening and Evaluation Procedures (ESEP) were prepared and
disclosed. The Project remained in compliance with World Bank Safeguard Policies and
utility staff diligence was noted as a significant contributing factor. After EMPs noted
minor deficiencies, the PMT and selected utilities received additional training in 2009
ensure understanding of safeguards compliance responsibilities. Also, the PMT
participated in World Bank regional training on environmental compliance.

Social safeguards. No significant negative social impact was anticipated during Project
preparation. Although no investments required land acquisition or resettlement, a
Resettlement Policy Framework was prepared, but never required.

Fiduciary compliance




                                             9
Procurement. Procurement planning, staffing, filing and actions/decisions considered
together with contract administration/physical inspections is rated Satisfactory.

Financial Management and Disbursement. Project FM risk was High for inherent risk,
and Moderate for Control risk. A strong PMT substantially mitigated inherent risks in
managing credit proceeds, and providing PITs with FM training and support. Two
utilities experienced delays in contracting auditors; BiH lacked auditing firms that
complied with World Bank requirements so international auditors were recruited, which
was costly and difficult to access for small utilities. Therefore, local auditors were
allowed to be selected, which provided exchanges and learning opportunities between
auditors and utilities. Overall financial and disbursement arrangements were Satisfactory.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
No post-completion operation is being considered, but should this arise, investments
identified in the UMDPs would consolidate and leverage Project achievements and result
in a scaled up operation benefiting from activities completed under Component 2.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Relevance of the PDO. The PDO statement remains aligned with BiH development
priorities, such as improved municipal services delivery. The Project contributed to goals
outlined in the 2008-11 CPS, prioritizing investments to improve infrastructure and
service delivery. Under the first CPS pillar, the Project supported BiH to (i) improve key
infrastructure and (ii) strengthen regional cooperation to manage public goods; under the
second CPS pillar, the Project supported BiH to improve municipal services delivery and
strengthen municipal finance. In a country with fragile institutions and post-conflict
environment, the national government‘s orientation has been towards delivering services
as close as possible to the people, and the project has been aligned with that goal.

Relevance of design. Component 1 implementation was limited primarily to fiduciary
and environment aspects; no specific training on operational matter, to the exception of
customer service culture development, was provided. Institutional strengthening of urban
management authorities was realized through preparing UMDPs (Component 2), and
included: coordinating local stakeholders, clarifying urban management responsibilities,
UMDP review and adoption by local authorities, etc. In the water sector, selected
beneficiary numbers and investment scopes enabled meaningful results aligned with the
water PDO. In many cases, (Cazin, Vares, Srebrenica, Banja Luka, etc.), these
investments leveraged substantial investments in water systems financed locally or by
other donors. Most Project design elements reflected Government preference for a
demand-driven approach, aligning investments with local government priorities but some
demand-driven characteristics were lacking, e.g., an elaborated rule-based financing
allocation framework, and criteria defining the number of participating utilities.

Relevance of implementation. The Project maintained focus on water and urban
components as originally designed; needs addressed by these activities remained relevant



                                           10
throughout implementation in the framework of BiH and Bank objectives. The Project
team might have considered revising PDOs (restructuring) after it was clear that Project
contributions to social cohesion would be isolated and very difficult to measure.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

PDO 1 (Water and sanitation, and other urban services): To the extent that the
Project M&E framework is inadequate to assess Project achievements (see section 2.3),
the evaluation below (i) uses additional outcome indicators aligned with PDOs and with
Project activities, (ii) applies water-related indicators to all beneficiaries, not only Group
A and B utilities, and (iii) does not consider M&E indicators that are not connected to
Project activities. Most figures below were collected during ICR preparation missions.

Overall, about 189,000 inhabitants benefited 2 from project investments, in some cases
complemented with parallel investments: more than 80,000 inhabitants gained access to
water supply services; water is now supplied in compliance with national quality
standards for 38,000 inhabitants; full service continuity was achieved for 98,000
inhabitants. Road improvement outcomes were significant; for the first time 18,000
inhabitants are connected to urban centers. Aside from outcomes directly linked to
physical investment, these activities have enabled utilities to: achieve sufficient
operational credibility with Municipalities to be entrusted with the provision of services
in neighboring settlements (Vares); increase revenues through water sales to other
Municipalities (Posusje); increase customers confidence in the utilities‘ capacity to
improve services and to raise public financial contributions for more service extensions
(Bosanska Krupa); apply the experience of working with the World Bank to solicit and
access funds from other IFIs (Cazin and Banja Luka); understand their financial needs/
constraints through preparing business plans, which improves capacity to discuss tariffs
with municipalities or to explain tariffs to the public (Cazin); develop customer-oriented
cultures and internal processes addressing customers satisfaction (all utilities).

PDO 2 (Institutional strengthening in the urban sector). Institutional strengthening is
a broad challenge; evaluating it is complex and should extend beyond the proposed
output indicator (number of UMDPs prepared). However, this indicator could be
considered a sufficiently meaningful proxy to assume institutional strengthening, to the
extent that document preparation process involved extensive consultations and
coordination activities. This is illustrated in particular by less-advanced beneficiaries
such as Mostar, where an urban planning institute was created and the Project defined a
path to financial reintegration for the city; or Livno, where unprecedented coordination
took place between the municipality and the newly formed canton to prepare the UMDP.
During Project preparation, all UMDPs were completed and six of seven were adopted by
authorities, confirming urban planning practice mainstreaming in local urban governance,
and recognizing the legal value of these documents in municipal/canton constitutions.


2
 or were about to benefit at the time of ICR preparation, as works financed locally or by other donors where in their
completion phase.




                                                          11
Beneficiaries have underlined benefits to governments and citizens, including: clarifying
land use plans improved local authorities‘ capacity to issue construction permits; public
disclosure of permits mitigated speculation or corruption risks related to land investments.
Improved procurement and fiduciary capacity was acknowledged as a key asset for post-
Project activities (Sarajevo). Overall, through UISDP, the urban management platform
and capacity set-up has enabled beneficiaries to access additional funds from other IFIs
(e.g., Tuzla Canton). The UMPs are now key tools to identify and leverage specific
economic potential (Livno Canton, Mostar). Finally, extensive PMT training and
experience achieved significant State-level strengthening and that capacity now supports
more projects (including Bank-financed Sarajevo Wastewater Project and GEF-financed
Neretva & Trebisnjica Project) managed by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic
Relations. The EU recognized this model as crucial to consolidating the State apparatus.

PDO3 (Social cohesion). As discussed, no Project activity was designed specifically to
support this objective and no significant trend can be attributed to Project implementation.
Social cohesion achievements were evaluated using conclusions from social assessment
studies in 2004 (baseline) and 2010. Sub-indicators were public trust in various levels of
government, community cooperation and activities, and general level of trust within
communities, which were proxies for social cohesion. Through working on physical
infrastructure, stakeholders from different Entities or ethnic groups had opportunities to
increase cooperation; significant among these was Banja Luka municipality support to
Srebrenica during UMDP preparation. In addition, the Project achieved improved living
conditions in vulnerable areas (Srebrenica, Vares, etc.) and the reintegration of Mostar,
which had been divided along three ethnic lines. It also fostered the improvement of
customer services culture within utilities. The impacts on social cohesion however
important in BiH during that time are difficult to measure or to clearly demonstrate their
link to Project activities.




                                            12
                       Outcomes related to water and sanitation service - available quantitative data (for output figures see Annex 2)
              Banja Luka         Reliability (PDO): 24/7 services continuity fully achieved for 80,000 additional inhabitants (27% of city pop.)
                                 Project leveraged access (PDO) to improved water services for 20,000 additional inhabitants (distribution system
                                 built with KfW financing).
              Posusje            Quality (PDO): Drinking water compliant with national quality standards for 11,500 inh. (64% of town pop.)
                                 Project leveraged access (PDO) to improved water services for 11,500 inhabitants (local financing)
              Bosanska Krupa     Availability (PDO): Access to improved water services to be provided to 10,000 additional inh. (40% of town pop.)
                                 Note: distribution networks under completion with USAID, Cantonal, Municipal and pop. financial contributions.
Component 3




              Cazin              Availability (PDO): Access to improved water services for 20,000 additional inh. (25% of town pop.), achieved
                                 with the parallel financing of secondary network by the Municipality.
              Pale               Availability (PDO): Access to improved sanitation services for 600 additional inh. (2% of town pop.)
                                 Service efficiency: Reduction of losses in Jahorina sub-system: 73% to 38% (data provided by Pale utility 05/31/11)
              Vares              Availability (PDO): Access to improved water services for 4,000 additional inh. (30% of town pop.)
                                 Reliability (PDO): 24/7 services continuity fully achieved for about 14,000 inhabitants (no baseline available)
                                 Efficiency: Reduction of losses (from ~ %45 to %30); Energy costs reduced ~ 5 folds.
              Srebrenica         Availability (PDO): Access to improved water services for 480 additional inh. (1.3% of town pop.)
                                 Reliability (PDO): 24/7 services continuity fully achieved for about 4,000 inh. (< 12h/day availability before)
                                 Quality (PDO): Drinking water compliant with national quality standards for 4,000 inhabitants, achieved with the
                                 parallel financing of secondary network by other donors.
              Kalesija (Tuzla)   Quality (PDO): Drinking water compliant with national quality standards for 14,000 additional inh. (all town pop.).
              Teocak (Tuzla)     Quality (PDO): Drinking water compliant with national quality standards for 8,000 additional inh. (~ 90% of town
Component 2




                                 pop.). Project leveraged access (PDO) to improved water services for 8,000 inhabitants (distribution system built
                                 with local financing under commissioning at the time of ICR preparation).
              Sredevici ( Canton Availability (PDO): Access to improved water services for 5,562 additional inh., conditioned to the implementation
              Livno)             of the secondary network by the Municipality (planned).
              Glamoc (Canton Availability (PDO): Access to improved water services for 360 inh. Another 400 inhabitants to benefit indirectly
              Livno)             from Project financed water mains after completion of distribution networks by Municipality (underway)
                                                        Outcomes related to other urban services (available quantitative data)
              Banja Luka         Availability (PDO): Access to public roads linked with regional transport was provided to 18,800 inh. in villages.
Comp. 2




                                 This enabled the development of public bus transportation connecting this 18,000 inh. to urban centers.
              Bosansko Grahovo Availability (PDO): Access to electricity services for 68 inhabitants (~1% of town pop.)
              Tomislavgrad       Rehabilitation of Industrial Zone with capacity of 16 business plots. 8 already sold to SMEs (35 employees)


                                                                            13
3.3 Efficiency
The original Project design specified no procedures for economic analysis and sub-
project appraisal. As a result, Project efficiency is difficult to evaluate and limited to
general assessments. Overall, all selected sub-projects appeared technically justified and
were subject to competitive bidding processes, which contributed to Project efficiency.
All activities were carried out as planned within the budget initially allocated

Water investments of about US$18 million benefited 189,000 inhabitants, about two
thirds gained access to water services for the first time and the other third benefited
essential services improvements through higher water quality or service continuity. This
would lead to a general ratio of 95 USD/beneficiary, which enables to characterize these
urban water system investments as very efficient. However, most investments actually
focused on limited components of water and sanitation systems and relied on parallel
financing and/or the functional condition of other water system components to achieve
the main outcomes. Therefore investment efficiency ratios cannot be applied retroactively
as in stand-alone projects, except in a few cases: Kalesija and Teocak (with very efficient
treatment plan investments of respectively 75 and 121 US$/pp.).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Implementing physical infrastructure and strengthening urban sector institutions were
ambitious endeavors in this fragile country often paralyzed by an intricate governance
system and ethnic tensions. In light of this, the UISDP was highly successful. The Project
was clearly relevant for sustainable development in Bosnia-Herzegovina and remains so.
Significant progress was made in line with the PDOs with water utilities and local
governments (but most cannot be assessed against predefined targets). Measurable
progress cannot be substantiated towards achieving the PDO on social cohesion, but the
PAD clearly suggested that any achievement in that direction would be a by-product of
other activities, which justifies not assigning this PDO the same weight as to the two
others. Project implementation has faced challenges but perseverant stakeholders, sound
and innovative implementation arrangements and dedicated task team support contributed
to satisfactory Project effectiveness . In sum, most objectives were achieved in a complex
environment and overall implementation was efficient; the ICR rates the Project outcome
as Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Not applicable

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
Assessed in paragraph 3.2.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Through the utilities selection process, many utilities strove to comply with eligibility
criteria that included identifying and rationalizing their needs and priorities and preparing




                                             14
upstream engineering studies. Although few utilities could be selected for the Project,
many more benefited from the planning exercise and preparing their own development.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
The final implementation completion mission was conducted from September 26-30,
2011. Representatives from Ministries and more than 20 beneficiaries from the Urban
Infrastructure Service Delivery Project (UISDP) attended the implementation completion
workshop to present their achievements (section 3.2) and experiences. Among other
factors, participants noted in particular that UISDP success was based on strong support
from the PMT and knowledge-sharing among beneficiaries.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
The sustainability of Project outcomes in the urban sector will depend on whether
beneficiary urban management plans are implemented. All but one UMDPs were adopted
by authorities and plan applications have been mainstreamed in local governance systems
(if not already the case). At least four beneficiaries have begun implementing UMDP
activities. Overall, risk to institutional capacity for urban management is low. Among the
most financially viable utilities, the sustainability of Project outcomes in the water sector
is unclear according to the latest utilities financial statements. As explained in Annex 3,
only two of four Group A/B utilities have closed 20103 with an operating ratio below 1,
although the 2011 outlook seems more positive. Sustainability is a systemic question, not
specific to Project activities. Long-term sustainability will hinge on the status of sector
reforms to address governance and financial challenges. Assessment of risk to
development outcome is rated Moderate.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
The PDOs‘ definition may have been too ambitious in this post-conflict environment.
Project-financed investments were highly relevant, focused on national priorities, and
identified low-cost high-impact activities that leveraged pre-war capacities and other
ongoing projects. Project design was not equipped to reach several higher-level
objectives, but paved the way for their future achievement. Implementation arrangements
were well thought out, particularly innovative in the BiH context with strong
commitment from all levels of Government and both Entities, and enabled
implementation to surmount Project design issues. The beneficiary rule-based financing
allocation framework and activities financial and economic analysis methodologies were
not elaborated. The M&E framework was insufficiently prepared, creating monitoring
difficulties during Project implementation. The ICR rates Bank performance in ensuring
quality-at-entry as Moderately Unsatisfactory.




3
    2009 data is used for Bosanska Krup, where 2010 figures were not available at the time of investigations.



                                                      15
(b) Quality of Supervision
Throughout the implementation period, the Bank team performed regular supervision
missions and flagged delays and other issues for management attention or some form of
resolution. In this context during delays in Mostar and Lukavac due to political issues
beyond Project control, the task team initiated problem solving on how to move forward
by reallocating resources or other means. Such proactivity was a key asset to support
smooth project implementation in such a complex project context. The Client expressed
as well a full satisfaction with Bank performance (see Annex 7). Overall Project
implementation progressed satisfactorily despite some disbursement delays in the most
recent period, and the frequency and quality of Bank supervision clearly contributed to
that success. However, once Project beneficiaries and scopes of activities were fully
clarified, the Bank could have realigned the PDO and M&E framework with activities
through project restructuring, which undermined the relevance of project achievements
monitoring and assessment.Overall, the ICR rates therefore the quality of Bank
supervision as Moderately Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
The ICR rates overall Bank performance as Moderately Satisfactory, based on a
Moderately Unsatisfactory rating of Bank performance to ensure quality-at-entry, a
Moderately Satisfactory rating of supervision quality, and an overall Project outcome
rating of Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Government performance is Satisfactory. Throughout Project implementation,
counterparts in FBiH/RS Government and local levels demonstrated strong commitment
to the Project, as illustrated by selecting a single PMT to support implementation in both
Entities. Cooperation with the Bank team was good; issues were dealt with
collaboratively. The PMT functioned well and worked collegially with utilities, which
was critical in a fragile political context that could have fragmented activities, increased
costs, and prevented knowledge-sharing among Entity officials. However, difficulties did
arise in Mostar and Lukavac during implementation at municipal government level.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Implementing agency performance is Highly Satisfactory. A single agency was
responsible for Project implementation and all fiduciary aspects, including financial
management and procurement; FBiH/RS officials and Bank staff highly appreciated
agency efforts to ensure efficient and effective Project implementation despite country
context challenges. The PMT provided for instance remarkable support to low-capacity
Srebrenica, including establishing a cross-ethnic partnership with beneficiaries in Banja
Luka.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Overall Borrower Performance is rated Satisfactory, based on Satisfactory rating
of Government performance, Highly Satisfactory rating of implementing agency
performance, and overall Project outcome rating of Satisfactory.



                                            16
6. Lessons Learned

In fragile contexts, ring-fence Project management teams from political interference and
place Project implementation with direct beneficiaries. Administrative fragmentation,
excessive politicization, ethnic tensions, and weak public governance could have blocked
implementation arrangements. The UISDP shifted implementation responsibility to
lower-tier government bodies that are in direct contact with Project objectives and
rationale. In parallel, Project management was established in State Ministries minimally
exposed to political interference, and focused on ―technical‖ administration. This optimal
solution surmounted major administrative fragmentation prevailing in BiH. Only one
earlier project, the Solid Waste Development Project had established a single PMT for
FBiH and RS activities. Replicating this arrangement facilitated Project implementation.

In post-conflict contexts, stay focused on a few essential activities even if opportunities
abound. Despite extensive destruction to infrastructure, an educated and competent
workforce lent optimism for fast recovery. However, UISDP demonstrates that to achieve
measurable outcomes, Project objectives must focus on a few core activities.
Nevertheless, the lure of abundant low-cost high-return opportunities in infrastructure,
services, and human development was understandable in BiH, a few years after the end of
the war.

Expand capacity through mentoring opportunities between beneficiaries. The PMT was
instrumental in fostering close partnerships between urban sector beneficiaries with
vested interests, ethnic differences, and no prior relationship; this support encouraged
diligent Project implementation among low-capacity beneficiaries and created useful
sectoral relationships that will probably endure far beyond project closing. This strategy
is useful in small or medium-size countries with small communities of sector
practitioners where beneficiaries have reputational incentives to support one another.

Eligibility criteria transparency for UISDP participation was an incentive for utilities.
The Project began with four eligible utilities but transparent criteria provided a roadmap
for water sector utilities to receive much-needed low-cost investments, which helped
them rationalize and prioritize their needs; some progressed to design activities. Selection
criteria sparked competition among utilities to secure investments from a limited pool of
funds, and the selection mechanism created a beneficiary ―wait list‖ that enabled rapid
reallocation and enhanced implementation flexibility.

Future involvement in the water sector should bring focus on efficiency and
sustainability. Despite significant infrastructure development achievements and service
improvements, many beneficiaries still faced at project completion operational and
financial challenges. Along with further system expansion efforts, substantial efforts
should now be geared towards addressing systemic causes of sector inefficiencies (policy
guidance to restore institutional and regulatory frameworks conducive to service
performance).




                                            17
Consider a Project restructuring/ M&E framework update if Project evaluation could be
undermined by beneficiary selection process and flexible activity scope. The utility
selection process was relevant in the Project framework, and linking investments to
finalized urban management plans was sound. However, many Project outcomes could
not be captured by the original M&E framework, which prevents attribution to Project
efforts. Such situation would justify M&E framework or PDO updates through Project
restructuring.

Project outcome assessments should be continuous. Implementation Status Reports
(ISRs) often focus on implementation difficulties and processes, leaving evaluation of
outputs and outcomes to the ICR exercise. Closer attention to Project monitoring would
reveal critical results framework deficiencies, document outcomes less visible at Project
closing, and focus on achieving defined targets.

Stable task management combining technical expertise and local knowledge improves
project implementation. A key ingredient in Project success was dedicated efforts of both
PMT and Bank team. Some problems in Bank projects can arise when task management
changes during implementation. In UISDP, continuous involvement of a strong local
team aided smooth implementation. Projects such as the UISDP require continuity and
client discussions revealed that an ongoing, almost daily dialogue resolved many
potential delays to implementation, and created a stronger Project and satisfactory day to
day supervision. Even with the best of intentions, a core project team may not have been
able to fully deal with the number of complex issues that came up during implementation
from abroad without a strong sector presence in the field.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Not applicable

(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable




                                           18
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                                      Actual/Latest
                                  Appraisal Estimate                       Percentage of
            Components                               Estimate (USD
                                   (USD millions)                           Appraisal
                                                        millions)
1. Institutional Strengthening                               0
2. Urban Management                   No estimate
Development Plans and               breakdown per           10.05
Investments                        component was
                                                                           Not applicable
3. Investments of Improved         provided in the
                                                            14.20
Efficiency                           PAD or Loan
4. Engineering Services               Agreement              0.30
5. Project Implementation                                    0.45
              Total Baseline Cost          25.00            25.00              100%
Physical Contingencies
                                         0.00               0.00                 -
Price Contingencies
                                         0.00               0.00                 -
             Total Project Costs        25.00               0.00
Front-end fee PPF                        0.00               0.00                .00
Front-end fee IBRD                       0.00               0.00                .00
     Total Financing Required           25.00               0.00




(b) Financing
                                                 Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                     Type of      Estimate   Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                   Cofinancing     (USD       (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)  millions)
Borrower                                         no estimate   3.71         -
International Development
                                                    25.00          25.00          100%
Association (IDA)




                                          19
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1. Institutional Strengthening: This component financed:

Activity                          Outputs
 provision of and training on    28 staff from 6 utilities trained in municipal finance,
    financial management for      tariff policy; 12 staff trained in procurement; 20 staff
    institutional strengthening   from 7 utilities trained in customer service program.
    and capacity building;        Staff from all utilities trained in environmental
 training on preparing           issues/procedures.
    UMDPs;
 drafting of annual Business     Utilities involved in the Project (Banja Luka,
    Plans for each Utility;       Srebrenica, Bosanska Krupa, Posusje, Pale, Vares,
                                  Stolac and Cazin) have been preparing annual Business
                                  Plans.
 a study of the institutional    Dropped (since the Bank had prepared a comprehensive
  capacity and role               report on Local Governance and Service Delivery in
  /responsibility of the          BiH in 2009, a separate study under the Project was
  different levels of             considered irrelevant)
  Government.
 and other appropriate           Working papers that have been prepared to assist the
  capacity building               implementation of customer service cultures in local
                                  utilities in the country.


Component 2. Urban Management Development Plans and Investments*: This
component financed:

Activity                Outputs
 preparation of        Urban Management Development Plans have been fully
    UMDPs for           finalized in: Tuzla, Banja Luka, Sarajevo, Mostar, Srebrenica
    selected areas.     and Livno.
                        Spatial development plan was prepared for Republika Srpska.
                        A financial reintegration report was prepared for the city of
                        Mostar.
 investments in        Canton Tuzla: drinking water plants have been built in three
  selected service      municipalities: Kalesija (30 l/s) and Teocak (30 l/s). Mechanical
  sectors based on      treatment has been implemented for wastewater flowing into
  the conclusions of    Zivinice reservoir.
  the strategic         Canton Livno: various public infrastructure works have been
  planning process.     carried out (water and sewage networks rehabilitation, public
                        lightning, local roads) in six municipalities: Tomislavgrad,
                        Glamoc, Livno, Kupres, Drvar, and Bosansko Grahovo.
                        Banja Luka: local roads (8.7 km) have been modernized and
                        reconstructed.
                        Mostar: urban parking system (1600 systems + management



                                           20
                            system) implemented.
                            Srebrenica: refurbishment of 5 residential buildings.



Component 3. Investments for Improved Efficiency: This component financed

Activity                    Outputs
 least-cost priority       Group A:
    investments for         Banja Luka: the water treatment (600 l/s) has been modernized
    system                  (construction of water filters, the upgrade of the clarification,
    improvement,            preozonation and chemical dosing systems, improvement of the
    lowering energy         laboratory) and treated water storage have been implemented
    usage and related       (7000 m3).
    investments to          Posusje: major components of the water system have been built (
    water supply and        main supply pipeline Tribistovo-Posusje (600 mm, 5 km), water
    sanitation utilities.   treatment plan (100 l/s), and clean water reservoirs (3000 m3)).

                            Group B:
                            Pale: (i) Water supply in Jahorina: leakage detection program
                            have been carried out and related equipment purchased;
                            equipment for remote water consumption reading have been
                            installed; (ii) Sewerage: Jahorina-Pale transport main has been
                            rehabilitated and secondary sewerage networks extended;.
                            Cazin: primary networks have been rehabilitated and extended
                            (43 km).
                            Bosanska Krupa: water supply network has been rehabilitated
                            and extended in six villages of the Municipality (22km) and
                            9,000 meters have been installed.

                            Group C:
                            Sbrebrenica: various facilities of the water system have been
                            upgraded (water intake, settling tank, electric power to enable
                            control and monitoring, water networks, etc).
                            Vares: the water supply network (43 km) has been rehabilitated
                            and the main pumping station upgraded, system regulation
                            equipment installed and utility operational equipment procured.
                            Stolac: equipment for the cleaning of septic tanks has been
                            purchased, as well as various tools and equipment for networks
                            maintenance.




                                               21
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The Economic and Financial Analysis presented in the PAD focuses on a limited scope of
Project activities: on Group A utilities of Component 3 (Investments for Improved
Efficiency) activity, representing around 50 percent of total Project cost. Component 1
(Institutional Strengthening), Component 2 (UMDPs and related Investments), and
Component 3 in Group B and C activities are not covered by the analysis.

The analysis consisted in the projection of year 2003 financial statements for Banja Luka,
Posusje and Lukavac utilities up to the end of year 2009. The main hypotheses were
formulated in terms of water sales, domestic water tariffs, total revenues and operating
costs. The main simulation output indicator was the operating ratio. The proposed
analysis therefore focuses on the compliance with the utilities financial covenant. It does
not focus specifically on financial and economical returns of the Project investments and
therefore it cannot be used at Project completion stage to assess its efficiency.

A review of financial performance of five utility companies participating in the Project
(Banja Luka, Posusje, Cazin, Pale and Bosanska Krupa) was conducted following the
same approach as the one developed in the PAD: by December 31, 2008, the Federation
of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska were to ensure that each of the Group
A (Banja Luka, Lukavac, Posusje) and Group B utilities (Cazin, Pale) would end fiscal
years with total revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of its operating and
maintenance expenses, including depreciation. Companies‘ 2009 and 2010 audit reports
and business plans have been reviewed (subject to availability). Based on the above, all
companies seem to be in compliance with the covenant described above. However, the
utility companies did not provide any information related to its debt service requirements,
in line with the Section 3.03 of the Project Agreements.

General assessment

Based on the companies‘ financial statements, the operating ratio (ratio of operating costs
to operating revenues) remains constant in the recent years – around 1, with slight
deterioration (measured by median and average values). Only one out of four companies
has closed 2010 with operating ratio below 1 (operating revenues were sufficient to cover
annual costs of operation, including depreciation), while 2011 outlook seems more
positive. The fifth utility, for which data was only available in 2009, also showed
operating ratio below 1. A key assumption used at appraisal (that incremental water
consumption would be positive) was clearly not realistic in the context of BiH, as
confirmed by historical observations.

In some cases, operating revenues often include subsidies from the local government, and
therefore, the figures provided may not be favorable to prove the self-sustainability of
companies‘ operations. Still, it should be noted that in most cases those subsidies are
relatively small when compared to total operating revenues.
Unfortunately, no detailed information was available about companies‘ performance
(such as current level of tariffs and its structure, collection ratio, staffing, current debts,



                                              22
etc), so it was not possible to analyze further the utilities‘ financial situation, or to
formulate recommendations. Details are presented below.


Business Planning. Under Component 1, the Project supports institutional strengthening
of utility companies. As part of the efforts to improve their business practices and achieve
financial sustainability, the companies are preparing business plans on an annual basis.
The five companies under Groups A, B and C have prepared their 2011 plans. At the time
of ICR mission plans were available for three of them, and it should be noted that all of
them planned to end 2011 with a profit, with an improved operating performance.

The business plans provide an outline for annual financial planning, but they would
benefit from strengthened links between operational and financial performance. For
example, some plans proved to be too optimistic in terms of financial performance,
and would therefore definitely benefit from using realistic data on projected
(decreasing) water consumption, which in turn has a large impact on projected
revenues. During project implementation, the supervision mission had recommended
that the subsequent plans include clear targets to be achieved, in form of measurable
indicators (such as reduction of UFW, improvement of operating ratio, collection rate,
etc). The plans should also describe the actions needed to reach those targets.

Banja Luka. The company‘s official financial statements show profit in the last four
years. In 2010, the company‘s operating revenues amounted to almost 13 million
BAM, with total revenues at 14.3 million BAM. Still, the company‘s operating
revenues were not sufficient to cover its operating expenditures. No data are available
regarding the tariff levels, collection rate, staffing plans, etc. Assumptions made
concerning the water sales volumes at appraisal have been largely overestimated. These
volumes have actually decreased by 27 percent since 2003. However, water tariffs and
cost related to water volumes were both overestimated at appraisal stage:
 domestic tariffs have risen from 0.25 BAM per m3 in 2003 to 0.40 BAM per m3 in
    2009, very close to the projected 0.50 BAM per m3;
 operational costs were expected to reach 1,050 BAM per m3 sold at appraisal stage.
    They have actually reached in average 870 BAM per m3 over the 2007-2009 period.

In consequence, despite inaccurate sales projections, the operating ratios levels around 1
have eventually been observed, as expected.

                     Sales (000 m3)                             Revenues (000 BAM - constant 2003)
                                                                                                                      Forecast
  30,000                                            30,000
  25,000                                            25,000
                                                                                                                      Observed

  20,000                                            20,000
  15,000                                            15,000
  10,000                                            10,000
   5,000                                             5,000                                                           3,000
                                                                                                                     2,500
                                                                                                                     2,000
                                                                                                                     1,500
                                                                                                                     1,000
                                                                                                                       500
                                                                                                        Axis Title




                                                                                                                         0
      0                                                 0
       2002   2004       2006         2008   2010        2002      2004      2006      2008      2010                    2000

                                                                                                                             Axis Title




                                                         23
           Operating costs (000 BAM - constant 2003)                             Operating Ratio                                      Forecast
  30,000                                                140%
                                                        130%                                                                          Observed
  25,000
                                                        120%
  20,000                                                110%
  15,000                                                100%
  10,000                                                 90%
                                                         80%
   5,000                                                 70%                                                                         3,000
                                                                                                                                     2,500
                                                                                                                                     2,000
                                                                                                                                     1,500
                                                                                                                                     1,000
                                                                                                                                       500




                                                                                                                       Axis Title
                                                                                                                                         0
      0                                                  60%
                                                                                                                                            2000
       2002       2004       2006         2008   2010       2002         2004      2006       2008         2010
                                                                                                                                              Axis Title


Despite showing profit in the last four years in its financial statements, the utility‘s
operating revenues were still not sufficient to cover fully its operating expenditures.

Future plan: The company has prepared an ambitious business plan for 2011,
including almost 30 percent increase in its operating revenues, mostly from tariff
adjustments, but also taking into account other actions, such as collection of
receivables aiming at a rate of 90 percent. Considering that, as mentioned before, no
data was available at the time of investigation on aspects such as available collection
rate and staffing plans, the realism and robustness of the business plan is under
question.

Posusje. The company has been operating with losses in the last four years, but has
managed to reduce those them by 78 percent between 2007 and 2010. It receives a
small amount of subsidies (84,300 BAM in 2010) as part of its revenues. The
operating ratio showed large improvement in 2010, with levels below 100 percent.
Assumptions concerning the water sales volumes after Project implementation have been
largely overestimated. These volumes have actually decreased by 21 percent since 2003.
Furthermore, costs per m3 sold considered at appraisal stage have not been confirmed:
 domestic tariffs have risen from 0.80 BAM per m3 in 2003 to 0.83 BAM per m3 in
    2009, close to the projected 0.88 BAM per m3;
 operational costs were expected to decrease from 1,730 BAM per m3 sold in 2003 to
    1,260 BAM per m3 sold, at appraisal stage. These costs have remained much higher,
    oscillating between 1,800 and 1,850 BAM per m3 in the recent years.

In consequence, operating ratios levels around 1 have been observed, as expected.

                         Sales (000 m3)                               Revenues (000 BAM - constant 2003)
                                                                                                                                     Forecast
  2,000                                                 3,000
                                                                                                                                     Observed
                                                        2,500
  1,500
                                                        2,000
  1,000                                                 1,500
                                                        1,000
    500
                                                         500                                                                        3,000
                                                                                                                                    2,500
                                                                                                                                    2,000
                                                                                                                                    1,500
                                                                                                                                    1,000
                                                                                                                                      500
                                                                                                                  Axis Title




                                                                                                                                        0
      0                                                    0
                                                                                                                                        2000
       2002       2004       2006         2008   2010          2002      2004      2006      2008      2010
                                                                                                                                             Axis Title




                                                            24
            Operating costs (000 BAM - constant 2003)                     Operating Ratio
                                                                                                                   Forecast
    2,500                                                140%
                                                         130%                                                      Observed
    2,000                                                120%
    1,500                                                110%
                                                         100%
    1,000                                                 90%
                                                          80%
     500                                                                                                          3,000
                                                          70%                                                     2,500
                                                                                                                  2,000
                                                                                                                  1,500
                                                                                                                  1,000
                                                                                                                    500




                                                                                                     Axis Title
       0                                                  60%                                                         0
        2002       2004      2006      2008       2010      2002   2004     2006       2008   2010                    2000

                                                                                                                          Axis Title


Future plan: The company did not submit business plans in 2011, or previously in
2009.

Cazin (not covered at appraisal stage). The company has been generating end-of-year
profit in the past period, but with decreasing trend. Its operating costs exceed the
operating revenues, as measured by operating ratio, which reached 1.04 in 2010. It
should be noted that in 2010, almost 800,000 BAM were written off, as liabilities
which could not be paid. The company receives around 250,000 BAM of subsidies
each year, but those are relatively small compared to entire operations.

Future plan: The utility has prepared business a plan for 2011. The plan was based on the
2010 figures, and can be considered realistic. It should be noted that the company plans
to close 2011 with a small profit (2,000 BAM), equaling its operating costs and
expenditures.

Pale (not covered at appraisal stage). In recent years, the company has been
generating after-tax profit each year. In 2010, Pale water utility (VIK Pale) had total
revenues of 2.7 million BAM, with a small net profit (3,000 BAM). The reports
unfortunately do not provide any data regarding the collection rate, nor the current
tariff level or structure. Company‘s operational performance is characterized by a
high unaccounted-for-water (32 percent).

Future plans. VIK Pale has prepared three-year business plan, which is to be regularly
updated. Under the current plan, the company expects profitable operations until 2012,
with satisfactory operating ratio indicator. This would be mainly result of required tariff
increases (which have not been specifically quantified), increase of water sold and
reduced water losses. The planned profit would be used for financing of investments (e.g.
extension of sewerage network). However, the 2010 plan proved to be too optimistic,
several items should be carefully checked for consistency (for example, even though the
company assumes decrease in number of workers, the staff costs are planned to
significantly increase in 2011).




                                                            25
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                 Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending


Supervision/ICR
Bernard Baratz              Consultant                         EASCS
Olav Rex Christensen        Senior Public Finance Specialist   HDNED
Edward Daoud                Consultant                         GPOBA
Aniruddha Dasgupta          Director                           OPCRS
Vesna Francic               Senior Operations Officer           ECSS6
Stjepan Gabric              Senior Operations Officer           ECSS6
Delphine Alberta Hamilton   Senior Program Assistant           ECSSD
Stephen George Karam        Lead Urban Economist                ECSS6
Plamen Stoyanov Kirov       Senior Procurement Specialist      LCSPT
Esma Kreso                  Environmental Spec.                 ECSS3
Seema Manghee               Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.        TWIWA
Lamija Marijanovic          Financial Management Specialist    ECSO3
Jasna Mestnik               Finance Analyst                    CTRDM
Philip W. Moeller           Consultant                         TWIWA
Bjorn Philipp               Urban Specialist                    ECSS6
Jesus Renzoli               Consultant                         ECSO2
Senad Sacic                 Program Assistant                  ECCBA
Sanjay N. Vani              Lead Financial Management Spec     OPCFM
Natasa Vetma                Operations Officer                  ECSS3


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         US$ Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                                                   343.32
  FY05                                                                    47.17
  FY06                                                                     0.00
  FY07                                                                     0.00
  FY08                                                                     0.00
                            Total:                                       390.49
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                                                     0.00
  FY05                                                                   134.08
  FY06                                                                    78.78


                                           26
FY07                  85.29
FY08                  54.16
       Total:        352.31




                27
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

A social assessment was carried out in 2004 to analyze the needs and priorities in terms
of urban infrastructure, and then in 2010 to assess the Project impact. The objective was
to assess improvements in terms of social capital, which was measured through three sub-
indicators (level of trust in various levels of government, community cooperation and
activities, and general level of trust within communities). In terms of potential indirect
impact: the 2010 report indicates a statistically significant increase of trust to local
government officials was identified among the five surveyed municipalities. However, it
does not comment on the fact that one of the three municipalities showing improvement
is Lukavac, where the Project was cancelled. Despite the mention of signs of improved
trust to local governments, no significant trend can be attributed to Project
implementation. Finally, according to that report, respondents from all Project
municipalities were most likely to state that solving the issue of water supply had
somewhat helped them cooperate with each other. Although these positive observations
are worth nothing, the conclusion is weakened by the facts that Lukavac (where identical
statements were made) was in fact dropped from the Project, and that the ―control
municipality‖, Bosanska Krupa (where statements were not as positive), turned out to
benefit Project investments in the water sector.




                                           28
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

The final implementation completion mission was conducted from September 26-30,
2011. Representatives from Ministries and more than 20 beneficiaries participating in the
Urban Infrastructure Service Delivery Project (UISDP) attended the implementation
completion workshop, summarized their respective achievements and experiences –
which are described in section 3.2 discussion –. Beyond the accounts of improved urban
services and reinforced urban planning capacity, participants highlighted as major UISDP
success factors the strong support received from the PMT, the importance of knowledge-
sharing between beneficiaries and their increased capacity to access to donors funds.




                                           29
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

    MINISTRY OF FOREIGN TRADE AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS OF
                  BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

                PROJECT MANAGEMENT TEAM – PMT




                        FINAL REPORT


     URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE AND SERVICE DELIVERY PROJECT
                IDA 39540 BOSS and IDA 39541 BOSS




                              August 2011



                                  30
I PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.1. GENERAL PROJECT DATA

The Entity Ministries responsible for municipal services with the support of the Bank
have agreed on a three-phase urban service strategy to replace the present problems.

The first phase is to salvage and safeguard quality by focusing on rehabilitation and start
of steady maintenance, rather than on system expansion. The aim is to safeguard
minimum standards for service quality to provide safe and reliable service delivery.

The second phase is to create the condition for financial autonomy. The objective is to
improve the financial situation of the Utilities to enable them to generate sufficient
revenue to pay for operations, especially for maintenance and to produce a financial
surplus.

The third phase is to adjust tariff levels after improving collections and system efficiency,
which are issues that need to be addressed before increasing tariffs.

INITIAL AGREEMENT

On November 3, 2004 Bosnia and Herzegovina signed Development Credit Agreement in
the value of 20.0 million USD or 13.8 million SDR for implementation of the Urban
Infrastructure and Service Delivery Project.

Republika Srpska and Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina signed Subsidiary
Financing Agreements on January 10, 2005 (RS) and January 7, 2005 (FBIH). By signing
those agreements funds were made available to the entities as follows:

- Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina                            9.7 million SDR
- Republika Srpska                                                4.1 million SDR
                                                                 13.8 million SDR

ADDITIONAL AGREEMENT

On August 31, 2007 Bosnia and Herzegovina signed Financing Agreement for additional
financing in the value of 5.0 million USD or 3.3 million SDR for implementation of the
Urban Infrastructure and Service Delivery Project. The additional funding is allocated as
follows:
- Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina                         3.080.000 SDR
- Republika Srpska                                                220.000 SDR
                                                               3.300.000 SDR


Client:                  The World Bank – International Development Association
                         (IDA)
Borrower:                Bosnia and Herzegovina



                                             31
Credit no.:             39540 BOS
Approval date           July 8, 2004
Signing date            November 3, 2004
Effective date          February 23, 2005
Closing date            June 30, 2011
Project financing       13,8 million SDR or US$20.0 million
Loan term               20 years
Grace period            10 years
Service charge          0,75 %
Commitment Fee          0,50 %
On August 31, 2007 International Development Association (IDA) has approved
Additional Financing in the amount of SDR 3,3 million (USD 5.0 million equivalent) for
this Project
Credit no.:             39541 BOS
Approval date           June 19, 2007
Signing date            August 31, 2007
Effective date          February 26, 2008
Closing date            June 30, 2011
Project financing       3,3 million SDR or US$5.0 million
Loan term               20 years
Grace period            10 years
Service charge          0,75 %
Commitment Fee          0,50 %


1.2. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS

The Project has been implemented during FY 2005-2011 under the overall responsibility
of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations (MOFTER) at the State level.
A Project Management Team (PMT) has been established in MOFTER. The PMT
consists of a PMT Head, Procurement Manager, Procurement Officer, Financial Manager
and Assistant.

At the field level of the Project implementation, there have been established Project
Implementing Teams (PITs). They are located in each of the Utilities and Cantonal
Ministries. The PITs consist of a Procurement Officer and Financial Officer. Even though
the PMT has overall responsibility for implementation, including procurement and
financial management actions, the PITs handle the day-to-day implementation of the
Project. In summary, the PMT manages the overall implementation of the Project.

1.3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION

During the implementation several difficulties occurred which slowed down the planned
activities with particular beneficiaries, while with other the realization was very good.
Due to the large number of beneficiaries who were included in this Project, it was
expected that the planned activities will not be implemented at all of them by the


                                           32
predicted dynamics. The personnel capacities were not satisfactory at all of them
therefore it required the additional efforts and the help of PMT-s. Although it perhaps
could be expected that the problems with personnel are related exclusively to small
beneficiaries, in the practice it was not confirmed. Namely, some of the small
beneficiaries have taken the realization of the Project very seriously and they have
established the expert teams for implementation. Here we refer particularly to Vareš and
Pale, which have finished all of their planned activities very quickly. Thank to
extraordinary efforts of all engaged in the Project, the field teams (PITs), PMT, WB, all
planned activities were successfully finished.
Slower realization of the Project with some beneficiaries, particularly Mostar, required
the extension of closing date of the Project. The request for the extension of the Project
was approved by the World Bank, and a new closing date by June 30, 2011. was set.

Utilities and municipalities included in the Project and amounts of credit indebtedness
Initial Credit
                                              Credit SDR         Local contribution
                                                                         SDR
          Federation of BH
1         Posušje                                    2.449.965                  410.000
2         Cazin                                      1.625.687                   56.000
3         Canton Sarajevo                            1.380.262                  225.000
4         Canton Tuzla                               1.380.262                  320.000
5         Canton Livno                                 758.924                  215.000
6         Mostar                                       621.118                  137.000
7         Bosanska Krupa                             1.340.963                  200.000
8         Lukavac                                      142.819                   34.000
          Total FBH                                  9.700.000                1.597.000

        Republika Srpska
9       Banja Luka – water company                  2.546.300                 435.000
10      City of Banja Luka                            518.000                 115.000
11      Pale                                          518.000                  86.000
12      Ministry of spatial planning, civil           295.800                  28.000
        engineering and ecology RS
13      Srebrenica                                    221.900                  50.000
        Total RS                                    4.100.000                 714.000

        TOTAL                                      13.800.000               2.311.000


Additional credit:
        Federation BH                                     Credit SDR
1       Mostar                                                               2.640.000
2       Stolac                                                                 220.000
3       Vareš                                                                  220.000
        Total FBH                                                            3.080.000


                                              33
        Republika Srpska
4       Srebrenica                                                                220.000

        Total                                                                   3.300.000

Majority of beneficiaries have done more than planned. Namely, plenty of contracts were
concluded at lower amount than originally estimated, which resulted in savings of funds.
These funds later were spent to scaling up and extension of the planned activities. This
was done in agreement with the World Bank.

1.4. AUDIT OF THE PROJECT
PMT had an obligation to conduct the audit of the Project every year and to deliver these
reports to WB by June 30, of the next year. Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BH has
conducted the selection of the audit company acceptable to WB and signed the contract
with it. All reports were delivered in a timely manner and with unmodified opinion.

In addition to the audit of the Project, there were conducted also the audits of the utilities.
In the Project documents it was defined that this audit will also be conducted by the audit
company acceptable to WB, which in practice has caused a lot of difficulties. First, large
world audit companies were not interested to do the audit of small utilities, since theses
jobs were not of economic interest for them. Second, even when they have applied to
tenders the prices of their services were much above the financial abilities of the utilities.
Taking into account these problems, WB has changed its rigid regulation and allowed the
local audit companies to do the audits of financial reports of the utilities. This was a
significant change which contributed that all the utilities delivered audit reports to WB in
time.


1.5 RESULTS OF IMPLEMENTATION

A Assessment of Project objectives, design, implementation and operational
experiences.

The competence for providing public services, water supply and sanitation is at the local
level, e.g., municipalities both in FBH and in RS. These services are provided by
municipal companies which operate as subjects that are administratively and financially
separated from municipal authorities.

Indicators
Monitoring and evaluation of development activities provides government officials,
development managers and civil society with better means for learning from past
experience, improving service delivery, planning and allocating resources and
demonstrating results as part of accountability to key stakeholders.




                                              34
The PMT collects and presents data and reports from the PIT-s for periodic review. Data
are also provided by the PMT data management systems. Collected data are effective
means of monitoring progress for utilities.

During the implementation of the Project, we have regularly monitored the indicators.
Indicators during the implementation have shown mainly the positive trend. Some have
changed gradually, while at the others these changes were more significant. For example,
at the beginning of the implementation in Posušje the indicator ―share of population with
continuous 24 hour water supply‖ was 0 percent. After the completed works this indicator
has a value of 100 percent.

Huge improvement in the sector of water supply is also seen through monitoring of the
indicator ―piped household water connections that are benefiting from rehabilitation
works undertaken by the Project‖. At the beginning of the Project the number of
households was 65.000 (population 259.050), and now that number is 83.000 households
(population 335.000).

Indicators are more realistic if observed in longer period (e.g. one year), than in shorter
periods of time. For example, the collection is lowest at the beginning of the year so that
it is the most realistic to look at the collection rate at the annual level.

Often, the good collection does not guarantee the positive relation between revenues and
expenditures, since the water price, mainly, is not the economic price. Political authorities,
keeping the water price significantly lower than the economic price, through this sector
solve also the social issues.
Complete understanding of the impact measured through monitoring of indicators is
possible only with a good knowledge of not only the utilities, but also the environment in
which they operate.

Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
Utilities have implemented their investments following the EMPs that were prepared
during the preparation of the Project. The EMPs are all in full compliance with
environmental requirements of the Entities and the World Bank.
During implementation PIT-s did permanent monitoring of work affects to the
environment and make reports on them.

Customer service
Several seminars were held with this topic and all water supply companies participated.
Customer service is a work culture that the customers encounter regardless of the type of
contract they have with utility.

These workshops were focused on Customer Service as a concept for improved
operational and financial efficiency of utilities in BH. We considered what was needed to
build a customer culture and worked on it with the participating utilities. One of the
objectives of these workshops was to look at progress in BH regarding customer service.




                                             35
Utilities which have developed a customer service culture have usually found that this
leads to other innovations in their operations that enable more efficient operations and
more effective delivery of water and waste water treatment.
Utilities established customer windows, telephone link and larger utilities have a web site
to improve customer service, e.g. they have made a progress in implementation of the
measures for achieving the higher level of satisfaction of the users of services.

During the implementation of the Project about 145 contracts were concluded. Working
and processing of procurement procedures up to contract award, and then management of
all these contracts required full devotion and commitment of those who were included in
the implementation of the Project. Without excellent communication and cooperation at
all levels, the implementation of such a large number of contracts could not be possible.
Implementation overview of the Project per particular beneficiaries is given briefly
below.

Implementation per beneficiaries

CAZIN
The credit was spent for construction of Ljubijankići water supply system covering the
population on the north-west part of Cazin Municipality, thus, the overall territory of
Cazin Municipality is covered with water supply managed by Public Utility Company
JKP Vodovod d.o.o. Cazin. The length of pipelines is 43km.
The funds were spent for procurement of materials and equipment for construction of
Ljubijankići distribution main, as well as for preparatory, excavation, concrete and
diverse works, construction of pumping station and distribution main installation,
including consulting services for supervision of.

BANJA LUKA
Completed Filter station's building and Clean water tank. The facility is functioning and
providing additional reservoir space of 7000 m3, while Filter station provides the city
with additional quantities of water as necessary in summer months (up to 800 l/s) in the
direct infiltration process. This included construction of water treatment facility and
installation of water clarification and pre-ozone equipment. All planned activities are
completed. This resulted in significant improvement of water supply in Banja Luka city.
To finish the complete Project the utility is planning construction of several additional
facilities such as sludge treatment for which it is necessary to ensure additional funding.

POSUSJE
Water supply Posušje (Municipality Posušje) has achieved through the investments
supported under the Project higher reliability, availability and quality of water supply
service. Namely, by construction of main pipeline in the length of 5,5 km, diameter of
DN 600, from the Reservoir Tribistovo to Posušje and by construction of central water
storage facility (WSF) with capacity of 2x1500m3, Posusje solved the problem of several
decades of reduction of water in summer months as well as expansion of and
improvement of water supply in the area of municipality as well as in the neighboring
municipalities Grude and Široki Brijeg.



                                            36
By construction of transport pipeline of (WSF) Vodosprema Posušje Vinjani 1 a long-
term plan between two countries for water supply of higher zones in the Municipality
Imotski Republic Croatia was realized, which will result also in a significant financial
effect in generating new revenues for the Posusje utility and ultimately in improved
financial viability.
Finally, construction of automated disinfection facility by chlorine gas in the central
water storage facility significantly improved water quality. This is also important as a
precondition for further expansion of water supply to areas that are not connected to the
system.

PALE
Pale did works for improvement of existing sewerage collector and construction of new
sewerage system on Jahorina. Completion of planned activities improved significantly
monitoring of the water supply system Jahorina and also more efficient use of available
quantities of drinking water. Numerous effects were achieved:
 - more efficient water use
 - reduced water losses
 - regular supply of customers
 - improved collection
 - environmental impact, reduced pollution of springs at lower altitude.

LUKAVAC
Lukavac from the beginning has started very ambitiously implementation of the Project
and it has completed two planned activities: work contract for pipeline construction, and
hydraulic network analysis and zoning plan preparation. Unfortunately, due to political
difficulties after municipal elections, the utility did not receive needed support from the
municipality authorities, and implementation was halted. In agreement with the Federal
Ministry of Finance, available funds were reallocated to newly selected utility in
Bosanska Krupa.

BOSANSKA KRUPA
Although implementation started at much later stage of the Project implementation than
in other utilities, the utility has managed with additional efforts to complete all planned
activities. They had two tenders:
    - construction of reservoirs, pump station and distributive pipeline fitting, and
    - Supply of materials and equipment system for distribution pipeline
Length of water pipeline is 22 km, and about 5.000 inhabitants connected to the system.

TUZLA
Preparation of the Regional Spatial Plan was financed from budget of Tuzla Canton. High
infrastructure priorities identified in the Plan are drinking water treatment plants in
Kalesija and Teo?ak Municipalities. In Tuzla are completed two activities:
- Construction of the plant for preparation of drinking water ―Krušik‖ Kalesija
By construction of the treatment plant, Kalesija has provided drinking water of high
quality. Namely, water from wells has high concentration of manganese and iron, much


                                            37
higher than allowed values. New treatment plans provides water quality according to the
valid Rulebook on hygienic parameters of drinking water, with the capacity of the plant
of 30l/s. The plant includes also treatment of wastewater after treatment of raw water,
before discharge into river Gribaja.
- Construction of water treatmenr plant in municipality Teo?ak
Municipality Teo?ak did not have a public water supply system. With support of the
Project, the water treatment plant of 30 l/s capacity was developed. The reservoir
Snježnica, made by construction of a dam in the Rastosnica canyon is the main source of
drinking water. The constructed plant also includes treatment of wastewater before
discharge into river Janja.
In the last year of implementation of the Project the remaining funds from the Canton
Tuzla allocation were pooled with the available funds from the GEF grant for the Water
Quality Protection Project to support construction of the first phase of the Zivinice waste
water treatment plant. GEF Project has taken over the preparation of tender
documentation and the responsibility for procurement process.

CANTON SARAJEVO
Law on the Spatial Regulation of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Law on the
Spatial Regulation of Canton Sarajevo established the obligation to produce and adopt the
Spatial Plan of Canton Sarajevo.
On 10th July 2003, Assembly of Canton Sarajevo passed the Decision to Produce Spatial
Plan for Canton Sarajevo for the period 2003-2023. The Spatial Plan for Canton Sarajevo
for the period 2003-2023 was adopted in Assembly of Canton Sarajevo in August 31,
2006. This Plan is financed from the cantonal budget.
According to the law, every 4 years the Plan should be updated based on latest data from
research work, studies and assessment, to be then incorporated in the Spatial Plan. These
research projects and studies were financed from the WB credit.

MOSTAR
Mostar had the Spatial Plan of Municipality Mostar for period 1986 -2000. Large number
of regulation plans which are parts of the Spatial Plan is already adopted. Project
financed numerous studies, which were used as inputs for spatial basis for preparation of
a new Spatial Plan. Inputs from these studies were used for preparation of a first draft of
the Spatial Plan, which will be finalized upon completion of legal procedure.

By additional financing City of Mostar was in the process of implementing a city-wide
Parking Management Program. There was a requirement for a centralized, fully-
integrated parking management system to act as the ‗brain‘ of Mostar Management
Program – Central Parking Management System (CPMS).

This system had the aim to automate the implementation, monitoring and enhancement of
the Mostar parking policy. It has provided means for on-street, as well as off-street
parking management including mobile parking payment solutions, operative control and
enforcement, monitoring and reporting tools as well as integration mechanisms to
incorporate it to the overall customer IT infrastructure.


                                            38
SREBRENICA
Credit funds have been spent for priority investment –rehabilitation of residential
buildings for common living. Rehabilitation of buildings significantly improved the
housing stock, which created better living conditions for inhabitants of Srebrenica.
Credit funds were also used to finance rehabilitation of water supply systems in
Podrovanje and Skelani and development of water intake on the river Zeleni Jadar.

VAREŠ
Vareš has procured the equipment which will help to modernize the system and improve
service delivery and performance of the utility.

STOLAC
Stolac has procured the Multi-purpose vehicle for sewerage and septic tanks vacuum
cleaning and Backhoe loader. This equipment will help the utility to provide better
quality of services to their users/customers.

LIVNO
Canton Livno has financed preparation of Spatial Plan for period 2005-2025. The Spatial
Basis of the Plan were adopted and further activities are underway which will enable
finalization of the Spatial Plan. The Canton has also identified priority projects through
planning process which were realized, such as construction of pipeline, construction
works on water supply system, asphalting of roads.

CITY BANJA LUKA
City Banja Luka has prepared the Spatial Plan. Since significant social and demographic
changes – the number and the concentration of population, the structure of economy are
characteristic for large cities, update of the Plan is continuous process. The Plan
identified priority investments, which is modernization and reconstruction of local roads,
financed from this Project.

 MINISTRY OF SPATIAL PLANNING, CIVIL ENGINEERING AND ECOLOGY
REPUBLIC SRPSKA
Republika Srpska has adopted Spatial Plan. Under support of the Project, the RS
implemented the RS Spatial Plan and established the unique information system in RS.
Computer and telecommunication equipment were procured for implementation of IT
system of RS and computer equipment for 63 municipalities in RS (computer and printer
for each municipality), in order to complete the process of implementation and use of
GIS system in all municipalities in RS. This way the Phase I of the establishment of
unique IT system (information system) about the area of RS was completed.


B Assessment of Project outcomes in comparison with agreed objectives

Majority of utility companies face financial problems due to poor collection rate, low
tariffs and insufficient maintenance. Collection rates are generally low. Companies




                                           39
included in the Project have managed to increase the collection rate constantly. Now it is
about 85 – 90 percent, in Cazin even significantly above 90 percent.

Although the Project experienced certain delays, because of which the closing date was
extended, the Project activities were implemented as planned and Project achieved the
Project Development Objective as set. Majority of beneficiaries has realized all planned
activities and significant number of them even more than planned. It was possible since
the large number of contracts was signed at lower amount than planned which resulted in
some savings which were spent for extension of the planned activities.

Delays sometimes were caused by objective reasons that were beyond our control. For
example, the delay of electing authorities in Mostar has significantly postponed the
implementation of the Project. Non-existence of city authorities has led to halt of all
activities. In addition, sometimes complicated procurement procedures caused delay. This
is especially related to procurement of IT equipment, for which road from review of
specifications to conclusion of a contract was very long. Due to additional efforts of all
partners included in the Project, these difficulties were overcome.

Access to water and sanitation services has improved alongside with quality and
reliability of the services. Utilities increased operating efficiency. However, two of the
utilities (Posušje and Banja Luka) have faced difficulties to cover operating expenses and
maintenance costs in later years of the Project implementation. Banja Luka has obtained
the approval from the authorities to increase water price in January, 2011. This will
contribute that Banja Luka collect higher revenues and to achieve this Goal as well.


C Assessment of the Bank’s performance with special emphasis on experiences
acquired
The engagement of the Bank, from the phase of Project preparation, through the initial
phases of Project implementation, and throughout the implementation itself, was very
efficient, beneficial, and has together with all the aforementioned factors, contributed to
the successful completion of the Project. The readiness of the Bank to get involved at any
time and to assist though its engagement in resolution of all the problems that have
occurred has also helped the successful implementation of the Project. The objectives
defined under the Project by the Bank and governments of both entities, have confirmed
that the Project had been well designed. The expenditure planned by categories had
suffered certain changes in the course of Project implementation, which had resulted in
the reallocation of resources, and that had been done with understanding and support of
the Bank.

In addition to Bank engagement and support, the funds were provided from local sources
to finance 20 percent of specified Project categories. Some water supply companies had
support from the local community and funding was provided by municipalities, while the
other water supply companies had to provide funds from their own resources.




                                            40
Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR




                                   41
42
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

No comments were provided.




                                    43
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   -   Country Partnership Strategy for Bosnia-Herzegovina, FY01-10
   -   Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report, Report No. 22863
   -   Project Information Document (PID), Report No. AB519, Dec 03, 2003
   -   Project Paper (PJPR), Report No. 32392-BA, May 31, 2005
   -   Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet, Report No. AC763, April 6, 2004
   -   Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 28531-BIH, June 7, 2004
   -   Aide memoires
   -   Implementation Status Reports




                                        44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 38988

                                                                     BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
       URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE AND SERVICES DELIVERY PROJECT
                                           PROJECT BENEFICIARIES:                                                                           CITIES AND TOWNS

                                           ENTITY (RS)                                                                                      CANTON / ZUPANIJA (FBiH) CAPITALS

                                           CANTON / ZUPANIJAS (FBiH)                                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                           CITIES/MUNICIPALITIES                                                                            CANTON / ZUPANIJA (FBiH) BOUNDARIES
                                    W      WATER UTILITIES                                                                                  INTER-ENTITY BOUNDARY LINES

                                                                                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES


            16°E                                             17°E                                                                      18°E                                                             19°E

                                                                                              CROATIA
                                               Una                                                                                                                      POSAVINA
                                                     Bosanska Gradiska
                                                                    ˇ                                                  Sa
                                                       (Srp. Gradiska)
                                                                  ˇ                                                      va             Bosanski Brod
                                  Bosanska Novi                                                                                         (Srp.Brod)
                                  (Novi Grad)                                                                                                                                             Orašje
                                                                                                                                                                                          Oraš
                                                                                                                                                                                          Orašje


                                                                                                  as
45°N                                          Prijedor                                                                                                                                                                                                    45°N

                                                                                               Vbr
           Cazin                                                                                                    Derventa
                                                                                                                    Derventa
                                                                                                                    Derventa
                                                                                                                                                         sna                                                                                  Sava
             W




                                                                                                                                                    Bo
           Bihac´     Bosanska                                        REPUBLIKA SRPSKA                                                                                                   ˇ
                                                                                                                                                                                       Brcko
                      WKrupa
                                                                    Banja          W                                                                                                  ˇ
                                                                                                                                                                                    Brcko District




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               a
                                 Sanski Most                         Luka                                                              Doboj                                                                   Bijeljina




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Drin
                                               S                                                                                                             ˇ
                                                                                                                                                          Gracanica
                 U
                          UNA-SANA
                                                an
                 na




                                                   a




                           Bosanski                                                                 Varoˇ
                                                                                              Kotor Varos
                                                                                                        s
                           Petrovac
                                                                                                                    Teslic
                                                                                                                         ´
                                                                                                                    Teslic
                                                                                                                                                                                     Tuzla
                                                                                                                                                                                     Tuzla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SERBIA
                                                     Kljuc
                                                         ˇ                                                                                         Maglaj


CROATIA                                                                                                                                                                         TUZLA         Spreca
                                                                                                                                                          Kri
                                 Drvar
                                 Drvar
                                  rvar                                                                                                                          va
                                                                                                                                                                   ja
                                                                                     Jajce
                                                                                                        Travnik
                                                                                                        Travnik
                                                                                                                            Zenica             ZENICA-                          Kladanj
                              Bosansko Grahovo
                                                                                                  CENTRAL                                      DOBOJ                    Vares
                                                                                                                                                                        Vareˇ
                                                                                                                                                                            s
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Vlasenica
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                  BOSNIA                                                            W
                                                                                     Vr




                                                                                          s                                                Bosna
                                                                                        ba




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Srebrenica
                                                       Glamoc
                                                                                                 Bugojno                                                 Visoko
                                                                                                                                                         Visoko
44°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D ri                 44°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         na
                                           HERCEG BOSNA                   FEDERATION                                                                                                      REPUBLIKA
                                                                        OF BOSNIA AND                                                               SARAJEVO                               SRPSKA
                                                                                                                                                                                   Pale
                                                   Livno                 HERZEGOVINA                                              ˆ                                                       W                         Visegrad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Visegrad
                                                                                 Tomislavgrad
                                                                                 Tomislavgrad
                                                                                                                      Jablanicko
                                                                                                                        jezero
                                                                                                                                               SARAJEVO
                                                                                                                                                                                          Goražde
                                                                                                                                                                                                ˇ
                                                                                                                                                                                          Gorazde
                                                                                                    Jablanica                              Konjic                                                                                        im


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L
                                                                                                                                             Ne
                                                                                                                                                retv




                                                                                                                                                                                         ˇ
                                                                                                                                                                                       Foca
                                                                                                             HERZEGOVINA-
                                                                                                                                                     a




                                                                                            ˇ
                                                                                        Posusje                                                                                    (Srbinje)
                                                                                         W                     NERETVA
                                                                                Široki Brijeg                                                                                                                       BOSNIAN PODRINJE
                                                                                                                      Mostar
                                                                                      WEST
                                                                               HERZEGOVINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ra
                                                                                                                                                                          Gacko
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Piv




                                                                                                                          Stolac
                                                                                                                                                                                                           a




                                                                                                                                       W
43°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      43°N


                                                                                                                                                                     ´
                                                                                                                                                                 Bileca
                                                                                                                                                                                                               MONTENEGRO
                                                                                                                                                         Trebinje



         BOSNIA and
       HERZEGOVINA                                                  0       10       20        30       40       50 Kilometers


                                                                    0            10              20            30 Miles

                                                                    This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                    The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                          A driatic                                                                           ALBANIA
                                                                    shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                    Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                    endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                             Sea
          16°E                                               17°E                                                                       18°E                                                                   19°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DECEMBER 2011
