                                                                               97783 April 14, 2011
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Better Living Conditions Through Improved Urban Services




 Citizens benefit from better water, sanitation, transport, and housing in
 cities and municipalities


Overview
IDA support has helped to upgrade public service delivery in 20 municipalities. In those
locations, the average share of people with access to 24-hour water supply increased from 75
to 100 percent between 2004 and 2011. 36,000 people in the project region gained access to
the public water supply system. Priority investments in communal housing provided shelter for
65 internally displaced families. Five cities have developed urban plans guiding public
investments in key local services to better meet citizens’ demands.


Challenge                                                 MULTIMEDIA
Local governments in BiH are responsible for          Loading the player ...
delivery of key public services and 85 percent of
the total population lives in about 60
municipalities with more than 20,000 inhabitants.
Although access to urban infrastructure had
been generally high, as a consequence of the
conflict and lack of funds, rehabilitation and
maintenance were largely neglected with a
resulting sharp drop in service quality and
reliability. For example, in 2004 only 45 percent
of the population connected to the public water
supply had continuous 24-hour service. The
water and wastewater network was in dismal             MORE
condition, with leakage of up to 60 percent in          Slideshow:  Better living conditions through
some cities. Some 50 to 80 percent of the pipes         improved urban services
needed replacement in all networks. Communal
housing was in high demand, particularly by the
high number of internally displaced people, but the public
housing stock was seriously damaged. The lack of funds,              More Results
changing population patterns, and urgent infrastructure needs
required municipalities to update their urban plans and
carefully prioritize investment decisions.

Approach                                                                20
                                                                        municipalities have benefitted
The Project recognized the need to address underlying                   from the improvements in public
institutional issues of financial sustainability and long-term          service delivery between 2004
                                                                        and 2011
planning in parallel with supporting high-priority infrastructure
investments across different sectors and in a diverse group
of municipalities. Two strategic decisions were made. First,
while the Project would prioritize investments in the
rehabilitation of water and sanitation infrastructure where
service quality was very low, it would not exclude
                                                                       100%
investments in other sectors. However, participating                   the average share of people with
                                                                       access to 24-hour water supply
municipalities are required to identify high priority                  in these municipalities increased
investments through preparation of long-term urban plans.              from 75 to 100 percent
Secondly, the project would distinguish between more and
less advanced municipalities to ensure equal access to
investment funding for smaller and poorer places. More                LEARN MORE
advanced municipalities and public utilities could access
                                                                        Urban Infrastructure and Service
bigger investment funds in exchange for time-bound
                                                                        Delivery Project (2004-2011)
measures to improve operating efficiency and long-term
financial sustainability. Less advanced municipalities would
receive additional institutional support and more favorable
terms.

Results
Access to water and sanitation services has improved alongside service quality and reliability.
Overall, participating utilities increased operating efficiency, and urban management plans have
been prepared or are in an advanced stage in the project region. Initial results from a social
audit suggest an increase in social capital in municipalities that have participated in the
Project, and today more people in the project region trust their local authorities. Overall,
investments and technical assistance financed under the Project have had a positive impact on
living conditions of beneficiaries in the targeted areas.

      The number of people connected to public water supply has increased from 259,000 in
      2004 to 295,000 in 2010;

      75,000 households have benefitted from rehabilitation works in the project region;

      The average share of people in project areas with access to 24-hour water supply has
      increased from 75 percent (in 2004) to 100 percent (in 2011);

      The average share of people in project regions who trust their local government has
      increased from 21.1 percent (in 2004) to 23.4 percent (in 2010);

      Six utilities have established feedback mechanisms for customer satisfaction;

      Five cities and municipalities have finalized urban management plans;

      76 km of pipes were rehabilitated in the project region;

      Eight water utilities were supported by the project;

      60 municipal and public utility staff were trained in municipal finance, utility tariff policy,
      procurement, and customer services.



Bank Contribution
Since 2004, IDA provided a total of US$25 million equivalent, of which US$5 million equivalent
were approved as additional financing in 2007. These IDA credits finance investments in high-
priority infrastructure equivalent to the amount of US$19 million, and support to regions and
municipalities for preparation of Urban Management Development Plans worth US$6 million.
The Project will close in June 2011.

Partners
IDA has strong partnerships with other key development partners in the municipal sector in
BiH. Implementation support missions coordinate regularly with other donors, such as the
Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA), the USAID supported Governance and
Accountability Project (GAP), and the European Commission (EC). Investment funding provided
by the EC Instrument for Pre-Accession (IPA) complements investments in the water and
wastewater sector in the amount of EUR14 million.

Moving Forward
Investment funding needs remain huge and will require continued support and financing, but
local authorities and public utilities increasingly acknowledge the importance of scaling up
efforts to increase long-term sustainability in the sector. IDA, in close collaboration with its
development partners, leads the dialogue with BiH authorities to build sustainable
municipalities that optimize service delivery outcomes and financial viability.

Beneficiaries
Ivan Milicevic lives in Posusje. “Finally, we have water now. People who have not suffered
from water restrictions and permanent lack of water cannot even imagine what it means for us
to be connected to the public water supply system. Today, we are happy and our life is much
easier because we have regular access to water.”
