Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5958-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
April 2, 1986
South Asia Projects Department
Education and Human Resources Division
Tbis document bas a resricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bsnk authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Sri Lanka Rupee
US$ 1.00 = Rs 27.4
Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.036
FISCAL YEAR AND SCHOOL YEAR
January - December
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ACCSL   -   Association of Construction Contractors of Sri Lanka
ADB     -   Asian Development Bank
CITP    -   Construction Industry Training Project
CHPB    -   Center for Housing, Planning and Building
FRG     -   Federal Reoublic of Germany
GOSL    -   Government of Sri Lanka
CTZ     -   German Agency for Technical Cooperation
HEOTC   -   Heavy Equipment Operator Training Center
HND     -   Higher National Diploma
ICTAD   -   Institute for Construction Industry Training and
Development
I1O     -   International Labor Organization
JTI     -   Junior Technical Institute
MHP     -   Million Houses Program
MOHE    -   Ministry of Higher Education
MOL     -   Ministry of Labor
MOLGHC  -   Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Construction
MYAE    -   Ministry of Youth Affairs and Employment
NAB     -   National Apprenticeship Board
NCC     -   National Craft Certificate
ND      -   National Diploma
NIBM    -   National Institute of Business Management
NTTTC   -   National Technical Teacher Training College
NWS&DB  -   National Water Supply and Drainage Board
SDCC    -   State Development and Construction Corporation
SEC     -   State Engineering Corporation
SIDA    -   Swedish International Development Authority
TEC     -   Tertiary Education Commission
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICUL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAININC PROJECT
Table of Contents                      Page No.
BASIC DATA
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I.  MANPOWER AND TRAINING IN THE CONSTRUCTION SECTOR ............    1
A.  Introduction ......................................... ..    1
B.  Public Investment Program 1985-1989 ..... i.................    1
C.  Manpover Implications ......     .......................... ..    3
D.  Issues in the Construction Sector ................   .......    3
E.  Issues in Vocational Training    ...........................    5
F.  Government Policies and Programs in Vocational Training..    9
G.  External Financing of Vocational Training ...............   10
H. Bank Role in the Construction Sector and Vocational
Training ..*  ...........................................   10
II.  THE PROJECT .................................................   13
A.  Goals and Objectives    ....................................   13
B.  Institutional Development .......      ........................   14
C.  Skills Training   .........................................   16
D.  Management Training        .....................................   17
E. Instructor Training .....................................   19
F.  Monitoring and Evaluation ...............................   19
G. Technical Assistance Summary    .             .20
III.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS ..   20
A.  Project Costs      ..................................   20
B.  Financing Plan ..................................   23
C.  Recurrent Expenditure ..................................   24
D. Status of Project Preparation                 .        .         24
E.  Implementation .......................................   25
F.  Accounting and Auditing .................................   25
G.  Procurement .      .......................................   26
H.  Disbursements .......................................   27
IV.  BENEFITS AND RISKS .......................................          28
A.  Benefits       ......................................   28
B.  Risks ..        ....................................   28
V.  AGREEKENTS REACHED ..      ....................................   29
This Report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Sri Lanka from
August 5-22, 1985. Mission members were Messrs. R. Cambridge (Mission Leader),
E. Ndungutse-(Economist), E. Dib (Architect, Consultant), D. Foster (Management
Training Specialist, Consultant), R. Ellis (Vocational Educator, Consultant),
and A. Austen (Construction Industry Specialist, ILD). Ms. Pak assisted in
preparing the Report.
This document hus a stricd distibution and may be usd by rcipients only in the perfonnance
of their official duties Its contents may not oterwise be discsed without World Dak autborizon.



ANNEXES
1. Comparative Education Indicators
2. Manpower Demand and Supply
3. Construction Industry in Sri Lanka
4. The Technical/Vocational Training System
5. Expenditures on Vocational Training
6. External Financing of Technical/Vocational Training
7. Performance Indicators - Credit 1130-CE
8. Unit Training Costs: Expenditures and Revenue
9. Terms of Reference: Studies on (a) ICTAD Supported Training
Programs and (b) Construction Industry Sector
10. ICTAD Headquarters Building and Other Civil Works
11. Schedule of Appointment of Additional Staff
12. The Center for Housing Planning and Building (CHPB) and proposed
Management Training Program
13. Monitoring Benchmarks and Schedule
14. Technical Assistance and Fellowship Program
15. Project Costs:
Table 1: Summary Costs by Project Component and Time
Table 2: Sumnary Costs by Category of Expenditure and Time
Table 3: Sunmmary Costs by Component and Category of Expenditure
16. Financing Plan by Project Component
17. Implementation Schedule
18. Forecast of Expenditures and Disbursements
19. Selected Documents in Project File
CHART
Proposed Organization of the Institute for Construction Industry
Training and Development (ICTAD)
Location of ICTAD in the Ministry of Local Government, Housing and
Construction
MAP
Map of Sri Lanka showing the location of project institutions



-lll-
SRI LANA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Basic Data
A. Area                                                  65,607 sq.ku.
B. Population I/                                         15.6 Million
1. Rate of Growth                                     1.7Z p.a. (1971-lo1)
2. Age Structure
0 - 14                                          35.7Z
15 - 64                                          60.1Z
65 and above                                      4.2Z
C. CNP per Capita                                       US$ 330
D. Labor Force (Millions) 2/                Male        Female        Total
Agriculture                              1.57         0.60         2.17
Construction                             0.21         0.02         0.23
Mining                                   0.06         0.004        0.06
Manufacturing                            0.38         0.18         0.56
Other                                    1.33         0.37         1.70
3.55         1.17         4.72
E. Overseas Higration
Skilled/Semi-illed Workers                                      15,000
Unskilled Workers                                               41,000
C. Education 3/ 41                     Primary  Jr/Sr.Secondary  University
Age Group                             5-10        11-18          18-
Number of Schools/Institutions        9172        5537            7
Enrollments (Millions)               2.1          2.9            0.01
Gross Enrollment Ratio (Z)           86.5          -              -
Z Female                             48           54             38.9
No. of Teachers                       -            -             1623
% Female                             60           40              -
Z Trained                             58          58              -
H. Adult Literacy Rate                                              871
I. Public Expenditure on Education and Training (FY84)
Total Expenditure as Z of GNP                                    2.47Z
Total Educ. Exp. ss Z of total Government Esp.                   7.44S
Educ. Recurrent ERp. as Z of Government Recurrent Exp.          14.511
Educ. Capital Esp. as Z of Government Capital Esp.               3.02S
Unit Cost per Primary Student                                    400 Rupees
Unit Cost per Secondary Student                                  938 Rupees
G. Public Expenditures on Technical and Vocational Training (FY84)
Total Exp. as Z of CNP                                           0.27Z
Capital Esp. as Z of Capital Exp. on Educ. and Training         36.21S
Recurrent Rxp. as Z of Recurrent Esp. on Educ. and Training      6.101
Total Exp. on Tech/Voc Trg. as Z of Total Exp. on Educ. Trg.   11.291
1/ 1981 Census.
2/ Socio-Economic Survey 1982.
3/ 1983 School Census.
4/ See Annex I for Comparative Education Indicators.



-iv-
SRI LANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:       Government of Sri Lanka
Amount:         SDR 13.0 million (US$ 15.0 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard
Project
Description:    The goal of the project is to improve the efficiency of
the construction industry in Sri Lanka. The main objectives
of the project are to (a) create an institutional framework
to sustain training and industry development efforts started
under the first Construction Industry Project (Credit
1130-CE); (b) increase the supply of semi-skilled, skilled
and managerial personneL to the industry; and (c) improve
the quality of manpower going into the sector. The institu-
tional development objective would be achieved by estab-
lishing and developing the Institute of Construction Industry
Training and Development (ICTAD). The manpower supply objec-
tive would be achieved by training about 50,000 new and
upgrading about 26,000 existing semi-skilled, skilled and
managerial workers in the construction industry. The quality
improvement objective would be achieved by instituting an
instructor training and upgrading program, revision and
updating of curricula, monitoring and evaluating skill train-
ing and industry developments, and trade testing and certify-
ing about 40,000 skilled workers and supervisors.
Risks:          The project is flexibly designed to meet the requirements for
construction industry training as diagnosed by training needs
assessments. A reduction of the demand for training in
total, or for any skill in particular, has no implications
for underutilization of staff and facilities as the project
would utilize existing faciLities and contract additional
instructors only when specific courses are identified. Chan-
ges in the demand for training may at most lead to some
underutilization of project funds.



Estimated Cost: /a                                    Local    Foreign    Total
----US$ million
Institutional Development (ICTAD)   1.14        1.40       2.54
Skill Training                        8.50      4.42      12.92
Management Training                   0.96       0.53      1.49
Instructor Training                   0.31      0.51       0.82
Monitoring and Evaluation             0.17       0.56      0.73
Total Base Costs                 11.08      7.42      18.50
Contingencies
Physical                          0.63      0.41       1.04
Price                             2.67      2.27       4.94
Total Project Costs              14.38     10.10      24.48
/a Includes taxes of US$ 0.85 million equivalent.
Financing Plan:                          Local    Foreign      Total
IDA                      5.38       9.62      15.00
UNDP                     0.54       0.48        1.02
Zovernment               8.46        -         8.46
Total               14.38      10.10      24.48
Estimated
Disbursement:   IDA FY      FY87 FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95
Annual     0.30 4.18  3.58  1.76  1.14  1.10  1.08  1.04  1.12
Cumulative 0.30 4.48 7.76 9.52 10.66 11.76 12.84 13.88 15.00
Economic
Rate of Return: Not applicable



-1-
SRI LANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
I. MANPOWER AND TRAINING IN THE CONSTRUCTION SECTOR
A. Introduction
1.01    In 1977, the Government of Sri Lanka embarked on an ambitious
development program which committed a large share of public revenues to
programs such as irrigation, power generation, housing and urban development.
These investments, which have large construction components, made heavy
demands on the capacity of the construction industry, and are estimated to
have created approximately 100,000 new jobs. In addition to the increased
domestic demand for skilled workers, the outflow of skilled workers to the
Middle East also grew significantly during this period. A large percentage
of these were skilled/semi-skilled workers in the construction trades, with
drivers, mechanics, carpenters and masons accounting for nearly 62% of the
total in 1980.
1.02    The construction industry was important in revitalizing the economy
during the 1977-83 period. While GNP increased by 6% per annum, construction
output increased by an annual average of 7.4%. This trend was slowed in 1981
because the Government was compelled to exercise stringent budgetary controls
to minimize budget deficits. As a result, public investment in construction
activities was either reduced or maintained at 1980 levels, except in the
case of investments for foreign-funded construction projects.
B. Public Investment Program 1985-1989
1.03    The sharp increase in investment during the 1978/80 period posed a
severe threat to budgetary management. Government capital expenditures in
1980 were about 2.5 times higher than in 1978 and accounted for more than 12Z
of GDP. Total government expenditures reached a peak of 38.5% of GDP.
During the 1985-89 period, the Government expects to achieve a structural
transformation in resource utilization. Financial stability based on good
budgetary management is to be pursued in order to achieve an annual growth
target of 5.0% and the Government budget is to be a key element in the struc-
tural adjustment process. In order to achieve this, the investment coeffi-
cient is to be reduced from an average of 29.4% of GDP during the 1980-84
period to around 26.0% during the next five years, and the national savings
rate is expected to increase from 16.4% of GDP during the 1980-84 period to
approximately 20.0% by 1989. A number of budgetary policies, some of which
are already in force, have been designed to decrease public investment as a
share of GDP from more than 17.0X in 1984 to about 12.0% by 1989. Through a
combination of expenditure cuts, reallocation of revenues from low return
uses, and revenue raising measures, the mostly negative trend in public
savings in the past is to be reversed. Public savings will average about 3%



-2-
of CDP in the coming years. The formation of an industrial policy committee,
tariff reforms, rationalization of public enterprises, export promotion
measures, development of infrastructure, and administrative reforms designed
to reduce excessive bureaucratization are expected to benefit the private
sector and increase private investment as a share of CDP from 12.0Z in 1984
to close to 14.0Z by 1989. On the savings side, in order to maintain the
level achieved in recent years, a more flexible interest rate policy which
offers a positive real rate of interest is to be pursued. Within this con-
text, the 1985-89 public investment program clearly outlines priority objec-
tives and areas of activity. It concentrates on quick yield produc-
tion-oriented projects which can reduce balance of payments problems, essen-
tial infrastructure needs in power, irrigation, transportation and communica-
tions, and urgent needs in health, education, housing and nutrition.
1.04    In the education sector, because of past heavy commitments to other
sectors which reduced allocations to the sector, provisions would be made
to ensure that there is no deterioration in education services. In general
education, the emphasis is to be placed on quality improvement, rationaliza-
tion and better management. Priority is also to be given to technical and
vocational training to meet domestic and foreign skill requirements, as well
as the training of future managers.
1.05    In agriculture, the specific goal is to maximize the production of
basic food items, and expand earnings from agriculture exports (tea, rubber
and coconuts). A major priority in the sector however, is the rehabilitation
of the plantation sector with the emphasis on rehabilitating the irrigation
system, improving management, and better maintenance of capital assets.
1.06    For the industrial sector, the Government initiated a number of
measures to improve the efficiency of public enterprises and revitalize the
private sector. These included a rationalization of the tariff structure,
attracting foreign investments, and promoting exports. Public sector invol-
vement would be limited to the provision of infrastructure support services
for industrial operations, and new investments would only be undertaken where
the private sector is not engaged.
1.07    In transport, the priority would be the maintenance of operating
assets, and the development of the institutional framework for transport
planning and formulating transport policy. Because the road network is in a
state of disrepair, a five-year program of rehabilitation and routine main-
tenance costing about Rs 5,000 million is given priority in the investment
program.
1.08    The Government has introduced a program to provide improved shelter
to a million or more families. Besides rural housing and urban low-income
upgrading programs, the Million Houses Program (MHP) will also introduce a
large number of new programs such as sites and services, and joint ventures
with the private sector for the development of a private housing industry.
The Government has organized the State Mortgage and Investment Bank as the
government housing bank and has established a Housing Development Finance
Corporation as a building society, under the National Housing Act. These two
institutions are expected to intensify the activities of private house
builders with new housing mortgage financial schemes, and also support the



-3-
private housing developers with the provision of development and mortgage
financing.
1.09    The MHP is also tied to an extensive program of drinking water
development. Under this program, a large number of projects have been under-
taken with multilateral and bilateral assistance. In the urban sector, Phase
II of the South West Coastal Water Supply Project is funded by IDA and will
be completed in 1988. IDA is also financing a project to rehabilitate the
Colombo sewerage system. The National Water Supply & Drainage Board (NWS&DB)
has also undertaken a large number of new urban water supply schemes and
rehabilitation projects in provincial towns. In addition, the NWS&DB has
embarked on an expanded program in the rural sector to provide deep wells
particularly in the dry and intermediate zones. The NWS&DB now operates 26
drilling rigs in all parts of the country.
C. Manpower Implications of Investment Program
1.10    An estimate of total manpower requirements based on projected growth
rates by sector, have been made by the Ministry of Plan Implementation for
the 1985-89 Public Investment Program. The construction sector is projected
to have a growth rate of 8% per annum during the period, while labor produc-
tivity is estimated to increase at an average rate of 3% per annum. On this
basis, it is estimated that there will be a total net requirement of 78,000
persons in the construction sector, and when the requirements for skilled
workers in construction-related trades in other sectors (transport, irriga-
tion, etc.) are added, it will increase to 120,000 (Annex 2, Table 1). In
calculating the training to be carried out under the project for the
1987-1995 period, the basic assumptions utilized by the Ministry of Plan
Implementation for the 1985-1989 period have been utilized. Training
requirements were also derived by taking into account: (a) the manpower
available in 1985 (stock); (b) wastage due to retirement and migration; (c)
returning workers; and (d) contributions to supply by other institutional and
non-institutional training programs. These are realistic assumptions, and
when all of these factors are considered, the total training load for the
project for the 1987-1993 period would be about 50,000 new entrants and
upgrading of about 26,000 existing workers for a total of about 76,000 per-
sons (Annex 2, Tables 2 and 3). This would average about 8,400 per year.
The present training capacity developed under Credit 1130-CE is about 6,000
per year. It is expected that these estimates would be further refined and
updated by Training Needs Assessments to be undertaken in future years (para
2.22).
D. Status and Issues in the Construction Sector
1.11    Between 1977 and 1983 the industry grew at an annual rate of about
7.4Z compared with an annual GDP growth of around 6%. The prospects beyond
1985, however, are clouded by several factors. These include (a) the reduc-
tion in oil prices which will lower the demand for Sri Lankan construction
workers in the Middle East; (b) ethnic disturbances in the northern part of
the country; and (c) a major change in the focus of the public investment
program with the completion of the Mahaveli project. Despite these changes,
the demand for skilled and semi-skilled workers (and hence for training),
will continue because domestic development programs, particularly those in
road rehabilitation and maintenance, housing, and water supply have been



-4-
given high priority n the Public Investment Program 1985-1989; and better
maintenance of existing capital assets is to be pursued. The construction
industry in Sri Lanka must also take account of Government's policy to
improve the efficiency of public enterprises, and revitalize the private
sector. The relationships between the public and private sectors, and the
implications for the efficiency of the industry are important. Finally, in
addition to those factors which are unique to Sri Lanka, construction
industries in general exhibit certain characteristics; these include high
risk, fluctuating demand, lack of management and technical ability, and
administrative and allocative inefficiencies.
1.12    The Public Sector.  There are eight public sector organizations and
23 quasi-public institutions which provide construction related goods and
services (Annex 3). The major result of this multiplicity is that the
government has to perform the role of client, consultant and contractor.
These roles are often played simultaneously and results in design, supervi-
sion and site management problems. The Government is aware that design
problems can result from this overlap and this is reflected in a r?port which
investigated current building designs and made recommendations for improve-
ments. 1/ The report lists 21 examples of design shortcomings which
seriously affected cost, timely completion, and building utility. The recom-
mendations made to overcome these problems were to: (a) constitute a Public
Building Committee under the Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Con-
struction (MLGHC), and to make it compulsory for all projects of the Ministry
costing over Rs 2 million to be approved by this Committee at the conceptual
stage; (b) bring the projects of other Ministries and Corporations costing
over Rs 5 million under the purview of this Committee; and (c) consolidate
the expertise and experience gained by this Committee by setting up a Bureau
of Public Enterprise under the Ministry of Finance and Planning.
1.13    These proposals illuminate two major issues in the construction
sector. First, the ambiguities and inefficiencies which arise from the
government assuming roles which should normally be left to the private sec-
tor; and second, a tendency on the part of Governments to attempt to regulate
problems out of existence. The Government is trying by policy to address the
first issue. For example, the Higbways Department became the Road Develop-
ment Authority in January 1986, and road maintenance is to be by contract
through Road Maintenance Agents. However, to tackle the second issue,
behavioral changes on the part of civil servants are required and these may
prove more difficult to effect. A report on management training in the
construction industry in Sri Lanka 2/ identifies two reasons for managerial
shortcomings: (a) failure to delegate decision making, and (b) a lack of
formal management training. These factors emphasize the importance to be
attached to management development if construction industry performance is to
be improved.
1/ Report of the Sub-committee on "Economics of Design and Construction
applied to Building Projects." National Steering Committee. Construc-
tion Industry Training Project (Cr.1130-CE) - Colombo 1984.
2/ Sri Lanka: Management Training Needs - Whitlock, R.M. Colombo July 1985.



-5-
1.14    Private Sector.  With encouragement from the Government, contractors
formed the Association of Construction Contractors of Sri Lanka (ACCSL). It
now has 102 members. Fifty-eight percent of these have their registered
addresses in Colombo, but this does not indicate the geographic spread of
their operations. The State Engineering Corporation (SEC) and the State
Development and Construction Corporation (SDCC) are members of the Associa-
tion, and this illustrates the point about the blurring of distinctions
between the public and private sectors (para 1.13).
1.15    The major achievements of this fledgling Association have been a
symposium in April 1984 on "The Role of the Contractor in the National
Economy", and its gaining membership to the International Federation of Asian
and Western Pacific Contractors' Associations (IFAWPCA.) In an effort to
resolve the dilemma of an Association which cannot attract members because it
cannot offer services, a study was commissioned by the Associaticn and
financed by the CITP. The final report includes a number of recommendations;
the most important of which are that the ACCSL should: (a) represent the
interests of the industry to the government; (b) be consulted regarding
legislation affecting the industry; (c) develop resources for the education
and training of technicians and building managers; (d) seek to raise contrac-
tors' standards; and (e) provide members with technical and business informa-
tion.
1.16    Problems which affect ACCSL members are similar to those raised by
domestic contractors the world over. These include: (a) unfair competition
from foreign contractors; (b) lack of work; (c) high interest rates for
working capital; and (d) slowness of payments on government contracts. The
ACCSL would be represented on the Consultative Committees for Training and
the Construction Industry (para 3.12). This should provide an appropriate
forum for the airing of these issues. Other issues in the sector which
require attention are the development of smaller contractors, and the extent
to which ACCSL can effectively represent the interests of its members to
government, as well as provide them with advisory and other services. Since
it is the government's policy to encourage small-scale enterprises and assist
the Association in its development, the Government undertook in January 1986
in cooperation with the ACCSL, a study of the problems of the private sector
with a view to developing programs and policies to overcome these problems
(Annex 9).
E. Status and Issues in Vocational Training
1.17    There are three Ministries and one Department principally associated
with training constrLction workers in Sri Lanka. The National Apprenticeship
Board (NAB) was set up in 1971 under the Ministry of Youth Affairs and
Employment (MYAE). NAB administers craft training at work sites for youths
aged between 16 and 22, and currently supervises about 10,000 trainees. NAB
does no training itself, but recruits apprentices, establishes training
curricula and testing standards, and carries out field inspection of training
on work sites. For construction trades, there are some one-year courses, but
the majority are the Construction Industry Training Project (Credit 1130-CE)
sponsored courses (para 1.36). NAB also runs special apprenticeship schemes
for about 1,000 trainees at the higher and supervisory management levels.
The Ministry of Labor (MOL) trains about 2,700 students per year aged between



-6-
18 and 30 who have at least eight years of schooling. For construc-
tion-related training, the Ministry operates two permanent and 317 very small
mobile centers which offer courses in masonry, carpentry, metal work, and
motor repair and maintenance (Annex 4, paras 22 and 23). The Department of
Small Industries operates 109 centers to train carpenters on one-year cour-
ses, plus three centers giving two-year courses in cabinet making. About
1,500 trainees are currently taking carpentry courses. MLGHC established the
Center of Housing Planning and Building (CHPB) in Colombo as a training
center for construction management. CHPB trains about 40 technical managers
annually. Courses are run at three levels: a four-week course, which
includes project evaluation for senior staff; an eight-week course for middle
management such as Inspectors and Superintendents; and three-month courses
for new rec_.its to technical grades. The courses concentrate on site
organization and mianagement appropriate to their seniority, without neces-
sarily imparting any detailed knowledge of construction trades. Students are
required to acquire a specified amount of work experience before they are
awarded a certificate for the course. A more detailed description of the
technical and vocational training system is included in Annex 4.
1.18    Several issues affect technical/vocational training in Sri Lanka.
These relate to manpower and financing policies, and the efficiency of the
system. As regards policy, there are four issues which warrant attention;
the export of manpower, the lack of testing and certification, the wages and
benefits to staff in technical/vocational training, and cost recovery. The
efficiency of the system is affected by the relevance of the curriculum to
market needs, the competence of instructors, and the availability of training
equipment and materials, the degree to which the trainees are employed, and
the management capacity which exists in the system.
L.19    Export of Manpower.  Since 1977, the relative share of professional
manpower leaving Sri Lanka has declined steadily, while the share of skilled
and semi-skilled labor has increased. Among the professional cadres,
increased domestic opportunities which resulted from the economic policies
of the Government, led to a decrease in out-migration. At the same time,
the Government has adopted a policy of encouraging the migration of skilled
and semi-skilled workers. In 1982, 76% of the people who migrated for
employment belonged to either the skilled or unskilled categories. The
remainder were professional, managerial and technical personnel. The major
factor influencing the migration of labor is the high wages offered abroad.
Surveys show that Sri Lankan workers abroad remit as much as 80Z-90% of their
total earnings. These private transfers from abroad have shown a steady
increase and have had a favorable effect on the balance of payments. In
1983, private transfers amounted to Rs. 6.8 billion and was the second
highest foreign exchange earner after the export of tea.
1.20    The large number of skilled/semi-skilled persons migrating to the
Middle East has also eased the pressure of local unemployment. Although this
cannot be a permanent solution to unemployment, it has assisted in the short
term. Despite these benefits, migration has created a number of problems for
local industry. First, there are now difficulties in recruiting competent
personnel. Second, productivity in industry has been affected by the migra-
tion of the more experienced and skilled workers; and thirdly, this has
resulted in an escalation of construction costs due to the increase in wages.
No study has yet been undertaken in Sri Lanka to estimate the cost to the



-7-
local industry of exporting skilled labor. However, the consensus is that the
positive effects of labor migration outweigh the negative. The policy of the
Government is not to restrict the movement of labor within and outside the
country. While acknowledging the problems of local industry, it sees the
impact of remittances on the balance of payments as positive. Under these
circumstances, the option which the Government has pursued is to undertake
more training programs for skilled workers required for both the local and
Middle East labor markets. With the sharp reduction of employment oppor-
tunities in the Middle East and Gulf States, and the increase in the number
of returnees, the focus of training programs will shift to upgrading and
retraining.
1.21    Certification.  Training programs conducted by the various Ministries
and institutions differ in the level of skills, training methodology, and
curriculum for the same trade. Some craft-level training programs do not
have a fixed curriculum and therefore the training imparted varies from one
place to another, often depending on the emphasis and the competence of the
instructor. This lack of uniformity is aggravated by the paucity of
facilities for trade testing. Further, the trainees from these programs
differ in their skill levels when entering the labor market. Employers find
it difficult to ascertain the skills of new recruits particularly those from
formal institutional training programs. The tests conducted, and certifi-
cates awarded by the different training institutions are therefore not recog-
nized by the employers, who instead prefer to administer their own tests and
establish wage scales commensurate with the results of the test. There are
therefore no uniform wage scales which are linked to the level of skill
attainment. One of the major drawbacks in the construction industry at
present is that while a national system of training standards and tests have
been developed, not enough skilled workers have as yet been tested and ce-
tified to have a significant impact on the level of wages. The proposed
project plans to test and certify 40,000 workers.
1.22    Salary and benefits.  Recruitment for all types of technical person-
nel has been a major problem over the last five years. The situation is
perhaps most serious in the training profession. General conditions of
employment and basic pay scales are more attractive in industry than in
technical and vocational training. This has resulted in a dearth of
qualified and experienced personnel in training. Although the problem has
been recognized, there has been little action to remedy the situation largely
because pay scales are part of a wider public service system, and it is
difficult to increase the salaries and benefits for one group without creat-
ing unrest in other groups.
1.23    Cost Recovery.  Sri Lanka has developed a highly subsidized education
and training system. The Government's policy is to meet almost the entire
capital and recurrent costs of education and training programs from general
resource3 (the business turnover tax, income taxes, and export duties) At
present, none of these revenues are specifically earmarked for education and
training activities and funding is, therefore, on the basis of available
resources. The Government also consciously pursues the principle of equality
in its allocation of resources for education and training, but the
across-the-board application of this financing mechanism has distortionary
effects. "Means tests" have not been implemented to establish the levels of
subsidies (stipends) or fees people in different income groups should receive



-8-
or pay. The 1971 NAB Act, which provides for a training levy on employers
with more than 50 employees has never been utilized to finance vocational
training. The business turnover tax is seen as the means through which all
employers contribute to Government sponsored training programs. The Govern-
ment has argued that by Levying the NAB tax in addition to the business
turnover tax, it would not only shift costs from contractors and other
employers who hire labor to those who pay for the services, but would also be
doubly taxing employers who are already paying for services (training man-
power) provided by the Government. The Government is the largest single
contract awarder and employer. Public training institutions also have a
subsidized fee structure. In technical institutes the fees are nominal,
while public in-service training institutions administer fee structures that
attempt to achieve full cost recovery from private sector trainees who attend
courses, while providing free training to public sector employees. In the
private sector, there are a number of institutions which conduct specialized
vocational programs and charge realistic fees from their clientele. These
are, however, very few private institutions which offer basic skill training
in the construction trades. The Government's policy is also to award
stipends in some of its vocational training programs. This is done in order
to attract tra-nees, as well as for socio-economic considerations, because
most trainees come from poorer households. There is, however, no uniformity
in the levels of stipends paid by the different government agencies for
essentially similar training.
1.24    The content of curricula and relevance to labor market requirements
are factors which can determine the success or failure of vocational train-
ing. Some Ministries have achieved a degree of success in designing training
courses which reflect the needs and the requirements of the industry.
However, there is no formal system where curricula are designed in consult-
ation with the industry, or the feedback from the industry gathered on the
relevance of training imparted. A critical element which is missing in the
technical/vocational training system, is the participation of the industry in
the development of course curricula. This shortcoming has to be corrected by
institutionalizing a process where consultative and representative committees
are appointed to guide and advise the training organizations on the actual
needs of the industry.
1.25    The duration of courses and the admission requirements to vocational
programs vary among Ministries. These are most pronounced at skilled/semi-
skilled levels. For example, the minimum requirements for admission to
carpentry courses varies from five years of formal school education, to
G.C.E. Ordinary Level. Similar variations of education qualifications are
observed in other trades as well. The duration of existing skilled/semi-
skilled training courses also vary from three months to four years. Training
courses with a duration of six months or more have recorded high dropout
rates. This can be attributed to two factors. First, when trainees acquire
sufficient employable skills, they voluntarily leave training for employment.
Second, the poverty of the majority of trainees does not permit them to
follow long training programs. The task of trainers therefore is to improve
the situation. One way is to shorten the training period without compromis-
ing quality. It is also possible to establish admission standards which are
more realistic so that applicants perhaps with only a primary school back-
ground, would be eligible for training in construction-related trades.



-9-
1.26    Another problem of the training system is the lack of technically
competent instructors who also have the necessary and relevant industrial
experience. Younger instructors often do not have the necessary industrial
experience. At the same time, opportunities to provide training for newly
recruited instructors have also been reduced during the last decade. The
few who have been trained abroad quickly leave for more lucrative employment
opportunities overseas and domestically. The CITP's experience with MOHE
has shown that about 15X-20% of them leave the system every year. Often the
more experienced and competent are the first to leave.
1.27    Most training institutions do not have adequate supplies of con-
sumable training materials because of budget constraints. Apart from the
funding aspects, there are also problems with the quali-y and timeliness of
the provision of consumable training materials. This is especially important
in respect of locally produced training materials such as bricks and timber.
The delivery of these items in sufficient quantities, and at the time when
they are needed is a major problem. Another shortcoming of vocational train-
ing in Sri Lanka is the supply and poor quality of instructional materials.
The reliance on instructor-focused rather than trainee-centered instructional
programs has also prevented experimentation with more innovative teaching
methods.
1.28    Finally, the coordination and management of the system is important.
The subject of technical and vocational education and training is assigned
to a number of Ministries and organizations in Sri Lanka (para 1.17). The
need for coordinating to avoid duplication of effort and a waste of resources
is urgent. The Government has cited as a good example, the CITP which spans
several Ministries in implementing a sector-related training program. There
has been no duplication of effort in implementing the project, and existing
training facilities are utilized wherever possible, thus obviating the need
for new facilities.
F. Government Policies and Programs in Vocational Training
1.29    Since 1979, the Government has invested in training programs as a
necessary part of its strategy to successfully implement its industrializa-
tion and modernization program. The increase in demand for skilled workers
especially in engineering and construction trades within the country, and the
migration of workers to the Middle East, increased the demand for technical
education and vocational training. The relative neglect of this field was
recognized and the need to provide increased financing was also accepted.
The provision for technical and vocational training programs increased from
Rs. 26.3 million in 1971/72 to Rs. 348 million in 1983. The other major
decision taken by the Government was not to restrict the outflow of skilled
labor from the country. Instead, the policy is to introduce more training
programs which would produce skilled workers in sufficient numbers to meet
the local as well as foreign demand (para 1.20).
1.30    Continuing efforts were made in the last few years to meet the
demands for skilled manpower generated by the outflow of labor to the Middle
East and the requirements of local industry. The network of polytechnics
and Junior Technical Institutes (JTIs) of the Ministry of Higher Education
(MOHE) was expanded and increased from 15 in 1977 to 27 in 1984. A Rs. 500
million technical education project supported by the ADB, SIDA, and UNDP was



-10-
initiated in 1983. A National Technical Teacher Training College (NTTTC) is
to be established under the project to provide pre- and in-service training
for instructors in MOHE institutions. This College is expected to play a
dominant role in relieving the lack of qualified instructors in the country.
1.31    The NAB established an Apprenticeship Training Institute at Katubedda
with assistance (Rs. 90 million) from the Federal Republic of Germany. The
NAB with assistance from UNDP/ILO is also establishing a Technician Training
Institute at Katunayake at a cost of approx. Rs. 65 million. The MOL estab-
lished seven permanent vocational training centers with the assistance of the
Dutch Government. In addition, it plans to strengthen its institutions at
Orugodawatte, Narahenpita and Marawila. At the village level, the Ministry
will continue its mobile training center program. With SIDA assistance, the
MOL has also established a Foreman Training Center in Colombo. In 1981, the
Government established the CITP under the WOLGHC to provide a steady supply
of skilled workers required by the construction industry. A program to
develop national skill standards, and trade tests for the construction
industry as well as construction industry specifications, procedures and
documentation was developed by the CITP in collaboration with other relevant
Ministries (para 1.37). USAID has provided assistance to the NWS&DB and the
Irrigation Department to help in the training of the specialized skill man-
power required by these two organizations.
1.32    Public expenditures on technical education and vocational Training
(1979-85). Recognizing the importance of technical and vocational education
and training, the Government has increased the financial allocations made to
this sub-sector. Details of expenditure incurred by the Government during
the period are indicated in Annex 5, Table 1. The total expenditure on
technical/vocational education and training was around Rs. 588.6 million in
FY85 compared to Rs. 93.7 million in .979. The total expenditure on techni-
cal education and vocational training taken as a percentage of the GNP has
increased from 0.18% in 1979 to 0.34X in 1985. The share of capital expendi-
ture within the total allocation provided for technical and vocational train-
ing increased (from 25% to 70%) during this period. This indicates that the
Government has taken adequate measures to expand training activities and to
improve the quality of training by providing more equipment and upgrading the
existing training facilities.
G. External Financing of Technical and Vocational Education Training
1.33    During the period 1979-1983, the Government obtained foreign assis-
tance to finance its expansion of technical and vocational programs. The
main multilateral agencies are IDA (para 1.34), ADB, SIDA, UNDP, ILO and FRC
(paras 1.30-1.31 and Annex 6).
H. Bank Role in the Construction Industry and Vocational Training
1.34    To date, the Bank Group's involvement in the Sri Lanka construction
industry has mainly been via civil works and other construction, as com-
ponents of agriculture, transport and water supply projects. The Second
Mahaweli Ganga Development Project (Credit 701-CE, 1977, US$ 19 million)
includes construction of major irrigation works, land settlement and access
roads. The Tree Crop Rehabilitation Project (Credit 818-CE, 1978, US$ 21
million) has a component for improving housing, while the Kuranegela



Integrated Rural Development Project (Credit 891-CE, 1979, US$ 20 million)
includes the rehabilitation and construction of rural roads and water
pipelines. The Road Maintenance Project (Credit 900-CE, 1979, US$ 16.5
million), includes the strengthening, repair or widening of about 30 bridges
and rehabilitation with selective widening of some primary roads, and the
Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 1041-CE, 1980, US$ 30 mil-
lion) involves construction of treatment plants, a pumping station, transmis-
sion mains and a reservoir. More recently, the Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2517-CE) includes the rehabilitation of 570 Km
of main roads.
1.35    The Bank Group also directly supports the industry through two
projects. The Small and Medium Industries Project (Credit 942-CE, 1979, US$
16 million) includes financing and technical assistance for small scale
industries associated with the construction industry, including construction
material suppliers as well as construction contractors. IFC's investment of
Rs. 4.5 million (about US$ 250,000) in Lanka Orient and Leasing Company
(LOLC) in 1980 assisted the establishment of this leasing company, which is
expected to write leases for about US$ 43 million total value in its first
five years, about a third of which is expected to be for construction equip-
ment.
1.36    The Sri Lanka Construction Industry Training Project (Credit 1130-CE)
is the only vocational training operation supported by IDA. It was estab-
lished under the MOLGHC with the objective of developing a training program
to meet the immediate requirements of skilled labor for the construction
industry. This project was designed to: (a) establish a unified modular
training system for construction-related trades; (b) improve the use and
maintenance of plant and equipment by training operators and mechanics;
(c) increase the effectiveness of work planning and supervision by training
middle and upper management in contract procedures, site management and
quality control; and (d) strengthen the agencies and institutions involved in
training for the construction industry. The project was originally intended
to train: (a) 45,000 workers in basic construction skills; (b) about 1,800
workers in equipment operation and maintenance; (c) about 900 supervisors in
work supervision and quality control; (d) about 80 senior staff in improved
work planning and management; (e) upgrade about 9,600 workers; as well as
(f) improve methods and procedures in the construction industry. These
ta rgets were revised downward in 1983 as & result of reduced demand (Annex 7,
Table 1). The project was also originally designed to be implemented in
three years from June 1981 - June 1984. However, it has been extended twice
and will be closed in December 1986 by which time it will fully achieve the
revised training targets of about 30,000.
1.37    The Government established a temporary Project Cell in the Urban
Development Authority (UDA) under the MOLGHC. A Coomittee consisting of
Secretaries of the MOLGHC as the Chairman, MYAE, Plan Implementation, KOHE,
Lands and Land Development, Mahaweli Development, and HOL, was established to
formulate policy and oversee the implementation of the project. The Govern-
ment agreed to implement through the NAB, standardization of the selection of
trainees, training, testing, certification and registration of construction
workers, supervisors and specialists. This task has been already been com-
pleted and implementation is now being handled by the NAB (Annex 7, paras
37-46). The Government also agreed to develop and implement standardization



-12-
of the construction industry contracting specifications, procedures and
documentation. The development work was handled by the National Steering
Committee which comprised a temporary body of public and private officials.
The work is now completed and has been approved by Cabinet for implementa-
tion. As part of project design, existing training facilities and staff are
being used. Only one new training facility was created; the Heavy Equipment
Operator Training Center (HEOTC) at Anuradhapura. In respect of craft,
supervisory and management, and mechanic training, existing facilities of the
PJHE and government-owned industrial establishments are being used.  Staff
empLoyed by these organizations assic_ in implementing the training program.
1.38    Under the project, attempts are also being made to recover and/or
share part of the costs of the training programs with primary and secondary
beneficiaries (trainees and contractors). In the area of skill training, the
CITP finances the costs (consumable training materials, stipends, tool kit,
salaries of additional staff/overtime) for the 10 week institutional training
period plus 10 weeks of the 40 week on-site phase. Contractors pay t:e
trainees a comparable or higher stipend during the remaining 30 weeks of the
supervised on-site training period. Supervisory, mechanic and operator
training trainees are paid a stipend for the duration of the course and there
is no cost sharing with contractors. For upper and middle-level management
courses and trade testing, fees have been levied from the inception of the
project. The unit costs of training are shown in Annex 8, Tables 1 and 2.
The CITP also undertakes several activities which generate revenue as part
of the training program. Skill-level trainees are required to fabricate
doors, window frames, sashes and other building/construction items during
their 10 week institutional training course. These items are sold at public
auction and the funds retained by CITP. Equipment operators undertake earth
moving and other construction projects as part of their training and the
revenue generated from these activities accrue to the CITP (Annex 8, Table
4).
1.39    The objectives of the project have largely been met.  Continued
support is required in order to institutionalize and consolidate these
achievements. The modular training syctem has been established but curricula
and training manuals require updating to reflect changes in construction
techniques as well as instructional methodology; middle and upper management
training programs will have to be expanded particularly in view of the urgent
need to increase public sector efficiency and the expanding role of private
sector contractors. The agencies involved in construction industry training,
mainly the MOE, MOL and MYAE, have been assisted under the project. Coor-
dination has been enhanced through the temporary Secretaries Committee. This
organizational device must now be formalized to prevent duplicative programs
and facilities, as well as to manage programs and policies which can stimu-
late the role of the private sector. By December 1985, 24,000 persons had
been trained under the project and it is expected that a total of about
30,000 persons would be trained by project completion. Tracer studies con-
ducted in 1983, 1984 and 1985 showed that up to 85 percent of trainees have
found employment in their area of training. The 1985 study also showed that
the rate of employment (permanent, self or casual) and the wage earning
capacity of CITP trainees were higher than for non-CITP trained workers. On
average about 35 percent of CITP trained artisans (carpenters, plumbers,
masons, electricians) found full-time permanent emploment while the others
were either self-employed or operated as casual (daily) workers. The average



-13-
daily wage of CITP trained artisans was about 44 percent higher than for
unskilled/untrained workers (Rs 36 per day compared with Rs 15-25). CITP
trained equipment operators and mechanics achieved almost 100 percent per-
manent full-time employment with average monthly wages of Rs 1,500 which is
about 10 percent above the average for other permanently employed skilled
workers in the privare sector. Employed construction site supervisors (lower
level managers) had an average monthly wage of Rs 1,368, and this compares
favorably with supervisors at similar levels in the construction industry.
The details of project achievements are outlined in Annex 7.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Goals and Objectives
Goals
2.01    The principal goal of the proposed investment would be to improve
the efficiency of the construction industry in Sri Lanka.
Objectives
2.02    The main objectives of the proposed project wouLd be to (a) create
an institutional framework to sustain training and industry development
efforts started under Credit 1130-CE; (b) increase the supply of
semi-skilled, skilled and managerial personnel to the industry; and
Cc) improve the quality of manpower supplied to the sector. The institutional
development objective would be achieved by (a) establishing and developing
the Institute for Construction Industry Training and Development (ICTAD).
The manpower supply objective would be achieved by (a) training about 50,000
new and upgrading about 26,000 existing Femi-skilled, skilled and managerial
workers in the construction industry. The quality improvement objective would
be achieved by (a) instituting an instructor training and upgrading program;
(b) strengthening monitoring and evaluation of training and industry develop-
ment; and (c) trade testing and certifying about 40,000 skilled workers and
supervisors.
2.03    Another objective of the project would be to institute a cost
recovery system in vocational training for the construction trades. The
Government has acknowledged that beneficiaries should cover a larger part of
the costs of training but indicated that because of Sri Lanka's education and
training policies, and experience under Credit 1130-CE, covering these costs
through the sale of trainee products and services and other revenue gener-
ation actions, would be preferable to an exclusive reliance on fees.
However, because of the inherent conflicts which can develop when training is
fully subsumed to production and income generation activities, and given the
existing public budgetary constraints, all options must be considered. A
detailed study of the financial and economic costs and benefits of publically
financed construction industry training, the impact on the government budget,
and the proportions of costs to be shared by trainee, government and private
sector, would be undertaken. Terms of reference for this study have been
prepared and agreed to by GOSL and IDA (Annex 9). The study is also expected
to provide guidance on the appropriate levels of stipends and who should
receive them. During negotiations, the Government provided an assurance that



-14-
it would carry out the study and review the findings with IDA by September
30, 1987. Since the project would continue to generate revenues (para 1.38),
during negotiations the Government provided an assurance that by December 31,
1989, the full cost of stipends and trainee tool kits; and by December 31,
1994, about 50 of the cost of consumable training materials, would be
financed from sources other than the general revenues of the Government.
B. Institutional Development: Establishing the Institute for Construction
Industry Training and Development (ICTAD) (Proposed Outlay US$ 2.54
million) 1/
2.04    In 1981, the Government established the CITP as a crash program to
meet shortages of manpower in the construction sector (para 1.35). One
requirement of the Credit was the creation of a temporary Project Cell, with
a full time Project Director (Section 3.06 tb] DCA). The Cell was created
under the UDA in the MLGHC. In addition to its training functions, the Cell
was also expected to "implement standardization of construction industry
concract specifications, procedures and documentation" (Section 3.07 [b] DCA)
(Annex 7, page 17). To accomplish this task, a National Steering Committee
(para 1.37) was constituted and the detailed work carried out by five
sub-committees organized around a) tender procedures, contractor grading
systems, contracts and specifications; b) middle and upper management train-
ing, quantity surveying and quality coitrol; c) developing a contractors'
association; d) design economics; and e) strategic planning in the construc-
tion sector. In August 1985, the Cabinet of Ministers approved for implemen-
tation, the proposals and recommendations regarding tender procedures and
technical specifications.
2.05    The reasons for establishing ICTAD are clear.  In order to implement
the recommendations approved by the Cabinet, to build on the momentum gained
in developing rational training programs and sustaining the training effort,
and most important, institutionalizing the experience gained under Credit
1130-CE, the temporary Project Cell would be transformed into the Institute
for Construction Industry Training and Development (ICTAD) under the UDA.
This involves an increase of 17 professional level project Cell staff and
locating the Institute in a permanent purpose-built building instead of the
rented premises which the CITP presently occupy (Annex 10). During nego-
tiations the Government provided an assurance that it would appoint the
additional staff at the appropriate levels according to a schedule agreed
with IDA (Annex 11). A second reason for establishing ICTAD is related to
the unique characteristics of the construction industry. 2/ These include
the separation of design from production, the geographic scatter of produc-
tion activities, the labor intensive nature of the industry, susceptibility
to weather, fluctuating demand, and high risks. Further, because the
1/ This an subsequent statements of proposed outlays are baseline costs
including taxes.
2/  Source:  The Construction Industry - Issues and Strategies for  Develop-
ing Countries, World Bank, Washington, D.C., 19b4, and Construc-
tion Management Training in Developing Countries, International
Labor Organization, Geneva, 1983.



-15-
industry contributes to and is involved in nearly all development programs,
and because the government is a major client, it cuts across ministerial
boundaries. 1/ Sri Lanka is no exception to these general observations. An
increasing number of countries have become aware of the need to provide a
focus for construction industry development for it to be both coherent and
effective. Examples include the Construction Industry Development Board of
Singapore, and the Construction Industry Development Unit (PUSBINLAT) of
Indonesia. In Sri Lanka, this focus would be ICTAD. Consultative Committees
would be formed to advise on the training and industry development activities
to be pursued by ICTAD. The Committees would have equal public and private
sector representation and include among others, the ACCSL (para 3.12).
2.06    A third reason for establishing ICTAD is that as a result of
experience gained under Credit 1130-CE, it was clear that although training
at all levels (skilled worker to the senior managers) is essential, training
aLone cannot produce the desired improvements in the construction industry.
The Government recognized that attention must be paid to the operational
environment of the industry, particularly those factors which inhibit the
growth of a healthy private sector. These problems require examination,
analysi. and action. The inclusion of the ACCSL and other private sector
representatives in the Consultative Committee and the prominent role they
have played in developing training, skill standards and tests (Annex 7, paras
42, 43), reflects the position that private sectors views and representation
are essential if environmental issues are to be addressed and policies
reformed. The Government formally established ICTAD as a permanent institu-
tion under the UDA on February 19, 1986.
2.07    ICTAD would have two major functions: training and industry develop-
ment. Its organizational structure reflects these two major activities. The
operating principle of the Training Division would be to assist existing
institutions to deliver training, rather than itself providing training. The
only exception would be where no other agency has the ca:ability (or poten-
tial) to deliver training. The Division's role would largely be one of an
active enabler through the designing, supervision and financing of
appropriate training schemes. During the project, ICTAD's training
activities would be centered at existing institutions (paras 2.12 and 2.15).
The Division would work closely with the NAB on the further development of
trade standards and tests and collaborate closely with the NTTTC when it is
fully established, for the training of instructors. However, in the interim,
it would develop a capability to monitor the quality of instructor training,
identify gaps in the program, and assist in the development of courses,
curricula, and appropriate instructional methodologies. During negotiations,
the Government provided an assurance that ICTAD would transfer all instructor
training to the NTTTC by June 30, 1990.
2.08    The Construction Industry Development Division of ICTAD would have
three major functions: (a) technology development; (b) improvement of the
operating environment of the construction industry; and (c) contractor
development. Technology development would provide information on construction
1/ 44Z of the total cost of projects approved for assistance by IBRD in FY
1980-C2 went to construction activities



-16-
methods, materials, and equipment which are available in other countries and
are relevant to local conditions. The Institute of Architects and Institute
of Engineers are expected to work closely with ICTAD on these topics. As the
ACCSL develops, it could take over some of this activity and provide its
members with a useful service. While the Association is at present not in a
position to handle this activity, assistance provided under Credit 1130-CE
will ultimately lead to a stronger and more capable organization. Another
important element in technology transfer is the encouragement of the use of
local materials. Major barriers to this evolution lie not so much in the
devising appropriate technology, but in the lack of appropriate specifica-
tions, standards and building regulations. The economics of substitution
(local vs. foreign) would also require scrutiny and analysis, and the Divi-
sion would perform this activity.
2.09    The improvement of the operating environment of the industry requires
identification and analysis of specific problems and making recommendations
for change. This would include the collection and interpretation of con-
struction industry statistics including price indices, manpower
demand/supply, contract awards, etc. The data obtained would be used as the
basis for recommending changes in bidding procedures, contract conditions,
pre-qualification requirements, and regulation of foreign contractors.
Because government is the major client of the construction industry in Sri
Lanka, its legal and regulatory requirements also directly affect
performance. Even where the client is private, the need to conform to build-
ing regulations, safety requirements and other regulations established by
Government also have an impact. The development of private contractors
depend in part on government action, but largely on actions by the contrac-
tors themselves. For this to happen there must be an administratively and
financially sound Association. Contractors must first be convinced of the
need for training, especially in management; secondly, relevant training
programs must be in place. Systems for financing training must also be
designed. This type of development takes time and requires careful planning.
It would be a function of the Industry Development Division to work closely
with the ACCSL to determine a development strategy and to prepare a phased
program for transfer of responsibility for these activities from ICTAD to
ACCSL. This would be a gradual process and even when achieved, there will
still be a residual role for ICTAD to play. During negotiations, the Govern-
ment provided an assurance that by January 31, 1989, ICTAD would transfer to
the ACCSL all work on the registration of contractors and the promotion of
the private sector in the construction industry. To support the estab-
lishment and development of ICTAD, the project would finance civil works,
equipment, vehicles, books, expert services, fellowships and consumable
materials and the salaries of additional staff on a declining scale.
C. Skill Training (Proposed Outlay US$ 12.92 million)
2.10    The objective of this component is to increase the supply of skilled
and semi-skilled workers for the construction industry through a) extending
training to construction trades not covered by existing training programs; b)
increasing the range of competencies of semi-skilled workers who have already
been trained to the Grade III (semi-skilled) level; and c) certifying the
quality of skill training by testing construction workers to National Skill
Standards. During the project period, approximately 72,000 skilled and



-17-
semi-skilled workers would be trained and/or upgraded in various trades, and
of these about 40,000 would be trade-tested and certified (Annex 2, Table 2)
2.11    New entrants in craft trades would be trained to the basic Grade III
level while existing workers would be upgraded to either Grade II or Grade I
(skilled worker). The training program for new entrants would consist of 10
weeks of institutional training followed by 40 weeks of "on-site" practical
training. The equipment operator program would consist of six weeks institu-
tional training, followed by 200-240 hours of "on-site" training. For
mechanics, the program is differentiated between light and heavy mechanics.
In the case of heavy mechanics, the program includes six months of training
at a center, followed by 12 weeks on-the-job training. For light equipment
mechanics, the institutional phase of the program is reduced to five months.
Upgrading programs would be of shorter duration and modular in design. Most
of the program would be conducted during weekends. The upgrading of equip-
ment mechanics would be achieved by using modules of a longer duration.
2.12    The institutional phase of all skill training programs would be
conducted at existing institutions. This gives a large degree of flexibility
to the training system because it enables courses to be scheduled in response
to manpower demands. Some construction would be required to provide for the
storage of training materials, upgrading of existing workshops, and staff
and student housing (Annex 10). Craft training would be carried out at 21
Technical Colleges of the MOHE. Mechanic training would be conducted in the
SEC and SDCC workshops, and at the regional workshops of the Department of
Highwa-s situated in Angulana and Kandy. Equipment operator training would
be undertaken at the HEOTC.
2.13    The "on-site" or practical part of the training program would con-
tinue to be organized by the ICTAD with assistance from the District Training
Officers (DTO) who are employees of the Building Department of MLGHC.
Trainees are placed on building construction sites and supervised by the both
DTO and NAB. Equipment operators and mechanics would be given supervised
practical experience either at their place of employment or, for new
entrants, on simulated and contracted work. Trade testing would be conducted
at various Technical Colleges, the SEC workshop, HEOTC and a National Trade
Testing Centre being constructed by the Government at Orugodawatte. Course
curricula, instructional manuals, and other teaching aids for all skill
training have been developed under Cr. 1130-CE, but require revision to meet
the changing needs of the construction industry. In order to support this
level of skill training, the project would finance civil works, furniture,
equipment, vehicles, books, expert services, fellowships, and recurrent
expenditures (consumable materials, operation and maintenance, tool kits,
stipends and the salaries of additional staff) on a declining scale. During
negotiations, the Government provided an assurance that it would appoint all
additional staff on a schedule acceptable to IDA (para 2.05, Annex 11).
D. Management Training (Proposed Outlay US$ 1.49 million)
2.14    The lack of supervisory and management skills in the construction
industry has been identified as one area which is essential for the improve-
ment in the efficiency of industry. During the project, about 5,700 new and



-18-
existing managers and supervisors of all grades in the Ministries of High-
ways, Kahaweli, Irrigation, and MOLGHC, and the private sector will be
trained. A draft training plan is outlined in Annex 12.
2.15    Upper Management training programs would be organized by the CHPB
and targeted to senior executives in the public and private sectors. The
program would consist of two to five day seminars and workshops, as well as a
specialized three-week course on Project Management. A total of 30 courses
and seminars are planned during the project period and these will focus on
topics such as construction engineering and technology, contract management,
construction planning and control, as well as financial, materials and per-
sonnel management. These areas were identified in a training needs assess-
ment conducted in 1985. It is expected that the entire management program
would be conducted by CHPB, although seminars, workshops and some courses
would be located at either the CHPB or ICTAD. During negotiations, the
Government provided an assurance that by January 1, 1990, all upper-level
management courses would be financed by the trainees or their employers.
2.16    Middle Management training would be mainly upgrading the skills of
existing staff in (a) specific areas of construction management, project
Analysis, and contract supervision, as it relates to highways, housing build-
ing and irrigation; and (b) general areas of financial and personnel manage-
-ment. The program would range from short one-to-eight week courses conducted
at CHPB, to a specialized degree in Quantity Surveying and Building Economics
which would be carried out at the University of Moratuwa. The training of
the management staff of the Highways Department (Authority) would also be a
responsibility of the CHPB. Courses would be designed to reflect the changed
status of the organization, and to enhance the skills of the management cadre
to undertake the major investment program in highway development and main-
tenance.
2.17    Lower Level Management (Supervisory) courses for new recruits would
consist of an eight-week institutional course followed by an "cn-site"
program of 50 weeks, including a final four-week institutional training
period. Existing supervisors who are being upgraded would undergo training
of from one to four weeks and this would be both on-the-job and institu-
tional. Trainees would take a National Skill Standard test at the end of
their training period. The training of new supervisors would be located at:
CHPB; the Technical Colleges at Kandy, Jaffna, Amparai and Embilipitiya; the
Ratmalana Technical and Research Institute and the HEOTC at Galkulama. The
upgrading of existing supervisors also would be located at CHPB, as well as
the Technical Colleges at Kurunegala, Moratuwa, Tanamalwilla, Galkulama and
Ratmalana. While curricula, training materials and instructional staff have
been developed under Cr. 1130-CE, the expanded scope of training and the new
clientele to be trained require that the curriculum be revised, and the
instructional capabilities of staff improved. In order to support the entire
management/supervisory training effort the present range of skills, number of
staff, and program design capabilities of CHPB would have to be expanded and
upgraded to undertake this effort. The project would support a staff and
curriculum development program for the CHPB as well as expert services,
fellowships, equipment, books, and consumable materials and the salaries of
additional staff on a declining scale. During negotiations, the Government
provided an assurance that it would appoint all additional staff according to
a schedule agreed with IDA (paras 2.05, 2.13).



-19-
E. Instructor Training (Proposed Outlay US$ 0.82 million)
2.18    The objective of this component is to increase the number of
qualified skill trades and management instructcrs in order to improve the
quality of construction training. To undertake the proposed program of skill
development and management improvement, approximately 235 existing instruc-
tional staff would have to be upgraded and a further 265 new staff recruited
and trained.
2.19    Skill Trade Instructors:  Existing instructors for the basic con-
struction trades (e.g., masonry, carpentry, electric wiring, plumbing, etc.)
are employed by the MOHE and they require upgrading in both skill and
instructional methodology. However, the mix of these components will vary
from one skill trade to another and be based on pre-course analysis. Since
the MOHE discontinued its own two-year certificate course in all basic con-
struction trades to accommodate the CITP training program, instructor train-
ing in these fields wouid be the responsibility of ICTAD until the NTTTC is
fully operational. The courses would be of six weeks duration and undertaken
initially at the Dehiwela (interim) Technical Teacher Training Centre of the
MOHE, with the practical trade skill upgrading being carried out in the
workshops of Technical Colleges. By June 1990, the NTTTC in Colombo would be
completed and all MOHE instructors/teachers would be trained there. ICTAD
would work closely with the NTTTC on the design and implementation of
instructor courses for the construction trades. During negotiations, the
Government provided an assurance that by June 30, 1990, it would transfer all
skill-level instructor training to the NTTTC (para 2.07).
2.20    Equipment Operator and Mechanics Instructors:  Training of these
instructors would take place at the HEOTC, SEC and the NTTTC. The courses
would be of variable length, depending on the nature of the skill to be
taught. The courses would be of about three months duration for instructors
and six months for demonstrators. The total number of trainee instructors
under this program would be about 280, although most of them would be
part-time instructors with teaching commitments of about 10 hours per week.
In order to implement this program of instructor training for the skill
trades of the construction industry, the project would support the provision
of equipment, expert services, fellowships, vehicles, and consumable
materials and the salaries of additional staff on a declining scale.
2.21    Instructors in Management Subjects:  A staff development program
would be carried out for CHPB to increase both individual instructJr as well
as institutional capacity in conducting programs using appropriate teaching
technology. The staff at technical colleges participating in the supervisory
management training would also be upgraded. It is envisaged that training
links with similar staff development programs overseas would be established.
The Project would finance equipment, expert services, fellowships, and addi-
tional staff salaries on a declining basis.
F. Monitoring and Evaluation (Proposed Outlay US$ 0.73 million)
2.22    Under Credit 1130-CE, the Government was required to establish a
monitoring and evaluation system (Annex 7, page 14). The monitoring of
project inputs (financial and material) and outputs (trainees) has been
up-to-date and timely, and the Quarterly Progress Reports submitted by the



-20-
Government have been comprehensive in their coverage. Evaluation has however
been less systematic and adjustments in project training targets have been
accomplished only after special studies have been undertaken. The Government
undertook two Training Needs Assessments (1983 and 1985) both of which were
conducted by the National Institute of Business Administration (NIBM). The
first study provided the basis for adjusting training targets under Credit
1130-CE while the second study provides the estimates for the Troposed
project (para 1.10 and Annex 2). The project would provide resources so that
these training needs assessments can be conducted every two years during the
project. During negotiations, the Government provided an assurance that it
would conduct four training needs assessments, complete them according to an
agreed schedule (Annex 13), and review the findings with IDA prior to their
implementation. The training needs assessment computer model which was
developed by NIBM has been refined through its two applications to date. It
has demonstrated areas where training of new entrants should be curtailed to
prevent an oversupply, as well as skill categories where incubents require
upgrading and retraining.
2.23    The second area of evaluation which requires assistance are Tracer
Studies. Three tracer studies have been undertaken since 1981 (Annex 7, para
47).  The first two studies simply looked at the "affiliation" rate of a
sample of trainees and concluded that 73% and 75% remained with the construc-
tion industry at least one year after completing training. A more detailed
study was undertaken in 1985, and in addition to affiliation, looked at the
employment (permanent, self or casual) and wage earning (monthly, daily)
characteristics of a much wider sample of trainees from all trades. The
general conclusions were that 85% of the sample remained with the industry
and that their permanent employment and wages rates were higher than those of
non CITP trainees. This study was undertaken by the Ministry of Plan
Implementation (Department of Census). It is proposed that under the Credit,
support would be provided to the Department to expand the scope of the study
to include more detailed demographic and social data; migration (internal and
external), and household income and expenditure information. Four studies
would be conducted during the course of the project. During negotiations,
the Government provided an assurance that it would conduct four tracer
studies, complete them according to an agreed schedule (Annex 13), and revieu
the findings with IDA. The project would finance equipment, vehicles and
technical assistance to support monitoring and evaluation. Because many
project activities (training targets, tracer and financing studies, revenue
generation, transfer of instructor training to NTTTC, devolution of
activities to ACCSL) are scheduled to be reviewed within three years of
project start-up, during negotiations, the Government provided an assurance
that a mid-term review would be undertaken in January 1991. This mid-term
evaluation would take stock of achievements to date and make adjustments
which are necessary in light of experience during the first years of
implementation.
G. Technical Assistance Summary (Proposed Outlay US$ 2.78 million)
2.24    The technical assistance to be pruvided under the project would
comprise 11 staff years of expatriate expert services and 96 staff years of
local expert services which would include mostly contracted local consultants
to the CHPB for the management training program. This approach would limit
the number of full-time additional staff required, and has worked well under
Credit 1130-CE. Technical assistance would also includes 19.6 staff years of



-21-
international and regional fellowships and 121.5 staff years of Local train-
ing. The assistance would be allocated as outlined in Annex 14.
2.25    UNDP would finance the technical assistance requirements for the
skill and instructor training components, and it would be implemented by the
International Labor Office (ILO). IDA would finance the technical assistance
for the institutional development and management training components. Agree-
ment in principle on co-financing between GOSL and UNDP has beer .eached.
The signing of a technical assistance agreement between GOSL and UNDP/ILO,
as well as a contract with consultants for the IDA financed technical assis-
tance, are conditions of credit effectiveness.
III. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATiON AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Project Costs
3.01    Cost Summary.  The total cost of the project, including duties and
taxes on imported goods, is estimated at Rs. 711.05 million or US$ 24.48
million equivalent. Detailed project costs by component, categories of
expenditure and time are given in Annex 15. Breakdown of local and foreign
costs by component and categories of expenditure are summarized in Tables 3.1
and 3.2.
Table 3.1  : Project Cost by Component I/
I   Rupee (Million)   |  US$ (Million)    1% of I  Z    I
I   Component           I       I       I         I        I      IBase IForeign I
I                   I LocallForeigni Total ILocaliForeigni TotallCostslExchangel
lInstitutional      I       I       I       I     I        I      I     I         I
I Development(ICTAD)l 31.111  38.511  69.621 1.141  1.40 1 2.541 14% |  55%  |
ISkill Training     1232.971 121.171 354.141 8.501  4.42 | 12.921 702 I  34Z  I
IManagement Trainingl 26.281  14.681  40.961 0.961  0.53 | 1.491  8% |  36%  |
lInstructor Trainingl  8.381  13.781  22.161 0.311  0.51 | 0.821 4% I  62%  |
IMonitoring and     I       I       I       I     I        I      I     I         I
I Evaluation        1 4.571  14.431  20.001 0.171  0.56 1 0.731  4% i   77%  I
I Base Costs        1303.311 203.571 506.88111.081 7.42 1l8.851100% 1  40%  1
I Contingencies     I       I       I       I     I        I      I     I         I
I Physical          I 17.331  11.341  28.631 0.631  0.41 I 1.041  6% I  39%  |
1 Price             I 97.271  78.271 175.541 2.671  2.27 1 4.941 27% I   46% Z
I Subtotal          1114.601  89.571 204.171 3.301  2.68 1 5.981 33X |  43% X
ITOTAL PROJECT COSTS1417.911 293.14! 711.05114.381 10.10 1_24.481133%  1   41%   I
I/ Includes taxes and duties.
NOTE: Subtotals may not add to totals due to rounding.



-22-
3.02    The estimated costs by categories of expenditure are summarized in
Table 3.02.
Table 3.2  : Project Costs by Category of Expenditure  1/
I  I   Rupee (Million)  1    US$ (Million)   1Z ofl   Z    I
I    Category              I        1             l -1           |BaseiForeign I
! of Expenditure   I LocallForeigni Totall LocallForeigni TotallCostlErchangel
Civil Works        I      I       I      I           I       I     I           I
I & Prof. Fees      1 28.751  19.511 48.261  1.051  0.71 | 1.791  9ZI   41%  |
Furniture          I 1.991   1.641  3.631  0.071  0.06 | 0.131  iZ1   45% X
1 Equipment         I 8.061  54.401 64.461  0.291  2.06 1 2.351 13ZI  88% X
1 Vehicles          | 2.851   5.061  7.911  0.101  0.18 1 0.281  2Z1   64% Z
1 Books             I 1.381   4.201  5.581  0.051  0.15 1 0.201  2Z1   75%  I
I Expert Services   I 19.811  30.271 50.081  0.731  1.10 1 1.831  9ZI   80%  I
1 Fellowships       1 10.521  15.821 26.341  0.381  0.58 | 0.961  5XI   80% Z
I Salaries  of      I       I       I      I      I        I      I    I         1
I Additional Staff 1 61.751    -  j 61.751  2.251   -   1 2.251 12ZI    -
I Cons-mable        I       I       I      I      I        I      I    I         l
I Materials         | 87.141  58.631145.771  3.181  2.14 1 5.321 29%I   40%  1
I Stipends          1 52.761    -  1 52.761  1.921   -   1 1.921 lOZI    -   I
I Tool Kits         I 15.781  10.621 26.401  0.571  0.39 1 0.961  5Z1   40%  |
1 Operation and     I       I       I      I      I        I      I    I         I
I Maintenance       1 12.501   1.401 13.901  0.451  0.05 1 0.501 3%1   102  I
I Base costs        1303.311 203.571506.881 11.081  7.42 118.501100%l   40%  I
I Contingencies     I      I        I      I      I        I      I    I         I
I Physical          1 17.331  11.301 28.631  0.631  0.41 1 1.041  6ZI   39%  I
I Price             | 97.271  78.271175.541  2.671  2.27 1 4.941 27XI  46%  |
I Subtotal          1114.601  89.571204.171  3.301  2.68 1 5.981 33ZI  43%  I
ITOTAL PROJECT COSTS1417.911 293.141711.051 14.381 10.10 1 24.481133%1   41% Z
1l Includes taxes and duties where applicable.
NOTE: Subtotals may not add to totals due to rounding.
3.03    Basis of Cost Estimates.  Estimated costs for civil works are based
on: (a) schedules of accommodations and final drawings for new construction
of ICTAD headquarters building: (b) final plans for staff housing, student
hostels and workshops; and (c) the country's current unit costs of similar
types of construction at appraisal in August 1985. The estimated cost per
square foot of gross construction area, averages US$ 14.1 equivalent and is
reasonable for the standard of construction when compared with comparable
Bank-assisted projects in other countries of the region. Costs for profes-
sional services reflect scales used for supervision, the actual costs for
topographical surveys, soil tests and analysis for sites uwder the project.
Furniture and equipment costs are estimated on the basis of established
master lists reviewed during appraisal and updated in December 1985.
Vehicles, tool kits and consumable material costs reflect current prices at
the time of appraisal and updated in December 1985. Estimated costs for
additional staff salaries are based on government pay scales and standard
allowances for social and other benefits.
3.04    Custom Duties and Taxes.  All imported goods are subject to custom
duties and taxes. The cost of the project includes import duties and taxes
estimated at US$ 0.85 million.



-23-
3.05    Contingencies Allowances.  Estimated project costs include physical
contingencies (US$ 1.04 million) estimated at 6X of base costs of all project
components (10% of base costs for professional services, civil works, furni-
ture and operation and maintenance and 5% for equipment, vehicles, tool kits,
books, consumable macerials, salaries, stipends and technical assistance)
and price contingencies (US$ 4.94 million) to cover expected price escalation
at the following rates. For civil works and goods; foreign costs at 7.5Z in
1986 and 1987, 7.7% in 1988, 7.6% in 1989 and 4.5Z in 1990-1994; and local
costs at 12% in 1986, 9X in 1987, 8Z in 1988, 7.6% in 1989, and 4.5% from
1990-1994. The foreign costs of salaries and services are calculated at 7.5Z
in 1986 and 1987, 7.7% in 1988, 7.6% in 1989, and 4.5% from 1990-1994, and
local costs at i.0% from 1986-1994.
3.06    Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange component
of US$ 10.11 million, representing 41% of estimated total project costs, has
been calculated on the basis of estimated foreign exchange proportions as
follows: (a) civil works 41%; (b) professional services 20%; (c) furniture
45%; (d) equipment 90%; (e) vehicles 65%; (f) books 75Z; (g) consumable
materials 80%; (h) international and regional fellowships 100%; (i) foreign
experts 80%; and (j) operation and maintenance 10%.
B. Financial Plan
3.07    The total project cost of US$ 24.48 million equivalent would be
financed as follows: (a) a proposed IDA credit of US$ 15.00 million equiv-
alent would cover 63% of total project cost net of taxes; (b) UNDP would
finance US$ 1.02 million equivalent; and (c) the Government would finance the
remaining net costs of US$ 7.61 million (32% of total net costs) and all
taxes. Total external financing would cover 68% of total project costs net
of taxes. The proposed financing plan by categories of expenditure is out-
lined in Table 3.3. The Financing Plan by project component is shown in
Annex 16.
Table 3.3:  Financing Plan (US$ Million)
|   Category of               I    COSL      I                        I       I
I   Expenditure               I Taxesi Total I IDA  I UNDP I TOTALI  NET  I
| Civil Works & Prof. fees  | 0.07 | 0.23 | 2.07 | -   | 2.30 | 2.23 I
| Furniture                   | 0.04 | 0.04 | 0.13 | -   | 0.17 | 0.13 |
| Equipment                   | 0.37 | 0.37 | 2.60 | -   I 2.97 | 2.60 |
| Vehicles                    |0.13    0.13    0.23| -          o 0.36    0.23|
| Books                       I -   I  -   I 0.28| -   | 0.28    0.28|
I Expert Services             I -   I  -   I 1.50 | 0.70 | 2.20 | 2.20 |
I Fellowships                 I _   I  -   I 0.86 | 0.32 I 1.18 |  1.18 |
|Salaries                       - _     1.09 11.421  -          2.51 12.511
| Tool Kits                   | 0.08 | 0.63 | 0.83 1 -   | 1.46 |  1.38 |
|Stipends                       -    1 2.141   -        -       2.14 1 2.141
| Consumable Materials        I 0.08 I 3.47 | 4.60 | -   | 8.07 |  7.99 I
I Operation & Maintenance   1 0.08 1 0.36 I 0.48    -   I 0.84 1 0.76 1
TOTAL                  | 0.85 | 8.45 | 15.00 | 1.021 24.481 23.63 1



-24-
C. Recurrent Expenditures
3.08    When fully operational in 1995, the project would generate about
Rs.63.58 million (US$2.18 million) annually in recurrent costs. The dis-
tribution of these would be as follows: salaries for additional staff Rs.
9.45 million (or 14.8Z), consumable training materials Rs.35.09 million (or
55.01), trainee stipends Rs.8.15 million (or 12.8%), trainee tool kits
Rs.6.25 million (or 9.8Z), and operation and maintenance Rs.4.63 million (or
7.3%). Annex 5, Table 2 shows the distribution of these costs at 1995
prices. When the project is completed in 1995, the annual recurrent expendi-
tures would represent less than one per cent (0.43Z) of projected recurrent
expenditures on education and training, but about 13.2% of projected recur-
rent expenditures on technical/vocational training in 1995. Since the
project would generate additional revenues and these would be used to defray
a part of recurrent operational costs, the impact on the recurrent cost
budget would decreases. The net annual recurrent expenditures of the project
are estimated to be about 0.372 of projected recurrent expenditure on educa-
tion and training and about 11.2% of projected recurrent expenditure on
technical/vocational training (Annex 5, Table 3). The grou,h and level of
these expenditures are not inconsistent with levels prevailing in other
countries at a similar stage of development.
3.09    Special Account (Revolving Fund).  To ensure that project activities
are started promptly, the Government would open a Special Account in US
dollars in a commercial bank with an initial deposit of US$ 0.7 million
representing the estimated average amount of four months expenditure on IDA
financed items. The opening of the Special Account would be made in accord-
ance with Section 2.02(b) of the Development Credit Agreement.
3.10    Retroactive Financing.  The design prevaration costs for the ICTAD
headquarters building was financed under Credit 1130-CE. Construction and
bid documents have been completed and contractors prequalified. The
estimated expenditure for the civil works to be incurred during the period
prior to credit signing is US$ 0.25 million. The Government requested and
IDA agreed to retroactively finance these costs.
D. Status of Project Preparation
3.11    (a) Civil Works.  The final design sketches for the stores, staff
housing and boarding facilities, and final drawings for workshops to be built
under the skill training component of the project were reviewed during
appraisal and found satisfactory. Design development, working drawings,
construction details and all related tender documents have been completed.
The preliminary design for the workshop at the Peliyagoda Technical Training
Center was reviewed and found unsatisfactory. A new design has been
prepared, found acceptable, and the final drawings, structural and construc-
tion details completed. The designs for ICTAD headquarters were reviewed
during appraisal and changes suggested by the mission have been incorporated
in the final design. Tender documents have been finalized and reviewed by
IDA. Contractors have been prequalified, tendering completed and the con-
tract awarded in April 1986. (b) Sites. All sites required for construction
have been acquired. (c) Furniture, Equipment and Books. Preliminary lists
and cost estimates for furniture, equipment and books were reviewed by the
appraisal mission and found satisfactory. Final lists with technical



-25-
specifications and bid documents have been completed. Equipment layout plans
for all workshops (showing electrical outlets and connections) and the ICGAD
conference room and auditorium were completed in November 1985. (d) Techni-
cal Assistance. Draft terms of reference for consultants and studies have
been discussed and agreed with the Government. (e) Training ProRrams.
Detailed training programs have been designed for all categories of skill
(craft, mechanic, operator), management and instructor training.
E. Implementation
3.12    The implementation period for the project is estimated at nine years
(Annex 17) and is in accordance with the standard profile for education and
training projects, as well as projects in Sri Lanka. Execution of the
project would be the responsibility of the MOLGHC through ICTAD. The
Secretary of HOLGHC who is also the Chairman of the UDA, would be the Chief
Financial Otficer of ICTAD. He would be the Chairman of the Secretaries
Committee which would include the Secretaries of all the Ministries involved
with the project, and include Higher Education, Youth Affairs and Employment,
Plan Implementation, Labor, Mahaweli Development, and Lands and Land Develop-
ment.  rTe Secretaries Commitee would be responsible for (a) policy formula-
tion; (b) approval of training and development programs; (c) reviewing and
evaluating performance; (d) approving personnel and staffing policies includ-
ing terms and conditions of employment of ICTAD employees; and Ce) formulat-
ing administrative and operating procedures for the Institute. In addition
to the Secretaries Committee, ICTAD would also constitute two Consultative
Committees to advise on the broad functions of the institution. The Consult-
ative Committee for Training would be responsible for advising ICTAD on
issues of training, trade testing standardization, and curriculum develop-
ment. The Consultative Committee for the Construction Industry would provide
advice on issues relating to specifications, technology, small-scale con-
tracting, etc. The Committees would each have about twelve members drawn
equally trom the public and prLvate sectors.
3.13    The Chief Executive of ICTAD would be the Director General and three
Divisions would be established under his direction. The Training Division
would be responsible for (a) skill, supervisory, management, equipment
operator, and mechanic training; and (b) on-site training and trade testing.
The Construction Industry Development Division would focus on technology
transfer and local materials development, manpower and construction industry
statistical analysis, policy analysis, small contractor development, and the
examination of industry rules, regulations and organization (paras 2.08,
2.09). There will also be a Resource Management (Administration and Finance)
Division which would concentrate on administration, budget, and accounting
functions of the Institute. Supervision of civil works implementation and
the procurement of equipment, vehicles and training materials would also be
the responsibility of this Division.
F. Accounting and Auditing
3.14    ICTAD would prepare and maintain project accounts in accordance with
sound accounting practices. Project accounts would be prepared and
withdrawal applications would be supported by full documentation except
expenditures on salaries and other recurrent expenditures and small civil



-26-
works contracts for less than US$ 20,000 equivalent, which would be reim-
bursed against statements of expenditures certified by the Director General.
During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that: (a) accounts
and financial statements for each fiscal year would be prepared and audited
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (b) statements of expenditure
would be maintained in accordance with sound accounting practices, be main-
tained at least one year after the completion of the audit for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal was made, and be included in the annual
audit; and (c) certified copies of the audited accounts and financial state-
ments for each fiscal year, together with the Auditors report would be fur-
nished to IDA as soon as available, but not later than nine months after the
end of each fiscal year. Audited accounts and the Auditor General's Report
for FY81-83 of Credit 1130-CE have been received by IDA and found satisfac-
tory.
G. Procurement
3.15    Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.4.  Contracts for
construction of stores, workshops, staff and student housing, and ICTAD
headquarters building would be avarded on the basis of -CB procedures.
Because the centers are dispersed around the island, it is anticipated that
14 contracts would be avarded for the civil works program (US$ 2.30 million)
to local contractors. Equipment and vehicles contracts (US$ 3.33 million,
inclusive of taxes) would be awarded in accordance with ICB procedures.
Local manufactuers would be given a 15% margin of preference. Equipment and
vehicles would be grouped to the extent possible in large packages for bulk
procurement. Books financed by IDA (USS 0.28 million) would be purchased
directly from distributors. Recurrent expenses (US$ 15.02 million) include
(USS 9.52 million) for consunable training materials and trainee tool kits,
would be procured through prudent shopping on the basis of three price quota-
tions from different sources. Technical. assistance (expert services and
fellowships) financed by UNDP (US$ 1.02 million) would be in accordance with
their guidelines. All civil works contracts over USS 250,000 equivalent
each, corresponding to about 75Z of value of works, would be subject to prior
IDA review. All equipment and vehicles contracts over US$ 100,000 equivalent
each, corresponding to about 7.5% of value of goods would be subject to prior
IDA review. Other contracts would be subject to selective post-award review.



-27-
Table 3.4 : Procurement Method
I  Category of  I          I      USS (million)  I          I Total
I  Expenditure  I ICB   I  LCB    I Other   I  lA    I Cost 1/  1
I Civil Works &  I         I  2.30   1      1               1  2.30   1
I Prof. Fees    L_        1  (2.07)  1                      I_  I
I Furniture      I         1  0.17   1           1          1  0.17   1
I                I        I    (0.13)         _    I _                 I
IEquipment       1 2.97  1            1          1          1  2.97   1
I  1(2.60) 1 _                        I _                              I
I Vehicles       I 0.36  11                                 1  0.36   1
I  1(0.23)                         _ I        _                -         I
IBooks           I         I          I  0.28   1           1  0.28   I
I___________________ I  L________ I   1 (0.28)  I           I
I Technical Asst.1 2.36  1            1  1.02   1           I  3.38   1
I                1 (2.36)                                              1 I  I
I Consumable     I         I          I           1  9.52  1  9.52   1
I Materials&   I           I          I          I (5.43)I
I Took Kits      I         I          I          I         I           I
I Incremental    I         I          I          I  5.50  1  5.50   1
I Recurrent      I         I          I          I (1.90) I            I
I Euienses       I          l j                  l   I                 I
I   TOTAL        1 5.69  1  2.47   1  1.30          15.02  I24.48 
I    IDA         I 5.19  1  2.20   1  0.28   1  7.33  1 15.00   1
I   VUND         I  -    I   -        I  1.021    -    I1.02   1
I   G;OSL       _ 0.50  1  0.27   1   -          I7.691   8.46   1
iJ Includes contingencies and duties and taxes where applicable.
NOTE: Figures in brackets are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
B. Disbursements
3.16    The proposed Credit would be disbursed over a period of nine years
vbich conforms to the disbursement profile for IDA-assisted projects in Sri
Lanka. A forecast of disbursements based on nine years is shown in Annex 18.
The Credit would cover 63Z of total project costs net of taxes and would
finance 10OZ of expenditures for technical assistance; 90% of civil works and
professional fees; 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equip-
ment, furniture, books and vehicles; 100I of ex-factory costs of locally
manutactured goods and 80% if procured locally. Disbursements would be fully
documented except for payments under contracts for civil works and locally
procured items costing less than equivalent $20,000 each, which would be
reimbursed on statements of expenditures (SOEs), and for salaries, consumable
materials, tool kits and operation and maintenance costs, which would be
disbursed on SOEs on a declining basis for an average of 57Z througout the
project period (FY87188/89 at 80Z, FY90 at 70, FY91 at 60%, FY92 at 50% FY93
at 40% and FY94 at 20%). The SOEs would be certified by the Director
General. The documentation would be retained by ICTAD and made available
to IDA representatives for review upon request.  It is expected that disbur-
sements will be completed by June 30, 1985 six months after project comple-
tion date of December 31, 1994. A Special Account of US$0.70 million is
proposed for the project (para 3.09). Retroactive financing for civil works
payments made after September 1, 1985, would be eligible for reimbursement up
to the aggregate amount of $0.25 million equivalent, (para 3.10).



-28-
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
4.01    Over 85Z of all project trainees would be either new entrants or
existiug workers at the basic skill levels in the construction industry, and
would come from lower income households. Because of the employment and
income benefits which will accrue to these trainees (para 1.39), the project
will have an impact on poverty alleviation. The project will also increase
the capacity of the Sri Lanka construction industry so that it would be more
productive, efficient, and capable of meeting targets in the investment
program in both the public and private sector. Other benefits which will
accrue from the project include: (a) the addition of skilled construction
workers to the industry; (b) increasing the labor productivity and efficiency
of the existing construction personnel by up-grading their skills; (c)
improving the income levels of unemployed youths by providing necessary
skills so they could obtain gainful employment in the industry; and (d)
increasing returns on invested capital from better and more efficient use of
equipment. The project would also have institutional benefits. The effec-
tiveness and productivity of the existing training facilities would be
increased, and the standards of the construction industry improved by intro-
ducing more appropriate specifications. Finally, the reduction of construc-
tion costs by improving the efficiency and the productivity of the industry
would be a major benefit of the project.
Risks
4.02    There are a number of risks associated with this project.  One con-
cerns changes in the demand for training arising out of lower levels of
construction activities or changes in the composition of skills that may be
required. The project is flexibly designed to meet the requirements for
skill training as diagnosed by the training needs assessments to be under-
taken during the project. A reduction of the demand for training in total or
for any skill in particular, may at most lead to some underutilization of
project funds. As the project would utilize existing facilities and contract
additional instructors only when specific courses are identified, no implica-
tions for underutilization of staff and/or facilities exist. If a larger
than expected number of emigrants return from the Middle East, the supply of
certain skills will be affected, and some of the envisaged training may not
be required. Equally, though, some retraining of returnees may also be
required. The concern about the recruitment and retention in service of
qualified instructors is likely to be overcome by the steps undertaken during
the project. These include, a systematic training program (local and foreign
fellowships), training allowances and overtime pay. While there is agreement
that ICTAD should not be a regulatory agency, nor attempt to preempt
activities which should normallv be undertaken by the private sector, there
is the risk that a government agency/institution would gradually attempt to
play just such a role. The representation of the private sector on the
Consultative Committees, the Administrative Order (Cabinet Memorandum) which
established ICTAD, and the program to assist the ACCSL to undertake more
activities should overcome this risk.



-29-
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED
5.01    During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it
would:
(a) carry out a study on the financing of construction industry training
and review the findings with IDA by September 30, 1987 (para 2.03);
(b) fully cover from sources other than general budget revenues, all
trainee stipend and tool kits costs by December 31, 1989, and by
December 31, 1994, about 50Z of consumable training materials costs
(para 2.03);
(c) appoint all additional staff at the appropriate levels and according
to a schedule agreed with IDA (paras 2.05, 2.13, 2.17);
(d) by June 30, 1990, transfer all instructor training to the NTTTC
(paras 2.07, 2.19);
(e) by January 31, 1989, would transfer from ICTAD to the ACCSL, all work
on the registration of contractors and the promotion of the private
sector in the construction industry (para 2.09);
(f) by January 1, 1990, all upper-level management training courses would
be financed by the trainees or their employers (para 2.15):
(g) undertake four training needs assessments during the project period,
complete them according to an agreed schedule, and review the find-
ings with IDA (para 2.22);
(h) conduct four tracer studies during the project, complete them accord-
ing to an agreed schedule, and review the findings with IDA (para
2.23);
(i) undertake in January 1991, a mid-term evaluation with IDA to review
achievements and make adjustments based on implementation experience
(para 2.23);
(j) prepare accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year and
have them audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA (para
3.14);
(k) statements of expenditure would be maintained according to sound
accounting practices, be retained for at least one year after the
completion of the sudit for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal was made, and be included in the annual audit (para 3.14);
(1) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but not later than nine months
after the end of each fiscal year, audited accounts and financial
statements for each fiscal year together with the auditors report
(para 3.14).



-30-
5.02    The signing of a technical assistance agreement between GOSL and
UNDP/ILO, as well as a contract with consultants for the IDA financed techni-
cal assistance, would be conditions of credit effectiveness.
5.03    Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for a credit of US$ 15.0 million to the Government of Sri
Lanka for a term of 50 years.



-31-                                                                    A,. 
332 tANKA
335A330 90CftR  AL TRAISTC P11150?ec
COIPAR? lYE RI=ICAT I INDIICATIOES
Apr11 2. 1986
I                      O~~~~~OVEUPIOT
GOP PIR               aq PniCerr    zxpnAmittss  LIrYRRCY PmIMIARY PONARY            PRIMARY  PRIMARtY    RATE POMP   REOUIART RECVIDAAYT5 RICIER
YEAR1 IL2R. CMS)   BESTED TO  GOVRNNW(T    PBI  NBC  531    (2)    KaI CoYCLE                     PER       AS PERCENIT RRF35DANT   RATIn        ProE        mlDrt
12979) (2197)   EOWIICU     EXPWOUrrKRE            C?)        to2974)   C?)        1!)      PraOERt CUPIcApITr         (2)        II)      PFACER        121
(33     (23         (3)           (4AS3                       ()        (          8          9          10            I)          (i          I)     (6
CANJALZA                              la 37    ~I0 71     I.'         1,~~a               9       3l4ti     Ion          21        9994 3                    9'         23      27.408
CO.ROTN P.R.        19    01.2  11.200        4,9          9.9        -                  99        899      3031         -.        -.           1nn3         91         --       12.14W
3EaIIRLAIIDS        19    14.0  30,490        7.9          5.3        20   35   25       9907      94        Qs          in        3 1.1         99           8         It       32.40
NEW ZEAL.ANOl       8       3.20   .333)0     % 39        13.4        37   32   23       "q0      Inm       iN           24        11.4         amn           3?        IS       29,1908'
suem           7~~9    8.1  32,2 SD     9.0          353.2       13   in   in       99h       @9'      a     Inn               9. i00Mg    I i           7w        0"p    346.q21
EAMAEN AFRICA
65IsUUA             33      Ia       OVA0    4.0          22.0        42   34   22       40       amo        77          32        30.0          40           20       21         3.530
338860              of      4.2      215     2jq03        39.0        43   29   27       Zs        29'       13          17        20.2          12            1.       17        1.14)
0c6032             PA      0.40     345    3J.0",        253.0       49   29   22       4          ? 40 14                        -             45           la       28        0.94
JI3iEutI            84      0.4      4841     3.0         11.9        73   24   ...    20          42        66         40         97.0          a0           II       39         "An4
ETIMIPIA            a1     32.401   3400    2.99          u1.1        45   25   20       53        42        30'        413        19.1          91'          14       44        C.45
MYAl                32    ty.ab    4200       5.34b       20.30       41   14   It       440      931        39         34         14.4          is           13       20         -
Lr11l30             R2      3.4b    435b    S. 5          26.9        38   32   264       M       I  14'     42         48          9.4          44           23       22         3.110
NADWASCAR           77      8.5      330     4.0"         24.0        53   28   39       50       940W         1         Sit        3.0          33           a'       23         i.aobP
K19A415             32      4.3b    2300    1.5          231.4        18   14   25       210       62        21         4)          La8          32           4        21         0.40
PARIRIIUS           83      2.0b  i. I y0l    4.1         34.0        46i  34      1     mob1      91        72         21         11.n1        10o           31       22         1.00
UWiDA               83      5,9b    2700    3.4           27.4        73   la   23       170       hi        30         40         34.0n          9            5        34       0.40
REYCIELER           79      0.4   2.170       5.9         22.8'       346  33-  1Joe     ..                             25          ---                       ..        ..       -
sSIIaLI             83      4.5      2530     1.5         10.5        500  440   &I,   501,                  Rob341      2.         9.00         Ro           t2b      22         3.00
smIn                s0     39.20    3900    1.            -           44   39   ...    32          i2'.    453          34          1.4          44           14       19
SWAZILAND           83      0. 70    9400    3.233b       20.4        S3   34   25       639       93         90        311        32.0          gm           29       in         ;,0n
TNZANIA             80    13.5       244      5.9         37.7        47   20   24        job      gab       917        43         22.01          lb           1        20"       0.3
WCAIDA              so     32.40      nOob    --          246.1"      21ib  170  223k    4         548       4I         34         --            27            5       21        0.40
ZAtRE               532    29.80    2300    ra7           24..4       -    -    3o       i4b       74        25         30        23.0           40           38       23        2.00
ZVMIRA              an      5.70     144b    4.39         23.1        48   21   22       440       9s        80         48         3j.@          29           I 4      22         3.5'n
zfiontm             is      7. 70    y000    5.3          I4.5        42   32    4       440       941       55         19        20.0           As           is       23        0.91a
WSTM AFRtICA
003                 19      3.40    3200    6.39.         35.0        43   23      5    230b       42       310         46        24.0           30          33        43        3,1007
amniEA              83     0.9       zi0b    2.1"         23.7        43   29   28       9         16        25          57       24.1           34           3        24        0.453
CASUiIp             19      R.2      390      2.97        ui.1m       336  438  20"   --           747       456         VW7       11.8          2213         347      24,        I.325T
C.A.R.              19      3.2      280      3.REY       20.6my      -           -- -                       -          49         --            ---          -         --
ClAD                76      4.4      220      2.4087      22.70                         Is- - 3    2 1       -           7?         .             -           1"       23         .0~70
0139)               78      2.5      470     9.0w?        2 7. 7w       - - ..                      -        -.          v.t'                    30           --       430?      4.0087
CAM5                77      0.4,  5.420       3.7b?        8.4T                                     -        -          4409-                    .-           -         3RO9      2.01M7
C*3618              77      0.4      2251     3-33         4.70       46   29F   4'   In0          40hy      goo        271(8      aa7           0           1zOxY    37        -
CRANA               76    33.3       400     4.0'         IiS.t                   -                73lb9    -           z7 it      --             -           340(39-   221       -
CRNIME              79      5.1      294W    4.61P        -           25'-  253  20'   20          34        34         3J4        20.4$'        35           34       29         7.04$
SRY COAST           RI      *_21, 31g741    10.0         4 5.0        33   46   33    i0b          Ani       56         43        26.0           47          * 9'3'    24        1.94$?
L1.1014             80      1.9      320     4.6          19.0        41l  Z3   24    10           52        32         35        20.0           14          22        20        2.910
MALI                31      7.00    1I0      4.2'         23.7'       391  21   33    30           20        60         44         3 5.7         46            I        I3       0.94$?
PIARITrNIA          18      1.40    71200    S.5          34.9        33   43   25    1y0          32        40         44         52.0          In           9        25        0.3?
NICER               N8      5.2      300     4.3'?        19.0'?      528  43'   5'    3           I1        36'        42'        353.7'        4n           2        24%        10.2Wy
NCRREA              83    93.4kb    7400    7.47          14.0        -    -.   12.9  14           93        70         30         29.5          46.7         22.5     30        2
5055CAL             77      5.3      452      5.         12.0         44   14   20    30          31408      -          a3357      -             2n           In       21        2.20bY
RIERRA 1.319        7?      3.4      251     4.00         14i.00      -     --- -       I2*        37'       -          35        2 5.0b         84          35'       22        nl*4413
TOM1                783     2.4      400      6.50"       24i.!P      306  28'  21'   18           74        40          SAWy      39.0          12           12087    480b       1.4007
LATIN AMERICA MND TUE! CARIRWAN
ARGETIND            1s    27.3   2.230       2.7          20.9        43*  31'  33-   930          539       52         37         -              7          13I        9       21.00
REMUtS              19     0.2   2.770       5.7         39.3         14   34   II    930          we        97         24        -.97                       75        1o       -
MARSAINDS           78     0.2   2.080       R. "-       22.2'        43.  338  348   qgb         I00y       999        27'       349.9          999         pay       20?      - .
NILIVIA             so      5.4      5501    '.2?        30.P         -. ----463                   74'       -          20v       - .            -           I5 ST      --      12.44W
BRAZIL.             7    134.5   3,770       3.8          6.2         53    -    4    76           133'      -          23".        4.93         hI'         25?y       WV'   32.42b
CHI"               74    201.9   I-8R"       3.20?       13.Ob0            -        -   .         l. b      -          3409      - .            --           550"?    20"      32.94b?
Cwl""3I             80    26.70  a.jmob    3.3            2 5.0       35   20   20    330l         73        34.        52         9.4           -           47        20       10.012"
935A RICAL          R0      2.20, 23300b   53.4           33.3        40   27   33    90           93        77         31          S.5S         77          40        27       34.00
CUBA                78      9.8      -       8.0          21.0        --   -    -       04        332h3      99         I53b7     -              or           73bn     I5       19.020?
3IIUICA  RE?.    s0        5.3   1.0230      2.94        33.0        39   21   22    4530         an        31          39         3.2          94          lin       33       14.110
ECUADR              so      53.4b  31310     6.OP         34.7        45   31   34   III          105        -          34        32.4           84          47        1   24 12.00
RIL SALYADOR        77      4.4      640     3.4by        23.1b7      64    8   27    62          J82k',    32          39        -              41          24bKy    ziW        79
CUKfEIALA           78      4,9   3,010       3.19?       32.6b       -    -    -       -          *qbxy    -I  '                 -              49           15b-     190?       S.W
GUYANA4             74      0.53     410    4Sflib        13.530'     -.  -          -- .-         9"I       -          32by      -.-            -.           3908     -         3.0007
HArlT               no)     5.00b   220       3.4'         7,987      49    9    4    23b          50        20         41         39,0          42-          4'       27        0.40
WONDURAS            73      3.4      90f      3.507       14.3b?      62'   13   39'   40          glob-     3213       41b'       22.316        488         2169      a9        a.Oov
JA81410             so      2.1   3,210      4.5          33.?        31   43   20    90           98        03         40         2.3           99i         HI        22        4a00
OULe                80      5.5   2,980o    4.7          217.0        46   39   135   92           98        53         44         9.5           536          St       37       301.30
NICARAGUA,          75      2.6043l0          I.1107      aa.00,      --..-.-           900        it2b      24         370       -              -           7402      -job     -
PANAMA              78      j.gb  j.5V       5. 0"?      21.90?y      42'  31'  3 3    5320        mIS       -          ir5b      32.4           '5'         500       2707    70.4009
PARASUAT            79      3.0   3,340      2.4'         34.2        42   27   20    34           a3        32         23         1.3r          74          22        12        0.70
PERn                80    24.6   3*000       3I.9        24.1         53   25   39   94n           33        54         39         9.53         539          39        22       24.40'
TRINIDAD 4103R.   77        1.1   3.910       4.530?       9.30?      AR   32   20    05           96        93         30         20.5?         49          42        24       -
UW=AT6              78      2.9   2,500      2.5           9.4b                         94        ios0'      -          240       -              -           6440      -        17,94169
VOARNIRA            78    14.4  1I440         5.17        3fl*90        . --            82        Ir~4x      -          211        .-            -           33l-      27       21.310'



-32-
Apae, 8
page 2
I2mPFAIAFIE fIIOATIOu INIICCrOE
AprIl 2, 19116
GP PER               AS PEICOIT    EXPODrT38IE    LITr.f*CY PRIMqARY PRIMARY    PRIMARY  PRIMeS?    tSR  PtA    NRI2NDARY SECWMPY iTNMp
BASE  pop.  CAPITA  PiIICUT CM OP  AL CREYRPAL ALIOCCE11 TO: ICE             WIMLL. NatAL         STlIflUff  EP8CArlhI    PRImAR" r1  MULL.   NrOffbW     DUOLL.
ASA.  YAR MILLS. (U051)  IIYTS-o  dVWESIC                 rot  moc  mIII   rIn      teo   CTa.             Era      As PsWWT macinAwT   mete             ERx         solon
(1Q79) (1I79)   hubUCCIO     EENPWDITUP            (II         (1176)   (2)         (21      PrAGER  CNIPMAPTrA         (33         (21      EASER        (2)
ASA fNDTIt PACIFIC
Iatt               Mi8,23           3jnk    1.1           7.1         34   481   22      77b       77        62         2.)        u.n           ci          is        Ij7        4.111
INONPSIA            RI   I A.9       3211JZ   2.8          9.3        in   2       *     17b       VA         hi         3 7       11.11          14          21        26.        I.711
KOREA               42    to9I3h  a.oa.b      7.1"-       211.1        34   14   38       96        99        9IS        43        811.11         qm          m4         n        2i.011
PL.AISIA            54    I3371,  lflt*k    6.1           IA.?         II'  61"  t1"    76'         179       97          76        18.W          Al           72        22        6.W1
PAPUAHN..           43      3.118    RiO      5.4         10.n1       41    I l   22     -          611       fl.        318       85.8           I3          83"I.     27'        8.1111
MRILIPPINEL1        79    60.1       1106    2.1"         11.1'       64   36   -         7*O       34.             3    I I         7.1          NO                    16       71.111
SIGCAPIMIRE         40      2.4b  4,420       2.      67               39   411  Ic,    a3          92        R2               111  44l153                               22       5.46)
mOwmu  148..        42      A:2.    640       6.6"        j*OI        43   34   211       I5        79       4an         fl         81.                       211        in        2. 11
TMtAILSIi           12    *qgh       .36      1.4          211.1       Je is   In         *6h      IOU        64          21 I       9.1.         44           46        II8       4.0n1
slIER ASIA
ISCLAZ3-IS          7i    12.3b    9on        3,30        t11.1"       38   1?   20      221        13!       -           11         3.1          ---         l6        21         1.63
BUtAHl              on      1.2       anI     1.4         11.11                           In--1     32        -          --         ----.-
INDIA               77   631J6       2In      2.9V         0.9W                    -      3t        76        -          41                                   76'        -         a.11187
NEPAL               412    15.11h    j!pmb    1.4                      -------            19        70aIN in---                                               23         21        3. 78
PAKIWAM3            A I    47.1,   3g11b    2.11            7.11       1    20   24       22        111       43I       1in           .9          96           1         Ii        3 .011
EHNIPE. MIDOLE EAST ASD NASH AFRICA
APcIA11IqrAM        It    ILl   --            1.7           1.?    7         19   1 5     22        jib.      As          376      --             62           a         22Wy      1.00
*105414             79    34.1   8.770        1.1"         12.1        14'-  26' 28'    I3          NWT       4"          37         7.17'        IV          29'        29.       3.10?
EGYPTr              42    43.18    633'    4.6"             7.9        I1'  IV   26'    44          730       Aep        14'         1.1'         RI.         438         q       I ?8.no)
GREECE              76       .      ,4.14n    2.6"         111.66      1 7   26   28a     -         17k       --           4h        6.2?                      Fob.*     27kb    17.0186?
IRsf                ft    16.9       -        5.7'?       14.1I                       A          j1M--                 32'ai.    ---                        44'.      248       4.90'
IRam                79    82b   7,731         4.1'?        61'-                                    iAnn                  21                                   a V.--49  29'        9.141T
1133*10o            aI      1.46  4,4410      6.1"        834"                          9          93'       94         21                       on 9        RI         34       31.no0
Animsp              R8      2.Z  8,424        4."          311.2       19   44   In       70       84'        R          32          7.            I2'                   2        3981
LEIJR1N             79      2.1      --        -            36'                          -        4         -           I9       --             ---         46'        -        27.80'P
mmcciM              a0    I39:5      7411     4.1         a 7.9        IA   44   211    iN          66       33          1 0       111,7         411         29         231       4. 33
05gm                Ri      11.96  1.0248     2.9 3m 7.7'              -.  ---   -        JAb?      73-       63          zi        -             A6           3    I     &1 1     .
P'lorUCAL      79      946b  7.060       1.6         22.2         IA   21   28I    ye          17        211        JQ II'     3.1           44'         43    1   27m        4.30'
RUMANIIA            74    22.1   Z.1(111      j.tWv         6.2? ,                        94       304110     --         236                     n11           "h.'    226        In.6cby
SPAIN               76    37.0   &4.211       2.8'         14.1'-                         --        q4b-      --         216                      -           1.7k'      -        24.81*?b
SYIRIA              74      11.6    18170     &.4'        20.3         3o   23   Z 26               Al 376?   Rn          t5        ---           GM          sib.       216      12.61n
Tt331?'.-.          ye      6.4   3.330       7.00         89.11       42   3e1  8a       476b    80111       an          36        12.5          lIn          Ito       30        6.00
T38Sf?              e3      47.' 1,210        1.1          11.2        311  22   24       73b      1811        77         J I         .4.1         33          26       J18        5.n1
TRImS A.R.     A118    6.4      4211     S.11"       32.11        94    7    7       236       3 7       32'        34'       a7l11          411          1        20         3.811
YE  :P::R.      42        nb      jo      7.6           0.7        ZJ    4    I        1        6         3            3        2.0'          46           1 7       20        2.3Sp
5358*R? FOR DEVEIIPIIC COUNTRIES:
ROmer oft CI.trte..:                        44               13       70  411   61       RI        97        68         93        61             75          98         an      as
Mapst:                                     (8.4-            11.7-  123-  (N-  (3.-   (N-        (12-       182-        (I27-     (I.'-         (30-         (2-       (m-      (11.13-
10.0)           34.3)  942   46)  31)    99)        119)      99)          77)       47.11)        8fo1l        041       AM3      29.18)
QuamrLtil.: Upper:                           5.6            28.7       13  36   22       48       IN         tIp        43        211            47          47         24       11.0
'ledLami                        4.11           86.8      43   28   89       33        13        48          33       81             65           24        22        3.1
Loo.tr                           .11           8811.     36   28   t3       21        40         31         24         9            40           14        89        2.0
QuarrtIe D.IiOltion:                         1.1             5.4    4.1  7.5  4.3   24.11        89.8)     22.3         7.11      3.4          21.3        36.3        3.5        5.11
Mea.n:                                       4.4            17.11     41 24    14        Ii        76        31         36         36            62          38         21i       6.9
Stwa.drd De'iatloo:                          8.1             N.?      32   811    7      29        27        74          It        31            27          23          7        7.4
MedIan,                          ~~~~           ~~~~~~~~4.0  14.11  aj   24   II  53    43        63         15        II             65          26        22         3.3
SINULS:                                                                    POOTIITEAS,
- DATUM ISIAVAILASZ                                                       A - 005UPW PRIOR TO BASE TEAR                  S - 41915T1T or E1iUAtIO  (Pot) pIy
44041rrODL NIL "It lPt.L7IGILm                                         33 - 0038mWq 11P2 NECPXSTRAM %WRAE YEAR       T - WiE ANID EtrArt   fl5TIWWr ONLY
7    00DM QUEST IOAMLE                                                    N - CIIRRPJ   PuIrcis4                        W - MRIILIC EISA rr1313 eMILY
tJICLMI8D    PAlU-rfINK 5TIUDSMS                                        P - CapX - uILcumo OVER-AEM                                             eur
- muM sneuCes
qwOLES:           Clola. I aRod 2:  World Book AMl.. or Edocatton  rector (toidstI .
CcImm. 3 to 84:  gEorldian bo   Edctlen actor tools,.,   o-otroemt Moinrc. amd/or time Iam,tc  Itatistlcal ?oarbcob.
Caipar'tlie idmactto  Dnot or  osefl In tieh.         l'to   of 'orou  o docatomi oot.oo es  amilyolo of vorelattte  ae. of "odu lattmil deolostoat bttoao   -vomros
cmmoirle..  Isuer. -  time b..1e of time presas  d.c.  cro.-.oaclimil cooeartono 'laid 6. approoched olci m  eat coaclon.  Daola oraonted Is tIhe .1st table bait
bees collected lamely by NPh  Iata  fros mosirerast inarcaR   time rosaloder or  og.ffI e.tI'te   or doc. Frm, Doe.c.  Effort, bai  hoe  ad   to .toad.rdleo
defo1lttmia maod elttilo limito, to check thme occormeV of the data. NewtedmoleN. act, d't. are ott!! 1.eerftct In omitral compat. ad the Rook le "orklost tO
lr.t. Liman progreo-loly -m the torslon of Ito sooratloniol mork. In the cm of t65 data. time fo1lowlos omiollficatlon. dioOld he kept to sled:-
(83 E*,ocatlon, a it doeld 1. the table I.cisdt. oil educatIon d traflemio. both forawl amd moo-tornal.
(23   -PrIoary  OdOmc'ton refers to edortlom  '1 the fIrst lent ad 'acaiatrf edmcttomi rfer. to oil oducacton .t the .ecamd.ry 1-n I rgrdle.. of typo
(e.x. Oeneral, techetc.!  agricutural).
(3)    Lt.:er.cy rat.   Icol. 6) are oftm, olitalsad froo castr7 ce'aa..  Io mamy coantrisa, they ore omit aporoltloata  .md It to doubtful tht oy omItform,
daflt.tlomi of  llterotC.  beo hoom, f0loed rmiowltatly.
(6)    PNhbllc t.ooedtsr  Is edamcattmi  (mo.. A ad  53 cofor. to .11 capitl. amid mrmcocot eopesdftoc. deoted to Od,mrotlo,. by mobll  amd ooaoIpobl1c
apoocle.~
(53)   -'Em,rlwmt ratI.- (cola. 7, 32 '.d 14) refr to achal year amid ar  the porcootaoe of olltble rImlIdrm .mmrolled fo1l-cIao Ie the .pwormirl.tt school.
sobilc aoi Prlmioto by I.al.  Time'm aroften abject to a -Id. oarlo of eror I' the demiloplss commtrle- 0-los t. ierlattoMm. In the ar,orsey of baolc
dot. (I.Oe. *  lao-pecilfI  poolatloa and enrollma.to). *  P2ollmost Flire. frowmaet ly ar  htuxmr tbo  the mamnhr of otodeot' actullv to adios!.
Over-oe  ot.iast. may he 3'cjodA in the.e flsamo ad cam' Ilot.lt  the roclso.



-33-
ANNEK 2
Page 1
SRI LANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table 1 : Mannover Demand by Sector. 1989190
(in thousands)
1980-1990     I
I     Sector              I   1980   1 1989/90   1            I Av. Annual I
I  I       I            I  Change  IGrowthZ   I
I   .  ___               _                                    I   _. _ _     __l_ 
I Agriculture             1 2,173.0  1 2,871.0   I   698.0  I   3.2
I Manutacturing           I   568.0  1   778.0   1   210.0  1   3.7
I Electricity, Gas, Water  1          1            1          1            1
I and Sanitary Services   1    18.0  i    37.8          1 19.8  I  11.0
I                  ~     ~I    I            I           I           I
I Transport, Storage and   I          I            I          I            I
I Communications          1   197.0  1   263.0   1    66.0  1   3.4        1
I Construction            I   229.0  1   307.0   I    78.0  1   3.4        1
I . _  _ ___I ._ I                      ___I   _      _  _   _ I  __ _ I
I      TOTAL              I 3,185.0  I  4,256.8  1 1,071.8  I   3.4        I
Source: Hinistry of Plan Implementation - Government of Sri Lanka,
Colombo, 1984.



-34-
ARM 2
Page 2
Table 2 : Estiatted Training Rleuirements bv Year (1986-1993)
Category                     1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
Skill Tr anina (72000)
Nasons (30600)                      4000   5600   4000   4000   4000   4000   2500   2000
Carpenters (26650)                  3000   3600   3000   3000   3000   3000   3000   3000
Plumber/Pipe Fitter (1750)            200    250    200    200    200    200    200    200
Ban Bender/Steel Fixer (2500)        300    400    300    300    300    300    300    300
Electrician (2875)                    300    575    350    350    350    350    350    250
Plasterer/Roof Tiler (4,000)          500    500    500    500    500    500    500    500
Equipment Operator (LEE) (1750)       250    250    250    250    250    250    250       -
Mechanic (L&R) (1815)                 200    225    250    250    250    250    250    250
Training of Trainers (500)           (150)  (180)  (140)   (30)    -        -      -      -
Instructors (160)                      50     60     50      -      _      _       _      _
Demonstrators                          80     80     50      30
Ngt. Trainers (100)                    20     40     40
Management Training (5715)
Sur. Conat. Engineers (245)            35     30     30      30     30     30      30     30
Exe. Engineers (315)                   40     40     40      40     40      40     40     35
Proj. Eng./Tech. Officers (1200)    150    150    150    150    150    150    150    150
Highways Exe.Engineersl
Tech. Officers (550)               60      70     70      70     70     70      70     70
Tech. Officers (Earth Moving)(480)   60       60     60      60     60     60      60     60
Const. Site Supevisors)
Road Maint. Agents    ) - (1875)       20    250    250    250    250    250    250    175
Bousing Officers       )
Site Engineers         )
Trade Testins
Grade III (24000)                   3000   3000   3000   3000   3000   3000   3000   3000
Grade LI (10000)                    1250   1250   1250   1250   1250   1250   1250   1250
Grade I (6000)                        750    750    750    750    750    750    750    750



-35-                    AMNU 2
Page 3
Table 3 : Retrainine Requirements (1987-1993)
l  _   _________   .      _-I   .-_I
I          Category                 I  Numbers   I
I    ,I ____                                     I
I Technical Planning and Management   I    -     I
I Site Supervisors                  1  1,500     1
I Heavy Equipment Operators         1    495
I Light Equipment Operators         1  1,896     I
I Heavy Equipment Mechanics         1    180
I Light Equipment Mechanics         I    410
I Mason/Brick Layer                 1  9,500     I
I Mason/Special Finisher            1    250     I
I Carpenter/Shutterer               I  6,700
1 Bar Bender/Steel Fixer            1    950     1
I Scaffolder                        I    375     1
I Plumber                           1  2,980     I
I Electric Wirer                    1    875
I      Total                        1 26,111     1
I-_       _---_ _ ___   ___      ____ 
Source: Assessment of Traininz Needs in the
Construction Industry National Institute
of Business Management - Colombo,
December 1985.



ANNEX 3
-36-                        Page 1
SRI LANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY IN SRI LANKA
1.      The state of the construction industry in Sri lanka has reflected
trends in the economy as a whole. The industry experienced rapid growth
during the 1966-70 period, and sharp declines from 1961 to 1965 and from 1971
to 1977 when the economy was depressed. Previous Goverrments wage, price and
foreign exchange policies caused a dramatic shift of work from the private to
the public sector, and by 1977 the industry as a whole was depressed.
Vehicles and equipment deteriorated and the sitnation was made worse by the
large scele emigration of skilled manpower in the late 1970s.
2.      With economic revitalization since 1977, and the removal of import
and price controls, construction activity has increased dramatically, leading
to rapid increases in construction costs. This is due primarily to material
and manpover shortages, and the industry's initial low capacity. Inadequate
planning and poor construction management have been subsidiary causes of cost
increases. The rise in construction costs applies to all parts of Sri Lanka.
It is estimated that shortages of materials and skilled labor add about 25% to
normal construction tLme, and at the same time the quality of finished work is
poor. Material shortages have eased qince 1977, with cement, steel and timber
being imported at cost. Bricks, sand and aggregate are being produced
economically domestically. As far as labor is concerned, there is an absolute
shortage and a dilution of skilled labor in the industry. The present output
of trained construction workers from various vocational training programs is
still not sufficient to meet requirements.
3.      Manpower. The construction industry labor force is made up of techni-
cal management and supervisory personnel {-bout 2.5%) who are mostly graduate
engineers or have had full time vocational training; skilled workers (18Z) who
have learned by long apprenticeship, equipment operators and mechanics (42);
and unskilled or semi-skilled workers (75%). Although increasing, construc-
tion workers represent only a small part of Sri Lanka's workforce. Assuming
constant productivity, the low level of activity in the industry during most
of the 1970s indicates that its labor force remained at about 100,000, or 2%
of the total workforce from 1971, through to 1977. In recent years, employ-
ment in the construction industry grew to 116,000 in 1978 and 140,000 in 1979.
This ;ncrease represents about one-fifth of all the new jobs created in
1978-1979, and about one-third have been for skilled workers. In addition,
about one half of Sri Lanka's emigrants to the Middle East have been constrtuc-
tion workers, particularly equipment operators, carpenters and masons. Remit-
tances from emigrant construction workers is an important source of foreign
exchange, because emigrants remit about 80% or 90% of their wages. The
1985-1989 public investment program will require extra construction workers as
well as an improvement and updating of the skills of existing workers.



ANNFX 3
Page 2
4.      Construction Comvanies.  With the exception of a few large projects
vhich were handled by expatriate firms, until 1977 domestic construction
companies had spare capacity in spite of their rundown condition. About a
third of all construction work was carried out by public sector organizations
such as the Departments of Highways, Buildings, the River Valleys Development
Board, the State Engineering Corporation or the Irrigation Department. These
organizations still exist and are active, but it is nov the government's
policy to give an increasing amount of its public investment generated con-
struction work to the private sector. It is expected that private companies
would be able to expand more easily, and be less inhibited by wage controls
and trade union activities. The State organizations are expected to con-
centrate on planning, design and supervision of construction works. In prac-
tice, however public sector corporations and departments lack managerial
expertise. Work undertaken by private companies for the government frequently
incur costs overruns because of poor planning and design, or suffer delays
because of inefficient contract administration by the concerned government
organization.
5.      There are a few large private domestic construction companies in Sri
Lanka. Six of them have an annual capacity of up to Rs. 100 million (US$ 5.5
million). Another twenty each have capacities for about Rs. 30 million (US$
1.7 million) of work a year. About half of all the construction work is
undertaken by small family firms, by self-employed vorkers or, in the case of
low cost traditional houses, by the beneficiary. Private contractors of all
sizes have carried out about 75Z of all construction vork in Sri Lanka since
1979. Private companies tend to concentrate on buildings, water supply and
small sewage projects for which little heavy plant or equipment is required.
They undertake about 90 per cent of all building work and a smaller, but
increasing proportion of small irrigation, sewage and other civil works.
Domestic contractors have so far actively responded to the rising demand for
their services.
6.      Past import controls, and the industry's traditional concentration on
small, labor intensive works, has meant that most contractors still have
relatively little heavy equipment, and scanty knowledge of is correct use.
Companies have generally been unable to raise sufficient credit to acquire
heavy equipment, although the Government's practice of a 20% of contract value
advance payment has helped contractors buy smaller plant and equipment. Under
the first Small and Medium Industry Project (Cr. 942-CE), construction con-
tractors are eligible for fixed investment and working capital loans of up to
Rs. 1 million (US$ 55,000). While few contractors have availed themselves of
this facility, it is expected that their numbers will grow, particularly since
additional funds will be available under a follow-up project. The IFC has
cooperated with a Japanese equipment hire company to establish the Lanka
Orient Leasing Company (LOLC), which makes long term leases of heavy equipment
to the industry, thereby avoiding the need for contractors to tie up large
amounts of capital for equipment at the start of contracts. Although equip-
ment financing by LOLC is not expected to exceed 5% of total equipment needs
in the country over the next years, it will nevertheless help ease the con-
straints of equipment available to contractors.



-36-                       ANNEX 3
Page 3
7.      The Construction Consortium.  During a temporary revival of the con-
struction industry in the late 1960's, the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce mobi-
lized contracting and consulting resources to undertake priority government
work. Faced with a similar situation in 1977, the Chamber of Commerce set up
the Sri Lanka Construction Consortium (SLCC). It included all interested
domestic consultants and contractors, who vould carry out contracts for
government work at prenegotiated rates. SLCC negotiated the 20Z of the con-
tract advance to help the liquidity position of contractors. SLCC included
about 30 consultancy and 350 medium and small contracting firms. About 200 of
the contractors were prequalified by SLCC by the type and size of work they
were to undertake.
B.      SLCC's main activity has been in housing, principally on a turnkey
basis.  It was entrusted with the design and construction, or the construction
only, of over 6,000 units of housing throughout Sri Lanka, plus 4,000 units of
low-cost housing and a further 4,000 units of housing island-wide for public
servants. It has also undertook the construction of a Rs. 100 million hospi-
tal, food stores and school extensions, and was called in to help repair
cyclone damage. SLCC showed interest in training to make up for the exodus to
the Middle East, and encouraged on-the-job training for NAB sponsored appreu-
tices among its member firms.
-9.     SLCC fulfilled a useful function at the time when the industry was
run-down and disorganized and it enabled the Government to proceed quickly
with its public investment program without having to revise bidding and con-
tract procedures, as would otherwise have been necessary. SLCC played a
limited role in assisting small contractors, unused to bidding procedures, to
take part in the construction boom. The government did recognize that it is
better to return to competitive bidding and the practice was reintroduced in
Febuary 1981. The SLCC has been replaced by the Association of Construction
Contractors of Sri Lanka (ACCSL). This organization was formed in 1981 with
the assistance of Credit 1130-CE and it now has 102 members.
10.     With the Government awarding more of its construction work to private
companmes rather than through its own agencies, a number of ministries and
departments have become clients of the construction industry (Attachment 1).
Contract documents, specifications and contract procedures however vary from
one agency to another. As capacity constraints appear, ministries find them-
selves competing for available construction resources. In an effort to
improve this situation, the Government created the Secretaries' Committee for
the Construction Industry (SCCI) in 1979. It is composed of the Secretaries
of the various Mini-stries and Department concerned with construction, and is
under the chairmanship of the Secretary ULGEC. SCCI with assistance under
Credit 1130-CE, has completed standardization of contract documents and proce-
dures, specifications, and Codes of Practice for the industry, which are
suitable for use throughout government and private sector. Under another IDA
credit, similar work was done by consultants in the Department of Highways for
road and bridge work.



-39-
ANNEX 3
ATTACMENNT
Page 1
SRI LANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY IN SRI LANKA
A. Construction-Related Government Departments and Divisions
1.      Ministry of Local Government. Housing and Construction
(a)  Buil'ings Department
(b) Canal Development
(c) Centre for Housing, Planning and Building
(d) National Housing Department
te) Highways Department (to become an Authority in January 1986)
(f) Town and Country Planning Department
2.      Ministry of Lands and Land Development
(a) Irrigation Department
3.      Ministry of Transport
(a) Railways Department
B. Construction Related Asencies and Autonomous Bodies
4.      Ministry of Local Government. Housins and Construction
(a) Building Materials Corporation
(b) Building Materials Manufacturing Corporation
Cc) National Housing Development Authority
(d) National Water Supply and Drainage Board
(e) State Engineering Corporation
(f) Urban Development Authority
5.      Ministry of Lands and Lands Development
(a) Low-lying areas Reclamation and Drainage Board
(b) State Development and Construction Corporation
(c) State Timber Corporation
(d) Water Reuources Board
6.      Ministry of Transport
(a) Sri Lanka Central Transport Board



-40-                         ANNEX 3
ATTACHMEN
Page 2
7.      Ministry of Industries and Scientific Affairs
(a) Ceylon Cement Corporation
(b) Ceylon Ceramics Corporation
(c) Ceylon Hardboard Corporation
(d) Ceylon Plywood Corporation
(e) Ceylon State Hardware Corporation
(f) Ceylon Steel Corporation
8.      Ministry of Mahaveli DeveloLment
(a) Central Engineering Consultancy Bureau
(b) Mahaveli Authority of Sri Lanka
(c) River Valleys Development Board
9.      Ministry of Pover and Energy
(a) Ceylon Electricity Board
10.     Ministry of Defence
(a) Airports Autnority of Sri Lanka
11.     Ministry of Trade and Shipping
(a) Sri Lanka Ports Authority
Source: Public Administrative System - Sri Lanka Institute
of Development Administration - December, 1984



ANNEX 4
-41-                         Page 1
SRI LANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING
1.      Technical educatiou and vocational training occurs throughout the
formal and non-formal education system. Programs are operated by the Minis-
tries of Education, Higher Education, Youth Affairs and Employment, Labor,and
Local Government Housing and Construction. In addition, other ministries and
the public corporations provide their own apecific training programs. Private
industry also offers limited training programs.
Ministry of Education
2.      Since 1977, the formal education system provided for 13 technical
subjects to be included in the syllabuses of Grades 6-10 which can be offered
at the 0 Level examination. However, only two subjects (agriculture and home
economics) can be offered at the GCE A' level examination. Commerce is an
additional option in Grades 9-12, and shorthand and typvriting in Grades 9 and
10. In Grades 6-8 the study of a technical subject is compulsory, but, in
many schools only une or two subjects are offered and in others no provision
is made.
3.      Enrollments in technical subjects for GCE O' level examinations in
1982 indicate that about 38Z of the candidates studied agriculture, 24% home
economics and 22X commerce. The remaining 12 subjects accounting for 162
between them.  The figures also show a 63.9z increase in the number of can-
didates for all technical subjects over the previous year, which indicates the
increasing popularity of these subjects. The numbers increased from 179,600
to 294,425. The high demand for agriculture, home economics and commerce,
accounting for about 84% of the candidates, may be due to the availability of
these subjects for A' levels as opposed to the other technical subjects.
4.      A2riculture is offered in 4125 schools (43%).  Of these 206 have
specifically equipped facilities. Only 61% of the schools have a qualified
teacher in agriculture, and there are approximately 1400 (452) teachers with
O level or A' levels as their highest qualification. The pupil output with
O level passes is about 40% of the original enrollment. Home Economics is
offered in 2505 schools (26%) at Grades 6-10 and in 311 for Grades 11-12.
There are 2244 teachers in post, of these 84 are graduates. 1473 trained and
126 certified. There are 1395 teachers with either O' level or A' level as
the highest subject qualification and 679 of these with O level only. It is
notevorthy that there are no male teachers of this subject. The pupil output
with O' level passes is about 78Z of those who sit the examination. Metalwork
& Woodwork are offered in 876 schools with workshop units. In the larger
schools there is a separate set of workshops for these two subjects, but where
the total school enrollment is less than 300, a joint workshop is provided.
There are 710 trained teachers of these subjects, but the distribution is
uneven. The total number of female teachers is 24. In the larger schools



-42-
ANNEX 4
Page 2
metalwork and woodvork are scheduled at the same time and there is therefore a
requirement for separate teachers of metalwork and woodwork. This increases
the teacher requirement to about 1500, which is tvice the available number of
trained teachers. This may be an additional reason why only 4.9Z of the
pupils take metallwood work subjects, and also explains the under utilization
of the available workshop units. The pupil output with O' levels represents
44.62 of enrollees.
5.      Due to these problems in the present school system, the Education
White Paper of 1981 proposed a restructured system in which life skills sub-
ject would be taught in Grades 6-8 and technical subjects included in Grades
9-li. Life Skills as a technical subject has four main aims: (a) to introduce
the child to the world of vork and inculcate a positive attitude to work;
{b) to help the pupil acquire some familiarity and proficiency in the use of
common tools and appliances, (c) to make pupils proficient in simple skills
relevant to a range of vocations; and (d) to provide a range of activity-based
subjects to give the non-academically oriented pupil meaningful learning
activities. It was decided to build on the experience in the activity-based
approaches used in environmental and creative studies at the primary level,
and also to use the life skill subjects as a basis for the study of technical
subjects in Grades 9-11. It was also decided to avoid gender based diver-
sification of practical and vocational subjects, so that all pupils would
study life skills. The subjects are integrated across the whole range of
technical and vocational subjects and are based on a project or learning
activity approach.
6h      Non-Formal Education is under the control of an Additional Secretary
in the Ministry who has responsibilities for: (a) full-time Technical Educa-
tion Program; (b) part-tine Technical Education Program; (c) weekend English
courses; (d) adult education; and (e) evaluation and progress control. In
order to provide non-formal skills training for unexployed school leavers, a
system based on Technical Education Units (TEUls) has been developed. This
program began in 1973, with basic technical and vocadional training courses
of short duration being based at secondary schools. Workshops, laboratories
and other facilities were used after school hours and/or during weekends.
Admission is open to both school-leavers and dropouts. There are no other
formal entry requirements. At present there are 106 full-time Units and 631
part-time Units with about 4,500 and 15,500 pupils respectively. The number
of instructors employed are 313 and 1131 giving staff:student ratios of
approximately 1:14 in each case. The cost per pupil based on 1984 estimates
in a full-time Unit is Rs. 322 for staff and Rs. 411 for equipment/materials.
For part-time Units the costs are Rs. 211 and Rs. 111 respectively per annum.
7.      It is intended to establish one full-time TEU in each of 160 Elec-
torates and two part-time ThUs at any one time. The difference between the
two types of TEU is in the timing of the courses and the availability of
resources. TEU courses are usually over a period of 2-3 hours per day.
Full-time courses operate on five day a week basis, while part-time courses
are three days a week or at weekends. The total instructional hours for each



-43-
ANNEX 4
Page 3
type is 360, but it is obvious that the full-time courses achieve the total in
about 6 months vhile the part-time course takes about 10 months. In the case
of part-time courses the extent of additional equipment provided is con-
siderably less than for the full-time program, and the instructors are paid
about half the monthly salary of their colleagues in the other program.
Part-time courses may be approved by a Regional Director according to need,
whereas full-time courses need approval from the MOE. With the reduced cost
and easier approval, it is not surprising that there are six times as many
part-t2me courses.
8.      The content and objectives of the TEU programs is to train in skills
required for the local labor market, as well as for self-employment. As well
as a potential method of reducing unemployment, the program is designed to
achieve social harmony, reduce migration from rural to urban areas, help
attitude formation for national development and to promote the use of local
raw materials. To achieve these objectives 40 basic cnurses are offered
within six main employment sectors: building trades, agriculture, industries,
services, commerce and traditional crafts. Several of these courses are
specifically oriented towards income generation for rural women e.g. dress
making, embroidery and typing.
9.      In terms of the management of the system, steps have been taken to
decentralize decision-making to the regional and local levels. The types and
number of courses provided, recruitment of instructors, and the use of local
facilities and schools is locally oriented. Central NOE management assists
coordination, supervision, provision of training materials and the supply of
equipment. Due to the potential of employment in the overseas market for
certain trades, some courses are more attractive than others. In general,
artisan and trade training courses have greater popularity than those for
agriculture or traditional crafts. In recent years, other Ministries have set
up their own training programs to meet specific manpower _eeds of Government
projects. The superior quality of the intensive training (based on 8 hours
per day for 10 weeks) offered by CITP makes it very difficult for TEU
graduates to compete with CITP graduates for employment.
Ministry of Bi-ther Education (MORE)
10.    Technical Directorate  Technical education and vocational training is
provided by the Technical Directorate of the MORE. The Directorate is headed
by an Additional Secretary, assisted by a Director of Technical Education who
is responsible for the general supervision and administration, staffing, staff
training, design of curricula and the planning and programming of technical
education. At the institute level, the Principal is responsible for the
..mplementation of the teaching program and day-to-day administration. Plan-
ning, implementation, training and finance are centrally controlled by MOHE,
while teaching is locally controlled by the principal.
11.     The technical education system is implemented through Polytechnics
(PTIs) and Junior Technical Institute (JTms). As a general rule, those



-44-
ANNEX 4
Page 4
institutions offering Diploma courses or above have been designated PTI. At
present there are 8 PTIs, 14 JTIs and 5 Affiliated Technical Units, located
in selected urban centers throughout the country.
12.     The courses offered are either part or full-time and are in technical
or commercial education. The courses are at 5 designated levels. (a) Higher
National Diploma, (b) National Diploma, (c) National Certificate, (d) National
Craft Certificate, and (e) Other Short Courses. Higher National Diploma (HND)
courFes are offered only in accountancy and commerce subjects. The minimum
entry requirement is GCE A' level with passes in 4 subjects. The courses
extend over four years. Persons qualifying are eligible to receive part
exemptions from the examination of the Professional Institute, and the Higher
Diploma is accepted as being equivalent to a degree in commerce or economics.
National Diploma (ND) courses are offered only at the University of Moratuva
and the Hardy Senior Technical Institute. The course is of 3 years duration,
the first two of which are full-time institutional, while the third is spent
on practical in-plant training (arranged by NAB). The minimum entry require-
meat is GCE O' level with passes in six subjects. Three passes must be
credits obtained at one sitting, and must include mathematics, physics and a
language. There is a Diploma course in agriculture at the Hardy Institute
which follows the same pattern as the Diploma in Technology. There are a
number of courses in Business Studies and one in Home Economics with a minimum
entry of GCE A' level with 3 passes in appropriate subjects. These courses
are oi 2 years duration. A National Diploma course in English has recently
been introduced to 3 selected PTIs. The course is of 2 years duration and the
minimum entry requirement is GCE A' level passes in English Language or
Literature.
13.     National Certificate courses (NC) have been designed to train person-
nel for middle-level supervisory positions in technical and commercial employ-
ment. The courses are conducted on both full-time and part-time basis and
usually extend over a period of two to three years. The entry requirement is
normally GCE Olevel with 6 passes in appropriate subjects. The NC in Tech-
nology is of three years duration and is also open to candidates without O
level, who have successfully completed the one year preliminary engineering
science course offered in many technical institutions. The NC courses are
offered in 18 subjects. National Craft (Trade) Certificates (NCC) courses are
designed for training skilled craftsmen. The stipulated entry level is suc-
cessful completion of junior secondary school with a pass in Grade 8.
Twenty-three courses are conducted on either full-time or part-time basis.
The full-time courses are usually of two years duration, while the part-time
courses may be from one to three years, depending upon the nature of the
course (e.g. electrical wiring is of one year duration). The upper age limit
for entry to the full-time courses is 19 years. The Technical Education
Committee Report recommended that this should be extended to 25 years. Most
of the part-time courses do not have an upper age limit.   Short Courses are
of less than one year duration. In the past, these courses were concerned
with providing skill development for handicrafts and other areas for
self-employment. However, since 1981/82 a commitment to skills training under



-45-                        ANNEX 4
Page 5
the Construction Industry Training Project (CITP) and the NAB, have become
the major components for this area of work. The CITP courses are of 10 weeks
duration and commenced in 1982, while those for the NAB are of 6 months dura-
tion.
14.     The overall student enrollment has shown a considerable increase in
the period 1970-1982. It has increased from 8941 to 23,403 and it has doubled
since 1978. These figures show that NC courses have risen from 3,517 to
10,015, whereas craft courses have remained relatively constant at around
2254. The HND enrollment has risen from about 1200 to over 4,000, whereas the
ND figures have declined from about 2,200 to 1,000. Another factor has been
the high CITP enrollment which peaked at 5,243 in 1982 and to much lesser
extent the enrollment of 600 NAB students per year.
15.     The overall gender balance of enrollments for all courses and for HND
courses is about 60% men and 40% women. The NC and ND courses are about
equally divided with 53% and 58% males. The NCC courses are almost
exclusively male (97.5%). Comprehensive data on admission, enrollment and
output can only be obtained through detailed institutional surveys but there
are some data available from 1981 which indicate a drop-out rate of about 50%
for nationally certified courses. This high drop-out was also noted in the
Report of the Committee on Technical Education (1979). Drop-out was
attributed to a variety of factors including the quality and relevance of the
courses offered. Socio-economic factors also have an impact; students from
low income families have to leave the course in order to earn an income, while
some students leave to enter university.
Ministry of Youth Affairs & Employment (MYAE)
16.     The National Apprenticeship Board (NAB) was established in 1971 and
transferred to MYAE in 1978. The Constitution of the Board is provided by an
Act of Parliament, and the members are appointed by the Minister of YAE. The
Chairman of the Board is also the Director of the Apprenticeship Scheme. The
Board is a tripartite body with representatives from education and technical
training, employers (both public and private) and trade unions. The objec-
tives of the Board as set out in the Act are to: (a) formulate, implement and
supervise a scheme of training to cover all categories of apprentices;. (b)
establish standards, to determine periods of training, and the numbers, nature
and content or the type and level of training to be undergone by each
category; (c) determine the trade tests to be undergone by each category of
apprentices and their proficiency, and to issue certificates to those who
qualify; (d) determine, in consultation with the Minister, the amount of
allowance payable to each category of apprentices; (e) determine the hours and
conditions of work, leave entitlements, holidays and other conditions to be
observed by each category of apprentice; and (f) perform all such other acts,
as necessary for the attainment of the above objectives. There is a provision
for a training levy to be collected from employers with more than 50
employers. This provision has never been utilized and the expenses of the NAB
have been financed from central Government grants.



-46-
ANNEX 4
Page 6
17.     Apprenticeship Training - There are several kinds of apprenticeship
training programs:
(a) Craft Apprenticeship By far the largest proportion of apprentices
under training are in the craft area where there are 94 listed appren-
ticeships requiring O' level. Seventy-seven (77) craft areas require
Grade 8, and seven require Grade 7 for entry. The duration of these
craft apprenticeships also vary with the following distribution:
Duration of Course  (Months)        Number of Courses
48                                   37
36                                   44
30                                    3
24                                   19
18                                   20
6                                   10
These trade level training programs have been expanded to cover a wide
range of trades from all sectors of production and service industries.
The minimum age of entry for apprentices is now 16 years and the
maximum 22 years;
(b) Technician Apprenticeships are provided to holders of the National
Diploma in Technology. This on-the-job training is of one year dura-
tion, and end-on to the two years of technical education;
(c) Engineerinxt UnderAraduate Training is provided for the two Engineeri'g
Universities, based on 6 months in industry;
(d) Special Apprenticeships are intended for the training of middle- level
technical and supervisory cadres to fill vacancies at Foreman and
Inspector levels;
(e) Special Situational Apprenticeship programs cater for the training in
the skills needed by small scale industries and establishments and are
largely organization specific;
(f) School Leavers Program was initiated in 1980 and is intended for
artisan level trades such as carpentry, masonry and plumbing. The
entry requirement was lowered to Grade 5 and the duration of training
was reduced to 9 months;
(g) Village Level Training Scheme was introduced in 1981 to utilize the
training potential of master craftsmen in local communities. Under
this scheme, trainees are attached to selected master craftsmen for
their apprenticeship cf 12 month's duration. The trainees are paid



-47-                        M       
ANNEX 4
Page 7
the usual apprenticeship stipend and the craftsmen benefit by the way
of free iabor made available to them;
(h) Job Bank Scheme is available through the job bank to provide training
over 12 months to 0' level holders who wish to receive training in
vocational skills. This scheme was popular in 1980 with 1644 par-
ticipants, but is now almost non-existent with an intake of only 4 in
1983.
Ministry of Labor (MOL)
18.     The MNL provides 347 centers for vocational training programs with an
output of 10,380 trainees per year. The programs are directed at the early
school leavers who desire to acquire basic skills in trades which will lead
to employment. The training programs can be divided into four groups on the
basis of, infrastructure, location of facilities and by the type of programs
offered i.e. (a) Permanent Training Centres, (b) District Vocational Skills
Development Centres, (c) Special Skill Development Centres, and (d) Mobile
Training Centres.
19.     Permanent Centers  These are located in Colombo and Msrawila.  The
Vocational Skills Development Center, Orugodawatte, Colombo caters for
individualized training in the broad areas of: motor mechanics, machining,
fitting, welding and electronics. The courses are of one year duration with a
minimum entry of a pass at Grade 8 and age limits of 18-30 years. The total
installed capacity is 340, and the present annual output is about 275 craft
level workers. For courses in electronics the minimum entry is O' level with
a pass in physics and other science subjects. This center has also been used
for skills development courses of short duration designed to train for the
special categories of skills required for development projects. A mini ver-
sion of this center has been established within the Mahaweli Development
Scheme to conduct courses in basic engineering trades, tractor mechanics, and
operation. The Foreman Training Instutute at Narahenpita, Colombo is being
supported by SIDA. The Institute will provide technical and functional train-
ing for experienced craft level workers/tradesmen already in employment in
industry, aud provide for upgrading them to certified foremen or supervisors.
The planned capacity is for 350 training places per year. The Vocational
Training Centre at Naravila was established in 1968 for the training of marine
engine fitters and caters for the following trade areas: machining, fitting
and boat engine repairs. The places at this center are in demand and the
trainees have good employment prospects. The capacity is 60 for a one-year
course. New trades have been introduced to the permanent centers, electrical
trades, radio-electronics and English typing. In addition, training courses
for females in masonry and carpentry have been run in Colombo.
20.     District Vocational Skills Development Centers were established in
Districts outside of the Colombo area to provide advanced skills training for
rural youth. The project was supported by the Netherlands Government and the
ILO. UNDP is supporting the establishment of a further three centers. The



-48-
ANNEX 4
Page 8
objective is not only to provide engineering and construction skills training,
but to provide advice and instructional suloort to mobile centers in the
Districts. In addition, they provide further opportunities in vocational
education for those who have already completed training at tue Mobile Centres.
The craft-level skills taught are drawn from machinery, automotive, carpentry
and masonry trades. The courses are of one year duration and each has a
training capacity of about 85 places. It is proposed to establish one of these
centers for each of the 24 Districts of the country.
21.     Special Skills Development Centers  Several training centers at dis-
trict and village levels have been opened at the request of the local develop-
ment authorities. These special skills include industrial sewing, tractor
mechanics, and training in English typewriting.
22.     Mobile Centres  There are 317 mobile centers offering carpentry,
dressmaking and masonry. They operate from temporary rented accommodations
and on completion of the courses are closed. The equipment is then moved to
another locality in the district where training is imparted. These centers
cater to the basic skill needs of rural society, and the enrollees consist of
village residents. A link is established with the local development authority
so that the training can match the socio-economic needs of the village. ThiR
system ensures optimum utilization of training equipment and manpower,
together with a wide coverage of the rural areas of the country. The mobility
of the center is only in terms of equipment, staff, and furniture within a
particular geographical area, and is coterminous with the parliamentary elec-
torate. The capacity is restricted to 15-20 trainees per center, and the
courses are usually of either 6 or 9 months duration. There is, however, a
tendency for the centers to become less mobile. A survey by the Ministry of
Plan Implementation in 1982 indicated that about 60% of the centers had func-
tioned for 2 years or more.
23.     As the Mobile Centers are intended for school leavers and drop-outs,
the entry standards are low. The minimum is supposed to be a pass at Grade
8, but in practice this is often lowered to Grade 5. The minimum age of 18 is
also lovered to enable more participation in the scheme. In some cases entry
is allowed at age 14. For the more prestigious one year courses in Colombo,
demand is much greater and the minimum age and entry qualification is normally
insisted upon. A daily stipend is paid to all attending these courses and it
varies between Rs.5-15.
Ministry of Local Government. Housinf and Construction (MLGHC)
24.     The vocational skill training scheme under this ministry is the Con-
struction Industry Training Project, which is supported by an IDA credit (see
Annex 7).



-49-
ANNEX 4
Page 9
Other Vocational Training Schemes
25.     There are 19 Government Departments and Corporations conducting voca-
tional training programs. In addition to those previously discussed, the most
significant agencies are:-
(a) The Department of Small Industries which trains about 2,000 craftsmen
per year, at 3 craft schools, 109 caroentrv schools and 400 handicraft
training centers mostly situated in rural districts. These courses are
primarily intended for the extension and development of small
industries using local raw materials. They preserve the traditional
skills, promote new skills and encourage employment in the rural
areas. Some of these trainin% centers also act as production unite.
There are centers for about 35 different types of handicraft, the
major ones being brassware, silverware, jewellery, wood-carving, reed
weaving, bamboo products, palmyrah, coir, pottery and wetake. There
is no fixed duration of training, but the trainees are paid a stipend
of Rs. 5/- per day during the the first six months in training. The
carpentry courses are of one year duration, and have an entry require-
ment of a pass at Grade 8. The Department also has an assisted
schools program where a grant is given either to an individual or to a
cooperative to act as the manager of a school. The grant is for the
purchase of equipment and the salaries of teachers. There are 50 of
these schools distributed in 17 districts. Another scheme is the
Master Craftsman Prozram where he is paid an allowance of Rs. 500 per
month and 10-25 trainees are attached to him for 6 months and paid Rs.
5 per day. The program is directed towards traditional crafts, such
as mask making, silver and brass work. There are about 54 training
centers of this type. There is a lack of an agreed and prepared
curriculum for any of these courses and this prevents the maintenance
of any training standards. The input and output data indicate that
the available training capacity has not been adequately utilized;
(b) Department of Astriculture provides training for about 650 per annum in
10 training schools and 2 training centers;
(c) Department of Social Services provides training for about 500 per
annum in centers for the handicapped;
(d) Department of Health provides training for 400 nurses and 60 tech-
nicians per year;
(e) Ministry of Fisheries provides training for 200 marine and fisheries
mechanics at 4 centers
(f) Tractor Corporatiou has an annual intake of 500 tractor mechanics.
This is supported by the Federal Republic of Germany;



-50-
Page 10
(g) Electricity Board has specialized training for an intake of 39 per
year;
(h) Telecoumunication Deuartment operates a special training school with
an intake of 240 per year;
(i) The Aimed Forces provide about 320 places per year for training either
for the Navy or Air Force; and
(j) Wowren's  reau of Sri Lanka  In 1980, about 2,000 women were trained
in poultry farming, dairy farming, sewing and home gardening.
26.     The importance which the Government attaches to the development of
vocational and technical education may be judged by the budget allocation made
during the period 1982-86 in respect of capital expenditure. The total allo-
cated for 1985 is five times greater the allocation for 1982, indicating the
greater priority given to this sector compared to its relative neglect in the
past. The MORE capital allocation is high because of the ADB supported
project for the improvement of technical education. On the other hand, the
capital programs for the NAB have decreased since 1982, and the NOL vould
decrease from 1985. In addition, the CITP project had a total input, capital
and revenue, of about Rs. 300 mil:ions for the training of construction
industry workers.



-51-
Page 1
SRI LANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
FINANCING OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Status of Financin2
1.      Education and training are predominantly publicly financed.  Table 1,
shows public expenditure on education and training between 1979-85. Since
1979 Sri Lanka has devoted about 3% of its annual GNP to education and train-
ing. By comparison Pakistan spends about 2Z of GNP on public education and
training, Nepal 1.4% and India about 3Z. The range for developing countries
is 1-5% (see Comparative Education Indicators, Annex 1). In 1979 total
public expenditure on education and training amounted to Rs. 1,299 million
(US$83.43 million) or 6.7% of the total public expenditure and increased to
Rs. 3,701 million (US$145.48 million) or 7.4% of public expenditure by 1984.
Whereas overall expenditure increased by 1572 in the Rupee terms, education
and training expenditures increased by 185Z over the same period. In 13
other countries of the Asia Region, public expenditure on education and
training range between 7-22% of total public expenditure.
2.      Development expenditure on education and training has increased by
366% from Rs.137 million (US$8.80 million) to Rs. 638 million (US$25.8 mil-
lion) between 1979-84. Of total public capital expenditure, between 2-3%
has been allocated for education and training activities. Over the same
period recurrent expenditures have ranged from Rs. 1,162 million (US$74.63
million) to Rs. 3,063 million (US$120.40 million), implying a 164Z increase.
3.      Expenditure on technical and vocational training amounted to Rs. 93.7
million (US$6.02 million) in 1979 and to Rs. 417.9 million (US$16.43 million)
in 1984. Compared to the budgeted amount for 1985, (Rs. 588.6 million),
expenditures on vocational training experienced a more than five-fold
increase (528%) over the seven year period. This reflects the recognition by
government of the importance of technical and vocational training. Total
expenditure on training as a proportion of all expenditure on education and
training has increased from 7Z to 11Z between 1979-84. In relative terms
development expenditure on training has increased more significantly than
that of all education and training put together whereas development expendi-
ture on training was 17% of that on all education and training, this share
had increased to over 30Z by 1984. The share of capital expenditure within
the total allocation provided for technical and vocational/training has also
increased precipitously, especially over the last three years. Between 1979
and 1984, development expenditure for vocational technical training increased
by 895% while recurrent expenditures increased by only 165%. This indicates



-52-                        ANNEX 5
Page 2
that the Government has taken adequate measures to expand training
activities.
4.      The recent (1983-85) trends in allocation for recurrent expenditure
though are not encouraging. There was an absolute decline in amounts
provided for recurrent expenditures in the 7 organizations which administer
the larger technical and vocational training programs, from Rs. 228.2 million
(US$9.70 million) in 1983 to Rs. 162.1 million (US$6.23 million) in FY85. A
relatively large proportion of the recurrent expenditure is being utilized
for the payment of allowances to trainees and apprentices, thus taking scarce
resources away from the provision of training materials and supplies. This
has had a serious effect on the quality of the skills training provided. The
limited recurrent budgetary provision raises an issue of the long-run
viability of the training programs. The long-run financial viability of
vocational training rests on the assurance of adequate recurrent budgetary
resources to support programs both during and beyond the current project.



-53-
Page 3
SRI LANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
TABLE 1   PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION AND TRAINING
1979 - 1985
1979   _ 1980 .    1981  1 198i 1 1983 1 .L984 1 1985
      _____------(Re. Million)-----
1. GNP La                    52,147  66,095    83,137  98,106 118,764 149,596 174,880
2. Public Capital lEp. la    7,343  12,857 fb 11,757  15,885  16,157  21,105  21,302
3. Total Recurrent
Esp. (Public)            11,988  15,850    16,853  18,227  24,737  28,650  31,045
4. Total Public lxp.         19,331  28,707    28,610  34,112  40,894  49,755  52,347
5. Public Dev. Exp. on
Eeic. & Training            137      25,       292      481     552     638      N.A.
6. Public Recurrent Exp.
on Educ. & Training       1,162   1,425      2,098   2,317   2,664   3,063       N.A.
7. Total Public Exp. on
Educ. & Training          1,299   1,682      2,390   2,798   3,216   3,701       N.A.
8. Public Dev. Exp. on
Tech/Voc. Training Ic    23.20   78.90       58.40   73.60  119.90  231.00  426.50
9. Public Recurrent Exp.
on Tech/Voc. Educ. /c      70.50   75.60    100.60  187.40  228.20  186.90  162.10
10. Total Pub. Exp. on
Tech/Voc. Education       93.70  154.50    158.60  261.00  348.10  417.90  588.60
11. 7 as Z of 1                02.49   02.54      02.87   02.85   02.71   02.47       N.A.
12. 7 as Z of 4                06.72   05.86      08.35   08.20   07.86   07.44       N.A.
13. 5 as Z of 2                01.87   02.00      02.48   03.03   03.42   03.02       N.A.
14. 6 as Z of 3                09.69   08.99      12.45   12.71   16.49   14.51       N.A.
15. 8 as Z of 5                16.93   30.79      20.00   15.30   21.72   36.21       N.A.
16. 9 as Z of 6                06.07   05.31      04.80   08.09   08.57   06.10       N.A.
17. 10 as Z of 7               07.21   09.19      06.64   09.33   10.82   11.29       N.A.
N.A. - Not available.
Notes: /a  Central Bank of Ceylon.  Data for 1983 is provisional, while those for 1984
and 1985 are Estimates.
lb  Includes Rs.308 milliion being the repayment of special advances by the
Central Bank.
/c Expenditures are confined to the Ministries of Labor, Youth Affairs &
Employment (NAB), Higher Education (Technical Education), Fisheries (Dept.
of Fisheries), Agriculture (Dept. of Agriculture), Rural Industrial Develop-
ment (Dept. of Small Industries) and Ministry of Local Government, Rousing
and Construction.
Sources: |1 Central Bank of Ceylon
/2 Marga Institute, based on Annual Estimates of Government of Sri Lanka.



-54-
Fage 4
TANL  2 : AUWNAL R XIIT C0SSS. 1994/95. RUMU NILLION 1/
C<poSnt                       Salarisr  of    I Coo = 41c I  t      ai f f r ine   I Opar tion/  I   Total
I Additionel Staff I Naterials 1 Stinends I Tool tits I Mainteance I All Catezorie
I.  TSIIITIOIAL DEM.OMPM
(ICTAD)                             0.97             0.16          -         -           0.60          1.73
- Administration * Finence             (0.16)          (0.16)       t - )      t - )       (0.60)        (0.92)
- Traiing Division                     (0.26)           ( -)        ( -        C -)         (-)          (0.26)
- Construction Tndustry De. Div.       (0.55)           C - )       ( - )      ( - )        ( - 3        (0.55)
II. SKILL TRAININD                          .02            29.88        7.56      6.25          3.73         55.44
- Craft Level                         (5.45)          (22.00)      (3.64)    (6.25)        (1.13)       (38.47)
- mecbanic/Operator                    (0.56)          (5.45)      (0.51)      ( - )       (2.60)       C 9.15)
- On-sits/Trade Testing                (2.01)          (2.40)      (3.41)      ( - )        ( - )        (7.82)
ILT. NMANZU3T TRAINING                     0.45             4.65        0.59        -           0.09          5.5S
- Upper Level                         (0.05)           (0.09)       ( -3       t - )        ( -1         (0.14)
- Niddle Level                         (0.34)          (4.25)       ( - 3      ( - )       (0.09)        (4.65)
- Loer Level                          (0.06)           (0.11)      (0.59)      ( - )        C - )        (0.76)
IV. IDsBCTOR TAIINC                        0.01             0.38         -          -             -           0.39
- Craft Lvel                           (0.01)          (0.09)       (-         (_)             )         (0.10)
- Neebanic/Operator                     ( - )          (0.29)       ( - )      ( - )        ( - )        (0.29)
-Managmeat                              ( -)            ( -)        ( - )      (- )         ( - )(- )
V. INITOKING AND EVALUATION                  -              0.22          -         -           0.22          0.44
VI. ALL ODNPOMTS                           9.45            35.09        S.15      6.25          4.64         63.58
Li Includes contingencies



-55-                            ANNEX 5
Page 5
TABLE 3 : RECURRENT EXPENDITURE ANALYSIS
(Million, Rs and X)
1.  Public Recurrent Expenditure on Education and                 3,063.00
Training (1984)
2.  Projected Recurrent Expenditure on Education                 14,714.00
and Training in 1995 /a
3.  Public Recurrent Expenditure on Vocational/                     162.10
Technical Training (1985)
4.  Projected Recurrent Expenditures on Vocational/                 481.00
Technical Training in 1995 la
5.  Annual Recurrent Expenditure as a result of                      63.58
the Project in 1995 (Table 3)
6.  Estimated Annual Revenue to be generated through                  9.63
Cost Recovery (fees, sales of services and
materials) under the Project (Annex 8, Table 4)
7. Net Annual Recurrent Expenditures as a result                     53.95
of the Project in 1995 (66.51-7.58)
8.  Annual Recurrent Expenditure on the Project in 1995              13.22
as a proportion of Projected Recurrent Expenditure
on Vocational/Technical Training in 1995 (5:4)
9.  Net Annual Recurrent Expenditure on the Project                  11.21
in 1995 as a proportion of Projected Recurrent
Expenditure on Vocational Training in 1995 (7:4)
10.  Annual Recurrent Expenditure on the Project in                    0.43
1995 as a proportion of projected Recurrent
Expenditure on Education and Training in 1995
11. Net Annual Recurrent Expenditure on the Project                    0.37
in 1995 as a Proportion of Projected Recurrent
Expenditure on Education and Training in 1995
/a Projection Assu ption: The historical annual growth rates in
expenditure attained over the 1974-84 period will be maintained, i.e.,
17X for Education and Training, and 13% for Vocational/Technical
Training.
SOURCE : (1) Central Bank of Ceylon
(2) Narga Institute, based on Annual Estimates of Government of
Sri Lanka.



-56-
ANNEX 6
SRI LANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
EXTERNAL FINANCING OF TECHNICAL/VOCATIONAL TRAINING
|  Description of      I Receiving  I Period of I Amount of
Donor    I  Program Supported  I Ministry   I Assistance l Assistance
ADB        * Establishment of   I Ministry   1 1983-1987 I US$ 16.10 N
I  a National Techni- I of Higher
|  cal Teacher Trg.   I Education  I              I
College (NTTTC) andl              I           I
I  upgrading facili-  I               I           I
I  ties of selected   I               I           I
I  Technical           I              I           I
I  Institutes          I              I           I
SIDA     I * Financing Technicall Ministry   I 1983-1987 I US$ 2.800 M
I  Assistance and      I of Higher  I             I
I  Fellowships         I Education  1             I
.'       ~~~~I                   I              I           I
* Orugodavatte        I Ministry    1 1979-1984 I US$ 1.035 N
I  Vocational Skill   I of Labour  I              I
|  Development Center I               I           I
* Foreman Training   I Ministry   I 1979-1984 1 US$ 1.035 N
I  Institute           I of Labour  I             I
ILO        * Assistance to       I Ministry   I 1983-1986 1 US$ 0.800 N
Apprenticeship      I of Youth   I            I
I  Training            I Affairs &  I             I
Employment I            I
I                      I              I           I
I * Vocational Skills  I Ministry   1 1983-1984  1US$ 0.725 M
I  Development Prog.  I of Labour  I              I
I                      I             I            I
UNDP       * National Technical I Ministry   I 1983-1987 1 US$ 2.800 N
I  Teacher Training   I of Higher  I              I
I  College             I Education  I             I
I                      I              I           I
FRG        * To establish an    I Ministry   1 1979-1984 1 US$ 1.118 N
Apprenticeship      I of Youth
I  Training Institute I Affairs &
I Employment I
I_ __                                   I_ _____________I_



-57-                         AM=z 
Page 1
SRI LANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 1130-CE)
ACHIEVEMENTS TG-DATE
BOARD DATE            April 7, 1981
SIGNING DATE        : June 1, 1981
EFFECTIVE DATE        September 19, 1981
PROJECT COMPLETION    June 30, 1984 (Appraisal) June 1986 (Current)
CREDIT CLOSING        December 31, 1984 (Appraisal) December 1986 (Current)
CREDIT AMOUNT         SDR 10.9 million
A. TRAINING TARGETS AND OUTPUT
Revised      Achievement    Achievement as Z of
Appraisal  Estimates        as of
Estimates (NKIl  Study)   Dec. 1985   Appraisal  Revised lit.
Carpenters       28,500       8,160         8,955/a        25         87
Masons           23,500       6,640         8,435/a        29        102
Electricians        800       1,900         1,550         194         82
Plumbers            800         720           766          96        106
Steel Fizers/
Bar Benders        800       1,420           365          46         26
Mechanics           400         700           862         215        123
Equipment
Operators        1,350       1,300         1,057          78         81
Supervisors         900         800         1,211         134        151
Managers             80         120           189         236        158
Quantity
Surveyors          -            50            33          -          66
Building
Maintenance        _            -             52          -          _
Road Maintenance
Agents        I   -             -            468          -
Technical Ofticers  -            -            160          -          _
TOTAL           57,130      21,810        24,103          42        110
B. FINANCIAL ACHIEVEMENT
1. Actual Expenditure as 1      2. Disbursements (as of January 1986)
of Budaet Allocations           Actual Disbursements          - US$ 8.4 M
1981 -  93Z                     Appraisal Estimate            - US$13.5 N
1982 - 100%                     Revised Estimate              - US$10.4 M
1983 -  99%                     Actual as Z of Appraisal Est - 62Z
1984 -  98%                     Actual as Z of Revised Est   - 81%
1985 -  58Z (as of 11/1985)
/a  Includes 1,650 masons and 1,865 carpenters trained under the Million
Houses Program.



-58-                        ANNEX 7
Page 2
A. CRAFT TRAINING
OBJECTIVE:  SCHEDULE II of the Develoument Credit Arreement
1. Training of about 45,000 workers in basic construction skills
2. Training about 9,600 workers to upgrade construction skills.
IMPLEKEITATION:  ARTICLE III of the Development Credit Agreement
Section 3.08 (i) make existing training facilities and staff avail-
able for implementation of the project and (ii), adjust training
courses related to the construction industry.
Section 3.09 - Provide allowances to trainees under the project.
Basic TraininR
1.      From the inception of the project, the training targets were con-
sidered to be unrealistic. The figures were derived at a time when the
construction industry was experiencing an average growth rate of about 17%
per annum and had reached its peak in 1981. After 1981, the volume of con-
struction work decreased and the need for large numbers of new workers also
decreased. Under these circumstances, IDA agreed with the Government to
conduct a new survey to ascertain the training needs in the construction
industry. The survey was undertaken by the National Institute of Business
Management (NIBM) in 1983. The project has adjusted its annual training
targets to the needs identified in the NIBM study. The overall performance
in respect of the five trades up to the end of December 1985 is given in
Table 1.
TABLE 1 : CRAFT TRAINING
Target as per       Target as per  Actual Performance
Trade                Appraisal          NIBM Study    upto December 1985
Basic Advanced
Masonry              24,000    4,500            8,160             7,090
Carpentry            19,000    4,500           6,640              6,785
Electrical Wiring       600       200          1,900              1,550
Plumbing                 600      200            720                766
Steel Fixing/           600       200          1,420                365
Bar Bending
TOTAL               44,800    9,600          18,840             16,556
2.      The shortfall in meeting the target in Masonry is mainly due to the
difficulties in recruiting trainees. The actual output of Carpenters would
be more than the NIB! target. There will be a short-fall in the number of
trainees in Electrical trade and this is due to the fact that in the past, it
has been difficult to arrange on-site training for these trainees. The



-59-AM                              7
AUE  7
Page 3
output in Plumbina would be greater than the RINU target. At present, there
is no separate trade called Steel Fixing and Bar Bendint in the construction
industry in Sri Lanka. Often steel fixing and bar bending work is undertaken
by the skilled masons. As there was some uncertainty about the future of the
trade, only three Training Centers conduct these courses. On-site placemeat
of trainees has also been difficult and some of the trainees who completed
the courses are unemployed. Because of this, it was decided to conduct the
steel fixing and bar bending as a supplement to the masonry course.
Advanced Training
3.      Advanced training courses have been developed in masonry, carpentry,
electrical wiring and plumbing. There is no advanced training course in
steel fixing and bar bending. Two advanced training courses vere condicted
at e_ch of the 25 Training Centers during the past 3 years.  The experience
gained showed that these courses were not attractive and it vas difficult to
attract suitable candidates. The main reason given for not joining the
advanced courses is that the training period is too long, and the Rs 30 daily
allowance was inadequate. Skilled/semi-skilled construction workers for whom
the courses are designed, earn approximately Rs 50 to Rs 75 a day. As a
result, the Government has decided not to implement advanced training courses
unless a sufficient number of candidates are available.
Sl!ecialized Trainine (Uptradint)
4.      As the advanced training courses were found to be unattractive,
arrangements were made to introduce twenty special training courses to
upgrade skills of existing skilled and semi-skilled construction workmen.
Under this program, the duration of the training is reduced to the minimum
and offered during weekends. The development of most of the courses is now
completed and the instructors are to be trained. These activities are
planned to begin as a part of the proposed second project.
National Trade Tests
5.      Development of Grades I, II and III National Trade Tests in the
artisan trades are complete.  The Grade III National Trade Tests are being
implemented by the NAB at six selected testing centers. Grade II tests were
implemented for the first time in August, 1985, and the Grade I tests will be
implemented in 1986.
Instructor Ungrading Program
6.      One of the major drawbacks of the project as appraised was that it
did not include an instructor training component. At the start of project
implementation, IDA and GOSL, agreed on the necessity to devise an instructor
training program. Since many of the instructors in the Ministry of Higher
Education were leaving the institutions, either to go abroad or for more
lucrative local jobs, the young recruits who replaced them, did not have
either the necessary pedagogic or manipulative skills to implement the train-
ing courses designed by the CITP. The CITP therefore initiated a program to
upgrade the level of instructors. One of the difficulties in implementing
the program was that lengthy courses were not possible because instructors



-60-                          ANNEX 7
Page 4
could not be released for more than a week at a time. It vas therefore
decided to limit the length of instructor training courses to a maximum of 5
days. Twelve instructor training courses for 55 instructors in Masonry were
conducted. Thirteen training courses were conducted for Carpentry involving
52 instructors, while six courses in Electrical for 24 instructors and five
courses for Plumbing involving 11 instructors, were conducted.  Only two
courses were conducted in Steel Fixing and Bar Bending and 12 instructors
participated.
Curriculum Development
7.      Curricula for all Basic and Advance courses were developed by local
consultants with assistance from expatriate consultants. Curricula were
developed after an analysis of the industry's needs. The methodology adopted
for curriculum development was the task/job analysis method. The curricula
developed are now 3-4 years old. Arrangements have been made to review and
update existing curricula to cater to the changing needs of the industry as
and when necessary. This procedure would be facilitated by establishing a
Consultative Committee on Training under the proposed project. The Committee
would consist mainly of representatives from industry who would advise on the
needs in respect of each artisan training course. Four training films in
Masonry, Carpentry, Plumbing, Steel Fixing and Bar Bending, have already been
produced by the project. These films are presently being used for instructor
upgrading.
Buildina Maintenance Training ProRram
8.      On e re-uest made by the National Housing Development Authority and
Coumon Amenities Board, CITP has developed two training programs for Building
Maintenance. One program is designed for Maintenance Operatives and the
other for Maintenance Supervisors. These courses are conducted during
weekends as the participants are full-time employees. The first two courses
for Maintenance Operatives was conducted for 38 participants. The first
training course for Maintenance Supervisors included 15 participants.
Millidn Houses Training Program
9.      A district based craft training program was established at the
Gramodaya Mandalaya level on a directive from the Ministry of Local Govern-
ment, Housing and Construction. There are approximately 4,400 Gramodaya
Mandalayas in the country. Under this program, the CITP in collaboration
with the National Housing Development Authority (NHMA) is implementing a
program to teach basic house building skills to rural youth. The actual
implementation of the training program, both at District and Gramodaya Man-
dalay level, is implemented by the NHDA. The District Manager of the NHDA is
responsible for the implementation of the program. NHDA Housing Officers are
used by the CITP to monitor the progress of trainees at Gramodaya Mandalaya
level.
10.     Because of the varied and extensive types of construction methods
used in the "Million Houses Program", the training approach is flexible and
allows the builder to make the best use of indigenous materials. To meet



-61-                        ANNEX 7
Page 5
this need, the "Training Element System" was deoigned for use of both manage-
ment and trainees. The system offers the following advantages: (a) the
facility to select option packages required to train people on an individual
basis; (b) the ability to prepare training packages quickly; and (c) an
opportunity to illustrate a logical cycle of events to be followed while
training and building. The training elements when packaged, provides for the
trainee to be taken step by step through the chosen building technique. The
range of knovledge and skills covered in each element is relatively narrow,
but the approach to training is in sufficient detail to allow individuals to
be trained to recognize local (inspection) standards. Todate, 28 Skill
Elements have been developed by the CITP. Training under this program is
provided through apprenticeship to the village master mason or master car-
penter. A small honorarium is paid to the trainer as an incentive.
B. MECHANIC AND OPERATOR TRAINING
OBJECTIVE: SCHEDULE II of the Development Credit Arreement
Training of about 1,800 in equipment operation and maintenance.
Mechanic Trainin2
11.     The appraisal and NIBM study targets are compared against the
achievements and are outlined below:
TABLE 2 : MECHANIC TRAINING
Planned Output
Overall Targets        Achievements      (Cumulative)
Trade          Appraisal   NIBM        Dec.    Under    December December
Estimates Estimates    1985  Training    1985       1986
Heavy Equipment       260       520          388    59          439      559
Mechanic
Light Equipment       140       185          174    29          204      254
Mechanic
SUBTOTAL             400       705          562    88          643      813
Advance Mechanics                            177    14          219      299
TOTAL                                       739   102          862     1112
12.     The targets for training mechanics have been established on the basis
of existing capacities. Moreover, the present capacity is almost equal to
the average annual projected requirement identified by the NIBM study. (120
as against the 130 identified by NIBM). A significant number of the trainees



-62-
ANNEX 7
Page 6
are employed as semi or unskilled persons and are considered potential
mechanics by their employers. The ratio of new entrants to sponsored
nominees is 28Z and 40C respectively for light and heavy equipment mechanics.
Total         No of           No of
Trade                  Trained as      Sponsored      New Entrants
of Dec. 85      Nominees        Trained
Light Equipment Mechanic           174             128             46
Heavy Equipment Mechanic           388             230            158
Advance Mechanic                   177             163             14
The sponsored trainees are from public and private sector organizations which
are engaged in earthmoving, irrigation, general building construction and
agro based industries. Contacts established with industry has also enabled
CITP to provide employment opportunities to new entrants.
13.     Training Validation Scheme.  Enrollment Tests are conducted for all
basic courses. In the case of the Advance Mechanic courses, skilled
craftsmen are also required to take the test.  Only supervisory personnel who
attend the Advance Mechanic course are granted an exemption. The validation
scheme for basic courses comprises the following:
(a) critical and desirable skill tests are conducted and the results are
reported to the head office at the completion of each module. This
enables the trainers to assess and monitor the progress of each
trainee as an ongoing activity;
(b) interim tests are conducted at the completion of certain prescribed
groups of modules by a team consisting of representative from the
head office, trainer from another institute, and a trainer from the
host institute. The test consists of MCQ and oral test components.
The method has definite advantages as a means of standardizing the
training programs. Further, it provides an opportunity for trainers
of different institutions to exchange information on techniques; and
(c) final tests are conducted at the end of the institutional training
phase by a panel similar to that of interim tests. The tests con-
sists of three components:
i) MCQ test of 40 questions - duration 1-1/2 hours;
ii) oral test - duration of 30 minutes on prescribed sections,
covering both theory and practicals; and
iii) practical test - duration of 1-1/2 hours, on diagnosis of
set faults in an engine and an assembly exercise.
In the case of Advance Mechanics, only MCQ tests are conducted
at present.



-63-
ANNEX 7
Page 7
14.     Develolment of Trade Testing Procedures.  The grading scheme as adopted
at present by industrial organizations of the public sec.or is a four
tiered system consisting of the following:
i)  Grade III     - Entrance Level to the Industry
ii)  Grade II      - Medium Skill Level
iii)  Grade I       - High Skill Level
iv) Special Grade - Master Craftsmen Level
As decided by the National Committee on Standardization, the proposed scheme
is intended to cover the National Skill Standards and the means of assessment
for Grades III, II and I only. The Skill Standards and Trade Tests for Grade
III have been pilot tested.
15.     The response from the industry with regard to the designed schemes
for Grades II and I indicate that: (a) the present skill levels are not
compatible with the levels identified; (b) unavailability of training oppor-
tunities for upgrading would obstruct the immediate implementation of the
scheme; (c) an intermediate level may haie to be designed to implement the
scheme until opportunities and facilities are made available for upgrading
through training; and (d) financial constraints and the slow rate of intro-
duction of new equipment and high-tech diagnostic instruments may not occur
in the near future. A Committee representing the industry has been appointed
to redesign the skill standards and trade tests for mechanics of Grades II
and I, keeping in view the desirable levels of performance, the existing
constraints and developing a scheme that could be implemented as a transition
measure. Facilities for conducting National Trade Tests for Grade III level,
have been already established at the SD & CC central workshop. A new Trade
Testing Unit is being established at the SEC workshops.
16.     Curriculum Review.  Light Equipment Mechanic (LEM) and Heavy Equip-
ment Mechanic (HEM) Courses have been conducted by the CITP since 1981. The
course curricula and lessons were prepared in 1981 to supply the industry
with significant numbers of workers trained to limited, but recognized skills
levels in the shortest possible time. Given the absence of formal training
courses which provide specialized training on construction equipment, the
CITP sponsored program is now the only program developing manpower of this
profile. A Curriculum Review Committee has been appointed with the following
terms of reference:
(a) to review the present course content of HEM and LEM training
programs and ascertain its relevance to the needs of the industry;
(b) to review the present validation scheme; and
(c) to recomend si.itable revisions and modifications to the present
procedures in relation to (a) and (b) above.
Advanced Mechanic TraininR
17.     The Advance Mechanics course is a structured, modular theoretical
course on the design features and operational aspects of assembly and units
of Heavy Vehicles. The course consists of the following modules: (a) use
and care of hand tools and workshop safety; (b) compression ignition engines
and fuel injection equipment; (c) lubrication and cooling systems;



-64-
ANNEXC 7
Page 8
(d) vehicle types and layout - braking, steering and suspension systems;
(e) transmission systems; and (f) automotive electrical equipment and acces-
sories. The duration of individual modules vary from 1-3 weeks. The total
duration is 3 months. About 10-12 participants normally attend a module.
18.     Participants are employed and drawn from two sources - Technical
Officers and skilled workmen who wish to update their knowledge. A few
trainees from the basic courses are also given the opportunity to attend the
advance courses.
Operator TraininR
19.     Achievements todate compared with the appraisal and NIBM study
estimates are outlined below.
TABLE 3: OPERATOR TRAINING
Planned Output
Overall Targets          Achievements      (Cumulative)
Under Trg
Trade                       NIBM         Dec.    as of      By Dec  By Dec
Appraisal   Study          85    Dec. 85       1985    1986
Heavy Equipment       750        930           655       _         633      833
Operator
Light Equipment       600        370           357      _          424     524
Operator
I---__ -------------_ _ _ _ _ _       ------_  ___________    _ _ _    ____
TOTAL              1,350      1,300          1012      _        1,057   1,407
20.     The drop in trainees is due to (a) poor weather conditions which
prevailed from mid-1983 to mid-1984; (b) delays in the procurement and
arrival of equipment; and (c) turnover of teaching staff.
21.     Enrollment Patterns and Employment Opuortunities.  It is traditional
in the industry to promote the cleaner/greaser of heavy construction equip-
ment to operators. Even though training programs for drivers of heavy tran-
sport and farm tractors exist, most trainees have to initially undergo a
period of apprenticeship under an operator. Since employers are cautious in
allowing a newly trained person to operate a machine, the employment of new
entrants as operators is still slow. Because of these factors, the training
otfered is directed mostly to semi-skilled operators.



-65-
ANNEX 7
Page 9
Total         No of          No of
Trade                  Trained as      Sponsored     New Entrants
of Dec. 85      Nominees       Trained
Light Equipment Operator            655            544           101
Heavy Equipment Operator            357            242            115
For a major portion of public sector construction related organizations, the
Operator Training Center (OTC) has become the only source of training for
equipment operators. The Departments of Irrigation and Highways, as a matter
of policy, nominate all the casual operators to undergo training at the OTC.
The private sector is also increasingly using the OTC for training purposes.
22.     Development of Trade TestiuR Schemes.  It is intended to establish
facilities at the OTC for National Trade Testing of Operators of the follov-
ing machines; Crawler Dozer, Wheeled Loader, Motor Grader, Hydraulic
Excavator, Scraper, Rope Excavator, Crawler Mobile Cranes, Heavy Haulage
(7-16T), Plant Transporter (40T) and Light Equipment Operator. OTC instruc-
tors have been trained on seven of the machines, except for Rope Excavator,
Mobile Cranes and Light Equipment. In the case of Rope Excavators and Light
Equipment modules, the trained instructors have left OTC for better paying
jobs. In the case of Mobile Crane, the delay in the procurement process has.
prevented further development. However, NAB examiners have been trained on
three modules and the National Trade Tests for these were administered in
the last quarter of 1985. As of December 1985, NAB examiners completed the
balance of courses and the National Trade Tests will be held for about eight
modules by the second half of 1986.
23.     Instructor Training.  As there is a dearth of skilled trainers and
training facilities are virtually non-existent, training of trainers programs
have been developed. The turnover of trainers has been considerable. The
need to develop a trainer training package, was considered to be a primary
task. The package developed is used as a Handbook by all trainers. At the
end of the training of trainers phase, the trainers gain the skill to operate
machines, train and validate the trainees. Further, a special program has
been developed in conjunction with the Training Production Unit to offer
opportunities for trainers to work in an actual working environment.
24.     Development of Supervisor/Management Traininz ProArams. Training
manuals have been developed for eight subjects dealing with the utilization
and management aspects of construction plant and equipment. As there is a
lack of literature and technical information, action is being taken to
develop trainer guidance packages consisting of: (a) lesson plans; (b)
visual aids; and (c) practical exercises where necessary. A few pilot
programs have already been conducted and negotiations are underway for con-
ducting custom designed programs for the staff of Mahaweli Engineering
Authority between September-October 1985.



-66-                       ANNEX 7
Page 10
25.     Revenue Generation Activities and Imnlementation of Construction
Contracts for On-site Trainint (TraininR Production Units).  As the cost of
providing training for equipment operators is very high, thought has been
given to the generation of revenue to offset some of the costs incurred by
CITP. Jobs undertaken by the CITP and revenue generated is outlined below:
TABLE 4 : REVENUE FROM OTC
Custom
Total    Construc-              Consul-   Trade  Designed
Year       Revenue    tion        Hire of    tancy    Test-  Training
Re      Projects   Mechinery  Services   ing   Program   MISC
No of Jobs     -          13           37         3         1       2        8
1983        382,134    381,738      39,650      -        -        -       -
1984      5,732,838  3,758,313  1,928,290   5,750   33,975   3,150   3,359
1985      7,173,097    387,300  6,756,412   3,610        -    15,900      875
TOTAL    13,288,069  4,527,352  8,694,098   9,364   33,975  19,050  14,234
26.     Construction projects and the machine hire are the main activities
-hich provide on-site training opportunities to the trainees and staff of
OTC.  These jobs have provided not only opportunities for refinement of
skills, but also are the performance evaluation component for trainees. This
has provided an ideal opportunity to observe productivity/efficiency, quality
of work and other behavioral aspects in an actual working environment.
On-site training is provided in all cases of construction projects to
operator trainees. Where machine hires are concerned, only jobs of two weeks
or above are considered as suitable for on-site training.
C. SUPERVISORYIMANAGEMENT TRAINING
OBJECTIVE: SCHEDULE II of Development Credit Agreement
1. Training of about 900 in works supervisioa and quality control.
2. Training of about 80 in improved works planning and management.
Supervisory Trainine
27.     In order to achieve the above objectives, the project established
courses at five existing training centers in the following Districts -
Colombo, Kandy, Jaffna and Amparai.  The trainees are provided a total of
sixty weeks of training with the assistance or the NAB. The training begins
with eight weeks of institutional training in the following subjects - Build-
ing Construction, Water Supply and Drainage, Works Management, Quantity
Surveying, Levelling and Setting Out, Engineering Materials, Drawing and
English. At the end of the institutional training period, they are placed at
work sites under the supervision of the NAB. The twelve months of practical



-67-
AINISX 7
Page 11
training is closely supervised and monitored by the NAB officials. On com-
pletion of the on-site training, the trainees are brought back to the centers
for a further period of four weeks (Phase II). During this phase, the same
subjects taught during the Phase I are taught in detail. During the first
period of the institutional training, trainees are paid a monthly allowance
of Rs 600 by CITP. NAB pays an allowance of Rs 300 during the on-site phase
and the CITP supplements NAB allowances with Rs 300 during the 2nd Phase of
the institutional training.
28.     The training targets were achieved by June 1984. A total of 911
trainees completed the instit itional training phase by this date. During the
extended period from June 1984 to December 1985, the total number trained
increased to 1211 for an additional 300. Out of the 1211 trainees who had
completed the institutional training, 164 are undergoing on-site training at
present. 676 trainees have completed the entire training program.
TABLE 5: CONSTRUCTION SITE SUPERVISORS
TARGETS       I PROGRESS ACHIEVEMENTS TO-DATE
----- - -------
TRADE             l           l       l       PhaseI         I
2  I       I NIBM  I         --------        Total
I Appraisall Study I  New    I From the 1 81-85
I          t        I Entrants I Industry I
I----I----------- -I------------
======___________________ I  _ _ _ _ _I  _  _ _ I_  _ _ _ _I  _ _ _ _I _ _ _ _
Civil Supervisors           I  900    I 800  1   924    I  287    1 1211
Housing Officers (Super-  I            I        I          l           I
visors responsible for   I            I        I          I           1  336
the implementation of    l            l       l           l           I
Million Houses Program   I            I        I          l           I
I          I                                 - I  I
29.     Since the Million Houses Program is being implemented by the NHDA
under the Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Construction, 400 super-
visory level officers have been appointed as Housing Officers and made
responsible for the implementation of the program at the village level. They
are attached to the Assistant Government Agents offices which are spread all
over the country. These officers are expected to advise, monitor and super-
vise the home builders under the Million Houses Program. They are also
expected to monitor the skills development training program, implemented by
the CITP, in association with the NEDA. The need to provide these work
supervisors with training in the traditional construction skills and related
matters, were identified as urgent and the CITP launched a program to train
them. Training has started at four existing centers and trainees are
provided training in the following subjects: (a) Rural Technology - local
building materials, walls and foundations constructed by traditional methods,
doors and windows, wall finishes, cooking places, water storage, approach
roads, rooting and electrical wiring for housing installations; and
(b) implementation of Million Houses Program - implementation guidelines,



-68-
ANNEX 7
Page 12
handling foTms, building regulations, law of property, public relations and
office procedure.
30.     Oualitv Control.  While achieving the project targets, necessary
precautions were taken to improve and maintain the quality of training.
Examinations conducted at the end of institutional phase are used as the main
tool for the assessment of quality. These examinations are centrally con-
ducted by the CI7P. A question Bank has been set up at the CITP Read Office
from which paperro are prepared. Both multiple choice and traditional ques-
tions are utilized. However, in order to streamline and improve the quality
of the Question Bank, arrangements have now been made to engage a group of
Educational Specialists through the Department of Examinations. Quality is
also maintained by project officials visiting the training centers at least
once during the training courses in order to assess programs.
31.     During the on-site phase, the NAB closely monitors the trainees.
They are expected to maintain daily diaries where their daily activities have
to be spelled out. Training Officers of the NAB visits them at least once a
month and their diaries are examined. During these visits, the problems
fa,ed by trainees are looked into and necessary remedial action taken. One
shortcoming that was noticed during this period was the lack of opportunities
to practice levelling and setting out. This was further confirmed by the
larger number of failures at the Trade Test in levelling and setting out. In
order to overcome this problem, the project with the assistance of the NAB
and the Survey Department has now worked out a mid-course workshop in this
subject. Trainees are brought in for a two day workshop after six months of
on-site training, where the officers of the NAB, CITP and the Survey Depart-
ment, assist them in improving their skills in levelling and setting out.
This opportunity is also used to make a evaluation of the training program.
32.     In order to bring about uniformity in teaching levels and to maintain
quality, action was taken to develop a set of transparencies summarizing the
lectures in each subject area. All training centers have been provided with
overhead projectors and sets of transparencies, so that uniform teaching
methods are adopted. The development of transparencies on building construc-
tion is being developed as a pilot. A seminar was also conducted in the use
of overhead projectors in the learning and teaching situation for instruc-
tors.
33.     Local Consultants Groun.  The present course curricula was adopted in
1981. Over the last four years, concerns have been raised about the course
content and the training methodology. The project has appointed a group of
local consultants to make recommendations for the revision and updating of
the curriculum.
Upper and Middle ManaRement Trainina
34.     The Sub-Committee of the National Steering Committee on In-Service
Management Training for the Construction Industry, recommended that Construc-
tion Managers be grouped into three categories - (Senior, Middle and Lower)
for training purposes. The Committee also recommended that a Post Graduate
Course in Construction Management be instituted at one of the universities.
Three separate training programs for senior and middle level construction



-69-
Page 13
managers, have been designed and implemented with the assistance of
expatriate and local consultants. These are: (a) short seminars in con-
struction management ranging from 2-3 days for senior managers; and (b) the
Center for Rousing, Planning and Building (CHPB), conducts a full-time train-
ing course for middle-level construction managers lasting eight weeks. The
majority of the participants are public sector middle-level managers. CITP
also began a part-time training program in construction management with the
Association of Contractors. Five courses have been conducted and 134 senior
managers have parti_ipated. Two programs for middle level managers were
conducted for 38 participants. This was an eight week part-time course. The
University of Moratuwa was identified as the suitable venue for an M Sc
course in constrnction management. The course will begin in October 1986.
A link agreement between the University of Loughborough and the University of
Moratuwa has also been established.
TABLE 6 : MIDDLE AND UPPDER MANAGEMENT
I        TARGETS         IPROGRESS AS OF AUGUST 1985
TRADE              I            I  NIBM    I
I Appraisal I  Study   I          Total
I                               I----------- -------
Construction Managers      1  80        1     120   1       134 + 55 -189
Quantity Surveyors         I            I            1                 33
I           .            I
35.     Quantity Survevini.  Quantity surveying was also identified by the
National Steering Committee, as an area where formal training was required.
The services of an expatriate consultant was provided to the University of
Moratuwa to make suitable recommendations for the commencement of an under-
graduate and post-graduate course, and a separate division in building
economics. In addition, it was found that many people are working as Quan-
tity Surveyors without the proper training. The project began a part-time 6
month training program in Quantity Surveying. This course is held at the
CHPB once a week and there are 33 participants.
36.     Training programs in construction management are conducted by the
CHPB and CITP. It was found desirable to review the on-going training
programs in Sri Lanka and outside. Dr. Reid E. Whitlock, a Management Con-
sultant was engaged to undertake a study of the ongoing training program and
to make suitable recommendations for their improvement. The Training Needs
Assessment was completed in July 1985-



-70-
AEX 7
Page 14
D. ON-SITE TRAINING AND TRADE TESTING
IMPLEMENTATION: ARTICLE III of the Develoment Credit Atreement
Section 3.06 (b) The Borrower shall establish a National Training
Committee responsible for the establishment of guidelines with
respect to selection, curricula, testing and other aspects of con-
struction industry training.
Section 3.07 (a) The Borrower shall by June 30, 1982 implement
through the NAB, standardization of selection of trainees, training,
testing, certification and registration of construction workers,
supervisors and specialists.
Section 3.10 The Borrower shall establish a project monitoring and
evaluation system.
37.     Monitoring of On-Site Training.  The on-site training period of basic
craft trainees (artisans) is of 40 weeks duration. During the first 10
weeks, the trainee is funded by the CITP. The staff of the Department of
Buildings viz: Superintending Engineers (SE), District Engineers (DE) and
District Training Officers (DTO) are utilized for the purpose of finding
on-site training places, placement of trainees, and monitoring of the train-
ing. At any given time, over 500 building sites of different sizes are being
utilized for the OST programs. Every trainee who has completed institutional
training has been found an on-site training place. The DTO who works
full-time for CITP is responsible for the trainee from the last date of
institutional training, and monitors his progress throughout the OST Program.
He visits the trainee at least 8 times. Three times during the first 10
weeks and 5 times during the remaining period. He ensures the quality of
training through these monitoring visits, arranging work programs and
exrmines trainee diaries. Every DTO has to submit a monthly circuit program
to the CITP which is approved by the DE, as well as a monthly inspection
report of work undertaken indicating trainee progress.
38.     A copy of the DTO's monthly inspection report is sent to the NAB
which maintains records of trainee activities. The DTO's inspection report
is certified by the DE of the District, while the DE's inspection report of
visits to construction sites and inspection of trainee diaries are certified
by SE. The SE is also required to visit at least one construction site in
his region, interview trainees and make appropriate endorsements on the
trainee diaries. The SE's report has to be certified by the Director Build-
ings. Copies of all such reports are sent to the OST Division of the CITP
before the 5th of the following month.
39.     Registration of Trained Manpower.  A system of registration o' all
trainees have been developed in collaboration with the NAB and the Urban
Development Authority (UDA). All trainees who are registered are issued with
a Registrution Card in the form of a computer print-out with a registration
number. All information on registrants is stored on the UDA computer.
Arrangements have been made with the NAB for the registration of all con-
struction workers. Information for this purpose will be sought through a
press notification.



-71-
ANNEX 7
Page 15
40.     Develovuent of Recruitment Procedures for Trainees.  A system of
centralized recruitment of trainees has been operated by the NAB until
recently. However, the recruitment process has now been decentralized to
make use of the network of DE offices in the country. Accordingly, every DE
of the Buildings Department is now responsible for the maintenance of a
register of trainee applicants in his District. Selection criteria has been
determined centrally and is being strictly applied in the case of trainee
selection. Since the DE has close contacts with the industry within his
District, it is now possible for him to obtain names of candidates, often
sponsored by persons or agencies affiliated to the industry. The program is
working satisfactorily.
41.     Improvements of the recruitment procedure was effected with the
implementation of the "Training for the Million Houses Program". Trainees
completing 5 modules under this scheme are considered to have passed Phase I
of the basic skill training program. Those who have been exposed to the
basic skills are considered more competent and are likely to obtain further
training and remain afftliated to the industry. Arrangements have been made
for all candidates completing Phase I of the skill training program to be
interviewed by the DE. Most are selected for the artisan training program
which is the Second Phase of the skill training program.
42.    ODevelopment of Skill Standards.  The Secretary, Ministry of Local
Government, Housing and Construction appointed a committee headed by the
Chairman of the Association of Construction Contractors, with representatives
of agencies involved in vocational training, to make recommendations in
regard to a system of Standardization; for registration, training, testing
and certification. This is the "Committee on Standardization". Under its
guidance, Skill Standards in the following have been formulated. Artisan
Trades - Masons Grades III, II and I, Carpenters Grades III, II and I; Elec-
trical Wiremen Grades III, II and I; Construction Supervisors; Equipment
Mechanics Grades III, II and I; and Equipment Operators. The approval of
Industry, the Committee on Standardization and the Secretaries Cormittee have
been obtained for these Skill Standards which have been documented and
printed and are available for sale. Trade Tests based on these Skill Stand-
ards are being conducted by the NAB. Skill Standards have been approved by
the Secretaries Committee which recommended its approval to the Cabinet as
National Skill Standards. Accordingly, the legislation empowering the NAB to
implement these National Skill Standards have been enacted.
43.     National Trade Tests.  The CITP guided by the Standardization Commit-
tee has designed and developed trade tests in respect of all artisan trades
Grades III, II and I - Masons, Carpenters, Plumbers, Electrical Wiremen, and
Steel Fixers and Bar Benders. The NAB assisted by the CITP has conducted
National Trade Tests at nine testing centers and 1,467 candidates have been
tested so far. Tests are conducted three times a year during the vacations
of the Technical Colleges which are used as testing centers. Pilot tests for
artisan Grades III, II and I have also been held and National Trade Tests at
these levels have also been announced by the NAB. National Trade Tests for
Construction Supervisors have also been held and 135 candidates have been
tested so far. National Trade Tests for Equipment Mechanics Grade III and
Equipment Operators were conducted September/October 1985.  The NAB has also



-72-
ANNEX 7
Page 16
conducted National Trade Tests for approximately 2000 artisan in August 1985
at nine testing centers. Legislation empowering the NAB to implement the
National Trade Testing Program has already been enacted.
44.     A building complex which is now under construction and being financed
totally by GOSI would be fully equipped to conduct Grades I and II Trade
Tests for artisans. It would also facilitate the conducting of Grade III
artisan tests for approximately 3000 candidates per year. This complex would
be manned by ICTAD, and would make available all its facilities to the NAB
for the implementation of the National Trade Testing Program.
45.     Two workshops were conducted at a testing center to train examiners
of the Ministry of Higher Education and the NAB, in methods of assessment
and procedures relating to Trade Tests. Five inspectors of the NAB were also
trained at the OTC in preparation for the Equipment Operator Trade Tests.
Further training programs are envisaged.
46.     Certification.  Certificates prepared and printed on the format
approved by the Committee on Standardization and the Secretaries Committee
were distributed to successful candidates at the National Trade Tests by the
Deputy Ministry of Youth Affairs and Employment at a ceremony organized by
the NAB. All information relating to National Trade Tests is stored on the
UDA computer on behalf of the NAB. The statute empowering the NAB to issue
National certificates of competence has been provided.
47.     Tracer Studies.  The first Tracer Survey was initiated in early 1983
and was undertaken by the Statistical Unit of the M/LGH&C. It was designed
to ascertain the period over which trainees were affiliated to the construc-
tion industry after they completed training. The study also looked at
enployment patterns in the industry. A sample of 500 trainees were selected.
The survey showed that 75% of those interviewed remained affiliated to the
industry. A second tracer survey was carried out in February 1984. The
sample selected was 900 candidates or 10% of the total number trained. The
survey showed that 73% of those trained remained affiliated to the industry.
The third tracer survey was undertaken by the Department of Census and
Statistics in April/May 1985. The findings show that 85% of those inter-
viewed remain affiliated to the construction industry. The sample selected
was 1049 persons which is approximately 1OX of the total number trained by
the project.
48.     Traininx Needs Assessment.  Since the precise number of persons to
be trained under the Credit as appraised was in excess of demand, an inde-
pendent assessment of training needs in the construction industry was neces-
sary. Accordingly, the NIBM was commissioned to undertake this survey in
March 1983. On the basis of the result, the training targets of the project
were adjusted with the approval of the IDA. It was also decided that the
assessment of training needs of the construction industry should be updated
at least every 3 years.  Accordingly, the NIBM has been commissioned to
undertake a new assessment of training needs. The report was completed in
December 1985.



-73-
ANNEX 7
Page 17
S. CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT
OBJECTIVE : SCREDULE II OF Develo ment Credit Agreement
1. Improve methods and procedures related to the construction
industry.
IMPLEMENTATION : ARTICLE III of the Development Credit Aereement
Section 3.07 (b) implement standardization satisfactory to the
Association of construction industry specifications, procedures and
documentation.
National Steering Committee
49.     In order to undertake the necessary studies required to meet the
project objective, the Government appointed a National Steering Comuittee
composed of members from the public and private sector. The studies were
organized around five sub-Committees dealing with: (a) re-establishing tender
procedures, grading systems for contractors, contracts and specifications;
(b) middle and upper management training; (c) development of a Contractors
Association; (d) relationship between design economics and the construction
industry; and (e) strategic planning for the construction industry.
50.     The Committees have completed their assignments and have developed:
(a) general zonditions of contract;
(b) tender procedures, pre-qualifying procedures, tender documentation
and tender evaluation procedures;
(c) technical specifications covering 11 civil engineering fields;
(d) recommended proposals for middle and upper management training
including Quantity Surveying training;
(e) planning and building regulations;
(f) promoted the establishment of an Association of Construction Contrac-
tors;
(g) made recommendations for Economics and Design and Construction
Methods; and
(h) formulated recommendations on Strategic Planning for the construction
industry.
51.     The Sri Lanka Association of Construction Contractors, on the initia-
tive of the Construction Industry Training Project, was inaugarated on 16th
December 1981. Monthly Committee meetings have been held and some of the
major activities of the Association 'nave been as follows: In August 1983, a
Seminar for Construction Contractors was jointly organized with the CITP. A



-74-
ANNEX 7
Page 18
Symposium on the "Role of the Contractor in the National Economy" was jointly
organized with the MILGE&C in April 1984. The symposium was inaugarated by
the Hon Prime Me.nister. Representatives of IFAWPCA from Australia, Hong
Kong, Japan, Philipines, Thailand, Malaysia and Taiwan participated at the
symposium.
52.     The Association was admitted a regular member of IFAWPCA in May 1984.
Three delegates from the Association attended the 20th Convention of IFAWPCA
in Manila, Philipines. The Association through the British Council, obtained
the services of Mr. Oliver Jayne, retired Deputy Director of the National
Federation of Building Trades Employer (UK) on a short asoignment to advise
the Association on its growth. Mr. Jayne interviewed Government and priwate
organizations and submitted a report. This report is under study by the
Association.
EXPENDITURES AND DISBURSEMENTS
53. (1) Local Finances:
1.1 Local expenses of the Project up to end of November 1985,
amounted to Rs. 204,640,576. This expenditure was distributed under
different training divisions as follows:
Expenditure
Area          Expenditure  Expenditure  Expenditure  Expenditure   1985 upto  Total
1981        1982        1983        1984       November
____________ _   _____ -  ___  ____________----__-_--1-------._
1. General Administration  869,409    2.888,921    4,852,285    7,448,045   10,647,680    26,706,340
2. Artisan Training         932,095   27,229,275   29,334,862   25,774,453   14,464,636    97,735,321
3. Supervisory & Management    409,214  963,212    1,181,170    864,807    1,276,621    4,695,024
Training
4. Operator & Nechanic    2.071,988   20,117,970   10,238,702   12,076,634   10,811,780    55,317,074
Training
5. On-Site Training          -        1,180,940    4,392,225    4,388,288    4,977,378    14,938,831
6. Incountry Training        -          232,491    1,250,000    1,204,053    1,382,537  4,069,381
7. Training in Building
Maintenance               -           -           -           -          39,525       39,525
8. lighways Training         -           -           _            _       1,139,380    1,139,380
TOTAL                  4.282,706   52,612,809   51,249,244   51,738,280   44.739,537   204,640,576
ludget Allocation      4,600,000   52,600.000   51,300.000   65,900.000   77,000,000
Revised Allocation        -            -           -       52,800,000      -
Expenditure/Allocation    93S        1001         99_         981         581
_ _        _      --    _ ------- _--- -                  -- -I_________ __



-75-
Page 19
1.2 Local expenses distributed under various categories of expendi-
ture, are as follovs:
Type of zxpenditure         1981          1952           1983          1984          1985         T8TAL
1. Salaries A Allowances -       22,267     1,011,081      1,506,157     3,230.626     3,633,669       9,403,800
CITP Administrative Staf                   t
2. Administration and           497,292     2,125,927      5,615,539     5,068.973     5,045,977      18,353.708
Operational Expenses
3. Furniture, Fizture,        1,273,902     1,502,530        808,518       878,388        514,146      4,977,484
Vehicles, 6quipment -
Administration
4. Allowances to Teaching       353,537     4,924,881      7,259,890     1,501,815     7,609,751      21,649,874
Staff
5. Allowances to Trainees -    198,982      2,502.808     4,339,111      3,537,345     3,159,162      13,737,408
Institutional
6. Allowance. to Trainees -       -           101,603      2,468,701       330,563     1,475,150       4,376,017
Practical
7. Training Materials         1,439,712    20,011,126    18,838,866    24,677,726    15.160,302       80,145.732
Including Toole, Fuel
Lubricants, Manuals.
Plant Kire
8. Expenses On Trade              _      -                    -            233,469        61,498         294,967
Testing
9. Machinery * Equipments        59,980    16,441,405     5,920,177      6,549,680     4.431,990      33,403,232
10. Miscellaneous Training        64,199       751,635       688,407        426,917       692,675       2,623,833
Expensee at Centers
11. Galulaa 011 Training         51,275       797,640       294,694        944,884       139,534      2.228,027
Center-Civil Constructions
and Improvements
12. Civil Construction and      304,760      1,717,620     1,170,178        400,000     2,415,734      6,008,292
Improveoents - Other
Training Centers
13. Staff Training                16,500       109,721       329,151      1,189,965        78.750      1,724,087
14. Seminars r Surveys-              300       614,832     2.009,855      2,767,929       321,199      5,714,115
RAU, 3111, etc.
TOTAL                      4,282,706    52,612,809    51,249,244    51,738,280    44,739,537    204,640.576



-76-                         ANNEX 7
Page 20
54.     Total revenue invoiced to end of October 1985 was as follows:
(a) Revenue from Construction Projects             RS  8,986,459
(b) Sale of produce of trainees                    Rs    525,095
(door frames, viudows, etc)
(c) Training Fees                                  Re    190,040
(d) Trade Testing Fees                             RS     99,225
(e) Sales of Furniture                             Re    205,915
(f) Sundries                                       Rs     69.943
TOTAL                                 Rs 10,076,677
IDA Financinz/Disbursements
55.     Upto end of December 1985, 162 Withdrawal Applications have been sent
to the IDA amounting to SDRs 7.8 million approximately.
The position of the Credit as of the end of December 1985, is as follows:
Amount
Required for   Amount
Category of        Amount  Amount  the Balance   Required
Expanditure       Provided  Spent  Period of 1985 for 1986  Balance
Equipment               2.250    2.372       0.105       0.110    (0.337)
Training Materials      3.540    1.353       0.336       0.754      1.097
Consyultancy Services  4.340    3.943        0.451       0.908    (0.962)
Refunding of PPF        0.240    0.132         -           -        0.108
Unallocated             0.530      -           -          _         0.530
TOTAL SDRs         10.900    7.800      0.892        1.772     0.436
Statement of Accounts
56.     Audited Accounts and the Auditor General Reports for 1981-1983 have
been received by IDA. The Audited Accounts for 1984 vill be forwarded by
March 1986.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
SRI IANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
UNIT COSTS : EXPENDITURES AND REVENUE
Table 1   Unit Costs of Training
Total       Total
Expenditures  Trainee   Average
Category of Training                1981-1985    Output   Unit Cost
(RS. M)     1981-85    (Rs.)
Skill Training (Institutional and On-Site)
Masons, Carpenters, Plumbers, Electric.ans,       117.63      18,000     6,535
Bar Bender/Steel Fixer, Maintenance Operative
Mechanic/Operator Training
Heavy and Light Mechanics, Heavy and Light         55.32       1,751    31,593
Equipment Operators
Supervisorv/Manaaement Trainina
Site Supervisors, Middle and Upper Level          31.66        1,769    17,900
Managers, Quantity Surveyors
Table 2 : Breakdovn of Unit Costs
Stivends                                  Salaries
Category        per       Cost per                         and other
of Training     Course    Tool Kit  Materials  Equipment  Overheads  Total
Carpentery          2,350      450       3,200        -           450    6,450
Masonry             2,350      500       3,500         -          450    6,800
Plumber             2,350      500       3,000         -          450    6,500
Electrician         2,350      400       2,800        -           450    6,300
Bar Bender/
Steel Fixer        2,350      300       3,000        -           450    6,100
Light Mechanic      3,200       -        1,500        -         2,000    6,700
Reavy Mechanic      3,840       -        2,000         -        3,000    8,840
Light Equipment
Operator           1,920       -        4,000     10,000/a   1,000   16,920
Heavy Equipment
Operator           1,920       -        6,000     26,000La    1,000   34,920
Site Supervisor     3,600       -          300        -        14,000   17,900
Total Expenditures      ---                 Rs. Million  -
1981-1985        18.11    10.10       70.15      33.40       72.88   204.64
J  Equipment purchased exclusively for use of the Heavy Equipment Operator
Training Center (BEOTC).



-78-                         ANNEX 8
Page 2
Table 3 : Breakdown of Stipends Financed by CITP
Category        Course Duration (weeks)         Stipendt  per Week
of Training     Institutional   On-Site    Institutional  On-Site   Total
- ------(Rs) --------     (Rs)
Skill Training        10        10(of 40)/a        85          150      2,350
Mechanic-Heavy        24          (12)/b          160           -       3,840
Light       20           (12)7T          160          -        3,200
Operators              6            6             160          160      1,920
Supervisory         8+4/c         (48)/d          300           -       3,600
/a  During the remaining 30 weeks of on-site training, the trainee's stipend
is paid by contractor.
/b  On-the-job training/no stipend paid.
7&  Institutional program is divided into two phases, i.e., 8 weeks at the
beginning and 4 weeks after 'on-site' period.
/d  All stipends daring 'on-site' period are borne by NAB.
Table 4 : Revenue Generated by CITP (1983-85) and Projections to 1995
Average           Total 1995
Total       Total    Annual         Projected Revenues
Category                            Earned       Earned   Earnings
of Training       Activity          1983-85      1985      1983-85   Scenario I/a Scenario II/b
Skill Trg.      Sale of books,
window, frames,    800,953    381,194    266,984        2,402,856    3,430,746
furniture, etc.
Operator Trg.   Construction      8,986,459  6,991,652  2,995,486    26,959,374   62,924,868
projects
manageent Trg.  Fees                190,040    148,000       63,380       570,420    1,332,000
Trade Testing   Fees                 99,225      58,950      3,075        297,675       530,550
TOTAL             10,076,677  7,579,796  3,358,925    30,230,325   68,218,164
Contingencies (27%)       8,162,187   18,418,904
Total          38,392,512   86,638,068
Estimated Average Annual Revenue        4,265,834    9,626,340
/a Assumes 1983-85 average over 9 years.
7T Assumes 1985 actual as basis over 9 years.



-79-                       ANNEX 8
Page 3
Table 5 : Wages of CITP Trainees and Unit Costs
Months of
Average     Labor Re-
Average     Daily        quired to
Monthly/    Wage of      Cover Unit
Category           Unit       Type of          Daily        Unskilled   Costs of
of Training        Costs      Employment       Earnings    Workers      Training
(Rs)                         (Rs)         (Rs)
Carpenter          6,450    Permanent           970/month                 6.6
Self-employment      51/day                   6.2
Casual               36/day      15-25        7.5
Mason              6,800    Permanent          1052/month                 6.5
Self-employment      56/day                   5.0
Casual               44/day      15-30        6.4
Plumber            6,500    Permanent          1094/month                 6.0
Self-employment        _
Casual               37/day      20-30        7.3
Electrician        6,300    Permanent          1500/month                 4.2
Self-employment      47/day                   6.0
Casual               50/day      20-30        5.25
Bar Bending/       6,100    Permanent          1288/month                 4.7
Steel Fixing
8,840    Permanent          1500/month                 6.0
Heavy Mechanic   31,500    Permanent           1500/mouth                21.0
Operator
Site Supevisor   17,900    Permanent           1368/month                19.0
All Trades                  Permanent          1135/month
Self-employment      51/day
Casual               40/day
Source:  Sri Lanka Construction Industry Training Project, Tracer Study
March 1985, Department of Census and Statistics, Colombo, October
1985.



-80-                         ANNEX 8
Page 4
Table 6 : Recurrent Expenditures and Revenue
1.  Annual Recurrent Expenditures 1995        Rs. Millions
(a) Stipends                                  8.15
(b) Salaries                                  9.45
(c) Consumable Materials                     35.09
(d) Trainee Tool Kits                         6.25
(e) Operation and Maintenance                 4.63
(f) Total                                    63.58
2.  Estimated Annual Revenue 1995                  9.63
3.  Ratios
(a) Revenues as Z of Stipends                        118.2%
(b) Revenues as Z of Salaries                        101.9%
(c) Revenues as Z of Consumable Materials             27.4%
(d) Revenues as Z of Trainee Tool Kits               154.08Z
(e) Revenues as Z of Operation and Maintenance    208.0%
(f) Revenues as Z of Total Expenditures               15.15Z
4.  Total Recurrent Expenditures 1986-1995             Rs. Millions
(a) Stipends                                          62.43
(b) Salaries                                          73.05
(c) Consumable Materials                             235.15
(d) Trainee Tool Kits                                 42.44
(e) Operation and Maintenance                         24.78
(f) Total                                            437.85
5.  Estimated Total Revenue 1986-1995                     86.64
6.  Ratios
(a) Revenues as Z of Stipends                        138.8%
(b) Revenues as Z of Salaries                        118.6%
(c) Revenues as X of Consumable Materials             36.8Z
(d) Revenues as X of Trainee Tool Kits               204.142
(e) Revenues as X of Operation and Maintenance    349.5Z
(f) Revenues as % of Total Expenditures               19.782



-81-
ANNEX 9
Page 1
SRI LANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
STUDY ON THE FINANCING OF ICTAD SUPPORTED TRAINING PROGRAMS
A. Introduction
1.      At present, the major share of the cost of training of ICTAD (CITP)
supported programs are covered by direct budget allocations from the govern-
ment. This is in keeping with the Government's policy of providing "free"
education and training. Since ICTAD programs will benefit from increased
investments, the government intends to increase the share of training costs
that can be borne by sources of revenue other that GOSL budget allocations.
Since different systems of fees and subsidies exist between the public and
private sector and among wholly publicly financed programs, the proposed
study would provide the necessary analysis and information on the existing
level of fees charged by different agencies for supervisory and management
ccurses, the impact of these charges on beneficiaries, trainee enrollment and
outpdt, as well as develop a plan for the introduction of a revenue gener-
ation system to cover a major share of the costs of ICTAD supported training
programs.
B. Rationale
2.      General.  In Sri Lanka, there are pressures for the Government to
expand and improve education and training services. The country, however,
faces a conflict between meeting long-term social goals and manpower require-
uents, and short-term budgetary and economic constraints.  What this points
to, is the need to review existing education and training policies, and to
develop new ones in order to improve the financing of education and training.
This is necessary to reflect priorities in the allocation of resource3, and,
as important, to reduce the pressure and reliance on the public budget for
the development of education and training.
3.      ICTAD Training.  The important issues which concern training are:
(i) how to achieve an expansion of training capacity to meet priority man-
power needs; (ii) how to mobilize additional resources for, and reduce unit
costs of, training in order to assure the long-term financial viability of
the training system; and (iii) how to mAnimize the e'ficiency and equity of
resource allocation from public and private sources for different training
programs. These issues require that the Government develop a clear policy on
the financing of training in the construction industry, including all aspects
of budget implications and the role of the private sector, cost sharing,
revenue generation and subsidization of the training system.



-82-                     ANNEX 9
Page 2
C. Scope of the Study
4.      The Study should:
(a) investigate the costs of financing ICTAD training programs, paying
particular attention to:
i. capital and recurrent costs/expenditures,
ii. the costs that are borne by different financing agents in the
public and private sectors, including the beneficiary;
(b) evaluate recent policies, current methods of financing ICTAD sup-
ported training programs;
(c) address the impact of reduced subsidies (stipends/tool kits) 1/; in
particular whether:
i. a reduction in subsidies from current levels would have a large
negative impact on enrollments and employability, or whether the
price elasticity of demand for training is sufficiently low to
offset this. The study would be expected to establish the minimum
level below which subsidies (stipends) should not be reduced
before it would impact on enrollment,
ii. discuss whether a reduction in subsidies could have an adverse
effect on the distribution of training opportunities and whether
such action would benefit the higher income groups dispropor-
tionately, and
iii. assess whether a reduction in public subsidies to ICTAD training
programs could result in a deterioration of the quality of train-
ing, or if private funds would substitute for public funds, leave
per pupil expenditures on training inputs unchanged;
(d) propose and review alternative sources and measures of financing
ICTAD training programs, in particular measures that would assure
adequate financing of these programs in the future. For each of the
suggested measures, examine:
i. the proposed measure and how it would work;
ii. the yield in the form of additional funds each year from
1987-1994;
iii. projection and comparison with the costs of training each year
from 1987-1994;
1/ A exhaustive treatment of the impact of reduced subsidies will require
that a comparative private and social cost-benefit analysis of vocational
training institutions be carried out.



-83-                        ANNEX 9
Page 3
iv. the impact on the quality of Learning and any other impact it may
have on the users;
v. the implications for equity among different groups;
vi. the organizational implications of implementation (i.e., role of
ICTAD, NAB, Ministries).
D. Duration of the Study
9 man-ronths.
E. Form of Final Product
5.      A Technical Report (analysis, tables, annexes, etc.), covering all
that is outlined in Section 2 above. ICTAD '-nuld be responsible for managing
the Study, through the selection, hiring and supervision of local consult-
ants. A firm rather than individuals is preferred.



-84-                         ANNEX 9
Page 4
STUDY ON CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY SECTOR
Ceneral
1.      Over 90X of firms in building materials production and construction
activities in Sri Lanka are small. Poor quality and shortages of building
materials retard construction work noticeably. Inefficient organization of
work and poor performance at sites by the construction firms contribute to
the low productivity in the sector. Therefore, improving the managerial
capability and production capacity of these enterprises is central to any
strategy to enhance productivity in and output of the construction industry.
This task is urgent in view of the Government's policy to assign a greater
role to private sector firms, as well as the need to build up rapidly
implementing capacity for new programs such as the maintenance of exi ting
stock of assets, highway maintenance and rehabilitation, etc. These are
strong linkages between the building materials production enterprises and
construction firms in various phases of their activities, and in view of this
it is proposed to look at their development in an integrated manner.
Scope of Work
2.      The consultant is required to carry out the following tasks:
(a) review in general terms the present status of the demand (both public
and private) in the different field of construction in Sri Lanka with
an indication of how this demand is satisfied by national and foreign
contractors and suppliers;
(b) review in more detail the present status of the national construction
industry (force account, private contractors, permanent subsidiaries
of foreign companies, material suppliers) with reference to the
organization of the construction works, the institutional arrange-
ments for procurement and monitoring, utilization of manpower,
materials, and plant resources;
(c) assess the number, nature, size, technical and managerial capability
of private construction firms (assets, turnover, share of works, type
of works, methods and equipment performance on sites) with regard to
difficulties in availability of works, financial issues, procurement
problems, administrative constraints;
(d) within the framework of building material utilization, evaluate the
national production, the contribution of big, medium size and small
production units, plant, equipment, production methods; assess to
the extent possible the needs for change in technology, manpower
training requirements, demand for materials plant and equipment;



-85-                         ANNEX 9
Page 5
(e) recommend measures to help the construction contractors and suppliers
to meet the national needs at the highest level possible in the most
cost effective way. Such recommendations may include: structure of
enterprise; procurement of works and orders; rationalization and
simplification of contract regulations; development of specialist
sub-contractors; change in technology; training of workers and
managers; and implementation of financial measures to facilitate the
construction sector activity; and
(f) this study will be performed in cooperation with the Construction
Industry Unit of CITP and the ACCSL keeping in mind the main features
of the proposed ICTAD.
Timing
3.      The time schedule for completion of this project is as follows:
Start of Project:                   January 1, 1986
Progress Report:                    April 1, 1986
Submission of Final Report
(Parts 1/2):                     May 30, 1986/June 30, 1986



-86-                        ANNEX 10
Page 1
SRI LANRA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
ICTAD HEADQUATERS BUILDING
A. The Present Situation
1.      Condition of Existint Building.  The CITP (TCTAD) offices are located
in a rented building with a limited number of rooms, forcing staff members to
operate from overcrowded offices. For example, the Director shares his
office with a secretary and typist, and engineers share the same offices with
accountants. A small room is used for conferences but it accommodates only
twelve seats. Further, meetings cannot always be held when scheduled,
because of the limitations of the conference room. There is therefore an
urgent requirement for additional offices, training and meeting spaces,
sanitation facilities, and storage rooms.
2.      Iu addition to space limitations, the physical aspects of the rented
building are unacceptable.  The construction is old and requires frequent
repairs. The electro-mechanical installations and fixtures are outdated and
require major renovations. The British Consulate owns the building and has
scheduled it for demolition. Parking space is also inadequate. It is a
small area and does not provide proper access and exist. Even if the space
and pbysical problems could be overlooked, the present building is too small
and old to allow any building extension.
3.      IDA supervision missions have alerted management of the need for
office space to accommodate CIP staff. The design and the preparation of
drawings for a new Headquarter :3uilding have been financed under Credit
1130-CE. Prequalification of c3ntractors has been completed. IDA gave its
'No Objection" to the procedures followed as well as the list of prequalified
contractors.
B. The New Headquarter Building
4.      Desisn Preparation.  The designs have been conceived, prepared and
developed to their final stages. All architectural, structural, details and
electro-mechanical dravings have been completed. Revisions, suggested by the
appraisal mission have been completed. Final drawings and bid documents have
been reviewed and approved by IDA prior to bidding.
5.      The accomodation schedule shows in detail, the required spaces and
their related areas. The major functions are distributed as follows:



-87-
ANNEX 10
Page 2
administration, exhibition area, office for the training divisions, con-
ference, accountants, library, audiovisual and seminar rooms, auditorium and
other facilities such as canteen/kitchen, generator and transformer room.
The net area of construction is 2,479 sq.m., including 331 sq.m. for the
Tover Hall Foundation. The total construction area is 3,596 sq.u. including
walls and circulation, of which about 3,150 sq.m. is for the immediate needs
of ICTAD.
C. Renting Versus New Construction
Case I   Unit Cost Comparison
6.      Unit Cost of Nev Construction.  The total cost of construction for
the new building of 3,596 sq.m. including site development is Rs. 20,099,453
(US$ 759,000) or US$ 211/sq.m.
7.      Rental Unit Rates:
Ca) With Air-ConditioninR. The current rental rate for office space in
Colombo with A/C is RS. 26 per sq.ft. per month US$ 127/sq.m. per
year;
(b) Without A/C. Since only 10% of the proposed new building would be
air-conditioned, a better comparison should be non air-conditioned
office rental space. If it is assumed that 25% of the rental rate
covers airconditioning, the above rental rate (US$ 127/sq.m./year)
shold be adjusted to US$ 95 per sq.m. per year.
8.      The units for comparison should therefore be:  (a) New Construction
US$ 211/sq.m.; (b) Rental Rate with A/C = USS 127/sq.m./year; and (c) Rental
Rate without A/C - US$ 95/sq.m./year
9.      Cost Analvsis:  The cost of new construction would be (Area - 3,596
sq.m.) X (Unit Construction Cost - US$ 211/sq.m.) - US$ 759,000. The yearly
rent value would be (Area - 3,596 sq.m.) X (Rental Unit Cost - US$
95/sq.m./year) - US$ 342,000.
10.     The following ratios illustrate the analysis further:
Unit Rental Rate            US$  95
_____-   .----   =  45%
Unit Cost of Construction        US$ 211
Total Construction Cost       US$ 759,000
- 2.22
One Year Rent           US$ 342,000
Looked at in another way, this means that in one year the cost of rent would
equal about 45Z of total construction costs or the total cost of constructing
a new building would be consumed in just over two years of rental fees.



-88-
ANNEX 10
Page 3
11.     Although the above figures indicate the advantage of the investment
in new construction, several other factors are relevent and should also be
included in any calculation. These factors are as follows:
(a) With new construction, there is likely to be (i) minimal price
increase impact since the building is expected to be constructed in a
12 to 18 month period; (ii) only 2% per year of the total cost of the
building starting one year after completion of building would have to
be devoted to maintenance; (iii) assuming that the yearly interest
rate is 10X, the effect on ratios would still be reasonable as there
will change from 45% to 41% and from 2.22 to 2.44. This means that
the investment in new construction would still have a greater return
as opposed to investment in rental; and (iv) the site was purchased
at a low cost because both the seller and the buyer are under the
same Ministry. The cost of the site is Rs. 6,000,000 or US$ 0.23
million. If the amount is assumed redeemable 10 years, it would not
affect the decision. The cost of the site would only increase the
basic ratio from 2.22 to 2.5. This means that construction costs,
plus the amortisation of cost of site and the interest on the capital
invested would be recovered in two and a half years.
(b) Rental: When considering rents, the following factors must also be
considered. These are Ci) rent increases of 5Z to 10% every 3 to
5 years; (ii) there is no guarantee that available space would allow
the flexibility desired or comparable in new construction; (iii)
future expansion would not be possible; (iv) there are no readily
availablr offices for rent at present in Colombo; and (v) the
proposed location of the ICTAD building is advantageous and cannot be
achieved in rented facilities.
Case II : Construction plus Maintenance versus Rents
12. (a) Cost of the New Construction                        US$   759,000
(b) Cost of Maintenance over 50 years                   USS 1,502,820
(c) Calculation of maintenance:
Maintenance rate 2% for the first 10 years. First year maintenance
is - 0 as it is covered by builder's maintenance guarantee.
i. Cost of maintenance during the first 10 years   = US$ 136,620
ii. Cost of maintenance during the second 10 years
@ the rate of 3%                                - US$ 227,700
iii. Cost of maintenance during the third 10 years
@ the rate of 4%                                = US$ 303,600
iv. Cost of maintenance during the fourth 10 years
e the rate of 5%                                - US$ 379,500
v. Cost of maintenance during the fifth 10 years  - US$ 455,400
(d) Total Capital Investment:
Constructior plus Maintenance                    - US$ 2,261,820



-89-                      ANNEX 10
Page 4
(e) Rent Increase with Interest on capital excluded: Assuming the
yearly rent is the same throughout the amortization of the
building (fifty years), the rent vould then be:
50 years X 342,000 US$/year - US$ 17,100,000
(f) Conclusion: Ratio of rent to cost of construction plus cost of
Maintenance over fifty years:
Ratio - 17.100.000 - 7.6 times the cost of construction
2,261,220
Case III : Construction plus maintenance vs rents includinu increases and
interest on capital investment
13. (a) Rent assuming a 22 annual increase over fifty years - US$29,031,170
(b) Cat rtal Investment in Construction:
i. Construction Costs                         - US$   759,000
ii. Interest, 5% compounded during 50 years   = US$ 7,944,745
iii. Maintenance Calculated for 50 years         - US$ 1.502.820
Total investment in Construction
including interests and maintenance        - USS 9,206,565
(c) Conclusion:
Investment in Construction  =   9.206.565 = 32Z
Investment in Rent              29,031,170
- The capital gain on the value of the after 50 years has not been
included in this analysis.
It is definitely more beneficial to built than to rent as
demonstrated.
14.     Summary of the Advantases of the New Construction.  The advantages
of the constructing a new headquarters building for ICTAD are: (a) spacious
site acquisition at low cost; (b) proper planning of spaces according to
requirements and needs of ICTAD; (c) flexibility of planning; (d) provision
for future expansion; (e) provision of supporting facilities, i.e., parking
generator and transformer; and (f) return on capital investment - the cost of
construction pius interest on the capital invested as well as the total cost
of site are recovered in less than three years.



-90-
ANNEX 10
Page 5
SRI LANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CIVIL WORKS PROGRAM
square
Component/Institution          Administ- Work- Stores  Staff   Board-  meter
and                    ration    shop           Housing ing     Gross
Location                                                          Area
Institutional Development
ICTAD Headquarters                1                                     3,596
(Colombo)
Craft Training
Ampara Technical College                    1      1                       408
Anuradhapura Technical College             -       1                       110
Homagama Technical College                 -       1                       110
Badulla Technical College                   1      1                       408
Kandy Technical College                     1      1                       408
Kurunegala Technical College               -       1                       110
.atara Technical College                   -       1                       110
Ra!malana Technical College                -       1                       110
Balapitiya Technical College               -       1                       110
Mattakuliya Technical College              -       1                       110
Naradana Technical College                  1      -                       298
Calle Technical College                     1      -                       298
Mechanic/Operator Training
Pelliyagoda                                 1                            1,600
Heavy Equipment Operator Center                           87 /a  48     2,782
(Galkulama)
TOTAL                             1        6      10      87 /a  48    10,568
/a Includes Housing for 5 senior staff, 65 senior and junior training
staff plus accommodation for 16 support staff.



-91-
ll
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAIlING PROJECT
ADDITIONAL STAll AND SCEDLULE 01 APPOIUTHUT
I  I    I    I hAnnual I       Schefu If  wiImnt            _ I
I                              I    IGradel Salary I   II   I   I    I                         I
|  Component/Type of Staff     I No. [(BPS)  (Rs.)  119871198811989119901199111"21199311994119951
I                              I     I     I        I   1    1*   1    1    1    I    I    I 
A.  ICTAD                      I     I     I       I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I   I
IResources Nanaue ent DivisionI    I    I           1   I   |   |   |   I   I   |   |   I
IDirector                      111  2 1 55,785111    I   1   I   1   1   1   1   |
Registrar                   111   5 1 37,1041  1 1              I 1     1    1     I 1     1
1Accontant                     111  5 1 37,1041  1 1              I   I   I 1       1    1      1
ITrainint Division             I    |    |
| Director                         1  1 2  1 55,785 I 1 1   I   I   I   I   ;             I   |
I Trg. & Evaluation Officer     I 1  I 3  1 53,064 1 1   1        1   1   I   I   I   1   |
I Instructional Nethods Officerl  1  1 4  1 45,276 1 1 I   I   I   1   1   1   1   I   1
I Course/Program Coordinator   111  4 145,276 111            1   1   1
I Industrv Develovment Division I    I    1        I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I
IDirector                      111  2 155,785111    1   1   1   1   1   1   1   |
IDeputy Director               111  3 153,064111    I   1   !   I   I   I   I   I
|Assistant Director            12 14 145,276 1111                 I 1     1    1    1    1    1
IProject Officers              16 15  137,1041  3131    I 3                 I   I   I   I
I  B,AA.GUiENT TJAINING        I    |    i          |   I   I   |   I   I   I   |
ICourse Coordinator            14 14 145.27612121    1   1   1   1   I   I   I
IAssistant Director               2 14 145,27611111    1   I   1   I   1   1   1
ITraining Officer              ;    1 4  1 45,276 1       I l     I   I   I   I   I   I   I
I Training Engineer            I 2  I 4  145,276   11 1           I 1       I 1   1   1        I
IC. SKITLL TRAIING
IPrincipals                    1251        ia  /   I
I nstructors                   11401       I        I   1   1   1   1   I   I   1   1   1
IDistrict Nanagers             1241        1        1   1   1   1   |   I   I   I   I I
I Village Level Trainers       150001      1       1   1   1   1   1   1   1   1
Rousing Officers            1 2911      1        1   I   1   1   1   I   I   1   I   1
Iluspector of Works            1641        1       I   1   I   I   1   I   I   I   I   1
ID. ON-ITEI/SKILL TESTING      |    I    I         I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I   I
I Superintendant Engineers     1101        1       I   1   1   1   1   I   1
IDistrict Engineers            1211        1       1   1   1   1   I   1   1   1   1   |
IDistrict Training Officers   1211         1       1   1   1   1   1   |   I   |
f                              I     I     I       I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I   ;    I
l    |    | ~17   9            _                      l
a/ See attachment which explains how additional salaries for skill and on-site training are
calculated.



-92-
ANNEX 11
Attachment
SRI LANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
i
COSTING OF ADDITIONAL STAFF SALARIES FOR TRAINING COURSES
1.      All craft level instructors are permanently employed by the Ministry
of Higher Education (MORE). The cost of their additional salaries is calcu-
lated on the basis of the excess hours worked over their normal hours of
pupil contact vhich is defined in their employment contracts. In the educa-
tional system in Sri Lanka (and in Western European countries), teachers and
instructors are employed and their salaries calculated for an entire year.
There is a condition of service, however, vhich is agreed between the
employer (Government) and the teacher's unions, and this permits only a
certain number of "contact" hours per week with pupils. In Sri Lanka, 18
hours is the maximum allowed for instructors, and it decreases for the more
senior members of staff. In addition to the constraint of "contact" hours,
the conditions of service also specify the number of weeks to be worked per
year, and specifically excludes work on weekends.
2.      It has been possible to overcome these contract limitations by paying
instructors for the additional hours of teaching they undertake. Training
programs of the CITP (CR. 1130-CE) have been implemented by using this
arrangement. Most of the instructors, principals, and senior staff are paid
by the CITP for the additional hours of 'student contact" above 18 hours per
week, weekend courses, and teaching during normal vacation periods. It is
expected that this method of payment will continue under the project. Costs
have therefore been calculated on the basis of the number of trainees to be
covered during project period and the number of excess hours over the maximum
allowed for permanent instructors of MORE.
3.      The rates of payment for different categories of instructor staff are
as follows:
Grade                   Rate                Hours Available
(a) Principal             Rs 50 per day       08.00 - 17.00
(b) Senior Instructor     Rs 30 per hour      For hours in excess of normal
(c) Instructor            Rs 25 per hour      For hours in excess of normal
Principals are paid for all day courses which are undertaken in the college
under their jurisdiction.  For district level training there are limits of
payment, e.g. a Principal is limited to a maximum payment for 10 days.
4.      Allowances paid for skills training under the Million Houses Programs
are different and are as follows:
(a) District Manager            Rs 500 per month
(b) Inspector of Works          Rs 350 per month
(c) Housing Officers            Rs 100 per month
(d) Trainers are paid Rs 350 on the completion of training for
5 skill elements which usually extends intermittently over
a period of 6 months. This payment is made once.



-93.                       ANNEX 12
Page 1
SRI LANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
PROPOSED TRAINING PLANS OF THE MANAGEMENT TRAINING COMPONENT
TO BE UNDERMAKEN BY THE CENTER FOR HOUSING PLANNING AND BUILDING (CEPB)
1.      The goal of the management training component is to provide better
managers for the Construction industry. The need for improved management has
been generated by the rapid growth of the industry since 1977, the large
numbers of experienced construction workers who, until recently, were con-
tracted to work in the Middle East, the large number of public sector
development projects underway in housing, roads, irrigation and urban and
rural development, and the growth of the private sector.
2.      The objective of the training program is to improve the knowledge
and performance of 5,715 existing and new managers and supervisors in both
the public and private sectors. The Center for Housing, Plarning and Build-
ing (CHPB) would coordinate the training program, and utilize experience
gained under Cr. 1130-CE.
3.      Managers and supervisors would be trained in construction for the
following sectors; housing; irrigation; road; and water supply and drainage.
The training would also be divided/organized along the following lines:
(a) Upper level manag:ement training would focus on Directors, Managers,
Superintendents and Chief Engineers. The training format would
include seminars and workshops. In addition, a Senior Executive
Study Center would be established (at ICTAD) to provide interactive
self-instruction for senior managers.
(b) Middle level management trainees would be mainly Project Engineers,
Technical Officers, Construction Superintendents and Inspectors of
Works. The training at this level would be short courses of from
one-to-eight weeks.
{c) Lower level/supervisory training is planned for construction
supervisors, road maintenance agents, housing officers and site
supervisors for earth moving construction. A mix of classroom
instruction with on-the-job applications of supervisory and technical
subjects would be the training format at this level.



-94-
ANNEX 12
Page 2
4.      Seminars and courses would cover the entire range of management
subjects from general topics such as organizational development, strategic
planning and management information systems, to more substantive and industry
related areas such as contract negotiations, quantity surveying, and
construction materials technology.
5.     'While the CHPB would be responsible for this program, the actual
location of all training would be held at various centers which would be
selected for geographic and other reasons. Training course design, teaching,
materials production, and monitoring and evaluation would be the respon-
sibility of CHPB. The assistance of industry specialists from both the
public and private sectors would also be utilized. All specialists con-
tracted by CHPB for teaching would, as a part of their contract, be required
to undertake an instructor training workshop which would emphasize pedagogic
and instructional techniques.
6.      The numbers to be trained by category, location, course duration, and
number of training courses are outlined in Tables 1, 2, and 3.



-95-
ANNEX 12
Page 3
Table 1   UPPER MANAGEMENT TRAINING
I   I        I                I         l No. of I No. of I Total   I
I            I |              I          lITraineeslTrainingl  to be   I
I        I             I                I          I  per  I CoursesiTrained inl
Category I Centers    I        Courses   t Duration I Course IPer YearnFive Yearsl
I                                                                               I   
IIIII                                                       I        I          I
lSenior   ICHPB or otheri(s) Seminars on I - 4 days 1  20   1  2    1  200    1
IConstruc-icenters with '   Constructionl   (Part  I        I                   I
Ition     Itraining    I   Project      I   time) I         I        I          I
tManagers Ifacilities   I               I          II 
I         lin Colombo.  I               I          I        I        I
I        I             I                1          I        I        I          E
lExecutivel            l(b) Training    I - 3 veeksl   20   1  2    1  200
IEngineersl            I   Courses on  I           I        I        I          I
I        I             I   Project      I          I        I        I
I    I                 I   Management  I           I        I        I          I
I   I            ~~~                   ~~I  I         III
I  ICl(c) Short                 - 2-5    1  20   1  2    1  200*   1
I        I             I   seminars on I  days   I          I        I          I
I  I         I   specific    I           I        I        I   -      I
I   topics      I          1        1        1          1
I  I         I                I          I        I        I  600     I
I      I             I                I          I       I        I   rn-I
I                      I                IIIII
- The Target Group would be same for (a) and (b).
1. Upper Mana2ement
o   SamDle topics  -  Construction Industry and the National Economy.
- Value Engineering and Construction Economics.
- Management of Construction Equipment.
- Labor Prodtctivity in the Industry.
- Site Management.
- Construction Planning.
- ProgrammIng and Progress Control.
- Review of Labor and Machinery Utilization.



-96-
ANNEX 12
Page 4
Table 2:  MIDDLE NANAGEME    TRAINING
l  I        I                      I             I          I        I    Total  I
I                           I            I                      I             I          l No. of I to be   I
I                           I            I      'I                            I No. of  lTrainingl Trained  I
I        Category           I Centers   I         Courses       I  Duration  I Traineem  ICourse. I  in      I
I                           I            I                      I             IPer CourselPer YearlFive Yearsl
1(1) Middle level           I            I                      I             I          l                   I
I   Construction Managers   I            I                      I             I          I        I          I
I   a) Crgu                 1 A               I             I   l                       I l
I      Senior Project       I CmPE       I i.Construction       16 veeks      I   20    1  1    1   100   I
I        ntgineers, Project   I CITP UIQ  I   Managemeut (A)    I             I          I        I          I
I      Engineers, Irrigationl     n      I                      I             I          I        I          I
Engineers, other     I            Iii. Short Seminars    i 2-5 days    1   20    1  3    1   300   1
I      cjEil Engineers      I            I   (Modular) on       I             I          I        l
I                           I            I   Construction       I             I          I        I          I
I                           I            I   Management         I             I          I        I
I   b} G    E               l                                                 I          I                   I
Inspectors of works,     -do-    I i. Construction      I 8 veeks     I   20    1  2    1   400   1
Construction Super-  I            I   Management (3)    I             I          I        I
intendents, Technicall           I                      I             I          I        I          I
I      Officers, Technical  I            Iii. Quantity          1 6 months    1   20    1  2    1   200   1
I      Assistants, Engineer-I            I   Surveying Course  I (part time) I           l                  I
I      ing Assistants       I            I   a. Pre-Contract   I              I          I        I          I
I                           I            I       Practices      I (1 day/veek)l          I        I         I
I                           I            I   b. Post tender    I              I          I        I         I
I   c) Civil Engineers and  I   -do-    I i. Construction       1 8 weeks     1   20    1  2    1   200   1
I      Technical Officers   I            I   Management (3)    I              l          I       1          1
in the Public ntd    I                (Part Tine)       l             t          I                   I
l      Private Sector       I            I                      l             l          1        I         I
1(2) Highways Executive     I Research   I i. Executive         I I week      I   20    1  2    1   150   1
I   Zngineers               I   and      I   Engineers Course  I
I                           I Training   I                      I             I          I        I         I
I                           Ilnstitute   I                      1             I          I       I          I
I                           l(Rateliana) I                      I             I          I        I          I
I                           I            I                      I             I          I        I         I
1(3) Highways Technical     I            I i. Technical         14  weeks     1   20    1  4    1   400   1
I   Officers                I   -do-    I   Officers Training I               I          I        I         I
I                           I            I    Course            I             I          I        I         I
I                           I            I                      I             I          I        I         1
1(4) Engineers,             IOTC         I i. Couree in Planningl    -        I   24    1  4    1   480   1
I   Engineering Assistant.  lAnuradhapural   Estimating and    I              l          I       I          I
I   Technical Officers      I            I   Managment of       I             I         l        I          #
I   (in charge of plant     I            I   Earthmoving        I             I          l       I
I   and equipment)          I            I   Equipment          I             I          I       I  __ 
I                           I            I                      I             I          I       It
I                           I            I                      I             I          I       1   2230   1
2. Middle Mananement
o  SA=le topics - Foundation Engineering
- Structures and Sytems
- Mangement Construction
- Labor Productivity and Personnel Management
- Variance Analysis in Material Control
- Management Information Bystems
- Sice Visits and Analyses



- 97 -
AMNEK 12
Page 5
Table 3:  LOWER LML/SUPERVISORY TRAINING
I                       I            I                   I          I        I Total
I                       I            I                   I          I Wo  of I to be
IjI          I                  I No. of  ITrainingl Trained
Category        I        Centers         I  Courses  I    Duration       I Trainees ICourses I  in
I                       I            I                   IPer CourselPer TearlPive Years
II                             I                        I               I
(1) Construction      11 Colombo - CM         I                   a 1 weeks    1   25    1   3   1  1875
Site Supervisory  12. Kandy )              I            I  Institutional  I           t        I
Training          13. Jaffna) Poly Technici             I                  I          I
14. Ampra)              I            148 veeks aon site                      I
IS. &bilipitiya         I            1 4 veeks           I                   I I
I                       I            I In-titutional   1            I        I
I                       I            I                  I           I        I
(2) Road Maintenance  11. Ratlaeman  Technical I            1 4 veeks          1   25    1   3 ) I
I  and Research         I            I Institutional   I            I      ) I   600
I  Icstitute            I            I                  1   25    1   3)I
I                       I            I                  I           I        I
(3) Rousing Officers  11. Kurunegala          I             I 1 weeks          1   25    1   3   1   300
12. Moratuw              I              Institutional   I (1 year) I         I
13. Tanmalwilla         I            I                  I          I         I
14. Anuradbapura        I            I                  I           I        I
I                ~      ~     ~~I  I              I          I         I
(4) Site Supervisors  11. OTC                 I             I       -          I   25    I   3   1   150
(Engaged in work  I  Galkulam             I             I                  I                   I
in the eart*uovingl                       I             I                  I          l
! achines + Plant) I                       I            I                  I          I        I
i               ~~~~I                    I             I                  I          I        I
3.  1                                I 1                1          1I1          2925
3. Supervisory Manamement
o   Sanule touics  -  Building construction
-  Water Supply and Dr-4nage
-  Quantity Surveying
-  Engineering Drawing
- Architectural Drawing
-  Engineering Materials
-  Works Managemnt
-  Road Construction
- Plant Management



-98-                        ANNEX 13
Page 1
SRI LANKA
SECOND TOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
MONITORING BENCHMARKS
1986
Narch             . Draft Terms of Reference for study on Financing of
Education and Training and other technical assistance
(experts, foreign, and local) approved.
August-September  . Contracts awarded for study and other technical
assistance.
October-December  . Work on study started.
. Consultants arrive.
1987
January           . All training programs (skill, management, instructor)
started.
.Fellowships program starts.
Local consultants hired.
Staff appointed to ICTAD and CHPB.
April             . Quarterly Progress Report (QPR) submitted to IDA.
June              . Preliminary Report of study on financing vocational
training completed.
July              . Quarterly Progress Report (QPR) submitted to IDA.
i Audited Accounts (including SOEs) and Auditor General
Report for 1986 submitted to IDA.
September         . Study on Financing of Education completed and findings
reviewed with IDA.
. Terms of Reference for first Tracer Study reviewed
with IDA.
. QPR submitted to IDA.
1988
January-February . Staff appointed to ICTAD and CHPB.
. First Training Need Assessment started.
April             . QPR submitted to IDA.



-99-
ANNEX 13
Page 2
May-June          . Tracer Study (1987) completed.
. Audited Accounts (include SOE) (1987) submitted to IDA.
July              . QPR submitted to IDA.
August-September  . First Training Needs Assessment completed.
. QPR submitted to IDA.
October-December  . Adjustments in training programs undertaked.
. QPR submitted to IDA.
1989
January           . ICTAD transfers responsibility for specific programs
(registration of contractors, promotion of private
sector) to ACCSL.
April             . QPR submitted to IDA.
June              . Audited Accounts (include SOE) (1988) submitted to IDA.
July-September    . QPRs submitted to IDA.
. Second Tracer Study started.
1990
January           . All upper-level management training courses financed
by trainees or their employees.
.Second Training Needs Assessment started.
April             . QPR submitted to IDA.
June              . Second Tracer Study completed.
. Audited Accounts (including SOEs) (1989) submitted to IDA.
. ICTAD transfers responsibility for Instructor Training
to NTTTC.
July              . QPR submitted to IDA.
September         . Second Training Needs Assessment completed.
. QPR submitted to IDA.
December          . QPR submitted to IDA.
1991
January           . Kid-Term Evaluation (adjustments to programs undertaken).
April             . QPR submitted to IDA.
June              . Audited Accounts (including statement on SOEs) (1990)
submitted to IDA.



-100-
ANNEX 13
Page 3
July-December     . QPR submitted to IDA.
. Third Tracer Study started.
1992
January           . Third Training Needs Assessment started.
April             . QPR submitted.
June              . Audited Account (including SOE) (1991) submitted.
July              . Third Training Needs Assessment completed.
. Third Tracer Study completed.
August-December   . QPR submitted to IDA.
1993
April-June        . QPR submitted to IDA.
June              . Audited Accounts (including SOE) (1992) submitted to IDA.
December          . Fourth Tracer Study started.
Fourth Training Needs Assessment started.
i QPR submitted to IDA.
1994
April             . QPR submitted to IDA.
June              . Audited Accounts (including SOE) (1993) submitted to IDA.
, Fourth Tracer Study completed.
F Fourth Training Needs Assessment completed.
July-December     . QPRs submitted.
. Project completed.
1995
June              . Credit closed.
December          . Project Completion Report submitted to IDA.



-101-                     AANNEX 14
Page 1
SRI LANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
A.  Experts (Foreign)
I          Staff Months           |
| Component/Area of Specialization   ITotall 19871 1988119891199l19l911|199221
I  _ _ _ ___________-______        l__   _   -__  -l  _ l       _ _l_ _
IA.  ICTAD                          I     I    I    I   I    I    I    I
| Resource Management Division      |
I Organizational Development        I  4 1 4
| Training Division                 I
IuCurriculum Development            I 24 112 112
IEvaluation and Assessment          | 18 1 6| 3| 3| 31  3 |
I Instructional Methods & Materials Devi 24 | 12 | 12 |   I   I   I   I
I Cartography                       1  6       I 3   31 
I Construction Industry Division    |   s1
I Construction Industry Technology    I  4 I 3 | 1 |
I Private Contractor Development    I  4 I 3 | 1        1
i                                   i     i    I    I   I    I    I    I
|B. INSTRUCTOR TRAINING             I
| Instructor Training (Craft Trades)   I 24 I 12 | 12
|Auto Mechanics                     |  61 6                       1
| Auto Electric                     1  61 6                       1
|C. MANAGEMENT TRAINING
I Construction Management
| Training Adviser                  | 12 | 3 | 9 I   |   |   I
I  TOTAL                            1132 167 1531 6 131  31 



ANNEX 14
-102-                        Page 2
SRI LANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
B. Experts (Local)
| _____    Staff Months            I
Component/Area of Specialization    ITotal|198711988119891199011991119921
A. ICTAD
Construction Industry Division
i Local Construction Technology      | 12 I 6 | 6 1
Manpower Analysis                    I 121  61  6         I   I    I I
C Construction Statistics             1 12 I 6 I 6 I   I   I    I
S Survey Data Analysis                I  61  6
*Data Processing                      1  61    I 6
Labor Force Analysis                 I  6 |          | 6       I    I    I
i                                     I     I    I    I    I    I    I    I
B. SKILL TRAINING
Curriculum Development(Const. Trades)[ 24 I 12 I 12 |
Mechanic/Operator                    I 510 I 85 I 85 I 85 1 85 1 85 | 85
I Skill Standards Development         | 30 | 10 I 10 | 10       I
| Test Development (Supervisory Trg)   | 10 I 5 I 5 |
Test Development (Mechanic/Operator) I 10 | 5 I 5 |   I   I    I    I
i                                      i    I    I    I    I    I    I    I
IC. INSTRUCTOR TRAININC               I    I   I   I    I   I    I    I
Instructor Training                     50 110| 81  8    81  81 |   |
D. NANAGEET TRAINING
I Upper Management (Policy Studies)    | 36 I 4 I 8 I 8 I 8 | 8
| Middle Management (Organizational
Development, Quality Control,
I Project Programing, Construction    I    I   I   I   I   I    I    I
| Technology)                          1233 I   146  46 147 147 1471
I Supervisory Management(Construction) I 55 I   I 11  11 I 11  11 I 11 I
|         "     "      (Housing)       1501        10  10 |10|0 |10|
"          "      (Highways)     1721    I14 114  15  15  14
|    "                 (Heavy Equipmt)l 16 1   I 3 I 3 I 3 I 3 | 4 I
T,   _ ---A--- --I--1- -                        1  11187
I  TOTAL                               11,1501 1551241 1201 I187 1187 1179 I



-103-                       ANNEX 14
Page 3
SRI LANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
C. Fellowships (International and Regional)
I             Staff Months              I
| Component/Area of Specialization    IType Totalll98711988119891199011991119921
| A. ICTAD
| Resource Management Division
| Organizational Development of
| Construction Industry (Study Tour)    I I    2 | 1 | 1       I I
I Support Institutions (Study Tour)    | I |  2 | 1 | 1 IL
P Private Sector Industry Support     |I   I   I   I   I    I   I
( (Study Tour)                        | R|  2 | 1   1           L        I |
I                          ~  ~~~I  I  I    I    I   I    I    1    I
Training Division
Management of Training              | R   18| 6| 61  6 |
I                                     I   I     I    I    I    I    I    I    I
I Construction Industry Dev. Division  I        I           l                 I
I Construction Industry Development
Institutions (Study Tour)           II|  61 2 12 12 |
* Construction Methods and Technology
(Study Tour)                       | RI   3 |        3 |
Statistical Training                I I   93  23  28  30  12 |              I
I                          ~  ~~I  I   I    I   I    I    I    I    I
B. SKILL TRAINING
Curriculum Development                R RI  91  6| 3              I
Trade Testing                       I RI   8   21  2| 2 |2                  I
|C. MANAGEMENTTRAINING                I   I        I   I   I   I   I   I
I Training of Trainers                | I   361 18! 18                   I
I Management and Evaluation of Trainingl I | 12 | 12 1   I   I   I    1   I
ID. INSTRUCTOR TAINING
| Instructor Training (Craft)         I I |  9   9
| Auto Trades                         I I    6 133   3 3            I
I Instructor Training (Management)    | I |  9 | 9
| Earth Moving Equipment Operation    I   I    I   I   I   1                  I
| and Maintenance                     I R| 20       55 5                 I|    5   |
I                                     I    1    I    I    I    I    I    1    1
I      __   _____----- I-------I----**--I-I_-I- l      _lI-
I    I = International Staff-Months   I   I 82
R a  Regional Staff-Months      |   I 60        I
|        TOTAL (I + R)                |   |235  981 73  45  19   -



-104-                       ANNE  14
Page 4
SRI LANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
D. Fellowships Local/In-country Training
I                                     I_____     Staff Months            I
| Component/Area of Specialization    ITotalI198711988119891199011991T19921
|A.  ICTAD                            I    I    I    I    I    I    I   I
| Resource Management Division
Accounting                          I 101    1   I 10 t
I Cost Control                        I 101    110
|Computerization                      I 30  20  10 |
IFinancial Management                 120  10 110 |
Construction Industry Dev. Division  |
Statistical Techniques              1 15 J 5 1 5 | 5 1 |          I   I
IB. SKILL TRAINING
| Technique Upgrading (Const. Trades)  I 12 I 4 1 4 I 4 I   I   I   I
IMauagement of Training               I 121  41  4E 41    1   1   1
Trade Testing                          50 14 112 112 112 1           1
IC. MANAGEMENT TRAINING               I    I   I   I   I   I
I Performance Evaluation              I  91  9
| Organizational Development          I  9 I 9
Instructional Materials Development  |  6 | 6 |   |
Engineers              )
|Mechanical Engineers    )            I    I   1   I   I   I   I   I
I Technical Officer      )            1 620 |   1124 1124 1124 1124 1124 |
Accountants            )            I
I D. INSTRUCTOR TRAINING                                                 I
| Instructor Training (Craft)         I 540 | 90 | 90 I 90 I 90 | 90 | 90 I
| Instructor Training (Mechanic)      I 50 | 10 I 8 | 8 | 8 | 8 1 8 |
Instructor Training (Operator)      I 34 1 6 | 6 I 6 | 6 | 6 1 4 I
I Instructor Trg (Mgt & Supervision)   I 361  61  61  61  61  61  61
I    TALI  _____                                    12I-   I-   I  I
I  TOTAL                              11455 I193 1289 1269 1246 1234 1232 1



-105-
Table I
SRI LANKA
SECOD VOCATIONAL TRAINITG PROJICT
Table 1    S_rv  Coete by Proiect CauOsUt mnd TiAm
(Rupee '000)
'7       a7mI      I19       39/90    909      9/92      m3    93n4    94/95         RIEE  (t5r  'ON)
a.   TI1IM I IVELWNENT  lCETI
Ian  IOanIsInT  315W                        7.294.B  18824.0  11,574.3   56.75   8u.7n   S2S.3    26.03   52i.83   526.13  41,264.94  1.50.02
ICTIMINGDI    ISIN                                 -  9,054.17  8395.17 1329.47  1071.93  19071.98   213.68   213.61   213.6   21,364.52    779.73
IlET  I Ttr IE, DIr 3115WI                         -  2553.49  1.537.83   644.00   452.25   4S2.25   452.25   452.25   'M.25   6996.54    2SS.35
9E-Total IriUm1          UIELIUIT  C JETI)     7v294.8f 309432.35 21,308.23 2.570.22 2,391.01  251.0*  1W92.76 1,192.76 1192.7*  6t.25."   2.S41.09
D. UML TNGN
CflT UCLL  nlK                                     - 41,432.19 33,047.73 309166.64 23,103.95 23D01812 23O017.65 22,624.5 22i62.93  219,234.61  3P00.2
NIEC1C / IWTIR SKLL T1DIIIIC                       - 2B.137.46 19,369.41 IIO.6  6071.61 6*n    71.61 6*071.61 5,160.75  5,19.11   37122.16  39179.64
San I  Tu  TSTM                                   -  6,245.9  6,224.26 6117.10 6009.94 575M.1 5,79551  ,7S9.51   795M.1  47,77P.0a  1.743.76
Sub-Total SKILL TW                                    - 76015.34 S3641.39 47P364.35 35,185.50 34815.25 34,114.7? 33530.35 337B3.56 354,136.00 12924.1.7
C. IUlBlC 1115
IWR LEL 7RlAN                                      -    219.97    180.36   130.36   130.36   10.36    96         94.63    94.3   1,225.21      44.72
hIU      LEVL TWUNINS                              -  5,491.09  7774.92 3,645.14 3P,65.3  3,626.39  3P578.33 29676.04 2p-120   33,119.48  14208.74
LE  LE       LnWJ                                  -     39.76  1,70.36 1,070.36 1.U0.07  1,081.07 I,081.07   593.0    597.23    ,619.32    241.53
SaL-Totl NOEND 11B1                                   -  5,750.33  9025.64  4,95.B6 4WP7M29  4f.UI33 4,754.03 3,309.07 3,J2.9  40.9*4.01  1495.04
D. 15161E1 1imamC
WT  IDS1UClt T1ADMl;                               -  6h0.42  49117.66   634.46   684.46         .46   U4.39    3.05    3.05   12,930.97    473.76
NEC   / WmTM  INP            TRUNINS              -  4,172.3B    739.13   451.47   451.47   236.90   236.90   11.39   141.3f   6612.07    241.32
UBENT  DSTCTi 1*n11                                -  2.S74.90         -        -        -         -        -        -        -   274.90       93.97
Sub-Ttal DIucTTNDU 1*11                               - 12,756.70  4,856.34  1,135I.4 115.94   92.36   9212    219.93   219.93  22,167.4    309.0
E. NTIIaI;I NO E      TIW                        514.93  6,907.15  6P93.70  3,705.65  1.231.12   170.18   170.13   170.13   170.13  19,990.34    729.57
Tot  DUELE COSTS                                 7P9W9.4 131.3S2.36 10.P715.U1 59672.01 44,37.35 42i916.18 41923.04 3,9S32.30 32 E4.39 506m3.2  1809.43
Phlmil CwtiUo.r                                 755.24  79771.75  6,019.3  3,163.03 29363.34 2,262.41 22127M  29043.24 2.042.71  2,634.26   1.045.05
Prie CEtiueigs                                  952.70 26704.86  29P9.91 205*6.37 16.54.41 13S002.33 1533N.9 20,3S.4 23,014.78  75M535.73  4935.90
Tal PnLECT LISTS                                 P9517.78 166,338.9 135,735.51 St3401.41 64M.0.  63.10.91 63,719.73 6144252 63481.U  7211054.30 24940.e37
Tam                                             33s.79  101OB.4   6,139.35 2,330.32   970.67   97.05 I4M.07 1,073.5  1,16.4   24,7332    352.40
FomiS, Exc_n                                  4i075.26 99043 u?974.04 35430.50 II3294.73 16S79.5 16,303.15 16.339.3 17,070.36 M.141.2  10.12.41
March 13. 193 14:13



-106-
AMUE 15
Page 2
SRI LANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table 2 : Summary Coats by Categories of Expenditure and Tine
Base Costs                           Foreign
(RUPEE Million)                        Exdhange
86/87 87/88 88/89 89990 0/91 91/92 92/93 93/4 94/95 Total   Z  Amount
I. INUESTINT COSTS
A. CIVIL 80115                   6.75 20.22 18.04 1.44    -                           46.45 41.2 19.15
B. FURNITtEE                     0.29  2.56  0.78    -    -    -    -    -    -  3.63 45.2  1.64
C. PROFESSIONAL FEES             0.26  0.79  0.71 0.06    -    -    -    -    -  1.82 20.1  0.37
D. INTERNAtlONAL FELLOUSHIPS     0.51  7,98  4.55 2.75 1.03    -    -    -    - 16.82 80,1  13.48
E. RESIONAL FELLOUSHIPS             -  0.94  0.94 0.64 0.39    -    -    -    -  2.92 80.1  2.34
F. LOCAL FELLOUSHIPS                -  1.06  1.31  1.23 1*08 0.96 0.96    -    -  6.60  0.0  0.00
6. LOCHL EXPERTS                    -  1.66  2.58 2.15 2.00 2.00  1.92    -    - 12.32  0.0  0.00
H. FOREIGN EXPERTS                  -  19.17  15.16  1.72 0.86 0.86    -    -    - 37.77 80.1  30.27
I. EO3IPtENT                        - 38.76 15.61 10.09    -    -    -    -    - 64.46 87.5 56.40
J. VEHICLES                         -  4.10  3.81    -    -    -    -    -    -  7.92 64.0  5.07
K. MOKS                             -  1.32  0.98  1.30 0.91  0.57  0.52    -    -  5.59 75.2  4.20
Total INUESTIENT COSTS              7.81  98.57 64.49 21.38 6.27 4.38 3.39    -    - 206.29 64.4 132.91
II. RECURT COSTS
A. OPERATION AND MINTENANCE        -      -  0.09 2.09 2.40 2.33 2.33 2.33 2.33 13.90  10.1  1.40
B. SALARIES OF ADTMIAL STAFF       -  7.72  7.72 7.72 7.72 7.72 7.72 7.72 7.72 61.76  0.0  0.00
C. TRAINEE STIPENDS                -  6.14   6.66 6.66 6.66 6.66  6.66 6.66 6.66 52.76  0.0  0.00
D. CuNSIiNALE NATERIAL             - 16.13  18.52 18.52 18.52 18.52 18.52 18.52 18.52 145.77 40.2 58.63
E. TRA}NEE TOOL KITS               -  3.30  3.30 3.30 3.30 3.30  3.30 3.30 3.30 26.40 40.2  10.62
Total REIRRENT COSTS                   - 33.29 36.29 38.29 38.60 38.53 38.53 38.53 38.52 300.59 23.5 70.65
Total NASELIE COST                   7.81 131.86 100.78 59.67 44.87 42.92 41.92 38.53 38.52 506.88 40.2 203.57
Phsical Contingncies              0.76  7.77  6.02 3.16 2.36 2.26 2.21 2.04 2.04 28.63 39.5 11.31
Price Continmncies                0.95 26.70 28.99 20.57 16.85 18.00 19.58 20.87 23.01 175.54 44.6  78.27
Total  OJECT CSS                     9.52 166.34 135.79 83.40 64.09 63.18 63.72 61.44 63.58 711.05 41.2 M.14
Taxes                             0.34 10.11  6.19 2.83 0.97 1.00 1.04 1.08 1.13 24.68  0.0  0.00
Foreign Exchae                    4.08 99.05 69.97 35.23 18.29 16.80 16.31 16.34 17.07 293.14  0.0  0,00
Harch 18, 1986 14:13



-107-                                                          AmNU is
Pag 3
NCIOID VCTIOINAL tRUEiNG nIO=CT
Table 3  I lneary Cost  by C                 t s    CatUsy o f .r         ltur.
-EDIIC               --                        -                  1 ueux
m010       2cum3  201  I1111                  301J 31    111 DIT               NMI                  MT T       m        m        I   111M1111        C     etamus
M,WMTnI T_MM  mmii  WFT inM TE                                             tOi tOAE WML   10 L3 LE& aIlwm 1usnC  iImem --
319211131921111    312              11I3      T13221    TElIM    T1511   T1333  T1312                 23       1301    13221    LIMT2U  1               1   46g1
1. TAD cuml
iu  Ulil11                               22.n                                 7.21     16.n    - -          -    -       -                                                          46.4 l0.1   4.64
6 FITWAE                                  1.45        --                     *.14       1.1111      -            -    6.17         3-63  10A    0.l                                                  4
C.      M       FM                         0.3        -             -        0.29       0.47        -            -       -          -           -         -         -           -   2.62  10.1   0.23
L IFITIK F. IMI5IUPS                      0.34        -          *.31           -          -        -           -    4.12                   0.n7       0.1       2.37        7.03   16.12   5.1   0.3
E. L331L FLI3 9                           00       D.7"          L.13        0.73          -      .34                          -               -       0."          -           -   2.92   3.    0.13
F. UULt F      E14                         0.2        -          3." 0       0.2           -     0.3S          .3    2.P                     2.11      0.4          -                4. 80   3.- 0-3
3. UC IS?!                                   -                   0N.3        0.26       3.47     0.34         .3      2.s        2.7        O4            -         -         .1y  I232      . 0   0.2
IL. F111  D311                            1.24   23.11           2.2t           -          -        -            -    3.43          -                    43         -        t.r2  37.77   3.3    29
1. UIIKII                                 3.41        -             -       2.3        23.1         -            -    1.32          -       L.24                     -       7.03  4.44    3a    3.22
J. 1205f                                  4.79        -                   -             L.                                          -       0.3           -         -   -     .62    7.92   3.0   0.40
L 1111VS                                  1.13                      -        2.3        *.7n        -            -    C.6        0.32        0.M        04           -       0.9   5.3    3.    0.23
Toal 1I1IMIT CDUS                           37.3   19 I.            3.33       J3.2       46.       1.1          3.31   14.02       :.39      1.s2        5.32      2.37       23.63  20.29   6.3  12.91
11.   T0       3 MRS
, 5.nU1  3    IIUIIIN2IC                  15                       -        3.26       33          -           -      .n           -          -          -         -        0.31   1.3I  10.1   1.39
L.  SIKES       F UM   514FF             1.11    1.71           3.62        33.6       333    13.43          0.3     2.53       0IZ        0.2           -         -           -  a.74   I.    3.0
c. 1313 sn3                     --                    -            .        21.4       3.3     24.11                    -       3.60           -                    - -        -  32.76   Ia    2.64
3.  *iMr E 33343                           .a2       -             -         .n       21.3      3.6a               246.13       0.31         .n       1.3          -        0.o  145..7    3.    7.2
E. T_ I       , 1211                       _                    _      _   26.40               -          _       _   _       _                                                    26.40   3.0   233
Total       >t 051                           3.       2.71          3.2       179.91      335      4.34          0.7n  19.1         4.23       0.4        1.30         -        14  310.        .2   2.72
total 3.X  053                               41.24   21.36           7Ae       219.23      37.1     47.7         1.23   2.12         62         2.n        6.4       2.37       I2.9 3.1        3.4   "3
Pldeal 0w*i.can                             3.3   1. 7            033         11.34      5.7      2.39         3.04    l.3       a 0.         0.6       033       0.3         2.J2  2.13   Oa    LO
PPM  CirUsl.s                              10.93    3.31          1.21        3.63      32.       10.34        032    23.         1.2        2.3        1.87      0.3         6.2  137354   3.3   937
TO* d  3E   0 C1                             35i.57   27." 9.35                32.4%    124.2    40.21           1.3    43.07        3.11      14.49       3.31      3.21       2U3  712.e    3.3  3.L0
=m                                         4.9        -              -        9.43       7.1      0.14        0A2    0.6          0.31        .44       012          -        2.3   246    3.?7  1.42
Foeign E    _u0.                           2.      21.43          3.13       129.11     54.33      3.93        02    70.4         0l.         9.71       .93      2.42       21.23  293.24   3.2  23.32
lIs. 23  1303I4:13



-108-                                               AMl 16
SU LA .,
MECOMD VOCATIOWL TRAINING PROJEcT
Fianc inn Plan by Proiect Comonent.
(USs 6000)
MOTIONALm   mITES NAINK
m W             uEWL  NT    W         T OF SIU
ASSOCIATION       P3*11             LAW              Tota
Local (Exrl.  Mtis I
bguim     z      Azmt    Z        bAMP       I    lmm        Z    For. bE a.    Tam)         Tam
A.  I     uTIUl   IEL I  C ICTJD e
ICTSAD *NIS TIU  uISDI                         11621.14  93.7          -    -      311.74  16.13  1PM.88  7.90         94.70        314.63    16.3!
ICT    * TRAIING 119s1                           935.10   .           -    -        29.5  3.09       64.95  3.4        740.23       224.72        -
ICTOI DISIRT IIEUEUUE  T lDMS1                   231.9  78.59         -    -        63.1  21.41    295.15  1.21        107.35       197.W0        -
Sub-Total DSTITUTI  ITILWNT C IcTr  )             2,7J.20  97.32         -    -       404.78 12.68  3M12     13.04    1,796.29       1,227.14    169.3!
B. 9LL 131Wl1
NfT SKILL TRADaN                               6,318.56 57.39    53-.4 0.49   4,06396  42.13  11010.96  44.98    4124.33          6,560.81   325.90
IEOWIIIC I WEThE SIml TRAIN=                   2,P4.4i 66.36   219.92 5.12   1I204.92 23.03   m299.2s  17.56   1v174.47           2s1l0.30   244.51
lSITE1/ TlE  TESTIS                              596.56  21.37    5-.99  2.85   1'421.70 68.77  2,067.24  9.44         204.14     1,959.36     4.75
Sub-Ttal SUILL TR1*1                              9779.56  56.29    332-74  1.91   7,265.18 41.81  17p377.48 70.99    W2M2.95       10,t9.47   575.0d
C.  WImm TEN,w  TR3*1N1
WMER LEuL TRAMS                                   40.00 73.20         -    -        14.64 26.90      54.64  0.22         7.35        47.11     0.11
Nr33E LBVEL TRAD1 IS                           1,194.04 72.29         -    -       457.60 27.7n   1,651.6   6.75       720.J9       909.86    20.99
LOJ WEB. TRAIJI                                   119.04 42.47         -    -      159.   57.53    277.94   1.14        20.14       257.45      0.35
Sub-Ttal NuuI       TRT N111NG6                   wm52.0 6 U.14          -    -       632.15 31.86   WPM4.23   *.11       748.37     1.214.43    21.43
B. IlSIRt TRABNINS
WAFT INSTrI1R 13*13N5                             65.71  11.53   479.47 83.95       25-74  4.52    569.91  2.33        331.18       218.32    15.42
E     CWIIE / IFRTIIR DSTUETI  1*1M31             43.48  14.26   230.79 75.66       30.75 1O.09    305.03  1.25        205.46        989.2     0.74
r*EINOT DISIRIJCTRM  1    Bl                     111.69 100.00         -    -           -      -    111.69  0.46        91.34        20.34        -
Sub-Tota D     6STN   TDl6                          220.87 22.39   709.26 71.9         56.49  5.73    91.62  4.03        62."          337.43    16.16
E. N TMI  410 EVAATIONI                             839.16 P7.36          -    -       9.90 10.64    99.06  3.84          731.92       137.03    70.21
TOtI Dlsburs_gnt                                   14997'.   61.19 19042.0o  4.26    .451.49  34.35  24P4937 100.0   10i112.41        13,535.56   852.40
Karch 18. 1996 14:44



p Pr p  Mq * W    .      * n r* " r   r r Ffr   P         Pr   ^ liP?    r  r P  P er?rr P rpP??rr?r r  ii
li  iltilliitl-                  t[,-- lIt?    i              Iii I    ,H i  Ilf[i        
j___________U        ____  ___                                El v           !I        v
----- j--------i-i3
-----I-- El_                  I                           I _  _I__ ____-_-_-_---
:1~~~--  - -1 -1------- --------  1-1 ----                        ---!!- - -t! ----- -------
-   -I--         -   - - - - - -   - - - - - - - -                     I                              II:
i                                                       ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ g: "                         f
.Ti                                                                             
E- - - - ------ ------ -------------------------- -  _______  ____--  --------------------------    _
*    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                                 --- ----
I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-----I -a-
-   --  - - - - - -          - - - - - - - - - -- - -             - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Iti- S 
-            ------   -------------      ------------------------------------   1- 
- -     -  ---- ------------------------- ----------------------------- ---------I  l_- 
|                                         -------------                          lgiwl,l~~~~~~~~~~F-h
aTE  ----L---L-------------tt------------------------------.    n
-------------------------------------------------------------------,    -*
W                                                      _                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I |jI :
111 _ _     ______   __________________---H~~~~~~lllIi
E-113 _1  _    _ _  _ _ _    _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  __                            _ _ _ _ -  - - - -  E   ,   3 



g @    U X* m'nw   . -    ufl.           *"F n?!?  !'r ! w r n' ! ?t?r P
Ki       N                                                           d rz    !          !i'ii! !!ji:!!   I ii   
ii    ! X f    i !    t  ~I I  ! !Iii!   i        '. li   iI'''!                 I  !        1S 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - ---
s--!-j   -------!---------------------------------------i-----s
!       s-----------------------------------                                   i  
~~~~~---i------------ -1-1-  [1-1-|- 1'--I
---i    j -- ---- ---I - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -
i 1 1 '      .      ~~~-               - -------------------------------I --     
,    f, ------ -- X-      ~~   ~~~   ~  ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ----}E  -----------
I~~~~ - - - --- ------ ----------------[ s1
--------------''- - - - ----- -------- - ----   -------1-------------1---8
! ; ! i          ''- - - - ----- -------- - ----   --------------------!l!--
i i l ja-- --~---- ------ - ---- -------i------------- E-i  
i I W i          i-- - - - ----- -------- - ---- -------l-------------l-i:
---i-i ~ ~ ---   -  l -     -  - -----  --------  -  ----- -----------------        lE!__|n
!         E         ~~~~~-----------  -       ----|__}_ ------  -------------
'i {    i        l2__--- ----------------- - ---|-------- -------------i--   
----------------------------------- ----i-------- -------------is  n
8 0         'E ---------------------- - ---|-------- -------------'-'                               1
! W | i      Ij         ~    ------------- ---- ----------------------j    l   ,                   -
j   {         ,     ~ ~  ~ ~ -  - --  -----  ---                                   i,-i---j---i-
i !E_ __ _____  ___----------
I~~-------  -----I ---------
-- -- -- --          --  --  --  - --  --  --  -  --  --  --  - --  --  -
-- -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- --  --  -         12
------------------- ------------------- ---- -- :      '



-1l1-
ANNEX 18
SRI LANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
FORECAST OF EXPENDITURES AND DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Million)
Expenditures I/             Disbursement 2/
IDA Fiscal Year              Semester    Cumulative       Semester    Cumulative
1987
1st (Jul 86-Dec 86)             0.17          0.17            0.15           0.15
2nd (Jan 87-Jun 87)             0.17          0.34            0.15           0.30
1988
1st (Jul 87-Dec 87)             2.90          3.24            2.09           2.39
2nd (Jan 88-Jun 88)             2.90          6.14            2.09           4.48
1989
1st (Jul 88-Dec 88)             2.33          8.47            1_64           6.12
2nd (Jan 89-Jun 89)             2.33         10.80            1.64           7.76
1990
1st (Jul 89-Dec 89)             1.43         12.23            0.88           8.64
2nd (Jan 90-Jun 90)             1.43         13.66            0.88           9.52
1991
lst (Jul 90-Dec 90)             1.10         14.76            0.57          10.09
2nd (Jan 91-Jun 91)             1.10         15.86            0.57          10.66
1992
Ist (Jul 91-Dec 91)             1.08         16.94            0.55          11.21
2nd (Jan 92-Jun 92)             1.08         18.02            0.55          11.76
1993
1st (Jul 92-Dec 92)             1.09         19.11            0.54          12.30
2nd (Jan 93-Jun 93)             1.09         20.20            0.54          12.84
1994
1st (Jul 93-Dec 93)             1.05         21.25            0.52          13.36
2nd (Jan 94-Jun 94)             1.05         22.30            0.52          13.88
1995                            1.09        23.39             0.56          14.44
1st (Jul 94-Dec 94)             1.09        24.48            0.56           15.00
2nd (Jan 95-Jun 95)
Closing Date : June 30, 1995.



-112-.
ANNEX 19
Page 1
SRI LANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports, Studies and Data Collections
A.1 Public Investment Program 1985-89. Ministry of Finance and
Planning, May 1985.
A.2 Foreign Employment: Sri Lanka Experience: Ministry of Plan
Implementation, January 1985.
A.3 Manpower Data Sources, Utilization Trends and Prospects in Sri Lanka:
Ministry of Plan Implementation, 1983.
A.4 Migration of Sri Lankan Labor to the Middle East, Ministry of
Yourth Affairs and Employment, 1983.
A.5 Labor in Sri Lanka: Ministry of Labor, 1984.
A.6 Survey of Selected Occupational Categories of Craft level in
the Construction Industry: Ministry of Plan Implementation, 1981.
A.7 Customs Notification: Revenue Protection Order No: 84/13:
Ministry of Finance and Planning, November 14, 1984.
A.8 Government Notification: Turnover Tax No; 69 of 1981: Ministry
of Finance and Planning, November 14, 1984.
A.9 Economic and Social Statistics of Sri Lanka Volume III: Central
Bank of Ceylon, December 1984.
A.10 Implementation of the Recommendations of the Salaries' Review
Committee; Public Administration Circular, December 29, 1981.
A.11 Census of Population and Housing - Sri Lanka 1981, Population Tables,
Ministry of Plan Implementation - February 1985.
B. Reports and Studies Relevant to the Project
B.1 Preparation Report: Second Construction Industry Training
Project; Ministry of Local Government, Housing & Constructin,
Higher Education, Youth Affairs and Employment, Plan Implementation,
and Labor - April 1985.



-113-                        ANNEX 19
Page 2
B.2 Sri Lanka Construction Industry Training Project, Cabinet
Memorandum - May 1985.
B.3 Sri Lanka: Construction Industry Training Project: Cabinet
Memorandum, June 21, 1985.
B.4 Assessment of Training Needs in the Construction Industry,
National Institute of Business Management, Colombo - March 1983.
B.5 Terms of Reference: Study to Assess Manpower Demand and Training
Needs in the Construction Sector, Ministry of Local Government,
Housing & Construction - August 1985.
B.6 Urban Development Authority Law - No: 41 of 1978. Incorporating
Amendments made by Act No: 70 of 1979 and Act No: 4 of 1982,
Gazette of Government of Sri Lanka - September 1983.
B., Urban Development Authority (Special Provisions) Act No. 44
of 1984; Gazette of Government of Sri Lanka - November 1984.
B.8 National Apprenticeship Act No: 49 of 1979. Parliament of
Ceylon - November 1981.
B.9 National Standard Guidelines for Conditions of Contract,
Regulations for Tender Procedures, and Engineering Specifications
related to the Construction Industry - Cabinet Memorandum -
June 1985.
B.10 (a) Proposed Institutional Framework for the proposed Construction
Industry Development Agency (CIDA)/(ICTAD)
(b) Functions of Consultative Committees to CIDA/ICTAD
(c) Functions and proposed organization of the Construction Industry
Development Division - Ministry of Local Government, Housing
& Construction - CITP - August 1985.
B.11 Development of the Association of Construction Contractors of
Sri Lanka: Jayne, F 0 - Colombo, December 1984.
B.12 Directory of Technical Education 1984-1985:
(a) Progress of Technical Education; Ministry of Higher Education
August 1985.
B.13 Foreman Training Institute - Ministry of Labor, 1985
B.14 The Viability of Operator Training - Training Production Units:
An Investigation. CITP - Colombo, July 1985.



-114-                      ANNEX 19
Page 3
B.15 National Skill Standards for: Plumber, Steel Fixers/Bar Benders,
Electrical Wiremen, Masons, Carpenters, Equipment Mechanics
(Grade III - I), Heavy Earth Moving Equipment Operators (Crawler
Dozer, Wheeled Loader, Motorized Grader, Hydraulic Excavator),
and Construction Supervisors: National Apprenticeship Board 1985.
B.16 Certificate of Competence for Electric Wiremen - NAB - July 1985.
B.17 National Trade Tests and Certification - Volume I - Manual of
Procedures, CITP - Colombo, 1985.
B.18 Center for Housing, Planning and Building: Prospectus - Colombo,
1984.
B.19 Management Training for the Construction Industry: National
Steering Committee on the Construction Industry in Sri Lanka
March 1982.
B.20 Training Needs Assessment for Management Training in the
Construction Industry; Whitlock, R - Colombo, July 1985
B.21 Research Report on Organizational and Managerial Constraints
of Construction Agencies - CHPB, 1984
B.22 Comparative Analysis of the Actual and Estimated Costs of Selected
Public and Private Sector Projects - CHPB - December 1983.
B.23 Slum and shanty Upgrading in Sri Lanka - CHPB - December 1983.
B.24 (a) Training of Highway Personnel - August 1985
(b) Road Maintenance in Sri Lanka - A Confidential Appraisal -
March 1985
Cc) OutLine Proposal for Training Overseers - August 1984
(d) Financial and Accounting Systems in Highways Department -
March 1985
(e) Report on Development of New Accounting System in Department
of Highways - May 1985
(f) Department of Highways; Organization Study - April 1985 -
W.S. Atkins International
B.25 Preliminary Report: Tracer Study on CITP Trainees 1985, Department
of Census and Statistics - Colombo, August 1985.
B.26 CITP (ICTAD) Existing and Proposed Staffing and Salary Scales -
Colombo, August 1985.
B.27 Report of the Sub-Committee on "Economics of Design and Construction
Applied to Building Projects" - National Steering Committee - CITP -
Colombo, 1984.



-115-                      ANNEX 19
Page 4
B.28 Sri Lanka Conditions of Contract for Works of Building and Civil
Engineering (with Forms of Tender and Agreement) - National Steering
Committee - CITP, Colombo, 1984.
B.29 Sri Lanka Guidelines for Tender Procedures - National Steering
Committee - CITP, Colombo, 1984.
B.30 Sri Lanka Specifications for Building Works (Volumes I and II) -
CITP, Colombo, 1984.
B.31 Proposed Residential Complex - Operator Training Center Anuradapura
- Center for Housing Planning and Building - Consultancy Services,
Colombo, August 1984.
B.32 Plans for (a) Peliyagoda Workshops (1 set)
(b) ICTAD Headquarters (7 plans)
(c) Typical Workshop Plan (1 sheet)
B.33 Rules of the Association of Construction Contractors of Sri Lanka.
B.34 Final Report: Construction Management Training in Sri Lanka
Volume I - Description, Summary and Conclusion by Cooper, M,
November 1984
Volume II - Subsidiary Report.
B.35 Training Requirements for Highway Sector Development - W.S. Stkins
International, Colombo, November 1985.
B.36 Assessment of Training Needs in the Construction Industry - December
1985, National Institute of Business Management.
B.37 Cabinet Memorandum for Establishing ICTAD - Colombo, November 1985.
B.38 Recommended Organization for the Proposed Institute for Construction
Training and Development (ICTAD).
B.39 Management Training: Upgrading and Expanding the Center for Housing
Planning and Building (CHPB) - Whitlock, R. Dr., Colombo, December
1985.
C. Working Papes, Tables, Drawings
C.1 Set of Working Papers, April 1986.



-116-
SRI LANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Proposed Organization of Institute of Construction
Industry Training and Development
SECRE=ARIES
.0w       COMOIITTEE           S.
Condn          _____-_                Genlrvl                             Trdnhg       |
Corfnmife on                            DkcorQrdaeea
Corst _LlioniResource
ndus Dson                 I    Management    lD lsaion                            l
InyDivision    l      l    ~Division                      Ll
lVold Bozrk-30031:1



-117-
SEC0DO&ADiWMWNCO
aCOIb, ICTAD h KU*d InCFOdGCGau  tL HoumgilndCAMWuiucUn
I -
ic-ftm-c~  -fflozl                                   I      1                                1
d wD-chm_ d                                                          _b
'0 w __ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~MM 2d& _  



r00(i 8-00-,                                                                                                                      ,8200
i noin Pedro
SRI LANKA
/ Paon'thon <                                                     SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CIVIL WORKS PROGRAM
J  3Mullralivu                                            Project Components:
ICTAD Headquarters
ralalmannarr|                          Manakulam                                                                                   Technical Colleges:
Tolainonnor                                                                                                                        Workshops
0,%X.  K  O Stores                            000-
annrMechanic / Operator
di                                                                                                               Training Center (Workshops)
tl  ^  Heavy Equipment operator
T   n IT ing Center (Staff Housing)
nlynly o                                                            -      Primary Roads
ar             /       >                                                                        Secondary Roads
-s----+  Railroads
^   _>rincomolee          @    Nationol Copitol
*   District Capitols
o   Other Towns
District Boundaries
Anuradhapurod          e                 Kanl                                            -  -  International Boundaries
Aruvo8olu tlmul0mo
Xolpitiz S   r             f           v           ^"''1                    X                                \
6600'~~7 /        ,holom                                              a  %     \
\            }6    \ /                           w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lonno rw
\   /               /                 ;.    etr                 Votoc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hchunolff
<  }           g)Do-bullw                                                          X        llicombull
s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iiao



ZS'  <;    ; f0X t& W                                                      V: 0                                                                                           : %, . .  . r I
Donmbull.
\&  H   ; . .5 <  ] %\    9   /    |                                   '                    ,3<,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cldi
Munnessoromt  j  &.\/I{    X v
Mui.urm                    Padrenty a                                                                    kS      ha        C_        >      
Negomb9:                            mb  is          e rade *ya                                  7                 
Maltakuflya Q   'v>                                                              lr,i, t..              | '                    a M
MOLOMpO                                                          SIabladw                                                                                                    u  uanwVv.
Mru a                Werelloge                                                                                                                           n  azd uei     hu
Ral~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~smnalen mea foduk    b/sfdrp.obw
crawanglic ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~caaE   h dmu~
7100'                                                        a                                                                         Tho~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e mia Mus bow pearWby w
M,Wndakuo                     lo                                                                                                                            The W a  W *,u  st aff ar m mu
AW VW Intonara    F,tionsa. C _
P |                             \dukJ                               }           t                       *apmim P^KIS                                    da DESH
z~~                                                                              9S                                                                                                   I.A
Balespllire ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o On map do tWk.anf
 061 ' 4W"01 ^Pun 5dur                                                                                         awy                                                                 InorSoa e.wm  cpm
nMotaro                          0           20           4p           60            80                                           NW kw LAAS
K                                                                                                                                        Cel~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of m/ oSfyo  n
W!                                                                                                                       KILOMETERS                                                     Cdob        
INDIAN  OCEAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AKSA
D 5 80@000 I N D I A w J   O              C              E              A              N             1 .                 1           .         ^    NDI
Bl Ilya .... ;,,:



