Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16180
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(Credit 1698-CE)
December 19, 1996
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department 1
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = SLRupees (Rs)
US$1.00 = Rs 50.0 (January 1996)
FISCAL YEAR (FY) and ACADEMIC YEAR
(Govermnent of Sri Lanka )
January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS USED
CITP               Construction Industry Training Project
DCA                Development Credit Agreement
GTZ                Deutsche Gesellschaft fuer Technische
Zusammenarbeit
GDP                Gross domestic product
GNP                Gross national product
GOSL               Government of Sri Lanka
ICTAD              Institute for Construction Training and
Development
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
IDA                International Development Association
ILO                International Labor Organization
MEHE               Ministry of Education and Higher Education
MOFP        =      Ministry of Finance and Planning
NCCASL             National Construction Contractors Association of
Sri Lanka
NAITA              National Apprenticeship and Industrial Training
Authority
NCB                National Competitive Bidding
OUSL               Open University of Sri Lanka
PCU                Project Coordination Unit
SDR         =      Special Drawing Rights
SEC         =      State Engineering Corporation
UNDP        =      United Nations Development Program
UDA                Urban Development Authority
Vice President  J. Wood
Director       M. Nishimizu
Division Chief  B. Herz
Task Managers  A. Aime and M. Allak



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE                                                            jage
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction                                                i
Project Objectives                                          i
Implementation Experience and Results                       i
Other Donor Inputs                                         iv
Other Project Features                                     iv
Cost Recovery                                               v
Sustainablity of the Project and Future Operations          v
Key Lessons Learned                                         vi
Part I- Project Implementation Assessment
A.    Background                                                   1
B.    Project Objectives and Description                           2
C.    Linkages to the First Vocational Project                     3
D.    Achievement of Objectives and Factors Affecting the Project  4
Component 1: Institutional Development                      5
Component 2: Skill Training                                 5
Component 3: Management Training                            7
Component 4: Instructor Training                            7
Component 5: Monitoring and Evaluation                      7
E.    Other Donor Inputs                                           8
F.    Studies                                                      8
G     Other Activities                                             9
H.    Cost Recovery                                                9
I.    Project Sustainability                                       10
J.    Evaluation of Program Objectives                             11
K.    Bank Performance                                             12
L.    Borrower Performance                                         12
M.   Future Operations                                             13
N.    Key Lessons Learned                                          13
Part II- Statistical and Data Tables
Table I      Summary of Assessment
Table 2      IDA Credits Relevant to the Project
Table 3      Project Timetable
Table 4      Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table 5     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6     Project Targets and Achievements
Table 7     Studies Included in the Project
Table 8-A    Project Costs
Table 8-B    Project Financing
Table 9     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 11    Bank Resources: Missions
Table 12    Summary of Technical Assistance and Consultants Used
Annexes
1.    Mission's Aide-Memoire (with Operation Plan)
2.    Borrower's Contribution to ICR
Miscellaneous Attachments
A     List of Institutions where Tools Equipment were Supplied
B     List of National and Provincial Seminars Used to Disseminate New
Technology
C     Overview of the Role of the National Association of Construction
Contractors of Sri Lanka
D     Summary of Construction Norms and Tendering
Procedures/documentation Standardized Through ICTAD
E     List of Fellowships Awarded by the Project
F     Construction and Rehabilitation Works Carried Out by ICTAD
Map: No. 28407



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Democratic Socialist Reiublic of Sri Lanka
Second Vocational Trainin2 Proiect
(Credit 1698-CE)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Vocational Training
Project in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for which a credit in the amount
of SDR 10.0 million (US$ 15.0 equivalent) was a approved on May 5, 1986 and made
effective on April 4, 1987.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1996 with one year extension of the project closing
date with SDR 10.0 million (US$ 15.0 equivalent) disbursed. The project was cofinanced
by a UNDP/ILO technical assistance component for US$3.5 million from 1987 to 1992.
The final disbursement was approved on November 21, 1996 and all the Credit funds were
expended with an undisbursed balance of zero.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. M. Allak, A. Aime and Ms. S. Vedamuthu with the
assistance from Ms. R. Serrano (SAIPH) of South Asia Region. Peer reviewers were
Messrs. G. Sinclair, B. Parvez, and J. Bregman. The report was reviewed by Ms. L.
Lowenstein (SAl CO), Ms. V. Abraham (LOAAS), Messrs. Singh/Litvak (SASVP), J.
Socknat (ASTHR), and by the Environmental Division (ASTEN). The report was also
reviewed by Mr. P. Blay, Acting Division Chief, and Mr. H. Gassner, Acting Project
Advisor. The borrower provided comments on the draft ICR and its own evaluation of
the project is included in Annex 2 of the ICR.
The preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in May
1996 and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report (Report No.5958-CE), the
Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between IDA and the Borrower,
and internal IDA memoranda.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Second Vocational Training Proiect
(Credit 1698-CE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    This was the second project financed by International Development Association
(IDA) in the vocational training sector in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
The project was designed to complement the first vocational training project (Credit 1130-
CE) and to address the increasing local and foreign demand of skilled manpower in the
construction industry. The aims of the project were to: (i) create and upgrade an
institutional framework to sustain training and industry development efforts started under
Credit 1130-CE; (ii) increase the supply of semi-skilled, skilled, and managerial personnel
to the industry; and (iii) improve the quality of manpower supplied to the sector. The
project implementation was successful and achievements met and surpassed the targets set
during preparation
Proiect Obiectives
2.    Project objectives were to:
(i) establish the Institute for Construction Industry Training and Development
(ICTAD) and support an intensive management training program;
(ii) increase the supply of skilled and semi-skilled workers for construction
industry through training in construction related trades and workers certification;
(iii) support an extensive training programs for managers and supervisors of all
grades in the public and private sectors;
(iv) increase the number of qualified skill trades and management instructors in
order to improve the quality of construction training;
(v) support the establishment of a system for monitoring project inputs (financial
and material) and outputs (trainees) in a an up-to-date and timely manner through
conducting training needs assessment studies and tracer studies.
(vi) institute a cost recovery system in vocational training for the construction
trades through the fees, the sale of trainee products and services and other income
generating activities.
Imiplementation Experience and Results
3.    The project objectives were complementary to the first vocational training project
and in line with the evolving sector's needs. The project took advantage of initial capacity
i



building and lessons learned from the first project. The project was designed for eight
years. Its effectiveness was delayed by one year. The delay in effectiveness was due to the
lengthy process it took to clear the UNDP financed technical assistance component. The
closing date was extended by one year, based on the delay in project effectiveness and
some interruptions due to political disturbances. The credit amount was reduced in 1994
from SDR 13 million to SDR 10 million due to large currency fluctuation of the Rupee
combined with accrued SDR and lower training costs. The provisions of the Development
Credit Agreement have been complied with, with only minor amendments. The
implementation reports show an impressive achievements over the project period in the
areas of institutional development, training activities, training links to industry needs, cost
recovery, and sustainability that has met or surpassed the project targets. The
implementation results of each project component are outlined below:
Component 1 - Institutional Development
4.    ICTAD was established in the first year as a semi autonomous authority. Its
headquarters and workshops at the training centers were built and fully equipped with
modem facilities. ICTAD's organizational chart and cadre were finalized and qualified
staff was appointed. During the project period, ICTAD's embarked on an intensive staff
development program that involved 28 foreign and 194 local experts and 106 foreign and
255 local training fellowships. Such an investment had considerable returns as it upgraded
the staff and management skills and provided them with wide exposure on latest
technology and operation techniques that were applied during project implementation.
Such training and international exposures increased the staff horizons enabling them to
undertake important cost recovery measures and to prepare ICTAD's sustainablity plan
for 1996-2000.
Component 2 - Skill Training
5.    To increase the supply of semi-skilled, skilled and managerial personnel to the
construction industry, ICTAD trained over 71,000 new and 51,000 existing workers in
construction related crafts (142 percent and 196 percent of the project target
respectively). ICTAD used updated training modules, with 70 percent of the courses
offered in existing government training centers and 30 percent in NGO and private sector
centers. That flexible approach allowed training to be undertaken at lower costs with
coverage in all parts of the country. The delivery of courses was based on annual
construction industry surveys and special regional needs identified by the construction
industry. Tracer studies showed that 80 percent of the trainees usually found employment
contrary to a range of 20 to 60 percent in other national vocational/technical programs. In
addition, workers' salary increased substantially after training, for example, the salary of
the heavy machinery operator increases by 166 percent after training. ICTAD provided
career counseling and facilitated workers integration in the labor market.
6.    As for trade testing and upgrading, the appraisal target of 40,000 workers was
reviewed in 1994 by IDA and the Government and was found to be unrealistic in respect
to the type and level of trade testing. ICTAD and its partner agency (NAITA) has
ii



managed to test only 23,900 workers representing 60% of the original target. Main
problems were insufficient incentives for domestic construction workers to seek
certification and the low passing rate of those who were tested (50%). Emphasis was
made on "bridge" training of employed craftsmen to upgrade the skills required in the
trade testing in order to improve the pass rate. ICTAD established an outreach program
with NCCASL to provide trade test awareness programs, on site bridge courses, and self
assessment instruments to help workers determine their strengths and weaknesses in the
skills required.
Component 3 - Management Training
7.    Substantial progress was achieved in management training. The total trained in
upper, middle and lower levels of management was over 6,500 managers (125 percent of
appraisal estimate). In relation to the original targets, training was more heavily
concentrated among the upper and middle management. Within the management
program, ICTAD conducted open management programs for over 300 construction plant
managers. The delivery of ICTAD management training programs has resulted in
improved preparation of bid documents, introduction of modernized construction
management techniques and record keeping, better use of skilled and unskilled workers
and equipment/technology at construction sites, and increased contractor willingness to
use more suitable construction materials. These measures resulted in better constructed
buildings. An important contribution has been the establishment of the National
Construction Contractor Association of Sri Lanka (NCCASL) which established a code of
ethics for their members to follow.
Component 4 - Instructor Training
8.    The instructors' training and updating in skill trades, introduction of heavy
equipment operator training and upgrading of mechanics, and introduction of management
courses were given priority attention. About 1,200 instructors were trained (233 percent
of the target). The instructors were upgraded to teach training modules (with ILO
assistance in preparation and initial training) and as a result improved the quality of
construction training in the institutions and increased program responsiveness. It also lead
to the establishment of fee generation activities supported by the construction industry.
Component 5 - Monitoring and Evaluation
9.    The establishment of ICTAD as a semi-autonomous entity, overviewed by a Board
of Directors which met monthly, greatly facilitated project implementation and monitoring
activities. The monitoring process was improved annually and resulted in well-prepared
progress reports that enabled management to address, with occasional delays, most of the
arising issues identified by the Government, construction industry, contractors and the
IDA missions.
10.  ICTAD has taken pioneering actions to establish and update the links between
training activities and construction industry needs. Industry was asked to identify its
iii



training needs and give feedback on the various training programs to increase
responsiveness of the training programs and their content. ICTAD has conducted four
training needs assessment surveys for the construction industry and four tracer studies
based on sample surveys covering up to 17 percent of the graduates. The monitoring
process was frequently examined to increase response. The final supervision mission met
with the ICTAD's Board of Directors and the NCCASL and they praised ICTAD for its
responsiveness to training needs in the construction industry and their assistance with the
introduction of new technology. NCCASL indicated that if ICTAD had not been
established as a semi-autonomous entity, the above progress would have been nearly
impossible within the national bureaucratic structures.
11.   The project financed studies of different aspects of employment and training in the
construction industry, which were useful in shaping policies and industry practices. An
UNDP co-financed (ILO executed) technical assistance component provided much of the
technical support for the studies.
Other Donor Inputs
12.   A UNDP/ILO technical assistance and fellowship project (US$3.5 million)
supported the institutional and staff development and strengthening at ICTAD from 1987
to 1992, followed by IDA funded technical assistance. ILO experts made some important
contributing towards the development of management skills and training modules.
However, ICTAD felt that during the initial period of the project, the rigid pattern of
technical assistance recruitment reduced the benefits of that component. The process of
recruiting LO experts was lengthy, their recruitment was for long duration, and their
qualifications were not always responsive to training needs. When the ILO contract was
ended, ICTAD started managing the component under the IDA credit in a more flexible
way, i.e. recruiting specialists faster, mostly for shorter duration and according to the
sector's emerging requirements.
Other Proiect Features:
13.   The eight years allocated for project implementation allowed the project to fully
assess its activities and due to the favorable SDR rate enabled ICTAD to carry out some
additional related activities (all falling within the original project description), all of which
have had and will continue to have great impact on the construction industry. These
activities are: (i) registration and training of construction contractors and organization of a
contractors guarantee fund; (ii) development of standardized bidding documents for the
construction industry which have now become the standard National Competitive Bidding
documents (NCB) accepted by the Government and the Bank; (iii) development of guides
for contractors and alternative construction materials and bringing new technology and
equipment to the country; (iv) updating and improvement of construction statistics and
information dissemination; (v) building a permanent supervisory and management training
center to assist with the introduction of new training programs and technology; (vi) as a
result of the ICTAD staff and some industry representative training and participation in
external seminars, Sri Lanka construction industry has established strong permanent links
iv



to construction industry, labor organization and training centers in Asian countries; and
(vii) building a permanent residential complex for the staff and trainees at the Operators
Training Center at Anuradhapura.
Cost Recovery
14.   The only provision of cost recovery under the project, as originally approved, was
to recover the cost of materials from the trainees to ensure the availability of essential and
better quality training materials. ICTAD, however, went much further. It embarked on
aggressive ways of income generating and greatly exceeded the cost recovery target. The
total revenue produced increased more than six times during 1989-1995, reaching Rs 32
million (US$800,000); as a share of operating costs, revenue increased from 6 to 30
percent during the same period. ICTAD's success in income generating compares
favorably with that in other countries for comparable projects. However, we were pleased
that ICTAD is working on plans to increase recovery further to 42% by 2000 and it needs
to continue efforts to maximize revenue so as to ensure sustainability in a difficult fiscal
environment.
15.  ICTAD's close involvement with industry and trade associations has yielded better
quality training and employability of graduates; it has used these contacts to make more
relevant the courses offered by the training institutions through which it works. The
example of close links with employers is one that needs to be followed by other vocational
and technical training institutions in Sri Lanka. It should be noted that in effect ICTAD
has taken over from the ministries concerned part of the work of coordinating public
sector training institutions, so reducing costs to those ministries.
Sustainabiltity of the Project and Future Operations
16.   The Government has strong commitment to the future of ICTAD following project
closing date (June 30, 1996). A draft Cabinet Memorandum, outlining the Construction
Act and ICTAD's functions and activities, was approved by the Cabinet in March 1996.
The bill is scheduled to receive final approval by the Parliament in early 1997. Continuing
the practice established under the project, ICTAD has prepared a detailed Business Plan
for 1996-2000 and a summarized Financing Plan. According to these plans, ICTAD is
expected to receive Rs 30 million annually to cover salaries and overhead expenditure
during 1996-2000; meanwhile, ICTAD's income generating activities were expected to
increase substantially and reach Rs 29.5 million by 2000 and would cover 42 percent of
total costs.
17.   Furthermore, plans for ICTAD to audit Government and foreign contracts in
construction industry for a 0.25 percent fee of the total contract value are under way and a
provision has been made in the draft construction bill for ICTAD to undertake technical
auditing on consultancy basis as needed. Such an activity is expected to generate
significant income estimated at Rs 38 million (more than operational costs in 1995).
v



ICTAD is currently revising its business plan to reflect these additional activities and
expect further increase in income generation by 2000.
18.   The Bank does not plan a future operation with ICTAD at this stage. It believes
that the two projects have enabled that institution to be solidly established and sustained.
ICTAD is expected to continue to play an important role in the strengthened construction
industry.
Key Lessons Learned
19.   The following are the key lessons learned from the project implementation
experience:
* Project implementation was enhanced by ICTAD and IDA staff taking into
consideration the experience and lessons learned during the first vocational project;
* The establishment of ICTAD as a semi autonomous institution with policy and
implementation authority enabled the institution to be staffed by younger and trained
officers. Much of ICTAD's success can be linked to the hiring practices that were
more flexible than public service practice;
* The delegation of authority to a Board of Directors facilitated the addressing of
emerging problems and enabled the institution to implement the project in a more
responsive manner;
* ICTAD was able to acquire the construction industry's support and become a major
catalyst in the construction sector as a result of the institution's good performance and
continued Government support.
* The training assessments, tracer and impact studies facilitated responsive management
decisions and more responsive training programs;
* ICTAD reached a more favorable employment rate of graduates by the introduction of
a timely career counseling system and by facilitating entry to employment;
* The offering of responsive programs allowed ICTAD to gradually introduce cost
recovery. The contractors supported the fee system as they experienced good skill
transfer;
*  The combination of regional staff visits to similar training institutions enabled ICTAD
to adapt international training courses/modules and develop a core of local expertise
exposed to the latest technology and management practices;
* ICTAD's practice of using existing Government, NGO and private sector facilities for
its training activities was more economical and increased the use of training facilities
and allowed courses to be given in more skills and in all regions of the country;
* ICTAD's utilization of primarily short-term and skill focused technical assistance was
more economical and facilitated capacity building in the construction industry;
* The close collaboration between ICTAD and the related professional organizations
such as Sri Lanka Institute for Engineers, Sri Lanka Institute of Architects, and the
NCCASL (through representation in ICTAD Board of Directors), and the
coordination of their activities, has facilitated implementation and addressed evolving
needs;
vi



*  The carrying out of the eight training needs assessment surveys for the construction
industry and tracer studies over the project period has lead to changes in training
curriculum and has achieved substantial results in establishing the links between
training programs and labor market needs;
*  ICTAD piloting income generation was a bold step within a society which advocates
free services. This approach demonstrated a clear vision and strengthened the
sustainability of ICTAD;
*  ICTAD's close involvement with industry and trade associations has yielded better
quality training and employability of graduates; it has used these contacts to make
more relevant the courses offered by the training institutions through which it works.
The example of close links with employers is one that needs to be followed by other
vocational and technical training institutions in Sri Lanka.
vii






Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Second Vocational Trainine Proiect
(Credit 1698-CE)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Part I:           Project ImDlementation Assessment
Project Identitv
Name:       Second Vocational Training Project
Credit:     1698-CE
Unit:       South Asia
Country:    Sri Lanka
Sector:     Education
A.   Backaround:
1.    The Government has invested in training programs as a necessary part of its
strategy to successfully implement its industrialization and modernization program. The
increased demand for skilled workers especially in engineering and construction trades
within the country, and the migration of workers to the Middle East increased the demand
for technical education and vocational training. The relative neglect of this field was
recognized and the need to provide increased financing was also accepted. The provision
for technical and vocational training increased from Rs 26 million in 1972 to Rs 348
million in 1983. The other major decision taken by the Government was not to restrict the
outflow of skilled workers from the country, but to introduce more training programs
which would produce skilled workers in sufficient numbers to meet the local and foreign
demand.
2.    The Government adopted an ambitious development program during the mid
1970s which committed a large share of public revenues to irrigation, power generation,
and housing and urban development. These investments created substantial demands on
the construction industry and created about 100,000 new jobs. In addition to the
increased domestic demand on skilled workers, the outflow of skilled workers to the
Middle East also grew significantly during this period. A large percentage of these were
skilled and semi skilled workers in the construction industry, with drivers, mechanics,
carpenters and masons accounting for nearly two-thirds of the total. This growth trend
was slowed in the early 1980s as the Government was compelled to cut public expenditure
to reduce the budget deficit and as a result, investment in construction was either reduced
or maintained at the 1980 levels except in the case of foreign-funded construction
activities.
1



3.    Government projections for the construction sector for the period 1985-89 showed
an annual growth rate of 8 percent for the investment and 3 percent for labor productivity.
On this basis it was estimated that there was a total need for 120,000 workers in
construction related trades in the economic sectors during that period. To assist with the
reduction of that skill gap, introduce new technology and strengthen the construction
industry and contractor development, the GOSL sought World Bank assistance. Based on
Government data and Bank mission projections it was estimated that the total training
needs for the project period 1987-1996 would be about 50,000 new entrants and the
upgrading of about 26,000 existing workers for a total of about 76,000 persons (average
of 8,400 per year). The training capacity developed under the project was calculated at
about 6,000 workers per year and it was expected that these estimates would further be
refined and updated through training needs assessment studies to be under taken during
the project period.
4.    Policy Context and Linkages to the Sector Policies: The project's direct
linkages and response to national policies were very strong. National policies stressed
were mainly related to meeting the local and foreign demand for skilled manpower,
consolidate, coordinate, and certify different skilled training programs, increase the
content of curricula and relevance to labor market needs, and ease the complete reliance of
training programs on public financing and introducing cost recovery measures and user
fees. The project's conceptual base and preparation was shared and well understood by
the Government and IDA and was appropriate as a second IDA financed project in
vocational training. The roles and responsibilities of the PIU and the implementing
agency, the Institute for Construction Industry Training and Development (ICTAD), were
well defined at the start of the project and were flexible enough to allow adjustments
during implementation. The project has successfully addressed the national policies in
construction industry training and achievement has surpassed t.ne SAR targets for most of
its components as outlined below.
B.    Proiect Obiectives and Description:
5.    The main objectives of the project were to: (i) create an institutional teamwork to
sustain training and construction industry development efforts started under Credit 1130-
CE; (ii) increase the supply of semi-skilled, skilled, and managerial personnel to the
industry; and (iii) improve the quality of manpower supplied to the sector. The
institutional development objective would be achieved by establishing and developing
ICTAD. The manpower supply objective would be achieved by training about 50,000
new and upgrading about 26,000 existing semi-skilled, skilled, and managerial workers in
the construction industry. The quality improvement objective would be achieved by (a)
instituting an instructor training and upgrading program; (b) strengthening monitoring and
evaluation of training and industry development; and (c) trade testing and certifying about
40,000 skilled workers and supervisors.
6.    Another objective of the project was to institute a cost recovery system in
vocational training for the construction trades through the fees, the sale of trainee
products and services, and other generating activities. The cost recovery system would be
2



on the basis of a detailed study of the financial and economic costs and benefits of publicly
financed construction industry training, the impact on the Government budget, and the
proportions of costs to be shared by trainee, Government, and private sector. During
negotiations, the Government provided an assurance that by December 31, 1989 the total
cost of stipends and trainees tool kits would be supplied; and by December 1994, about 50
percent of the cost of consumable materials, would be financed from sources other than
the general revenues of the Government.
7.    The project components to achieve the above goals were:
*  institutional development: establishing the Institute for Construction Industry
Training and Development (ICTAD) and supporting 11 staff years of expatriate expert
services and 96 staff years of local expert services for the management training and
19.6 staff years of international and regional fellowships and 121.5 staff years of local
training;
*  skill training: to increase the supply of skilled and semi-skilled workers for
construction industry through; (i) extending training to construction trades not
covered by existing programs, (ii) increasing the range of competencies of semi-skilled
workers, and (iii) certifying the quality of skill training by testing workers to National
skill Standards. During the project period, 72,000 skilled and semi skilled workers
would be trained and/or upgraded in various trades, and of these 40,000 would be
trade-tested and certified;
*  management training: during the project period, 5,700 new and existing managers
and supervisors of all grades in the ministries and authorities related to construction
and the private sector will be trained. Specific training would be provided to all levels
of management (upper, middle and supervisory). Government provided an assurance
that by January 1, 1990, all upper level management courses would be financed by the
trainees or their employers;
v  instructor training: 500 instructors in skill trades, equipment operators and
mechanics, and in management subjects were targeted to be trained to increase the
number of qualified skill trades and management instructors;
*  monitoring and evaluation: the project supports the establishment of a system for
monitoring project inputs (financial and material) and outputs (trainees) in an up-to-
date and timely manner with quarterly progress reports. Support was also given to
conduct four training needs assessment studies and four tracer studies.
C.    Linkaees to the First Vocational Proiect
8.    The project objectives were enhanced by the lessons learned from the first
vocational project and were complementary to the first vocational training project and in
line with the evolving sector's needs. The project took advantage of initial capacity
building and lessons learned from the first project. The following table illustrates these
linkages.
3



First Vocational Project (Credit 1130-CE)                      Second Vocational Proiect (Credit 1698-CE)
Projed mangemnt within Govement stt   lacked flxibility   A senu-autonomous mangeent structure (ICTAD) managed by a
to be responsive                                               board of directors with inter-ninisterial representation was
established
Limited training of staff in existing insituions               ICTAD embarked on extensive training program thtu included
intemational exposure for ICTAD staff and institutiots' trainers
The goal of using exstang instutions for traiiing encountered  ICTAD benefited from procedures clarified during the first project
adninistrative difficulies
Initiated construction indsry skill training                   ICTAD benefited from the experience ofthe first project and was
and experienced major institutional / organizational problenms  able to surpass appraisal training targets (130 to 160 peroent) and
reaching less thmn 60 percent oftraining goals                increased graduates' employability (average of 80 percent versus
20-60 percent in other programs)
Encountered difficulties   intritdicing heavy equipment training  ICTAD was able to build on the heavy equipment training pilot
(started only at the end ofthe project)                        program and set up the first national training center. Graduates
were all employed and their salaries increased by an average of 166
Experienced major problems with developing training modules due   The project included a UNDPIILO technical assistance component
to attempting to create rather than adaptexisting modules.     for the adaptation of existing ILO modules
Experienced problem with implementation of needs assessmnit    ICTAD successfully carried out eight needs asemett and tracer
and tracer studies                                             studies, increasing progran  responsivenes to tndustry needs,
building on the experience of the first project Availability of data
from these studies facilitated the development of ICTAD's
sustainability plan
The development of linkages with the contractors was slow      ICTAD increased its dialogue with the contrctors which rsltd
in the developmtent of the NACCSL This enhanced the contactors
and ICTAD interactions and in tum improved the responsivenes of
the traning prograns
D.    Achievements of Obiectives and Factors Affecting the Project
9.        The implementation reports show impressive achievements over the project period
in the areas of institutional development, training activities, training links to industry
needs, cost recovery and sustainability that has met or surpassed the project targets. Due
to large currency fluctuation of the Rupee combined with accrued SDR value and lower
training costs, the project financing was revised in 1994 and the total credit adjusted from
SDR 13.0 million to SDR 10.0 million. The project was prepared for eight years and was
extended once for one year (closing date was June 30, 1996). An overview of project
disbursement pattern can be found in Table 4.
10.   The project experienced several amendments to the Development Credit
Agreement: (i) in August 31, 1989, changing the implementing agency from the Ministry
of Local Government Housing and Construction to Ministry of Policy Planning and
Implementation; (ii) in November 1990 adjustments were made to maintain reimbursement
at 80 percent (category 4) to calendar year 1992 and declining afterwards (based on delay
of project effectiveness and political turmoil); (iii) December 16, 1993: Three
amendments--(a) the addition of a new Category "Agency Training Programs" at a
disbursement rate of 80 percent--reallocation (SDR 2.0m) of funds from Category 4 to
meet estimated expenditures; (b) the deletion of paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 regarding the
transfer of contractor registration activities from the ICTAD the NACCSL; and (c) in
Section 3.01 (a) substituting "the Ministry of Housing and Construction" for "the Ministry
of Policy Planning and Implementation"; and (iv) in November 2, 1994, it was agreed to
extend the project closing date to June 30, 1996. Overall the project objectives were
achieved or exceeded, and the project components and their status are outlined below.
4



Component 1 - Institutional Development
11.   The objectives were to establish the Institute for Construction Industry Training
and Development (ICTAD) and support an extensive national and international training
and upgrading program for its staff. The targets listed in the SAR were: 19.6 staff years of
international and regional fellowships, 121.1 staff years of local training, 11 staff years of
expatriate expert services and 96 staff years of local expert services for the management
training.
12.   The results were that ICTAD was established as a unit of Urban Development
Authority immediately after project effectiveness (1986) to act as coordinator, enabler,
facilitator, and policy formulator in training and other industry related activities. In June
1992, the institution became a statutory authority attached to the Ministry of Housing and
Construction under State Industrial Corporation Act. Its headquarter was built and fully
equipped with up-to-date equipment and facilities. Simultaneously, ICTAD's
organizational chart and cadre were finalized, and qualified staff was appointed (many as
counterpart to the UNDP/ILO experts who were assisting with the management and
organization of training modules. When UNDP/ILO technical assistance support ended in
1992, the DCA was amended to include that support using primarily short-termed focused
specialists. In addition to specialist training given by the technical assistance, ICTAD
undertook an intensive staff development program that included 28 foreign and 194 local
experts and 106 foreign and 255 local training fellowships.
13.   The above staff capacity has been very positive as demonstrated by the effective
management of ICTAD and it being sought-out by the public and private sectors to
manage large construction sites, such as the Oberoi Hotel. All the work program of
supplying workshops, studies, mechanic operator training center and heavy equipment
training center were completed as scheduled by ICTAD staff and their use conforms with
the goals established during appraisal.
Component 2 - Skill Training
14.   The Objective was to increase the supply of skilled and semi-skilled workers by
training about 50,000 new construction workers and craftsmen, and upgrading another
26,000 exiting semi-skilled, skilled, and managerial workers in the construction industry
(76,000 in total) and finally to test and certify about 40,000 workers.
15.   The results were that the number of workers trained have surpassed the target
numbers set in the project SAR by a wide margin (Figure 1). A total of 70,484 new
entrants 142 percent of goal was achieved (59,829 craftsmen, 4,286 mechanics, 2,972
operators, 1,132 supervisors). To improve quality, another 1,765 were upgraded.
About 50,814 of existing semi-skilled, skilled, and managerial workers (28,649 existing
craftsmen, 311 mechanics, 592 operators and 4,869 managers and supervisors and 16, 459
other training) were trained, achieving 196 percent of the appraisal goal.
5



Figure 1: Percentage of Number of Workers Trained to the SAR
Target for Three Components
22S 
200                     31a  
Skre         Skrx        Mag Tr   Intco Irz
17n tn     ce    n     g ct   n a
private sectorcenterss . Th cobnto  of goenetadN_cnesalwdtann
126                             ...........l.0  _ , 1 _
coverage_ in al pat of th conr.Ti:apoca gral  assse aA   opeat at
SkTrNew       SkTrExt   Mang. Tr   Instuctor Tr
16.     ICTAD  trained and upgraded about 70 percent ofthe new workers in existing
government technical colleges and training centers and about 30 percent in NGO and
private sector centers. The combination of govevment and NGO centers allowed training
coverage in all parts of the country. This approach has greatly assisted ICTAD operate at
lower costs and to expand the use of its up-to-date training modules. However, due to
ICTAD's requirement that all instructors be trained, prior to offering courses some initial
delays occurred. Once staff1was trained and the necessary equipment supplied, the
institutions ran timely and responsive training programs. The courses taught were based
on annual construction industry surveys or special regional needs. The use of simple
surveys contrary to complex mechanisms, often devised for projects, proved to be very
suitable. This joint effort assisted the training centers improve their curriculum, provided
them with training materials and in a few case physical facilities were upgraded. Finally
ICTAD supplied the trainees with tool kits at subsidized prices and provided them with
career counseling facilitating the sigh integration in the labor market.
l17.   As for trade testing and upgrading, the appraisal target of 40,000 workers
supervisors was reviewed by the 1994 IDA mission and the Govert nent and was found to
be unrealistic in respect to the type and level of trade testing. ICTAD and its partner
agency (NAITA) has managed to test only 52% of the 1993 target and the challenge of
meeting the target has been problematic throughout the project period. The total workers
tested at the end of the project was 23,900 representing 60% of the original target. Main
problems were insufficient incentives for domestic construction workers to seek
certification and the low passing rate of those who were tested, averaging 50%. Emphasis
was made on "bridge" training of employed craftsmen to upgrade the skills required in the
trade test in order to improve the pass rate. ICTAD established an outreach program with
NCCASL to provide trade test awareness program, on site bridge courses, and self
assessment instruments to help workers determnine their strengths and weaknesses in the
skills required.
18.   To achieve the above skill training objectives, ICTAD built / rehabilitated
workshops and supplied them with equipment in Government and NCTOs and private
6



institutions. In addition, ICTAD improved the first national heavy equipment operator
training center where training and testing are carried out.
Component 3 - Management Training
19.   The objective was to train about 5,200 new and existing managers and supervisors
of all grades in the ministries and authorities related to construction and the private sector
covering all levels of management (upper, middle, and supervisory).
20.   The results were impressive. The project trained 6,500 upper, middle and lower
levels managers in the construction sector management reaching 125 percent of the SAR
target (Figure 1). In relation to the original targets, training was more heavily
concentrated among the upper and middle management. The numbers of trained senior
managers was more than three times the target and the middle management number was
more than double the target. Within the management program, ICTAD conducted open
management programs for over 300 construction plant managers. The delivery of ICTAD
management training programs has resulted in improved preparation of bid documents,
introduction of modernized construction management techniques and record keeping,
better use of skilled and unskilled workers and equipment/technology at construction sites,
and increased contractor willingness to use more suitable construction materials. These
measures resulted in better constructed buildings. An important contribution has been the
establishment of the National Construction Contractor Association of Sri Lanka
(NCCASL) which established the code of ethics for their members to follow.
Component 4 - Instructor Training
21.   The objective was to increase the number of qualified skill trades and management
instructors through training 500 supervisors in skill trades, equipment operators and
mechanics, and in management subjects.
22.   The results were that instructors training in these categories were given a priority
in the project implementation. The number trained reached almost 1164 instructors i.e.
233 percent of the target set in the SAR (Figure 1). This accomplishment enabled the
instructors to teach update training modules and has improved the quality of construction
training in the institutions. The result is that many of the training activities were able to
establish more responsive programs and institute fee generation.
Component 5 - Monitoring and Evaluation
23.   The Objective was to asses the outcome of the training activities and to link
training to industry needs by conducting four training needs assessment studies and four
tracer studies.
24.   The results were that ICTAD has taken pioneering actions to establish and update
the links between training activities and construction industry needs. Industry is asked to
identify its training needs and give feedback on the vari_u training programs. Their
7



inputs were used for business planning and to reform the training methods and curriculum.
ICTAD has conducted four training needs assessment surveys for the construction
industry and four tracer studies based on sample surveys covering 7 to 17 percent of the
graduates. The monitoring process was well organized. Through the combination of
progress reports examined by the ICTAD Board of Directors, tracer studies and impact
studies, the project activities were suitably scrutinized and adjusted frequently to increase
response. The final supervision met with the ICTAD Board of Directors, which was
attended by the NCCASL, and were impressed by their keen desire to have training which
leads to employment or improves the industries' performance. They praised ICTAD for its
responsiveness to industry needs and for its assistance with the introduction of new
technology. It was also observed that if ICTAD had not been established as a semi
autonomous entity, the above would not have been possible.
25.   These tracer studies and impact studies have provided a better understanding of
the construction sector needs that have lead to changing and updating training programs
and improving the external efficiency. The recent tracer study showed that 80 percent of
the trainees have found employment, mostly in the private sector. In comparison,
graduates from training centers not affiliated with ICTAD have a much lower employment
rate that ranges from 40 to 65 percent depending on the level and quality of the center. In
addition, the workers' salary in certain training programs increases substantially after
training, for example, the salary of the heavy machinery operator increases by 166 percent
after training.
E.    Other Donor Inputs
26.   A UNDP/ILO technical assistance and fellowship project (SR 86/001) of US$ 3.5
million supported the institutional and staff development and strengthening at ICTAD
from 1987 to 1992 followed by IDA funded technical assistance. Support accounted for
about 11 staff years of technical assistance for primarily short-term consultants. The
ratification of this support unfortunately delayed project effectiveness for a year after
board approval and later in the project period increased costs forced ICTAD to depend on
the credit funds to complete these activities. ILO experts made some important
contribution towards the development of management skills and training modules.
However, ICTAD felt that during the initial period of the project, the rigid pattern of
technical assistance recruitment reduced the benefits of that component. The process of
recruiting ILO experts was lengthy, their recruitment was for long duration, and their
qualifications was not always responsive to training needs. When the ILO contract was
ended, ICTAD started managing the component under the IDA credit in a more flexible
way i.e. recruiting specialists faster, mostly for shorter duration and according to the
sector's emerging requirements.
F.    Studies
27.   Studies included in the project are outlined in Table 7. The key studies supported
by the project included: financing study for ICTAD, employment study, training needs
assessments, tracer surveys, analysis of outstanding claims of contractors, aggregate
8



production, sub-contractual services in the construction industry, approaches to attain
Government objectives in quality of work, assessment of construction industry training
requirements, study on the quality and durability of imported timber, employment patterns
of ex-trainees/impact study, labor market information study and finally the sustainability
study for ICTAD. All of these have contributed to ICTAD and the country's knowledge
and improved the responsiveness of the construction industry in Sri Lanka. These studies
made substantial impact on policy formulation, type and quality of timber utilized, training
programs content and duration, trade testing, contract disputes, and revenue generation.
28.   Although a high percentage of the study recommendations have been implemented,
many still need follow-up. The sustainability study has allowed ICTAD to plan its post
project activities and to find a permanent attachment with the Ministry of Housing.
G.   Other activities
29.  ICTAD has carried out numerous activities, beyond the project objectives, all of
which will have had and will continue to have great impact on the construction industry.
These activities are: (i) registration and training of construction contractors; (ii)
introduction of construction excellence awards for contractors; (iii) organization of a
contractors guarantee fund; (iv) development of standardized bidding documents for the
construction industry which have now become the standard National Competitive Bidding
documents (NCB) accepted by the Government and the Bank; (v) development of guides
for consultants and contractors; (vi) taking a lead in the development of alternative
construction materials (roof tiles, bricks, etc.); (vii) bringing new technology and
equipment to the country along with specialists from other countries to train in their use;
(viii) updating and improvement of construction statistics and information dissemination;
(ix) updating ICTAD staff and private sector representatives in the construction
methodology through staff participation in international seminars/workshops and
technology symposiums; (x) building a permanent supervisory and management training
center to assist with the introduction of new training programs and technology; (xi)
building a permanent residential complex for the staff and trainees at the Operators
Training Center (OTC) at Anuradhapura; and (xii) purchasing construction equipment to
strengthen the training and revenue generating capacity of OTC. As a result of the ICTAD
staff and some industry representative training and participation in external seminars, Sri
Lanka construction industry has established strong permanent links to construction
industry, labor organization and training centers in Japan, S. Korea, Singapore, Australia,
UK, USA, India, Hong Kong, and the Philippine. ICTAD staff is now being asked to
present some of the knowledge and know-how it has applied/adapted to Sri Lanka in
neighboring countries.
H.   Cost Recovery
30.   The main provision for cost recovery under the project, as originally approved,
was to recover the cost of materials from the trainees to ensure the availability of essential
and better 'quality training materials. This measure was an important step in the right
direction in a system that otherwise provides vocational and technical education and
9



training free of charge. ICTAD, however, went much further. It embarked on aggressive
ways of income generating and greatly exceeded the cost recovery target. Revenue is
derived from almost twenty activities: from hiring equipment, registration of contractors,
sale of publications, fees on courses, workers' testing, and renting building facilities. The
total revenue produced increased more than six times during 1989-1995, reaching Rs 32
million (US$800,000); as a share of operating costs, revenue increased from 6 to 30
percent during the same period (Figure 2). While ICTAD's success in income generating
compares favorably with that in other countries for comparable projects, we were pleased
that ICTAD is working on plans to increase recovery further to 42% by 2000. Progress in
increasing cost recovery will assist in strengthening ICTAD's autonomy and sustainability.
ICTAD needs to continue efforts to maximize revenue so as to ensure sustainability in a
difficult fiscal environment.
Figure 2: Revenue Generated and its Ratio to Operational Costs,
1989-1996
36                                            30
_ Revenue
30 - -   % Rev to Costd                       25
,g 26-/                                         20 
.20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
S                  f     *     *      3     3   156
315
* 16-                    _     _     _      _      e10
10
e                                             6 _
0                                             0
1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1996
31.   ICTAD's close involvement with industry and trade associations has yielded better
quality training and employability of graduates; it has used these contacts to make more
relevant the courses offered by the training institutions through which it works. The
example of close links with employers is one that needs to be followed by other vocational
and technical training institutions in Sri Lanka. It should be noted that in effect ICTAD
has taken over from the ministries concerned part of the work of coordinating public
sector training institutions, so reducing costs to those ministries.
L     Proiect Sustainability
32.   The Government has strong commitment to the future of ICTAD following the
project closing date (June 30, 1996). A draft Cabinet Memorandum, outlining the
Construction Act and ICTAD's functions and activities, was approved by the Cabinet in
March 1996. The bill is expected to be approved by the Parliament in early 1997.
Continuing the practice established under the project, ICTAD has prepared a detailed
Business Plan for 1996-2000 and a summarized Financing Plan. According to these plans,
ICTAD is expected to receive Rs 30 million annually to cover salaries and overhead
10



expenditure during 1996-2000, meanwhile, ICTAD's income generating activities are
expected to increase substantially and reach Rs 29.5 million by 2000 and would cover 42
percent of total costs.
33.    Furthermore, plans for ICTAD to audit Government and foreign contracts in
construction industry for a 0.25 percent fee of the total contract value are under way and a
provision has been made in the draft construction bill for ICTAD to undertake technical
auditing on consultancy basis as needed. This will involve streamlining the processes of
tendering, award, and monitoring implementation. Such an activity is expected to
generate significant income estimated at Rs 38 million (more than operational costs in
1995) and at the same time, it will require additional expenditure for creating a technical
division with specialized staff. ICTAD is currently revising its business plan to reflect
these additional activities and expect further increase in income generation by 2000.
34.    In addition to the above, the project outcomes, as listed above, affecting the
construction industry have been formalized and permanent improvement of that sector's
operation is expected. The project, although lengthy in time, has been able to achieve
substantial goals that a shorter operation would clearly not have achieved. The duration
of the project has allowed most of the activities to be fully integrated into the system and
thus sustained.
J.      Evaluation of Proaram  Obiectives
35.    The project was designed to complement the first vocational training and to
address the increasing local and foreign demand of skilled manpower. The project
implementation was successful and achievements surpassed the targets set during
preparation. The overall project objectives fall within four major categories: (i)
institutional building to sustain training and industry development efforts; (ii) increase the
supply of semi-skilled, skilled and managerial personnel to the industry to improve the
quality of manpower supplied to the sector, (iii) establish linkages with the labor market
and make training more demand driven; and (iv) intensify cost recovery activities to
enhance project sustainability . These objective categories and their activities and results
are summarized in the following table:
Objective                Activity / Component                  Result
Institutional building   *   Establishment of ICTAD            Very successfiul imnplementatiorL ICTAD was
*   Intensive training progran for the staff   established in the first year as a semi-autonomous
and management of ICTAD          authority and fully equipped with modern facilities
and qualified cadre. ICTAD's management
implemented an extsive staff development program
that involved 28 foreign and 194 local experts and
________________  106 foreign and 255 local training fellowships
Increase the resources for the    *   Train workers in construction related  Very successfully implemented ICTAD trainig
supply of semi-skilled, skilled  crafts                       reacded 142 percent for new workers and 196
and managerial personnel and   *   Trade testing and upgrading  percetm of the targets set for existing workerL The
improve manpower quality  *   M ganaent trajg                  number of trained managers and instrutors also
*                                    suistructortainig  -rpassed the target (125 percent and 233 perent
*   supply of workshops and training centers  respectively). As for trade testing the appraisal target
of 40,000 workers was reviewed and was found to be
unrealistic. ICTAD and NAITA has managed to test
only 23,900 workers representing 60% of the
originai target
11



Objective                Activity / Component                  Result
Linkages with the labor market  *   Conduct eight needs assessment and  ICTAD has taken pioneeing actions to establish and
tracer studies                   update the links between trining activities and
*   Conduct part of the training in industries  construction industry needs. It has conducted four
*   Adjust training programs curriculum  training needs assessment surveys for the
construction industry and four tracer studies based on
sample surveys covering 7 to 17 percent of the
graduates. Part of the training is conducted in the
industries and industry feedback are used to reform
the training mnethods and curriculum.
Cost recovery and        generating revenue and cost recovery from  ICTAD's revenue generating activities reached Rs
sustainability           hiring equipment and building facilities and    32 million by 1995 and covered 30 percent the
from fees on courses, testing, and subscription   operation costs. Plans for ICTAD to audit
Government and foreign contrts in construction
industry is expected to generate significant income
estimated at Rs 38 million. ICTAD prepared a
sustainability plan for 1995-2000 where generated
income is expected to cover 42 percent of costs
K.   Bank Performance
36.     Strengths and weakness: The Bank staff has contributed substantially to the
project success through building supportive working relationship and providing effective
professional advice and guidance during the project period. The project benefited from a
detailed and upfront review of sector issues that led to an effective dialogue and facilitated
consensus. The experience of first vocational training project implementation was utilized
in designing this project and prepare feasible implementation steps with emphasis on the
project's sustainability. IDA's supervision missions often helped to adopt creative and
innovative alternatives in implementing the project such as the adoption of capacity
building and delivery quality improvement of partner training agencies and the
establishment of successful links through twinning arrangement with similar agencies.
IDA's performance was satisfactory, and it assisted in setting a framework for the
successful implementation that followed. However, the Bank during the last year and a
half of the project implementation devoted very little time to this project. Field visits
totaled only about 5 days, and increased monitoring would have reduced the major rush of
activities during the last three months of project implementation. Other than the latter, the
Bank assisted this project and its guidance enhanced its results. One advantage of this
operation was that the Bank deployed primarily specialists in the field to supervise the
project, facilitating communication and review of issues with the well trained national
staff.
L.      Borrower Performance
37.     Strengths and weakness:  In general, the Government's performance in the project
implementation is quite satisfactory. The Government played an important role during the
preparation and appraisal of the project in addressing policy issues and needs in the
construction industry. The establishment of ICTAD as a semi autonomous entity and the
continuous Government support to that institution has helped make implementation
successful. There has been some periods of work disruption and delay of project activities
during the early years as a result of political disturbances and instability in 1988 and 1989.
In 1994, there was another work disiuption and delay when ICTAD's Board of Directors
12



was dissolved. However, a new board and chairman were assigned after about four
months and implementation resumed with the same level of efficiency. The procurement
of equipment, goods, and materials, training activities and technical assistance, and studies
were well managed and efficiently implemented. The Government made substantial efforts
to utilize all the credit proceeds before the end of the project and ICTAD's management
embarked on an aggressive program of procurement of needed equipment and training
activities during the last few months of the project period. Government, particularly
ICTAD staff, organized good mission agenda, prepared excellent progress reports,
reduced the duplication of meetings, and facilitated the combination of the ongoing project
reviews with discussions of the project's sustainablity plan. Overall, the Government
facilitated throughout the project constructive dialogue and undertook timely
communications with IDA. Government performance was highly satisfactory during the
project.
M.   Future Operations
38.   The Bank does not plan a future operation with ICTAD at this stage. It believes
that the two projects have enabled that institution to be solidly established and sustained as
indicated above. ICTAD is expected to continue to play an important role in the
construction industry, and its model could be used by Government to address some of the
other technical education needs. ICTAD, as a semi-autonomous agency, intends to
continue to bid and contract its staff for both public and private sector management
consultancies and assist with future training assessments. ICTAD is also expected to
continue to play a role in the national competitive bidding process. ICTAD's ability to
remain sustainable will continue to be linked to its semi-autonomous stature. If that
stature was to be changed, ICTAD's sustainability would be more difficult to maintain.
N.   Key Lessons Learned
39.   The following are the key lessons learned from the project implementation
experience:
*  Project implementation was enhanced by ICTAD and IDA staff taking into
consideration the experience and lessons learned during the first vocational project;
*  The establishment of ICTAD as a semi autonomous institution with policy and
implementation authority enabled the institution to be staffed by younger and trained
officers. Much of ICTAD's success can be linked to the hiring practices of staff that
were more flexible than public service practice;
*  The delegation of authority to a Board of Directors facilitated the addressing of
emerging problems and enabled the institution to implement the project in a more
responsive manner;
*  ICTAD was able to acquire the construction industry's support and become a major
catalyst in the construction sector as a result of the institution's good perforrnance and
continued Government support.
*  The training assessments, tracer and impact studies facilitated responsive management
decisions and more responsive training programs;
13



*  ICTAD reached a more favorable employment rate of graduates by the introduction of
a timely career counseling system and by facilitating entry to employment;
*  The offering of responsive programs allowed ICTAD to gradually introduce cost
recovery. The contractors supported the fee system as they experienced good skill
transfer;
*  The combination of regional staff visits to similar training institutions enabled ICTAD
to adapt international training courses/modules and develop a core of local expertise
exposed to the latest technology and management practices;
*  ICTAD's practice of using existing Government, NGO and private sector facilities for
its training activities was more economical and increased the use of training facilities
and allowed courses to be given in more skills and in all regions of the country;
*  ICTAD's utilization of primarily short-term and skill focused technical assistance was
more economical and facilitated capacity building in the construction industry;
*  The close collaboration between ICTAD and the related professional organizations
such as Sri Lanka Institute for Engineers, Sri Lanka Institute of Architects, and the
NCCASL (through representation in ICTAD Board of Directors), and the
coordination of their activities, has facilitated implementation and addressed evolving
needs;
*  The carrying out of the eight training needs assessment surveys for the construction
industry and tracer studies over the project period has lead to changes in training
curriculum and has achieved substantial results in establishing the links between
training programs and labor market needs;
*  ICTAD piloting income generation was a bold step within a society which advocates
free services. This approach demonstrated a clear vision and has led to the
sustainability of ICTAD.
*  ICTAD's close involvement with industry and trade associations has yielded better
quality training and employability of graduates; it has used these contacts to make
more relevant the courses offered by the training institutions through which it works.
The example of close links with employers is one that needs to be followed by other
vocational and technical training institutions in Sri Lanka.
14



PART II                        STATISTICAL AND DATA TABLES
Table 1:                             Summary of Assessments
Sri Lanka
Second Vocational Training Project
(Credit 1698 - CE)
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial     Partial        Negligible     Not applicable
0,')           (VI)            (V)                )
Macro Policies                     O              O               O3                0
Sector Policies                   0               0               O                0
Financial Objectives               Oe 0                           0                0
Institutional Development         0               0               0                0
Physical Objectives                0              RI              0                 0
Poverty Reduction                  0              0               0                0
Gender Issues                     O               E               0                0
Other Social Objectives            O              0               O                O
Environmental Objectives           O              0               Oe 0
Public Sector Management           O              El              O                0
Private Sector Development         Oe 0                           0                0
Other (New Technology))           0               El              O                0
B. Project SuSinabil                Like                   Unlike                  Uncertain
0                       El                       E
C. Bank Performance                   satisfactorv         Satisfactorv              Deficient
Identification                    3                       0                        0
Preparation Assistance             a                      0                         E
Appraisal                         O                       0 el
Supervision                       O                       0                        03
Hiehl-v
D. Borrower Performance                     satisfactorv   Satisfactorv    Deficient
Preparation                                 O              0              El
Implementation                              El             0              0
Covenant Compliance                         0              E              E
Operation (if applicable)                   Ol             0              0
Iiighly                                         HiJhl
E. Assessment of Outcome            satisfactorv   Satisfactorv  Unsatisfactoiy    unsatisfactorv
O              0               O                E
15



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1698-CE
Table 2: IDA Credit Relevant to the Project
Credit Number            Purpose of           Year of
Project Title             Project           Approval      Status         Comments
Cr. 1130-CE,          Increase the supply of trained  1981    Good       Project closed on
Construction Industry    manpower and to improve the                     December 31, 1986. Out
Training Project      level of technical                                of the Credit of US$13.5
management expertise so                           million, US$.97 was
that the construction industry                    cancelled.
can better meet the demands
of Sri Lanka's investment
program.
Cr. 91 2-BAN,         To strengthen management      1979      Marginal   Project closed on June
Vocabonal Training    of vocatonal training,                            30, 1987.
Project              increase the output of the
training system and improve
the productivity of existing
workers.
Ln. 2171 -EC,         Expansion and diversification  1982     Good      Project closed on June
Second Vocabonal      of Ecuador's vocational                           30, 1990.
Training Project      training system.
Cr. 1109-PAK,         To modernize the physical     1981      Marginal   Project closed on
First Vocabonal Training  and institutional infrastructure              December 31, 1987.
Project               of occupational training.
Ln. 1 252-PR,        In addition to strengthening   1976     Good       Project closed on
Vocational Training   the regional infrastructure and                   December 31, 1980.
Project               extending the mobile
approach, the project was
expected to reinforce the
advisory services to
enterprises and to introduce
management training.
Ln. 2200-PH,          To broaden and strengthen     1983     Good       Project closed on April
Vocabonal Training    industrial training.                              30, 1991.
Project
Relevant Activties by Other Donors
Organizabon               Activity          PerodlYear    Status         Comments
United Nations        1. Expert Services (foreign)    1987-1992   Completed  USS3.5m cost sharing,
Development Program    2. Fellowships, both foreign                     UNDP, GOSUIDA.
(UNDP)                & local                                           The technical assistance
3. Equipment                                      requirements for the skill
4. Local consultants                              and instructor training
components was financed
by UNDP, and
implemented by ILO.
Project terminated on
December 31, 1992.
16



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1698-CE
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle        |  Date planned    | latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)              03/83          06/23/83
Preparation                                                            09/06/84
Appraisal                                               08/85          08/06/85
Negotiations                                       Mar/Apr 86          03/18/86
Letter of development policy (if applicable)              NA                NA
Board presentation                                      06/86          05/13/86
Signing                                                     -          11/07/86
Effectiveness                                       Jul/Aug 86         04/15/87
First tranche release (if applicable)                     NA                NA
Midterm review (if applicable)                          01/91          04/01/92
Project completion                                   12/31/94          06/30/96
Loan closing                                         06/30/95          06/30/96
17



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1698-CE
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97
Appraisal estimate          300  4,480  7,760  9,520 10,660 11,760 12,840 13,880 15,000 15,000 15,000
Actual                      894  3,044  4,094  4,944  6,062  6,728  7,869  8,925 10,843 11,785 13,885
Actual as % of estimate   298%    68%    53%    52%    57%    57%    61%    64%    72%    79%    93%
Date of final disbursement                                                                       Nov-96
Disbursement Pattem: EstirnateActual
16,000
14,000   * Appraisal estimate
,,12,000 S-Actual      l> >l                   >l
10,000
8,000
~6,000
I-4,000
2,000
0
6CX     0 IL 4 [   E lt
1.9



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
KEY IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS IN                       ESTIMATED                                     ACTUAL
SAR/PRESIDENTS REPORTS
1.     Institutional Development Objective - create an  During the project period of  1.1.1  ICTAD established as a unit of Urban Development
institutional framework to sustain training and  09 years. (from 1 986 -          Authority (UDA) in 1986.
industry development efforts started under credit    1995)                 1.1 .2  ICTAD's Headquarters Building with 48,500 sq.ft.
1130 - CE                                       Estimated project cost 13
million SDR                       constructed & fully equipped with modern facilities.
1.1    Establishing and developing the Institute for                              1.1.3  ICTAD's organizational chart & cadre finalized and staff
Construction Training and Development (ICTAD)                                     appointed.
1.1.4   UNDP/ILO Technical Assistance project SR 86/001 (US$
3.5M) implemented to develop & strengthen institutional
capacities of ICTAD from 1987 to 1995.
1.1.5   Corporate planning process introduced and utilized to
formulate strategies and operations of ICTAD; continued
from 1988.
1.1.6  Staff development of ICTAD and partner agencies through
provision of 106 foreign training fellowships & 255 local
training fellowships.
1.1.7   Appointment of 28 Foreign Experts for 282 manmonths &
1 94 local consultants to provide specialized inputs to
ICTAD activities.
1.1.8  Provision of equipment such as vehicles, computers &
heavy equipment to ICTAD & machinery & equipment to
Partner Agencies
1.1.9   Construction of buildings for Operator Training Center of
ICTAD & 18 Storages & extensions to workshops of
Technical Colleges (Partner Agencies)
1.1.1 0 ICTAD acted as coordinator, enabler, facilitator & policy
formulator both in training and industry related activities
and was accepted by constituents of construction industry
through formal & informal links and operations.
1.1.11  Establishment of links with similar agencies abroad and
ensuring regional
1.1.12  Establishment of ICTAD as a statutory Authority in June
1992 under State Industrial Corporation Act.
19



KEY IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS IN                       ESTIMATED                                   ACUAL
SARI PRESIDENTS REPORTS
1.1.13  Preparation of Business Plan 1995 - 2000 which includes
measures to increase cost recovery from the present 18%
to 40% by the year 2000 to make ICTAD's operations
sustainable.
1.1.14 ICTAD undertook income generation activities to meet
identified training of persons. The revenue generated
amounted to 18% of the operating cost.
1.1.15  ICTAD's role as coordinator/facilitator and policy formulator
both in training and industry related activities are accepted
by constituents of Construction industry through formal
and informal links and operations
2.     Manpower supply objective - increase the supply of   50,000 new entrant
semi-skilled, skilled and managerial personnel to the   construction workers
industry.
2.1    Training about 50,000 new entrant construction                            2.1.1   A total of 70,484 new entrants trained by June'96
workers Craftsmen                                                                (achievement 124%)
wk Cam-  59,829 Craftsmen
-       4,286 Mechanics
-       2,972 Operators
-       1,132 Supervisors
-       1,765 Other training
-       (Awareness program)
3.     Quality improvement objective
-      Improve the quality of manpower supplied
to the sector
3.1    Institute an instructor training and upgrading  500 instructors           3.1.1   A total of 1164 instructors trained by June'96.
program for 500 instructors                                                      (achievement 233%)
a)     968 crafts, operator and mechanic training
instructors and management training
b)      196 construction management and other trainers
3.2    Training of about 26,000 existing semi-skilled,  26,000 existing semi-    3.2.1   A total of 50,814 existing personnel in the construction
skilled and managerial workers in the construction    skilled and managerial     industry provided further training by June'96 (achievement
industry                                       workers in the construction       195%)
industry                           -      28,649 Existing craftsmen
-      311 Mechanics
-      529 Operators
-      4,869 Construction Managers & Supervisors
-     16,456 Other training program
20



KEY IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS IN                       ESTIMATED                                    ACTUAL
SAR/PRESIDENTS REPORTS
(awareness & bridging courses)
3.3    Strengthen monitoring and evaluation of training                           3.3    a)1     Conduct of Manpower Surveys Training Needs
Assessments.
a)     monitoring training aspects                                              1. Mar. '89      Craft, operative levels - completed
2. Dec. '89      (Management level)- completed
3. 1993  completed
4. Nov.'96 to Apr. '96 (completed)
3.3    a)2     Conduct of Tracer Surveys (TS)
TS 1 - June 1988 - completed
S 2 - July 1988 - completed
TS 3 - Oct. 1990 - completed
TS 4 - 1995 - completed
3.3    a)3    Publishing the Directory of Construction
Training Agencies
1991 - (English)
1995 - (English version)
1 996 - (Sinhala version
3.4    Trade testing about 40,000 skilled workers and  (World Bank review         3.4.1
supervisors                                     missions have                  (a) Trade testing of 23,900  construction workers and
acknowledged that the             supervisors. (60%).
original SAR target is         b) Establishment of a net work of trade testing centers.
unrealistic)
c) Formulation of National Skill Standards and Trade Tests
40,000 persons                 d) Assisting the National Apprentice and Training Authority
(NAITA) to establish a through put capacity to test 2500
applicants annually.
4.0    Improvement of the operating environment                                   4.0.1   Establishment of mechanisms for monitoring of the
construction industry development.
li)    Conduct of the competition "ICTAD Award for
Construction Excellence" among construction contractors;
conducted annually from 1991 to 1995.
(ii)   Establishment and operation of Provincial
Construction Industry coordination-ordination Committee
with the participation of Provincial Administration and the
Provincial branch of the National of Construction
Contractors Association of Sri Lanka (NCCASL); carried out
from Nov. 1992 onwards.
(iii)    conduct of regular meetings with professional
21



KEY IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS IN                       ESTIMATED                                    ACTUAL
SAR/PRESIDENTS REPORTS
associations on the initiative of ICTAD to improve
interaction; continued from 1 994.
(iv)    Setting up of a "Information Center and Issue of
quarterly ICTAD bulletin of construction statistics -
indicating cost indices;
(v)    Information on Price indices for materials, Labor Wages, dry
hire rates for plant and equipment and composite indices
for single story non-residential buildings etc issued.
(vi)   Introduction of alternative building materials such
as the Micro Concrete Roofing (MCR) tiles
(vii)    Development of the local building industry
(viii)   Upgrading of Consultancy Services
(ix)    Standardization of a bidding documents
(x)    Preparation of manual on Fire prevention in
buildings (Fire Code)
(xi)    Allocation of Construction Industry Sectoral
Information as specific sector in the National Accounts
facilitating provision of sector related information.
5.0    Development of Contractors                                                 5.0.1   Promotion of the formation of the National Association of
Construction Contractors of Sri Lanka (NACCSL) and
assisting it with loans and other facilities for expansion.
5.0.2  Implementation of a system of registration and
grading of contractors'
5.0.3   NICKELS membership being made a condition for
tendering for government contracts
5.0.4   Development of small contractors through seminars,
workshops and other awareness programs
22



SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT - IDA -1698 CE                                 TABLE 6
DIVISION: Training                                                                                  SECTION: Research & Development
SAR TARGETS VS. ACHIEVEMENTS
NO      TYPE OF ACTIVITY                                                         SAR TARGET           ACHIEVEMENT           % ACHIEVED
1.0     TRADE TESTING
1.1      Overall (Gr. l1l, ll & I)                                                            40000                 23900                    60
1.2      Grade III                                                                            24000                 18747                    78
1.3      Grade II                                                                             10000                  5101                    51
1.4      Grade I                                                                               6000                    52                     1
2.0     TRACER SURVEYS (T/S)
2.1      T/S#1: ICTAD Graduate of '81 to '85 sample population of 8.3% of 30,000  Sept '87 to Jun '88        Jun '88
2.2      T/S#2: ICTAD Graduate of '85 to '89 sample population of 8.9% of 27,500  Jul '89 to Jun '90         Oct '90
2.3      T/S#3: NATIONAL Graduates of '91 & '92 sample population of 17% of 15,660    Dec '91 to Jul '92    Mar '94
2.4      T/S#4: ICTAD Basic Training Graduates of '81 to '92 sample population of 7.3%    Dec '93 to Jun '94  June '96
of 40,923                                                        _
3.0     TRAINING NEEDS ASSESSMENT (TNA)
3.1      TNA#1: Craftsmen, Operators and Mechanics                              Jan '88 to Sept '90          Mar '96
3.2      TNA#2: Construction Supervisors and Managers                            Jan '90 to Sept '90         Dec '96
3.3      TNA#3: All Construction Industry Persons                               Jan '92 to Jul '92     May '93 to Nov '93
3.4      TNA#4: All Construction Industry Persons                                Dec '93 to Jun '94          Jun '96
23



TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
STUDY                                PURPOSE                                  STATUS                      IMPACT OF STUDY
Study  on  financing  of ICTAD  to ascertain possibility of cost recovery relating to  June 1987 - by Peoples Bank  Recommendations   considered   but
supported training programmes   training                                       Research Group                  found  most  recommendations  not
Cost (Rs.590,000)              feasible. However ICTAD re-directed its
activities to generate  income from
alternative sources in order to defray
direct operational costs of training
Tracer Survey -                 Ascertain affiliation rates & employment pattern of  Tracer Survey conducted by Dept  Remedial action taken particularly in
Employment Status of            past trainees (81 - 86)                        of Census & Statistics. Completed  regard  to  on-site training  as  per
ICTAD Trainees                                                                in January'88                   recommendations
Cost Rs.300,000
Training Needs Assessment for  Ascertain  training  requirements  of  these  Consultancy by Teams Ltd          Results  utilised  for training  policy
Craftsmen,  Mechanics  in  the  categories of construction manpower            Completed in March'88           formulation
Construction Industry                                                          Cost Rs. 742,000
Training  Needs Assessment of  Ascertain training requirements of Supervisory &  Consultancy  by  Teams  Ltd.                 -do-
Supervisory  and   Management  Management personnel in construction industry   Completed in December'88
Personnel in  the  Construction                                                Cost Rs.712,000
Industry
Tracer Survey (No 2)            Ascertain  affiliation  of graduates  of ICTAD   Survey by Dept of Census &  Remedial  action  taken   as  per
sponsored training programmes and study their  Statistics. Completed in June'90    recommendation  - particularly  with
employment status since 1985                  Cost - Rs.300,000               reference to National Trade Tests
Cost Rs.235,000
24



STUDY                               PURPOSE                                  STATUS                     IMPACT OF STUDY
Study on Employment Generation  Ascertain employment generation  potential in  Completed in 1991             Sensitised Ministry of Policy Planning,
in Construction  Industry of Sri  construction industry                      Rs. 108,000                     Housing    Construction    regarding
Lanka                                                                                                        employment  potential  and  policy
formulation
Assist in settlement of outstanding claims of  Completed in 1991             All disputed  outstanding  claims of
Outstanding claims of Contractors  contractors                               Consultants  M/S  Mudalige  &  contractors settled through mediation -
for Construction Work carried out                                             Nagalingam                     Ensured healthy relationships between
for State Agencies                                                           Cost Rs.40,000                  clients & contractors
Ascertain actual situation of aggregate production  Consultant Devenko (Sri Lanka)  Created awareness.  Action taken to
Study on Aggregate Production   in  the  country  and  to  make  appropriate  1991                           structure aggregate industry
recommendations                              Cost Rs. 500,000
Assessment of potential for sub-contracting in Sri  February 1991            Results utilised for policy formulation
Study on Subcontractual Services  Lanka                                      Cost Rs. 250,000
in the Construction Industry
Ascertain strengths & weaknesses of Gramodaya  Completed in 1992             Results utilised for policy formulation
Study of Gramodaya Mandalaya  Mandalayas relating to their undertaking of rural  Cost Rs. 150,000
financial Ability, Quality of Work,  construction contracts
Attainment   of   Government
Objectives   and   recommend
measures for improvement
25



STUDY                                PURPOSE                                  STATUS                     IMPACT OF STUDY
Study on Training Needs         to a) ascertain availability of manpower in    Completed in 1993               Results utilised for policy formulation
Assessment Manpower Survey       construction industry and to  b) assess their  Consultant Devenko (Lanka)
training requirements                         Ltd. Cost Rs. 1.5 Million
Training needs assessment in the   to ascertain training requirements of construction    Completed in 1993     Results utilised for policy formulation
construction industry           workers                                        Consultant Devenko (Lanka) LTD.
National Tracer Survey (No 3) of   to ascertain affiliation rates, employment patterns   Completed in 1993     Results utilised for policy formulation
ex. ICTAD trainees              social status mobility                         Dept. of Census & Statistics
Study on Kempas Timber          to examine use of imported Kempas timber and  Completed in 1993                Created an awareness of improving
justification for its use                     Consultant Mrs Jayathilaka      quality of timber through treatment
Moratuwa University
Cost Rs.150,000
Tracer Survey (no 4) Covering   to ascertain affiliation - employment patterns of  Completed in 1995- 96       Results utilised for policy formulation
ICTAD trainees from 1982 - 1994   ICTAD ex-trainees
Study on Labour Market          to ascertain availability, utilisation demand/supply,  Completed in 1996       Results expected to be used for policy
information system (LMIS)       training input/output and manpower trends of  Consultant - Moratuwa University   formulation
construction personnel                        Cost Rs.900,000
26



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1698-CE
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)       Actual (US$M)*
Local   Foreign            Local   Foreign
Components          Costs    Costs    Total    Costs    Costs    Total
Institutional
Development (ICTAD)          1.14     1.40     2.54                        4.50
Skill Training                8.50     4.42    12.92                       19.04
Management Training           0.96     0.53      1.49                       2.25
Instructor Training           0.31     0.51     0.82                        0.85
Monitoring and Evaluation     0.17     0.56     0.73                        1.86
Baseline cost             11.08     7.42    18.50                       28.50
Contingencies:
Physical                     0.63     0.41     1.04
Price increase               2.67     2.27     4.94
Subtotal                   3.30     2.68     5.98
Total project cost        14.38    10.10    24.48                       28.50
*Local and foreign data not available.
27



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1698-CE
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)        Actual (US$M)
Local   Foreign               Local   Foreign
Source               Costs    Costs    Total       Costs    Costs    Total
IDA:
Civil Works & Professional Fees              2.07     2.07        1.26     0.88     2.14
Furniture                                    0.13     0.13 )
Equipment                                    2.60     2.60)
Vehicles                                     0.23     0.23)
Books                                        0.28     0.28)       0.06     3.54     3.60
Expert Services                              1.50     1.50)
Fellowships                                  0.86     0.86)       0.44     3.95     4.39
Salaries                                     1.42     1.42)
Tool Kits                                    0.83     0.83)
Consumable Materials                         4.60     4.60)
Operation & Maintenance                      0.48     0.48 )               3.52     3.52
Agency Training Programs                                                   0.23     0.23
Subtotal                          0.00    15.00    15.00        1.76    12.12    13.88
UNDP:
Expert Services                              0.70     0.70                 0.82     0.82
Fellowships                                  0.32     0.32                 0.50      0.5
Subtotal                                   1.02     1.02                 1.32     1.32
Domestic: Government of Sri Lanka
Civil Works & Professional Fees     0.23              0.23        0.09              0.09
Furniture                           0.04              0.04        0.23              0.23
Equipment                           0.37              0.37        0.33              0.33
Vehicles                            0.13              0.13        0.21              0.21
Salaries                            1.09              1.09        6.54              6.54
Tool Kits                           0.63              0.63        0.06              0.06
Stipends                            2.14              2.14        0.63              0.63
Consumable Materials                3.47              3.47        0.68              0.68
Operation & Maintenance             0.36              0.36        5.85              5.85
Subtotal                          8.46     0.00     8.46       14.62             14.62
Total project financing           8.46    16.02    24.48       16.38    13.44    28.50
23



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 169B-CE
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Original  Rsedl
covenat     Present  Fuiiment Fu llmt
Agremnt   Secuon         Type       Stats    Dae      Date           Descriptionof Cvenant           Comments
Credit   3.01, S 4, 1 Project         C    08/30/87         Carry out a study on the financing of      In compliance.
(a)        implementation                          vocational training in the construction
program                                industry and review findings with IDA.
3.01, S 4,   Project         C    12131189         The cost of stipends and trainee tool kits to  In compliance.
1 (b) (i)    implementation                        be financed by sources other than general
program                                 budget revenues.
3.01, S 4,  Project          C    12/31/94         50% of cost of consumable materials (or    In compliance.
1 (b) (ii)    implementation                       some other percentage to be agreed with
program                                IDA) to be financed by sources other than
general budget revenues.
3.01, S 4,2 Project          C                     Appoint all additional staff in ICTAD and  In compliance.
implementation                          CHPB at lvels and in accordance with
program                                 schedule agreed with IDA.
3.01, S 4, 3 Project         C    06/30/80         Ensure that aN instructor training functions  In compliance.
implementation                          are transferred from ICTAD to the National
program                                 Technical Teachers Training College
(NMC).
3.01, S4, 5 Project          C    01109/90         Ensure that all upper-vel management      In compliance.
implementation                         training courses are financed by the
program                                 trainees or their employers.
3.01, S4,6  Project          C    01131/88         Conduct four training needs assessments    In compliance.
implementation                          and review findings with IDA.
program
3.01, S 4,7 Project          C    01/31/88         Conduct four tracer studies and review  In compliance anc
implementation                         findings with IDA                    exceeded. The fourtl
program                                                                            study is beins
completed, and ir
addition, a projec
impact study and
sustainability plan
were prepared
3.01, S 4, 8 Project         C                     Undertake a mid-term review and           In compliance.
implementation                          evaluation of the project with IDA to make
program                                 adjustment in program based on
implementation experlence.
Article I,   Financial       C    04/15187         Open Special Account in the Central Bank.  In compliance.
1.02
Article IV,  Financial       C                     Maintain records and accounts according to  In compliance.
4.01                                               sound accounting practices.
Article IV,  Accounts        C                     Have accounts, including the Special      In compliance
4.01 (b)                                           Account, audited annually by independent
auditors.
Article IV,  Accounts        C                     Fumish the audit report to the Association  In compliance.
4.01 (b)                                           within 9 months of end of year.
Article IV,  FinancialV      C                     Maintain separate records and accounts for  In compliance.
4.01 (c)    Accounts                               statement of expenditure.
29



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1698-CE
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of            Planned            Revised             Actual
Project Cycle     Weeks  US$000   Weeks  US$000   Weeks    US$000
Through appraisal         61.0    103.6     61.0    103.6      61.0       103.6
Appraisal--Board           2.2      3.9       3.9     36.4       3.9       35.4
Board--effectiveness       8.8     16.1       8.8     16.1      8.8        16.1
Supervision               92.7    215.2      88.1    207.0     88,6       209.7
Completion                 9.0     15.2       9.0     15.2      8.4        23.8
TOTAL                   173.7    354.0    170.8    378.3    170.7        388.6
Board date: 5/13/86
Effectiveness: 4/15/87
30



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1698-CE
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Number                Specialized    Implemen- Develop-
Stage of       Month/      of     Days in      staff skills     tation    ment   Types of
project cycle     year    persons   field       represented       status  objectives  problems
Identification     Jun/83         1       17   Sr. Economist
Preparation        Sep/84        1         5    Sr. Economist
Appraisal          Aug/85        6        17   Sr. Economist
Economist
Technical Educator
Management Specialist
Architect
Construction Specialist
Supervision I      Jul/86        4        11   Sr. Economist            1         1    Conditions
TechJAgricul.Specialist               of effective-
Architect                              ness not
Management Specialist                 met
Supervision II     Mar/87        2         6    TechJAgricul.Specialist    1      1    Not yet
Architect                              effective
Supervision III    Nov/87        1         9    TechJAgricul.Specialist    1      1    Trg.Shortfal
Supervision IV     May/88        2         5    Tech JAgricul.Specialist    1     1    Trg.Shortfal
Sr. Architect
Supervision V      Nov/88        2        5    Projects Advisor         1         1    Trg.Shorffal
Sr. Architect
Supervision VI     Nov/89        2        9    Sr. Architect            2         1    None
Const. Ind. Specialist
Supervision VII    May/90        2        14   Sr. Architect            2         1    Trg.Shorffal
Voc. Trg. Specialist
Supervision Vil    Nov/90       2         7    Sr. Architect           2         1    None
Const. Ind. Specialist
Supervision IX     May/91        3        11   Sr. Architect            2         1    None
Const. Ind. Specialist
Voc. Trg. Specialist
Supervision X      Apr/92        3        10   Sr. Architect            2         1    None
Voc. Trg. Specialist
Const. Ind. Specialist
Supervision Xl     Jun/93        2         9    Sr. Implement.Special.  2         1    None
Voc. Trg. Specialist
Supervision XIl    Mar/94        2        11    Sr. Implement.Special.  S        S    None
Voc. Trg. Specialist
Ed. Moni. Specialist
Supervision Xil   Jan/95        1        15   Sr. Education Planner    S        S    None
Supervision XIV    Apr/95        2        12   Sr. Education Planner    S        S    None
Economist
Supervision XV     Mar/96        2         5    Sr. Education Planner   S        S    None
Economist
31



Table 12
SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CONSULTANTS USED
A Technical Assistance programme funded on a cost sharng basis between the GOSL
and the UNDP was identified in 1986 to support the Second Vocational Training Project
(Credit 1698).  The ILO was identified as the executing agency of the Technical
Assistance Project titled UNDP/ILO Project SRL 86 001.
In-terms of this programme a sum of US$ 3.5 M was identified for this purpose and the
project commenced in February 1987.
The Project provided technical assistance to
a)    strengthen the institutional framework of ICTAD
b)   improve the quality of training for construction personnel
c)   train different types and levels of skilled construction personnel
d)    upgrade ICTAD's management and supervisory training programmes; and
e)   increase the efficiency of the construction industry.
Project Development Objectives
The project contributed to achieving two of the national development objectives described
in the GOSU UNDP fourth Country Programme for Sri Lanka.
a)    Rehabilitation and development of the physical infrastructure by enhancing the
productivity and output of the construction industry; and
b)    Employment generation and increasing incomes by upgrading the skills of various
levels of construction workers and hence their employability.
Project Immediate Objectives
The primary objective of this project was to provide technical assistance required to
achieve the implementation of the overall project. Its immediate objectives were to
a)    Strengthen the institutional framework of the ICTAD through development of its
organisational structure and staff capability in financial and general management
and in monitoring and evaluation of project operations and training programmes.
32



b)    Improve the quality of training of skilled construction workers, mecha,r-cs arc
operators, and trainers, through training needs assessments, the cesign anr
development of training programmes, improvement of learning materials, Cesign
and development of skill standards and trade tests and the introduction of modern
methods and procedures for the management of training programmes
c)     Assist in increasing and regulating the national pool of different tvpes arc !evels
of skilled construction workers,  operators, mechanics and trair,ers throucn
national,  regional and  international fellowships, regular national training
programmes and trade testing.
d)    Increase the efficiency of the construction industry through the introcucticn of new
technologies and methods, provision of supporting services ;n manpower/ labour
force analysis, construction statistics, survey data analysis and data processing
and through strengthening the role and institutional capacity of the Association of
Construction Contractors and other organisations.
The project which commenced in 1987 terminated on 31st December 1992
Interms of the activities of the project the following inputs were provided during the
project period.
a)    Foreign Experts
The Services of 36 Foreign Experts were provided
b)    Fellowships
70 fellowships for 79.95 months costing US$ 838,115.00 were provided to staff of
I     ICTAD and its partner agencies.
C)    Local Training Programmes
47 local training programmes involving 77 ICTAD staff and costing approximately
Rs.   273,675 were provided during the project period.
33



d)    Local Consultants
The services of local consultants were obtained on 41 external collaborator
contracts costing Rs. 9,109,194.00
d)    Equipment
Equipment such as audio-visula aids, vehicles, computers, office equipment etc.
costing US$ 851,542.00 were provided.
The project which was managed by an expatriate Chief Techical Advisers from
1987 was taken over by an ICTAD officer who managed the project as National
Project Director from June 1992 till the end of the project.
Although the UNDP/ILO TA project terminated in December 1992 both the IDA
and  ICTAD felt the need for the continuation of Technical Assistance. Which
was carried out from January 1993 to the end of the project.  Under this
programme 16 Foreign Experts were used (some on repeated assignments)
During this period 83 officers were sent on fellowships with costing the project
Rs. 26,437,280.55.  Rs. 293,250/=   was spent on local training of ICTAD
Officers.
The lists of Foreign experts engagea oy the Project both under the UNDPIILO TA
Project and under the IDA TA Project from 1993 to the end of thie project are
attached hereto.
34



Annex 1
SRI LANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRANNG PROJECT
LAST SUPERVISION MISSION (MARCH 1996)
AIDE MEMOIRE
A.    Introduction:
1.     During the last mission of Messrs. Aime and Allak to Sri Lanka (March 4 -22, 1996), and
according to the terms of reference dated February 13, 1996, Mr. Allak visited the Second Vocational
Training Project (Cr. 1698-CE) for one week to carry out the final supervision before the project closing
date in June 30, 1996. The supervision was focusing on assessing the progress of the projects
components and its procurement and disbursement activities. Mr. A. Aime joined Mr. Allak in the last
day and both attended the wrap-up meeting on March 22, 1996 which was chaired by the Secretary of the
Ministry of Housing, Construction and Public Utilities and attended by the members of the board of
directors and senior staff of the Institute for Construction Industry Training and Development (ICTAD).
2.     During the visit, the mission attended a seminar on national vocational competence qualifications
system (NVCQ) that was carried out by national and international experts. The NVCQ is a system of
upgrading and testing that opens opportunities to construction workers to be promoted to higher skill and
management levels.
3.     The mission discussed the detailed final review progress report prepared by the five divisions of
ICTAD and carried out with them a summary report of the divisions' activities. The summary report
(attached) contains the project objectives and targets included in the SAR and the output achieved by the
five divisions of ICTAD up to the end of 1995. The achievements were compared with the targets in the
areas of institutional development, trade training, and research and development (surveys and studies).
The report also includes ICTAD's achievement in cost recovery compared to the operational costs and the
institute's disbursement pattern during the project period (see project progress summary below).
B.     Proiect Obiectives:
4.     The project objectives were: to create an institutional frame work to sustain training and
industrial development efforts started under the first construction project, to increase the supply of semi-
skilled, skilled and managerial personnel to the industry, to improve the quality of manpower going into
the construction sector. The project was revised and the total credit adjusted from SDR13.0 million to
SDR 10.0 million (the projects' disbursement pattern is found in annex 1). The project is eight years old
and has been extended once for one year (closing date is June 30, 1996).
C.    Proiect Prozress Summary:
5.     The summary report of ICTAD's activities shows an impressive achievements over the project
period in the areas of institutional development, training activities, training links to industry needs, cost
recovery and sustainability that has met or surpassed the project targets.
a.     Institutional development. ICTAD was established as a unit of Urban Development Authority
immediately after project effectiveness (1986) to acted as coordinator, enabler, facilitator and policy
formulator in training and other industry related activities. In June 1992 the institution became a statutory
authority attached to the Ministry of Housing and Construction under State Industrial Corporation Act. Its
headquarters was built and was fully equipped with modern facilities and its organizational chart and
cadre were finalized and qualified staff was appointed. During the last eight years, ICTAD's management
embarked on an intensive staff development program that involved over 350 foreign and local fellowships.
b.     Training activities. ICTAD trains new workers and upgrade others directly in their own centers
and indirectly through assisting other training centers in training the trainers, improving the curriculum,
and providing training materials and physical facilities and by providing the trainees with equipment (e.g.
35



tool kits) at subsidized prices and career counseling. The number of workers trained have surpassed the
target numbers set in the project SAR by a wide margin. ICTAD trained over 96,000 workers in crafts
such as masons, carpenters, electricians, and senior and middle managers (130% of target). In addition,
the Operator and Mechanic Training Division within ICTAD provided training on construction
equipment mechanics and operators to 8,100 workers (131% of the project target).
c.     Training links to industry needs. ICTAD has carried out a pioneering actions to establish and
update the links between training activities and construction industry needs. Part of the training is
conducted in the industries for different duration depending on the type of training and usually industry
feedback are used to reform the training methods and curriculum. ICTAD has conducted four tracer
studies based on sample surveys covering 7 to 17% of the graduates and four training needs assessment
surveys for the construction industry workers.
d.     Cost recovery: ICTAD's aggressive ways in generating revenue consist of almost twenty
activities and most of the revenue comes from hiring equipment and building facilities and from fees on
courses, testing, and subscription. The total revenue produced increased more than six times during 1989-
1994 and reached Rs32 million and its share to the operation costs increased from 6% to 30% during the
same period. ICTAD has prepared a business plan called "Beyond 2000" that shows that cost recovery
will be increased further to reach 42% of the operating costs by 2000. Furthermore, ICTAD is planning to
audit Government and foreign contracts in construction industry for a 0.25% fee of the total contract value
are under way. Such an activity is expected to generate significant income estimated at Rs38 million
(more than operational costs in 1995) and in the same time, it will require additional expenditure for
creating a technical division with specialized staff. ICTAD is currently revising its business plan to
reflect these additional activities and expect further increase in income generation by 2000.
D.     Issues:
6.     The current main issues are related to the disburement and the Supervision and Management
Training building:
*  Disbursement up to the end of March 1996 reached SDR8.5 million out of the total credit of SDR10.0
million. The remaining balance of SDR1.5 is not likely to be disbursed by the project closing date
(June 30, 1996). If all committed activities would be implemented, it is estimated that one million
SDR will be spend by the closing date with the remaining balance likely to be canceled.
*  Construction of the Supervision and Management Training (SMT) building (total cost Rs54 million)
started in December 1994 and was scheduled to be finish by February 1996. However,
implementation delay occurred due to soil piling, roof selection, and cement shortages. During the
field visit, the mission found out that the SMT building is over 60% finished and the contractor is
paid about 50% of the total. Most likely the building will not be completed by the project closing date
and the mission informed ICTAD that the project will only cover expenditures incurred prior to or at
the latest by the projects' closing date.
E.     Actions:
7.     The followings are the main actions that need to be undertaken by ICTAD:
*  The mission discussed with ICTAD management the ICR guidelines and what needs to be done by
ICTAD and by the Bank after project closing date (copies of the ICR guidelines were left with them),
and urged them to start preparing their part soon and complete it by September 1996.
*  The mission urged ICTAD to increase efforts to accelerate the implementation of the current
activities such as the SMT building, and speed up disbursement of project activities before the project
closing date.
*  The mission discussed ICTAD's sustainablity plan and its revision according to the institute's
expanding activities in the construction industry, such as auditing Government and foreign
construction contracts, and requested ICTAD to send the revised plan.
36



F.     Summary and Recommendations:
8.     The project is operating and progressing very well, has no overdue audit reports (1995 report is
due in June 1996), and has received highest rating in achieving its development objectives,
implementation progress, compliance with covenants, and its management performance. ICTAD is been
managed by qualified and experience staff with good planning capacities and vision, who have been
behind the project implementation success.
9.     The mission recommends, when preparing the ICR, that more attention should be given to the
project as an example of a project well designed, prepared and implemented. Efforts should be made to
increase the visibility and profile of such a successful experience and to study key elements of success and
draw lessons for similar or other activities especially with regards to project management and cost
recovery and sustainability factors.
G. Sustainability Plan by Government:
10.    The Government has strong commitment to the future of ICTAD following project closing date
(June 30, 1996). A draft Cabinet Memorandum, outlining the Construction Act and ICTAD's functions
and activities, was approved by the Cabinet in March 1996. The bill is expected to be approved by the
Parliament by early 1997. Continuing the practice established under the project, ICTAD has prepared a
detailed Business Plan for 1996-2000 and a summarized Financing Plan. According to these plans,
ICTAD is expected to receive Rs 30 million annually to cover salaries and overhead expenditure during
1996-2000, meanwhile, ICTAD's income generating activities is expected to increase substantially and
reach Rs 29.5 million by 2000 and would cover 42 percent of total costs.
11.    Furthermore, plans for ICTAD to audit Government and foreign contracts in construction
industry for a 0.25 percent fee of the total contract value are under way and a provision has been made in
the draft construction bill for ICTAD to undertake technical auditing. This will involve streamlining the
processes of tendering, award, and monitoring implementation. Such an activity is expected to generate
significant income estimated at Rs 38 million (more than operational costs in 1995) and at the same time,
it will require additional expenditure for creating a technical division with specialized staff. ICTAD is
currently revising its business plan to reflect these additional activities and expect further increase in
income generation by 2000.
37



Annex 2
SRI LANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT(Cr. 1698-CE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.0    INTRODUCTION
In 1981 the government of Sri Lanka established the Construction Industry Training Project (CITP) as a three year
"Crash Programme" to meet shortage of manpower in the construction sector. The project which had an initial outlay
of US$ 2.54 M concentrated mainly on manpower training.
Although attention was given to such subjects as tender procedures, contractors grading systems, contract specifications,
quantity surveying and quality control and strategic planning in construction sector etc. the accent was as the
accelerated training of construction manpower.
In order to affect the necessary changes in the industry and to provide continuity the temporary project (CITP) was
transforned into the Institute for Construction Training and Development (ICTAD) which was established as a unit
under the Urban Development Authority (UDA). ICTAD under took two major functions - training and industry
development. ICTAD's training activities were centered around craft, supervisory and management, operator and
mechanic training while industry development was handled by the industry development division which had three
major functions
a) technology development
b) improvement of the operating environment of the construction industry
c) contractor development
The Project estimated to cost 13 M SDR and was spread over a period of nine years (from 1986 to 1995). The project
also provided for a UNDP grant of US$ One Million to assist in the financing of the Technical Assistance component of
the project.
The goal of the project was to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the construction industry in Sri Lanka.
There were no major risks involved in this project.
2.0    PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
" The project objectives were to create an institutional frame work to sustain training and industrial development efforts
started under the first construction project, to increase the supply of semi-skilled, skilled and managerial personnel to
the industry, and to improve the quality of manpower going into the construction sector. The project was revised and
the total credit adjusted from SDR 13.0 million to SDR 10.0 million. The project is nine years old and has been
extended once for one year with the present project closing date being June 30, 1996."
3.0    IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
The Project duration was for a period of nine years (from 1985 to 1996) and is in accordance with the standard profile
for education and training projects, in Sri Lanka. In view of domestic civil disturbances which affected project
implementation from time to time the project was extended by one year with the project closing date fixed as 31st
December 1995 and the credit closing being 30th June 1996.
The project objectives were in line with construction sector needs & implementation was good and timely considering
the complex nature of the project.
38



4.0    PROJECT PROGRESS
The project achievements have been impressive over the project period in the areas of institutional development,
training activities and industry development, Cost recovery and sustainability has met or surpassed the expected targets.
The status of each activity is given below.
a)     Institutional development
ICTAD was first established as a unit of the Urban Development Authority (UDA) in 1986 following the successful
completion of its first IDA project, the Construction Industry Training Project (CITP) to act as enabler, facilitator, co-
ordinator and policy formulator both in training and construction industry related activities. Immediately thereafter it
moved into its headquarters building which was built and equipped by IDA. Its organisation chart and cadre was
finalised and qualified staff appointed thereafter. During the project period ICTAD's management implemented a
massive staff development programme/ which involved over 350 foreign and local fellowships.
b)     Training activities
"ICTAD trained new workers and upgraded others using a variety of approaches - viz.
(i) directly in their own centers;
(ii) indirectly by assisting other training centers improving the curriculum and programs;
(iii) training the trainers;
(iv) providing training materials, equipment and physical facilities (some new and rehabilitation of others);
(v) providing the trainees with equipment (e.g. tool kits) at subsidized prices;
(vi) doing career counseling.
"The majority of the training centers supported by ICTAD (70%/o) are sponsored by the Government and the rest are run
by the NGOs and private sector. The number of workers trained have surpassed the SAR target numbers. To increase
the supply of semi-skilled, skilled and managerial personnel to the construction industry, ICTAD trained over 96,000
workers as masons, carpenters, electricians, various construction skills and senior and middle managers reaching 130%
of the project target. In addition, the Operator and Mechanic Training Division within ICTAD provided training on
construction equipment mechanics and operators to 8,100 workers achieving 131% of the project target In responding
to the emerging industry needs, the same division expanded its operations to train an additional 3,000 supervisors and
drivers".
c)     Construction industry development
ICTAD is recognised as a focal point for the development of construction industry in Sri Lanka. Its play a vital role in
identifying shortcomings and initiating remedial action as far as construction industry is concerned. A considerable
amount of work have been done and its impact on the construction industry is already felt. Industry is deeply
appreciative of ICTAD's substantial contribution to strengthen the construction industry as a whole.
ICTAD's significant contribution is identified below.
(i)    technology development
Conducts studies on alternative construction materials such as compressed soil blocks, micro concrete roofing tiles
(MCR), use of kempas and commonly used local timber etc. have been undertaken. Information on construction
methods, materials, and equipment available in the other countries and relevant to local conditions have also been
provided. Studies on appropriate technology have been carried out and information dessiminated, information on
appropriate specifications, standard and building regulations have also been provided.
(ii)   improvement of the operating environment
Construction statistics and price indices are published quarterly and the "Information Center" which has been set-up
within ICTAD provides upto date information on construction statistics, cost analysis, price data, etc., available from
the date base set-up in ICATD. A Construction Economics Unit which works very closely with the Dept of Censes and
Statistics has been set up. The study on "up-grading of consultancy services" has been made and its recommendations
39



are now being implemented. A 'Directory of Consultants" have been published and a system of registration has been
initiated. A manual on fire prevention in buildings has been prepared and publications of bidding procedures, contract
conditions, pre-qualification requirements etc. have been made.
(iii)   development of private contractors
ICTAD assisted the establishment of the National Association of Construction Contractors of Sri Lanka (NACCSL)
with loans and accommodation within its premises. The association has now over 4000 members and several out
station branches.
A system of registration and grading of contractors has also been introduced and is working statisfactorily.
Government contracts are awarded only to those who are registered contractors. A scheme for "National Construction
Excellency Awards" have been introduced in 1990 and annual presentations are made with a view to achieving quality
assurance at construction sites. A small contractor development programme was conducted through seminars and
workshops and is expected to benefit the construction industry as a whole since the bulk of the construction work is
handled by small contractors.
(d)    Cost recovery and sustainablity
"'ICTAD's aggressive ways in generating revenue consist of almost twenty activities and most of the revenue comes from
hiring equipment and building facilities and from fees on courses, testing, and subscription. The total revenue (cost
recovery) increased more than six times during 1989 - 1994 period and reached Rs.32 million and the share of
operation costs increased from 6% to 30% during the same period. ICTAD has prepared a business plan titled
"Beyond 2000" that shows that cost recovery could be increased further to reach 42% of the operating costs by 2000.
Furthermore, plans for ICTAD to audit Government and foreign contracts in construction industry for 0.25% fee of the
total contract value are under way. This will involve streamlining the processes of tendering, award and monitoring
implementation. Such an activity is expected to generate significant income estimated at Rs.38 Million (more than
operational costs in 1995) and in the same time, it will require additional expenditure for creating a technical division
with specialized staff. ICTAD has revised its business plan to reflect these additional activities and expect further
increase in income generation by 2000.
40



PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
(A) BACKGROUND
The intense economic activity and the buoyant trend in the construction industry following the implementation of
an open economy policy of the new government in 1977, created a high demand for manpower skills in the
construction industry. It also created the need for systems and procedures and sophistication in technology and
improvement of the operating framework for the construction industry.
In this background the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) with the assistance of the World Bank established and
funded the Construction Industry Training Project (CITP) in 1981 (Project Credit 1130-CE), the main objective of
which was to establish a unified modular system of training in construction related trades for large numbers of
persons - who were to be trained to limited but employable skill levels.
The project was successful in achieving all its objectives. Following the success of the CITP Project, the emphasis
of which was training of manpower, both the World Bank and Government of Sri Lanka agreed to institutionalise
the project to facilitate the development of the construction industry as a whole through which the improvement of
the operating system of the construction industry would be given priority.
It was in this background that the ICTAD was established in 1986 and World Bank funding under a project titled
the Second Vocational Training Project amounting to 13 Million SDR was initiated. The project period was nine
years. A Technical Assistance programme jointly funded by the UNDP and GOSL was also identified in terms of
which the Technical Assistance programme was executed by the ILO.
(B) PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
1)    to create and institutionalise the frame-work to sustain training and industry development efforts.
2)    increase the supply of semi-skilled and managerial personnel to the industry by training about 50,000 new
entrants construction workers.
3)    improve quality of manpower going into the sector by up grading about 26,000 existing semi-skilled and
managerial works to the construction industry
4)     qualitative improvement objective to be achieved by instituting an industry training programme to train
around 500 instructors, up grading curricula monitoring and evaluating skilled training and trade testing
about 40,000 skilled workers and supervisors.
5)    improvement of the operating environment of the construction industry
6)     development of domestic construction contractors
7)    initiating a system of cost recovery of training of expenditure
(C) PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
A number of income generating measures designed to increase revenue (cost recovery) were adopted which yielded
an income of approx. Rs. 32 Million.
ICTAD plans to undertake Technical Auditing of large government and foreign funded construction consultants
for a 0.25% fee of the total contract which is expected to yield an income of Rs. 38 Million per year what will be
more than the operational costs of the last year of the project. ICTAD has drawn up a Business Plan for its
activities till year 2000 in terms of which ICTAD would be getting a limited government grant till year 2000 and
from year 2000 ICTAD would generate sufficient income to be self financing.
(D) BANK PERFORMANCE
The staff of the World Bank made a significant contribution towards the success of the project trough very
supportive working relationships and effective professional advice given throughout the project period. At crucial
41



stages of the operation of the project the Task Managers and review mission staff advised and at times coerced the
project staff to think in terms of creative and innovative options/alternatives in implementing the project. The
adoption of such concepts as "capacity building and delivery quality improvement of partner training agencies" and
establishing successful links through twinning arrangements with similar regional agencies are just a few examples
of such initiatives.
The bank recognised the need for staff development particularly the senior staff to ensure effective inputs to project
implementation through such exposure. To achieve this objective it ensured that fellowships were properly
targetted in terms of project needs. One important reason for the success of the project has been the success of the
fellowship programme which ensured that the project was always manned by trained personnel.
The IDA also recognised the need for the continuation of the Technical assistance programme after te UNDP/ILO
TA project terminated. This ensured that expert inputs both foreign and local were available while fellowships for
staff not yet trained were also available.
The Bank facilitated speedy resolution of issues by responding quickly (particularly towards the latter stages of the
project) in all matters referred to it by the project.
The review missions were timely, adequate and extremely effective and fruitful in monitoring project progress and
in assisting project implementation activities.
(E) ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES
1. Project relationship
The success of te project was the result of the very cordial relationship which existed between the Bank and the
project staff and between the Project and other participating groups such as the UNDP, ILO DER and other partner
agencies. Another contributing factor was the high level of professionalism of all parties involved with the project.
2. Technical Assistance & Consultancy Services
Technical Assistance was provided through the UNDP/ILO Project till Dec'92 and through a separate TA budget
provided by IDA. TA was adequate and useful. However, the quality of the ELO experts made available was
below expectations; while the quality of those obtained after Dec'92 through direct negotiations and approval of
the IDA has been fairly high. While the fellowship programme was well targeted was extremely useful, the
external collaborator program under which specialised services were made available to supplement in-house staff
ensured that project activities did not suffer on account of non- availability of in-house staff.
(F) PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION DATA
The Staff Appraisal Report and the working paper supplied very useful information which was considered
adequate. Communications between the GOSL and IDA was timely and will focussed. The project staff
maintained good records which supplied upto date information on civil works, procurement, feliowships,
disbursements and other matters which were made available to visiting review mission in time.
(G) LESSONS LEARNT
The Institute for Construction Training and Development (ICTAD) which was created through the Second
Vocational Training Project had no physical facilities such as workshops for the training of large number of
construction workers. ICTAD therefore had either to establish such physical facilities itself or utilize the facilities
of institutions belonging to other state agencies. Although the successful utilisation of spare capacities of
workshops of competing state agencies was a challenging exercise, ICTAD (the project) chose this alternative and
ensured that the assistance and participation of host agencies was obtained through a well planned and coordinated
42



programme. For instance the technical training centers and workshop equipment and technical staff of the Ministry
of Higher Education were utilized to conduct both the new entrant and further training programmes of the project.
Through persuasion and successful relationships about 123,000 construction workers were trained utilising the
spare capacities of these institutions. Likewise the facilities of the National Apprenticeship and Industrial Training
Institute (NAITA), the Center for Housing Planning and Building (CHPB), the Department of Labour and State
Engineering Corporation (SEC) and several other state agencies were obtained for this challenging exercise.
The Project ensured that this exercise was successfully coordinated through a Steering Comnmittee of the
Secretaries of the relevant Ministries which was chaired by the Secretary of the Ministry to which the project
belonged.
Since the Ministries involved were competing agencies each resisting any encroachment of its own area of
operations, such an exercise would not normally be devoid of problems. All operational problems and issues were
settled through this Steering committee which met regularly. This is a classic example of a successful
implementation of a project with the active involvement, participation, and cooperation of competing agencies
carefully monitored and coordinated by a Steering Comnmittee consisting of the executive heads of all the
participating agencies. Tlherefore this has been a very challenging exercise where effective co-ordination has
ensured its success.
In a departure from the traditional project design practice where the technical assistance component includes a
heavy share of foreign experts provision was available for the engagement of local expert staff as "external
collaborators" to supplement the available in-house staff. Accordingly a large number of local consultants were
recruited under the UNDP/ILO TA project and thereafter with IDA funds on the termination of the UNDPIILO
project. The engagement of a multitude of local consultants in specialised areas has facilitated capacity building in
the industry. There was also a considerable cost saving from this arrangement. The facility of engaging a large
number of local consultants whenever needed to supplement in-house staff ensured its smooth operation and
therefore has been one of the major contributing factors for the success of the project.
The availability of sufficient technical assistance both through the UNDP/ILO TA Project and from IDA under the
special TA budget on termination of UNDP ILO project has greatly facilitated the training of in-house staff
through fellowships both foreign and local. The fellowship programme was well targetted in termns of project
needs. The project therefore had the benefit of a team of qualified and well trained personnel who were exposed to
the latest technology and methods practiced elsewhere. The exposure of senior professionals through fellowships
granted for participation in seminars/ workshops and short study visits was of particular benefit to the project.
Each officer returning on completion of a fellowship was expected to submit a report and make a presentation to
the rest of the project staff so that some of their knowledge and experience was passed down to the others in the
project.
An important feature of this project has been the commitment of the government right throughout the project. All
relevant state agencies and personnel from the highest to the lowest have acted with commitment and a sense of
urgency in regard to the project activities. There has been a ready response to project needs particularly in respect
of requests for amendment of the development credit agreement (DCA). The Board of Directors and the higher
management always responded positively in regard to project related matters. The mechanism of monitoring
project progress by the higher management through monthly progress and review meetings ensured achievement of
project targets as scheduled.
The establishment of the institution as a semi autonomous statutory body where policy formulation was through a
Board of Directors which met every month greatly facilitated project implementation activities.
The achievement of project objectives particularly relating to the improvement in the operating environment was
made possible in view of the close collaboration and active corporation of the project with the different professional
43



bodies such as the Institute for Engineers, Institute of Architects, the National Association of Construction
Contractors of Sri Lanka (NACCSL) etc. Apart from these bodies being represented in the Board of Directors,
there was constant rapport and dialogue between them which facilitated industry development. The functioning of
the Consultative Committees for training and Consultative Committee for industry development for sometime was
also helpful to the project.
ICTAD has taken some significant steps to ensure cost recovery and sustainability.
ICTAD's aggressive ways in generating revenue consist of almost twenty activities and most of the revenue come
from hiring equipment and building facilities and from fees of courses, testing, and subscriptions. The total
revenue (cost recovery) increased more than six times during 1989 - 1994 period and reached Rs. 32 million and
the share of operation costs increased from 6% to 30% during the same period. ICTAD has prepared a business
plan titled "Beyond 2000" that shows that cost recovery could be increased further to reach 42% of the operating
costs by 2000.
Furthermore, plans for ICTAD to audit Govermment and foreign contacts in construction industry for 0.25% fee of
the total contract values are under way. This will involve streamlining the processes of tendering, award and
monitoring implementation. Such an activity is expected to generate significant income estimated at Rs. 38
Million (more than operational costs in 1995) and in the same time, it will require additional expenditure for
creating a technical division with specialized staff. ICTAD has revised its business plan to reflect these additional
activities and expect further increase in income generation by 2000.
44



Attachment A
TOOLS & EQUIPMENT SUPPLIED TO TRAINING CENTRES I INSTITUTIONS
EQUIPMENtT TYPES                        .
TRAINING CENTRE I INSTITUTION                 WORKSHOP
Hend Tool Portle   Fixed             A.V.     Training Aldo  Training  Manualo
Equipment EquIp mnt Equipment    & Models   Tool Kits
aovernment Agencies
1. Dept of Technical Educaton           x          x          x                                     x         x
Training
28 Neo. Technical Colleges
Ampam.
Anurmdhapurn
Badulla
Baapitiya
Bandarawela
Battlcaoa
Belatta
Dambulla
Gallo
Gampaha
Hasealka
Hornagama
Jaffna
Kaiutama
Kandy
Kurunogala
Kuliyapitiya
Maradana
Matare
Mattakkuliya
Monaragala
Nuwara Ellyn
Ratmnalana
Ratnapura
Samanthurai
Warakapola
Wariyapola
2. Dept. of Labour (Predecessor
of the Vocationad Training
Authority)
A) 09 Noa. District Vocational       x          x                                   x            x         x
Skills Devolopm*nt Centres
CVSDC - Orugodawatte
DVSDC - Elpitiya
DVSDC - Talalla
DVSDC - Badulla
DVSDC - Gampcda
DVSDC  Kurunegala
DVSDC - Anuradhapura
OVSOC - Kgaslle
DVSOC - Kaltota
B) 90 Noa. Mobile Training Centre    x                                               x           x         x
(Masonry & Carpentry)
Page 01 of 04
45



TOOLS & EQUIPMENT SUPPLIED TO TRAINING CENTRES / INSTITUTIONS
EQUIPMENTTYPES                                             |
TRAINING CENTRE I INSTITUTION                WORKSHOP
Hand Tool Portable  Fixed           A.V.    Training Aids Training Mnuansi
Equlpm n Equlpment Equipment    & Models   Tool Kits
Government Agencies Contd...
3. Dept of Small Industries            x          x                                   x           x        x
- 24 Noe. Training Centres
Watapuluwa
Hattepota
Thai athu Oya
Paiapathwala
Tholabugolla -Galewela
Morahena -Panwilatanna
Udagama
Pitimathalawa
Morayaya- Minipe
Hawaeliya
Katukithula
Nortan Brige
Gampola
Polgolla
Waligodapola-Hatharaliyadda
Harispatthuwa -Kandy                               I
Kahawatta -Panwilatanna                  I
Naula
Matale
Haguranketha
Mailenlya
Harasbadca
Peradeniya i
Meethalawa
| Laxapana|                                  *       j        
4. Dept of Social Services             x          x          x                       x            x   I   x
04 Noe Training Centres
Wattegam a
Seeduwa
|Thelabuyaya
Ketawala -Levia
5. DepL of Probatlon & Childcare       x    |         x                                          x         x
Services.
Ranmrutugala
Makol a
Page 02 of 04
46



TOOLS & EQUIPMENT SUPPLIED TO TRAINING CENTRES I INSTITUTIONS
EQUIPMENT TYPES
TRAINING CENTRE J INSTITUTION               WORKSHOP
Hand Tool Portable  Fixed          A.V.    Traning Aid- Training Manuals
Equlpmon Equipment Equipment    & Models   Tool Klt
Government Agencies Contd..
6. National Youth Services Council    x                                            x           x        x
- 19 Noa. Districts
Gampaha
Kalutara
Kandy
Matale
Galle
Matara
Ham banto ta
Kurunegala
Puttlarnm
Anuradhapura
Polonnaruwa
Baduila
Monaragala
Ratnapura
Kegalle
Colom no                                                                                                 i
Nu wara Eiya
Ampara
Vavuniya
7. NatIonal Housing Development       K                                            X           X        X
Authority
14 Nos Districts
Garnpaha
Kandy 
|  Mantadle                                                          
Hamrbantota
Kurunegala
Puttlam
Anuradhapura
Badulla 
Monaragala
Ratnapura
Kegaile
Colomnbo
Ampara
Page 03 of 04
47



TOOLS & EQUIPMENT SUPPLIED TO TRAINING CENTRES / INSTITUTIONS
EQUIPMENT TYPES
TRAINING CENTRE / INSTITUTION                WORKSHOP
Hand Tood Portable  Fixed          A.V.    Training Aide Tralning Manuals
Equlpmen Equipmnnt Equipment   & Models   Tool Kite
a  NON -Governmental Organlatlone
- 19No. Tralning Centr.e             x         x          x          x           x           x        x
Suhadha
YMBA- Rajagiriya
YMBA- Dvulapitiya
MICH -Dematagoda
IORAA- Beruwula
YEIC - Malpettawa
Samradeepa- Anuradhapura
Dehami Fdn.- Hakmana
Isipathana- BDF - Horana
ST. Vincents Home- Maggona
Don Bosco TC- Negambo
T.l Dlyanilla
Sri Sonnuththara V.T.C.- Alawwa
Manthinda V.T.C.- Matara
CDF- Bellannwila
TTC - Yakkala
Sn Anyajothi FDN.- Thuththiripitiga
De Mazenod T.I.- Kandana
I.C.P.H.- Thihariya
9. Civil Engineering Facultie. of three
Universities
1. University of Moratuwa                    Laboratory Field Testing Equipment realted to Construction Field
2. University of Peradeniya
3. Open University of Sri Lanka
Page 04 of 04
48



Attachment B
SEMlNARS CONDUCTED BY ICTAD
TO DISSEM]ATE INFORMATION ON TECHNOLOGY AND
OTHER CONSTRUCTION RELATED MATTERS
* Contract Administration                    -    1990 onwards
* Alternative material for timber            -    1991
* Conversion Process for Lime/Dolomite       -    1991 (Process improvement)
* Introduction of fire code                  -    1991
* Micro Concrete Roofing Tiles (MCR)         -    1991 onwards (New Technology)
* Guidelines for site investigation          -    1992
* Aggregate production/quarry operation      -    1993
* Geotechnical Practices                     -    1993
* Quality control in construction            -    1993
* Use of ICTAD Formula for price variation   -    1993 onwards
* Consultancy Practices                      -    1994
* National Conference on Project Management  -    1994
* Shortage of Construction materials         -    1994
* Cement                                     -    1995
* Introduction of Standard Bidding Documents   -    1995 and 1996
* Bricks                                     -    1996
* Structural and reinforcement steel         -    1996
* ISO 9000 for construction                  -    1996
49



Attachment C
NATIONAL CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTOR'S ASSOCIATION
(NCCASL)
With the beginning of the first project (CITP credit 1130 CE) the NCCASL was established with
project assistance in the year 1981. Form the year 1986 ICTAD with the assistance of IDA
initiated a programme to upgrade the domestic contractors which in tum helped the Association.
The Association grew in strength over the years and its membership now exceeds 3500. Today,
it has nine branches operating throughout the island including the North nd East. All the branches
are operating under the umbrella of the parent office housed in the ICTAD building itself. In
addition to the Council of the parent office each branch has its own directorate to manage the
operations and affairs within its purview. The Chairman of each branch also flunctions as one of
the Directors of the parent body.  Each branch has employed technical personnel (mainly
Engineers) to advise and assist specially the small scale contractors.
The Govemment of Srn Lanka, recogneed the Association by making the membership of the
NCCASL a mandatory requirement for contractors to be eligible to tender for GOSL funded
projects.
Some of the noteworthy features of the NCCASL are;
* Every member of NCCASL requires to adhere to the Code of ethics developed by it while
tendering and executing construction contracts.
* The professionalism of contractors has increased remarkably since the formation of the
Association.
* Many small scale contractors have benefited from the technical services provided by the
Association.
* NCCASL is represented on the Board of Directors of ICTAD.
* It has taken a leading role in the establishment of a company (Construction Industry Guarantee
Fund) to issue bonds and guarantees for construction works and in the formulation of the
proposed Construction Act.
* It makes representations to the policy makers for the development of the construction industry
in general and issues related to contractors specifically.
* NCCASL is a fulltime member of the Intemational Federation of Asia & Western Pacific
Contractors Association (IFAWPCA) and plays leading role in its activities.
* It conducts training programmes and related activities for the advancement of the contractors.
50



Attachment D
Summary of Construction Norms and Tendering Procedures/Documentation
Standardized through ICTAD
ICTAD DOCUMENTS
In addition to the training materials ICTAD's publications could be categorized as
a)    Contact Docunents
b)    Specifications for works
c)    General
CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT
* Conditions of contract developed by ICTAD are used as standard conditions of
contract in all the state sector projects. The use of this document by the private sector
in their projects is increasing.
* ICTAD Conditions of Contract for small works is used by all the Provincial Councils
and other state sector agencies in smaller works.
3 ICTAD has recently revised its contract conditions in line with the Standard Bidding
Documents of the World Bank The World Bank has also accepted the use of ICTAD
Conditions of Contract for Bank fimded National Competitive Bidding projects.
*  ICTAD Formula is used for reimbursement of price variation.
* Consultancy service documents of ICTAD are used in all state sector projects.
SPECIFICATION FOR WORKS
ICTAD has developed the standard specification for works in the following areas and is
being used widely right throughout the country.
* Building Construction
* Water Supply Works
* Irrigation works
* Land reclamation works
* Coastal Works
* Aluminium works
* Floor Finishes
GENERAL PUBLICATIONS
ICTAD has also published the following documents
* Construction statistics and indices
* Tender procedure
* Standard Forms used in Construction Management
* Guide lines for registration of contractors
* Series of documents on use of some important construction materials
51



Attachment E
LIST OF FELLOWSHIPS - 1993
UNDER WORLD BANKfTA BUDGET
NAME OF OFFICER                    FIELD              COUNTRY    PERIOD              COST
01  Mr W D K Femando         Study VisKts to establish links, USA, HongkonG 06-Mar-93 to  528,492.00
and attend seminars in USA on Philippines  10-Apr-93
Construction equipment
02  Mr K M D Perera          Study Visits to Human Resource   Bangkok   14-Mar-93 to     309,297.00
Management InstUtutions & Manag.           10-Apr-93
of Change & Conflict in Organi.
03  Mr G A K Gajaweera                  -do-               Bangkok      19-Mar-93 to     303,395.00
10-Apr-93
04  Mr G T R Basnayake       Mainteance Management of Plar    UK        01-Apr-93 to     444,126.86
Equipment                                 31-May-93
05  Mr J S S Weerasinghe                 -do-                 UK        01-Apr-93 to     444,626.83
31-May-93
06  Mr R K A W Ratnayake                -do-                  UK        01-Apr-93 to     444,126.86
31 -May-93
07  Mr B S Amarasinghe                   -do-                 UK        01-Apr-93 to     444,626.83
31-May-93
08  Mr D Jinasena            Computer system for Accountane   UK        17-Apr-93 to     703.761.70
& Auditors                                  1 1-Jul-93
09  Mr U L Perera                        -do-                 UK        17-Apr-93 to     703,761.70
1 1-Jul-93
10  Mr B D P De Silva       Human Resource Management        UK         17-Apr-93 to     703,761.70
11-Jul-93
11  Mr A B Punchi Banda     Training In ATS  Software     Singapore   27-May-93 to        84,582.00
05-Jun-93
12  Mr L P C Llyanarachchi              -do-              Singapore   27-May-93           47,675.55
05-Jun-93
13  Mrs R G Nanayakkara     Training Managers course)        U.K.      27-May-93 to      691,896.50
14  Mr S Jayanetti                  -do-        )                      28-Aug-93         691,896.50
15  MrS Neelaratne          JICA- Training Programme on     Japan      31-May-93 to       37,582.00
Maintenancee of Const. Machinery          03-Aug-93
16  Mr A S Munasinha        Analysis of Labour Statistics for    U.S.A  27-Sep-93 to     696,703.60
Policy formulation in the                  12-Nov-93
Human Resources Sector
17  Mr M N M Zafar          Project Management - DOL         U.K.       06-Jun-93 to     822,998.28
Seminar on Labourforce Statistic   Ireland  01-Aug-93
18  Mr N S Abeywardene      Purchasing & Materials           U.K.       05-Jun-93 to    1,134,929.61
Management                                09-Sep-93
19  Mrs C Kulathilake       Contractor Development           U.K.      11-Sep-93 to      425,354.25
Enviommental, Impact                       10-Dec-93
Assessment
20  Mr H H E Dharmapala      Procurement & Stores Mgnmt     Canada      18-Sep-93 to     429,765.25
10-Dec-93
21  Mr E I Munasinha        Visit to Construction Industry  Hongkong    07-Oct-93 to     399,997.00
22  Dr S M A Perera (Board)   Training & Development    Korea, Tokyo      to             400,997.00
23  Dr M E Joachim          Agencies In South Korea        Singapore    31-Oct-93        422,091.00
(Ministry)              IFAWPCA Convention
24  Mr W J R de Mel          Study on information service  Singapore    22-Oct-93        544,422.60
& Publicity programme,       Hongkong
Visit & Study development of   SanFransisco  to
indices & other cost          Pilippines
information,                              17-Nov-93
VisA to PCA, IFAWPCA. ACEL &
CMDF on Project Management &
Cost information activities.
25  Mrs S M D F Siriwardhane  JiCA - 3rd Country Training  Philippines    25-Oct-93 to    37,158.00
(Dept of Buildings)     Programme                                  04-Dec-93
JICA FUNDED
Total           11,898,025.62
52



LIST OF FELLOWSHIP - 1994
UNDER WORLD BANK TA BUDGET
NAME OF OFFICER                       FIELD              COUNTRY   PERIOD                    COST
01. Mr P P Mahharachchi       Organisation & Development for   Australia       21-Jan-94 to      449,947.50
ICTAD                     Supervisors Training             Singapore       08-Apr-94
02. Mr Zafar - ICTAD   )      National Skill Standards & Trade  Australia      12-Feb-94         360.936.00
03. Mr P D Dharmawardana)    Testing                          Philippines       to
(NAITA)                                                    Singapore                         201,929.00
04. Mr G 0 D Ekanayake I                   -do-                               06-Mar-94          201,929.00
(NAITA)
05  Mr T G Weerasinghe        Supervisory & Management Trainir  Hongkong       16-Feb-94         291.010.00
(ICTAD)                                                   Pttiippines
06. Mr A G P Herath                        -do-                Singapore        to               128,704.00
(MOHE)
07. Mrs P M Kodikara                       -do-                                                  128,704.00
(OUSL)
08. Mr K G Piyadasa                        -do-                               06-Mar-94          128,704 00
(MOHE)
09. Mr G Neelaratna           Industry Board Training Programmi  Singapore    19-Feb-94          400.107.00
(ICTAC)                                                    Australia
10. tvMr G A M Sumanasekera                -do-                                                  209,127.00
(RCDC)
I 1. Mr G A Makavita                      -do-                                  to               239,901.00
(W A Perera & Co.)
12. Mr U L G A Perera                      -do-                                                  232.260.00
ICOE)
13. Mr K G N Dharmapriya                   -do-                               13-vlar-94         203.706.00
(CMOC)
i4. Mr S G V A Gunasekera     Const. Craft Training & Allied   Australia      18-Mar-94          383,358.00
(ICTAD)                   Matters                          Singapore
i5. Mr Daye Senaratna                      -do-             Philipoines        to                206.049.00
(DOL)
16 Mr K Kaluarachchi                       -do-                                                  206.049 00
(MOHE)                                                                     1 0-Apr-94
17 Mr W P Somapala - NYSC                  -do-                                                  206,049.00
18 Mr L P C Liyanarachchl     3rd intemational conference      Malaysia       20-Mar-94 to       145.186 45
on "The Concrete Fulure and     Singapore       28-Mar-94
post-seminar follow up
19 MrE I Munasinha &          Study Visit                      Australia      06-Mar-94 to       435,880.00
20. K M D Perera                           -do-               Melboume         01-Jun-94         435,880.00
Sydney
Singapore
21  Mr K Wijaya Guna ardena   Certificate/Diplonia in             UK           09-Jun-94 to      437.016 00
Professional Studies                            09-Oct-94
22  Dr M E Joachirr                                                           22-May-94 to       115,933.00
28-May-94
23. Mis A B Punchi Benda &    Study Tour                        China          09-Jul-94 to      572.037.50
24. W D K Femando                                           South Aust        08-Aug-94          572.357.50
25. Mr A R W M M C Amarakoon                                     U.K          16-Aug-94 tc       840.40J.25
USA Ph.i         20-Sep-94
26 Mi G A K Gaja-weera        Study Tou.                         U K          27 -AUg-94 to      4-9U bO0 50
17-Oct-94
27. Mr D L Dharmastlr                      JlC'A                Japan         I 6-Aug-94 to       431 3 75
07-Nov-94
28  tMr K W D Suchantherstne               HCA                  Japan         la-Auo-94 to        431 13 7.
07-Nov-94
TOTAL                8.318.406.20
53



LIST OF FELLOWSHIPS - 1995
UNDER WORLD BANK TA BUDGET
NAME OF OFFICER                        FIELD                COUNTRY   PERIOD               COST
(RS)
01. Mr D R N Femando  )     Workshop on engineering of           Madras    03-Jan-95 to        43,205.00
structures for mitigating damage                07-Jan-95
02. Mr D F Waudagedara )    due to cyclones                      Madras    03-Jan-95 to        43,205.00
07-Jan-95
03. Mr Kodikara             Conference on Construction          Singapore   11-Jan-95 to       49,442.40
(Open University of S.L)]   Project Management                           12-Jan-95
04. Mr L P C Liyanarachchy  Conference on the Concrete Future   New Delhi  08-Mar-95 to        89,226.00
of Malaysia                                     1 8-Mar-95
05. Mr W J R de Met         I F A W P C A                        Indonesia    1 6-Apr-95 to   116,840.00
20-Apr-95
06. Mr S S T Sumanasekera    Seminar on Advance Technology of     Japan    11-May-95 to        37,405.35
Construction(JICA)                              25-Jun-95
07. Mr P D Dias             Conference                            Japan                        20,000.00
08. Mr Wanasingha     )                                       Australia &    16-Jun-95 to     438,951.23
09. Mr Kocrituwakku    j                                      Singapore      29-Jul-95
10. Mr A B J Wimaladasa  )   Site Supervision programme            -do-       -do-            438,951.23
l1. Mr K M S Bandara   )                                           -do-       -do-            438,951.23
12. Mr K A T Kumarasinghe )                                        -do-       -do-            438,951.23
13. Prof. D S Wijeyesekera  Conference
14. Mr Sivapragasam  )      Conference &Study Visit Singapore   Melbourne    01-Jul-95 to     277,665.00
15. MrAS Munasinha )        -do-                                Singapore    10-Jul-95        231,551.00
16. Mr Neelaratna                          JICA                             21-Oct-95 to
21-Nov-95
17. Dr Ruwan Weerasekera    Conference on "Our World in                     23-Aug-95 to       57,285.93
Concrete & structures                          25-Aug-95
18. Mr K Illangaratna  )                                                                      145,640.36
19. Mr R M Ranatunga   )                                                                      145,640.36
20. Mr H M U B Herath  )    Training in Construction Plant    Singapore    20-Nov-95 to       145,640.36
21. Mr I P S K Hemachandra)   Diagnostics                                   1 5-Dec-95        145,640.36
22. Mr R P P Perera   )                                                                       145,640.36
23.. Mr R M S Bandara   )                                                                     146,140.33
TOTAL            3,595,972.73
54



LIST OF FELLOWSHIPS - 1996
UNDER WORLD BANK TA BUDGET
NAME OF OFFICER                       FIELD               COUNTRY    PERIOD              COST
01. Mr K A D S Senaratna            ConstructiQn Trades      Singapore &    01-Jan-96 to    420,744.00
Philippines   04-Mar-96
02. Mr B M G J Bandara            -do-                        -do-         -do-             420,744.00
03. Mr H P Kulatunga     .        -do-                        -do-         -do-             420,744.00
04. Mrs. Sriyani de Silva           Contract Disputes        Hongkong      01-Mar-96 to      27,555.00
Singapore     17-Mar-96
05. Mrs S M D T Nishani            Construction Trades       Philippines   24-Feb-96 to    396,727.00
Singapore     28-Apr-96
06. Mr K D N de Silva                     -do-            .      -do-                       392,798.00
07. Mrs Shanthini Rajathdurai                                Singapore      28-Jun-96 to     42,000.00
28-Jul-96
08. Mr Anura Nanayakkara                                     Singapore      23-Jun-96 to.    63,140.00
30-Jun-96
Ministry
09. Mr H P W Premadasa )                                         Italy     05-May-96 to     120,212.00-
10. Mr Y G Amaradasa  )                                                    31-May-96        120,212.00
TOTAL                     2,424,876.00
55



Attachment F
CONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION WORKS DONE
BY ICTAD
NATURE OF WORK          .  APPROXIMATE AMOUNT   YEAR OF COMPLETION
INVOLVED
1. Construction of Savsiripaya Building  Rs. 43.3 M                    1987
(Head Quarters Building)
2. Construction of a training centre for  Rs. 56 M                     1996
supervisory and Management Training
3. Improvements to the training centre for   Rs. 7.2 M                 1988
Operator and Mechanic Training at
Galkulama.
4. Construction of Workshop and Stores    Rs. 5,706,784. 00            1994
Buildings for Technical Colleges under
Ministry of Higher Education.
5. Construction of Workshops for        Rs. 334,810. 00                1996
Non- Government Organisations
6. Improvements, Repairs & Maintenance of Rs. 2 M                      1996
Savsiripaya Building.
DETAILS OF WORK DONE (GOVERNMENT AND NON-GOVERNMENT ORGANISATIONS
APPEAR IN THE ANNEXURES - I & 11)
56



1ANNEXURE- I
GOVERNMENT ORGANISATIONS - (TECHNICAL COLLEGES OF
MINISTRY OF HIGHER EDUCATION)
CONSTRUCTION OF WORKSHOPS & STORES BUILDINGS
LOCATION OF T/C          AMOUNT SPENT             DATE OF COMPLETION
(Rs.)         STAGE - I      STAGE - II
WORKSHOPS - 03 NOS.
1. Badulla                          1,149,409.00    26.10.1988      May 1993
2. Balapitiya                        1,100,000.00    Dec. 1988      Jan. 1994
3. Anuradhapura                      1,200,000.00    Dec. 1987      Dec. 1994
TOTAL                  3,449,409.00
STORES - 08 NOS.
1. Homagama                           250,000.00    July 1988       Feb.1993
2. Matara                             350,000.00    March 1988      Jan. 1994
3. Balapitiya                         300,000.00    March 1988      Jan. 1994
4. Galle                              278,395.00    July 1988      March 1994
5. Kurunegala                         170,000.00    April 1988     Jan. 1994
6. Hasalaka                           304,800.00   October 1988     Jan. 1994
7. Ratmalana                          400,000.00   January 1988     Dec. 1993
8. Kalutara                           204,180.00   February 1989    Feb.1993
TOTAL (Rs.)               2,257,375.00
GRAND TOTAL                5,706,784.00
57



ANNEXURE -II
NON-GOVERNMENT ORGANISATIONS
CONSTRUCTION OF WORKSHOPS
CENTRE                  AMOUNT SPENT             YEAR
_Rs.)          COMPLETION
WORKS HOPS
1. Youth Enterprise Imformation Centre        100,000.00         1996
Ambalanthota (New Workshop)
2. Dehaml Comunity Service Foundation
Hakmana (Completion of Workshop)            50,000.00         1996
3. Sri Sonuththara Vocational Training          9,810.00         1995
Centre - Alawwa(Completion of
workshop).
4. Sri Ariyajothi Foundation
Thuthiripitigama (New Workshop)             75,000.00         1996
5. Vajirasri Childrens Home                   100,000.00         1996
Pita kotte (New Workshop)
TOTAL (Rs.)                    334,810.00
58



MAP SECTION






IBRD 28407
80'                                             81'       SRI LANKA                              82'   I
nt Pedro   SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PROJECT COMPONENTS:
GCAD HEADQUARTERS
TECHNICAL COLLEGES:
*      WORKSHOPS
o      STORES
> /  -- uloicitivu  6;       MECHANIC/OPERATOR
TRAINING CENTER (WORKSHOPS)
/ {   \p HEAVY EQUIPMENT OPERATOR
Traloimann               /)        o*naku6m;       )2-          9                            TRAINING CENTER (STAFF HOUSING)
o     SELECTED CmES
_9.                                                                                             DISTRICT CAPITALS            9-
Toll                                                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL
SECONDARY ROADS
MAhIN ROADS
G u l f o f Por k                                                      \             RAILROADS
Maznnar                                        j                                       \ || \ DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
S                                   T,MeRvEdRiyt;Y  ( Trincomalee
j    .    ~~~Anurcd hpig                              nlale      
Koipiti                                              9 
1;  ys fi   St    G N >    teraint                     s              \\      locchena
-80~~~~ Arlo ro  \nwil
p As   Wa  /     |  t.        h~~~~~~Dhi t                 i'-a           alb'
Munnessorama _,.o-  '        -     /    'K fh O
Madam                    ttne                   Mo
INDIAEAN                                                                             /                 Thi    Korodiuc
- 7u ll;^    nto  I   /   <  s \_    + >  ( Eodullo                          co    1ots          _
7I   I   MIrd In       a I   I   Iduoup,Too odtoto  e
Wodduia         X }P  
Kaluboro                               M ;     dompe                   s
Emeilo                               hlst   of oo tt oby
Balopihye                                                                             t           \ \ , W lb-d ubin,
KILOMETERS       Guil                  N      b cD/                                        o  oyasostsoto
0                        801a; 2 3I                                                Tbnoot.p,   h   rB-
NOVEMBER 1996



4






CD
.-4
, r
rrn
F-'~~~~~~~M 
I-,                  C4,:1
_L  E- i



