Docunent Of
The World Bank
FOR OmCILa USE ONLY
C R . /S ofr-CC
Report No. P-4291-CE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 13.0 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PRCJECT
April 24, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     -      Sri Lanka Rupee
US$1.00           -      SL Rs 27.40
SL Re 1.00        =      US$0.036
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACCSL - Association of Construction Contractors of Sri Lanka
CEPB  - Center for Housing, Planning and Building
CITP  - Construction Industry Training Project
HEOTC - Heavy Equipment Operator Training Center
ICTAD - Institute of Construction Industry Training and Development
JTI   - Junior Technical Institutes
'MGHC - Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Construction
-DHE - Ministry of Higher Education
-'DL   - Ministry of Labor
NYAE - Ministry of Youth Affairs and Enployment
NAB   - National Apprenticeship Board
NTTTC - National Technical Teacher Training College
SEC   - State Engineering Corporation
SDCC  - State Development and Construction Corporation
UDA   - Urban Development Authority
WDB   - National Water Supply and Drainage Board
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - Decenber 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Credit and Project Summiarv
Borrower:     Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Amount:       SDR 13.0 million (US$15.0 million equivalent)
Terms:        Standard
Project
Description:  The goal of the project is to improve the efficiency of
the construction industry in Sri Lanka. The main objectives of
the project are to (a) create an institutional framework to
sustain training and industry development efforts started under
the first Construction Industry Project (Credit 1130-CE);
(b) increase the supply of semi-skilled, skilled and managerial
personnel to the industry; and (c) improve the quality of
manpower going into the sector. The institutional development
objective would be achieved by establishing and developing the
Institute of Construction Industry Training and Development
(ICTAD). The manpower supRlI objective would be achieved by
training about 50,000 new and upgrading about 26,000 existing
semi-skilled, skilled and managerial workers in the construc-
tion industry. The quality improvement objective would be
achieved by instituting an instructor training and upgrading
program, revision and updating of curricula, monitoring and
evaluating skill training and industry developments, and trade-
testing and certifying about 40,000 skilled workers and
supervisors.
Risks:        The project faces no special risks, and the project design
provides flexibility in meeting the requirements for skill
training as diagnosed by market surveys. A reduction of the
demand for training in total or for any skill in particular has
no implications for underutilization of staff and facilities as
the project would utilize existing facilities and contract the
instructors when specific courses are identified. Such changes
in the demand for training may at most lead to some under-
utilization of project funds.
This document ha a restricd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance 
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discklsed without World Bank authorizaion.



-ii-
Estimated Cost:  L&                                  Local    foreitn    Total
-U US  million--
Institutional Development (ICTAD)   1.14        1.40       2.54
Skill Training                        8.50      4.42      12.92
Management Training                   0.96      0.53       1.49
Instructor Training                  0.31       0.51       0.82
Monitoring and Evaluation             0.17      0.56       0.3
Total Base Costs                11.08       7.42      18.50
Continaencies
Physical                         0.63       0.41       1.04
Price                            2.67       2.27       4.94
Total Project Costs             14.38      10.10     24.48
Financing Plan:                                       Local    Foreien    Total
- -US$ millio- -
IDA                                   5.38      9.62       15.00
UNDP                                  0.54      0.48        1.02
Goveryent                             8.46       -          8.46
Total                           14.38      10.10      24.48
Estimated
Disbursements:  IDA FY       FY87  FY88  FY89  F        FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95
_ --Us$ million
Annual      0.30  4.18  3.58  1.76  1.14  1.10  1.08  1.04  1.12
Cumulative  0.30  4.48  7.76  9.52 10.66 11.76 12.84 13.88 15.00
Economic
Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:        No. 5958-CE, dated April 2, 1986
Navp:             IBiD 19341.
la Includes taxes of US$ 0.85 million equivalent.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMENDKATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A SECOND VOCATIONAL TRUANING PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for
SDR 13.0 million (US$15.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help
finance a second vocational training project. Cofinancing has been arranged
with UND (3ILO) for a grant of US$1.0 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      A country economic memorandum, "Sri Lanka: Recent Economic
Developments and Policies for Growth" (Report No. 5628-CE, dated May 14,
1985) was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 28, 1985. Country
data are provided in Annex I.
3.      After almost ten years of low growth at 2.9 percent per annum, Sri
Lanka, in 1977, initiated a new development strategy. It entailed a package
of policy measures to liberalize the economy and allow a greater role for the
private sector. These policies, supported by the IMH, were designed to: (a)
reduce goverment intervention in commodity markets; (b) reduce government
consumption subsidies and restore producer incentives and public savings; and
(c) create a favorable environment for private (foreign and domestic) invest-
ment through tax concessions, the creation of an Investment Promotion Zone,
and the unification and depreciation of the exchange rate. Two important
characteristics of this policy reform package were: (a) periodic increases
in the domestic support price for paddy (to bring it into line with world
prices) that spurred a highly positive response from paddy producers; and
(b) a decline in the cost of selected subsidies and transfers from about 10
percent of GDP in 1977 to about 3 percent by 1981.
4.      At the same time, the Government began to implement an ambitious
public investment program centered on three major initiatives:
(a) accelerated implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program, the
largest multipurpose river basin development program ever undertaken in Sri
Lanka; (b) establishment of a 200-square mile free trade zone to attract
jJ This part is substantially unchanged from Part I of the President's
Report for the Second Industrial Development Project (Report No.
4284-CE), which was approved by the Executive Directors on May 8, 1986.



-2-
foreign investors located north of Colombo near the international airport;
and (c) institution of a massive housing and urban renewal program focusing
mainly on the Colombo metropolitan region, includi1ig the construction of a
new capital complex at Kotte, a suburb of Colombo. As the public investment
program gained momentum, its share in GDP jumped from 6 percent in 1977 to an
average of 13 percent in 1978/79 and a peak of 19 percent in 1980.  The
public investment was financed in part by domestic resources (generated, in
turn, by a reduction in subsidies and transfers) and, in part, by high levels
of foreign aid.
5.      The initial result of both the policy reforms and increastd level
of investment was an impressive jump in the GDP growth rate during 1977-80
to an annual average of 6.8 percent. The growth rate subsequently declined
to a more sustainable 5.3 percent in 1980-83 and 5 percent in 1984-85.
Underlying the increased growth of output was the expansion of paddy
production, garment exports, construction, and tourist services. The growth
rate of paddy production averaged 5.7 percent a year during 1978-85 with the
result that rice imports declined sharply and averaged only 10 percent of
total rice consumption during that period compared to 33 percent during
1970-77. Manufactured garment exports increased from US$12 million in 1977
to an estimated US$300 million in 1985 and now account for 80 percent of
non-petroleum manufactured exports. Tourist arrivals increased from 150,000
in 1977 to 400,000 in 1982. However, due to ethnic disturbances, arrivals
have declined since to 320,000 in 1983/84 and an estimated 260,000 in 1985.
6.      The rapid expansion in aggregate demand, led by high levels of public
investment, resulted in serious financial imbalances affecting the budget and
the balance of payments. The massive public investment initiated in 1977 led
to increases in budgetary spending from 23 percent of GDP in 1977, to a
record 43 percent in 1980.  These high levels of spending, however, were not
accompanied by corresponding increases in fiscal revenues. When the economy
began to show serious signs of "overheating" in the early 1980s, the
Government squeezed current spending by reducing subsidies and by placing
limits on already inadequate public sector salaries and operation and main-
tenance expenditures. But with severe limits on the extent to which these
expenditures could be curtailed, the Government Was impelled to borrow
heavily to finance the deficits which varied between 10 and 17 percent of GDP
during 1981-85. During that period, 45 percent of the deficits were financed
by foreign aid, 10 percent were financed by foreign commercial borrowings and
45 percent by domestic borrowing.
7.      The high levels of of investment also spilled over into the balance
of payments. Between 1977 and 1980, import volumes grew at an average annual
rate of 19 percent, while imported investment goods increased from US$83
millicn to US$493 million, and intermediate goods and petroleum imports
tripled in current prices. As a result of this fairly broad-based expansion,
merchandise imports as a share of GDP increased from 23 percent in 1977 to 51
percent in 1980. Export volumes, however, expanded at a much lower rate (an
average annual growth rate of 5 percent between 1977 and 1980) as the decline



-3-
in tree crop export volumes offset the strong growth in garment exports from
firms established in the Investment Promotion Zone. Consequently, merchan-
dise exports as a share of GDP increased from 21 percent in 1977 to only 26
percent in 1980. These diverse trends in the volume of trade were accom-
panied by a 26 percent deterioration in the terms of trade over the same
period. Rapid growth in tourism receipts and private remittances from abroad
failed to offset this deterioration in the trade account, and the current
account balance deteriorated from a surplus equivalent to 2.4 percent of GDP
in 1977 to a record deficit equivalent to 19.8 percent of GDP in 1980.
Deficits in 1978 and 1979 were more than offset by increased net aid
disbursements, and Sri Lanka continued to add to international reserves.
But, in 1980 the situation changed, when the current account deficit rose to
$800 million. It was financed by concessional flows, use of reserves (which
declined by $220 million) and recourse to commercial borrowing.
8.      Realizing that a continuation of the 1980 trends would result in
serious financial instability, the Government initiated an adjustment program
in 1981. The measures agreed upon initially, in consultation with the IHF,
included tighter overall monetary policy, a substantial reduction in govern-
ment spending, and a gradual realignment of the exchange rate. The economy
began to respond positively by the end of 1981 (when the current account
deficit in the balance of payments declined to 13.7 percent of GDP and the
budgetary deficit to 15.5 percent), but in 1982 - a year in which there were
presidential elections and a referendum to extend the life of Parliament -
the political resolve to continue to apply the needed policy mix weakened.
As a result, both the external and internal deficits increased in 1982 (to
15.3 percent and 17.3 percent, respectively) and the GDP growth rate declined
to 5.1 percent. Although policy measures did contribute to the decline in
the current account deficit of the balance of payments in 1983 and 1984 (12.4
percent of GDP in 1983 and 3.7 percent in 1984), the primary factor was the
improvement in the terms of trade as a result of higher tea prices. With the
subsequent decline in the price of tea, the terms of trade deteriorated in
1985 and the current account deficit of the balance of payments increased to
8 percent of GDP. Furthermore, on account of lover receipts from taxes on
exported tea and higher defense expenditures, the overall budget deficit
increased from 10 percent of GDP in 1984 to 11 percent in 1985. Because the
price of tea declined in the second half of 1985, however, its effects on the
budget will mostly be felt in 1986 when the fiscal deficit may turn out to be
much higher.
9.      Achieving a more viable internal and external financial position are
now two prime policy objectives for Sri Lanka. To improve the external
position, one of the foremost requirements of government policy will be to
restructure the economy towards exports rather than producing for the very
limited domestic market. With the exception of garments, for which Sri Lanka
has a particularly strong comparative advantage, exports have performed
poorly. A major focal point for improving export performance is the tree
crop sector, which, as a result of more than a decade of neglect, has
experienced a stagnant level of production. This trend must be reversed.



-4-
To promote export activities, a more neutral incentive framework is needed,
including a foreign exchange policy that would permit the full diversity of
Sri Lanka's comparative advantage to develop.
10.     The Government has recently indicated its determination to pursue
reforms in this sector. In 1985, it reduced the overall tax burden ou tree
crops. This reduction, in combination with the management/incentive reform
package for state-owned plantations implemented in early 1984, has improved
incentives for producers throughout this traditionally overtaxed subsector.
The Government has also introduced tariff changes, based on recommendations
made in the final report of the Presidential Tariff Commission on trade
taxes, aimed at reducing the overall tariff level and the variance of effec-
tive protection among sectors.
11.     The comparatively high levels of social welfare expenditures which
the population has long enjoyed and which cannot easily be reduced, together
with sharply increased defense expenditures, means that the Government must
renew its efforts to improve domestic resource mobilization - especially in
the public sector - to pay for these outlays. Improving-the domestic finan-
cial situation will require broadening the tax base thus increasing tax
revenues and reducing unproductive government expenditures. A focal point of
these measures will have to be the public sector enterprises, which account
for 40 percent of the value added in the non-petroleum manufacturing sector,
but are a heavy burden on the budget because of high protection from external
competition, administered prices for their products, their monopolistic or
quasi-monopolistic position, and the inefficient use of resources. They will
have to improve their management and reduce the support they obtain from the
budget.
12.     Throughout the entire 1978-85 period, the  response of the interna-
tional aid community to the Government's development efforts has been
enthusiastic. Project aid was stepped up, particularly for the Accelerated
Mahaveli Program. The overall level of aid commitments per year increased
from US$250 million in 1977 to a record US$800 million in 1981, equivalent to
US$55 per capita. Disbursements grew much more slowly so that the aid
pipeline rapidly expanded to around US$1.63 billion by the end of 1981.
Because implementation and domestic financial constraints required cuts in
public capital spending after 1981, aid commitments declined to US$500 mil-
lion in 1982, US$350 million in 1983, and US$460 million in 1984, halting
further increases in the pipeline. Aid disbursements have increased
steadily, from US$200 million in 1977 to US$550 million in 1984. Continued
high levels of aid will depend upon donors' willingness to finance a sizeable
portion of local costs, provide supplementary financing for ongoing projects,
where needed, and to increase non-project aid. Local cost financing in
support of Sri Lanka's resource mobilization efforts will not only provide
valuable relief from budgetary pressures, but will also supplement foreign
exchange resources needed to support the balance of payments.



-5-.
13.     At the end of 1985, the external public debt outstanding and dis-
bursed stood at an estimated US$2.7 billion, about 40 percent of GDP.
Although over 70 percent of this debt 8s on concessional terms, the increased
commercial financing resorted to in 1981 and 1982 contributed to the increase
in the debt service payments (excluding IMF charges and repurchases) between
1962 and 1985, at which time the debt service ratio had risen to 15 percent.
Assuming that the Goverment's efforts to contain the budget deficit and to
implement policy measures designed to stimulate exports and efficient import
substitution activities are successful, the current account deficit in the
balance of payments should decline to approximately 7 percent of GDP toward
the end of the decade, and the debt service ratio, after temporarily rising
to almost 19 percent because of existing debt repayment cnmmitments, should
drop to 15 percent in 1990. Nonetheless, the Goverinent will need to monitor
carefully the level and terms of external borrowing to ensure that the
country maintains a satisfactory external payments position.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
14.     Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, the World
Bank has approved 12 loans totaling US$183.7 million (net of cancellations)
and 38 credits totaling US$753.2 million (net of cancellations) in support of
47 projects. About 53 percent of World Bank assiatance has been for agricul-
ture (irrigation, tree crops, and rural and dairy development), 17 percent
for pover, 10 percent for transportation, and the remainder of 20 percent
among development finance company operations, a program credit (involving the
import of raw materials for industry), water supply, construction industry
training, and telecommunications. Eight loans and 16 credits have been fully
disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of World Bank Group opera-
tions as of Narch 31, 1986.
15.     In Sri Lanka, the IPC has a total investment of US$2.13 million
equivalent in equity and US$18.69 million equivalent in loans as of Narch 31,
1986. Investments have been made so far in two textiles industries, one
polypropylene bag industry, one equipment-leasing company, one hotel, and two
IFC lines of credit, one of which has been extended to the government-owned
Bank of Ceylon for term loans to medium-sized industries.
16.     A central element of the World Bank Group's current strategy in
Sri Lanka is the achievement of a more sustainable balance-of-payments posi-
tion in the medium term through export promotion and import substitution in
viable economic activities. The Bank Group's macroeconomic and sectoral
analyses of the Sri Lankan economy indicate that achieving and maintaining
external equilibrium in the context of a groving economy require major policy
changes in several areas: investment priorities should be assessed more
carefully than in the past; the system of economic incentives should become
more consistent; the role of the public sector in manufacturing activities
should be limited to clearly established priority areas; and cost recovery



-6-
should be seen as complementary to, rather than conflicting vith, greater
equity. in distribution.
17.     Within the above framework, the Bank's lending program has been
concentrating resources on directly productive sectors, such as agriculture
and industry, and in support of energy and trausport infrastructure. Witbin
agriculture, Bank Group strategy bad given until recently the highest
priority to the expansion of paddy production and to rebabilitation of the
vital tree crops subsector. Regarding tree crops, the objective has been to
channel resources into an activity in which Sri Lanka has a comparative
advantage. While this objective will retain its importance, the probable
attainment of self-sufficiency in rice will allow the lending program to
support in the future programs aimed at expanding the production of other
important agricultural products for local consumption and, possibly, local
processing for exports.
18.     The World Bank has also provided financing for a broad range of
large-, medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises, primarily in the
private sector, through support of industrial development finance
institutions. Future lending in the sector would continue this support,
focusing on firms with export potential. It would also capitalize on the
conclusions of technical assistance financed through past operations to
provide support for improvement in trade and incentive policies, and for
increasing the efficiency of public enterprises.
19.     The Gove,  ent's priority to rehabilitate rundown infrastructure and
expand the capacity of existing capital stock by high priority new invest-
ments is well placed and necessary in order to support expanded economic
activity, particularly in the private sector. Major elements of the lending
program would be directed at helping to meet the energy needs of the economy
and at easing trausport bottlenecks. The World Bank has provided financing
to a number of power projects for generation, transmission and distribution.
The thrust of >uture operations would be decided on the basis of a comprehen-
sive assessment of investmn'at needs in all three areas. However, given that
the majority of high yielding sources of energy in Sri Lanka have been util-
ized already, it is envisaged that the future program -would accord relative
priority to energy conseriation rather than generation, through both required
investments and policy measures. The old and inefficient power distribution
system would be rehabilitated to reduce system losses; small but significant
improvements in energy conservation would be undertaken in large energy
consuming industrial/commercial units; and a study is underway to recommend
measures to improve energy efficiency in the transport sector, a large con-
sumer of commercial energy in Sri Lanka. Support to the transport sector
would continue with rehabilitation and upgrading of the road network,
institutionalizing proper maintenance methods and improving sectoral planning
of policies and programs.
20.     Institutional capabilities, at both the planning and implementation
levels, have been strained by the recent rapid expansion of public



tcE
-7-
investment. Continuing maphasis would be placed on project components sup-
porting institution building, human resource development, business and
industrial management, and public administration.
21.     The World Bank's development of a coherent lending program for Sri
Lanka, and its continuous dialogue regarding the specific elements of the
program and policies necessary for increasing the program's effectiveness,
have been acconpanied by firm support for a substantial transfer of resources
to Sri Lanka. The main grounds for this support have been the need to offset
the deterioration in the world trade environment; the achievement of a high
and sustained growth rate; and the tightness of the Government's budgetary
situation as increased operational and maintenance requirements make demands
on doaestic resources.
22.     The World Bank Group, as of the end of 1984, accounted for 15.2
percent (IBRD, 2.3 percent; IDA, 12.9 percent) of Sri Lanka's total debt
outstanding and disbursed, and 5.0 percent of debt service on medium- and
long-term debt. The projected World Bank Group's share in total existing
external debt outstanding and disbursed will increase to 18.3 percent (with
IBRD's share declining to 1.9 percent) and its share in debt service will
increase to about 5.4 percent, by the end of 1986.
PART III - VOCATIONAL TRAINING TN THE CONSTRUCTION SECTOR
Government Policies and Proerams in Vocational Traininm
23.     Since 1979, the Government has invested in training programs as a
necessary part of its strategy to successfully implement its industrializa-
tion program. The increase in demand for skilled workers especially in
engineering and construction trades within the country, and the migration of
workers to the Middle East, increased the demand for technical education and
vocational training. The other major decision taken by the Government was
not to restrict the outflow of skilled labor from the country. Instead, a
policy to expand training programs was instituted.
24.     As a result, training capacities have expanded across the board, for
technical manpower, instructor training, and vocational/construction
training. Briefly, the network of polytechnics and Junior Technical
Institutes (JTIs) of the Ministry of Higher Education (MDIE) was expanded
through a Rs 500 million technical education project supported by the ADB,
SIDA, and MUDP. A National Technical Teacher Training College (NTTTC) is
also to be established under that project to provide pre- and in service
training for instructors in MEIE institutions. This college is also expected
to play a dominant role in relieving the lack of qualified instructors in the
country.
25.     The National Apprenticeship Board (NAB), under the Ministry of Youth
Affairs and Enployment (NYAE), established an Apprenticeship Training



-8-
Institute at Katubedda with assistance from the Federal Republic of Germany.
The NAB with assistance from UNDP/ILO is also establishing a Technician
Training Institute at Katunayake. It also administers craft training at work
sites for 16-22 year old youths, and currently supervises about 10,000
trainees. NAB does no training itself, but recruits apprentices, establishes
training curricula and testing standards, and carries out field inspections
of training on work sites. For construction trades, there are some one-year
courses, but the majority are courses sponsored under the Construction
Industry Training Project (CITP - Credit 1130-CE). NAB runs a special
apprenticeship scheme with an annual intake of about 500 trainees at higher
levels (about 375 middle-level supervisors, plus undergraduate training in
universities for about 100 upper management trainees).
26.     The Ministry of Labor (ML) ha.s established seven permanent -occ-
tional training centers with the assistance of the Dutch Govermient, and also
plans to strengthen its institutions at Orugodawatte, Narahenpi::a and
Marawila. With SIDA assistance, the MDL has established a Foreman Training
Center in Colombo. In rural areas where students are dispersed over a wide
geographical area, MDL operates two permanent centers and 317 very small
mobile units offering courses in masonry and carpentry, metal work, and motor
repair and maintenance, for about 2,700 students a year. Additional training
in carpentry is provided by the Dapartment of Small Industries which operates
109 centers nationwide.
27.     Several issues affect technical/vocational training in Sri Lanka.
These relate to manpower, the efficiency of the vocational training system,
the management of the system itself, and financing policies. As regards
policy, there are four issues which warrant attention: the export of
manpower, the lack of testing and certification, and the wages and benefits
to staff in technical/rocational training and cost recovery. The efficiency
of the system is affected by the relevance of the curriculum to market needs,
the competence of instructors, the availability of training equipment and
materials, and the degree to which the trainees are employed and the benefits
they receive after trainirg.
28.     Export of Nanyower.  The Government has adopted a policy of encourag-
ing the migration of skilled and semi-skilled workers. In 1982, 76 percent
of the migrants were either skilled or semi-skilled workers. The major
factor influencing migration is the high wages offered abroad. In 1983,
remittances amounted to Rs 6.8 billion and were the second highest foreign
exchange earner after the export of tea. While the large number of skilled
and semi-skilled persons migrating to the Middle East has eased the pressure
of local unemployment, it has created a number of problems for the local
construction industry. There have been difficulties in recruiting competent
personnel, and productivity in the construction industry has declined because
the more experienced and skilled workers have been leaving. The escalation
of construction costs due to the increase in wages is linked also to
migration.  Wi,A the -ecent drop in international oil prices, an emerging
issue is whether a significant number of workers who went to the Middle East



would be compelled to return vhen their contracts expire, thereby increasing
the supply of skilled workers in the local market. Nany of the returnees
vill return to their original occupations as construction workers. However,
preliminary data (from ILO/ARTEP) shows that the overwhelming number of
returning workers normally invest their savings in land or caumercial
enterprises and therefore prefer self-employment.
29.     Certification.  Training programs for the same trades which are
conducted by various ministries differ in the level of skills imparted, and
the training methodology and curriculum utilized. This lack of uniformity is
aggravated by the paucity of facilities for trade testing. Employers,
therefore, find it difficult to ascertain the skill levels of new recruits
and prefer instead to administer their own tests and establish comensurate
wage scales.
30.     Salary and Benfefits.  The recruitment and retention of technical
personnel has been of serious concern. The situation is most evident in the
training profession, because general conditions of employment and basic pay
scales are more attractive in private industry. Although the problem is
recognized, there has been little action to remedy the situation, largely
because pay scales are part of a wider public service system.
31-     Relevance of Curriculum.  Some ministries have achieved a degree of
success in designing training courses which reflect the needs and the
requirements of the industry. However, there has been no formal system where
curricula are designed in consultation with the industry, or feedback
gathered on the relevance of training imparted. This shortcoming can only
be corrected by institutionalizing a process whereby consultative and repre-
sentative committees are appointed, which guide and advise training organiza-
tions on the needs of the industry.
32.     Competence of Instructors.  knother problen of the training system
is the lack of instructors who have the necessary industrial experience.
Because the opportunities for training new instructors have been reduced
during the last decade, the few who have been trained abroad, quickly leave
for more lucrative employment opportunities overseas and domestically.
33.     Availability of Materials.  Most vocational training institutions do
not have adequate supplies of consumable training materials because of budget
constraints. Apart fron the funding aspects, high-quality materials are not
provided in a timely way. The reliance on instructor-focused rather than
trainee-centered instructional programs as well has prevented experimentation
with more innovative teaching methods.
34.     Coordination and Mnamsement of the Trainin- System.  Technical and
vocational education and training is the responsibility of a number of minis-
tries and organizations. The need for coordination to avoid duplication of
effort and a waste of resources is urgent. As a good example of coordination
efforts, the Goverrment has cited the CITP which spans several ministries in



-10-
implementing a sector-related training program. There has been no duplica-
tion of effort in implementing the project, and existing training facilities
are utilized wherever possible, thus obviating the need for new facilities.
35.     Cost Recoverl.  Sri Lanka has developed a heavily subsidized voca-
tional training system.  The Government's policy is to meet almost the entire
capital and recurrent costs of these programs from general resources (namely,
the business turnover tax, income taxes, and export duties); and at present,
none of these revenues is earmarked for education and training activities and
funding is based on available resources (para. 55). The 1971 NAB Act, which
provides for a training levy on employers with more than 50 employees, has
never been utilized to finance vocational training. The business turnover
tax is seen as the means through which all employers contribute to
government-sponsored training programs. Public training institutions also
have a subsidized fee structure. In the technical institutes, the fees are
nominal, while public in-service training institutions administer fee struc-
tures that attempt to achieve full cost recovery from private sector
trainees, but provide free training to public sector employees. In the
private sector, there are a nu:mber of institutions which conduct specialized
vocational training programs and charge realistic fees fran their clientele.
There are, however, few private institutions which offer basic skill training
in the construction trades. The Goverrment also has a policy of awarding
stipends in some of its vocational training programs, designed to attract
trainees fran poorer households. There is, however, no uniformity in the
amounts paid by the different government agencies for essentially similar
training.
Bank Involvement in Vocational Trainin2
36.     The Construction Industry Training Project (Credit 1130-CE), approved
in April 1981, is the only vocational training operation supported by IDA
to date.  It was established under the Hinictry of Local Government, Housing
and Construction OMLGHC) with the objective of developing a training program
to meet the immediate requirements of skilled labor for the construction
industry, as well as improving the methods and procedures in the construction
industry. This project was designed to: (a) establish a unified modular
training system for construction-related trades; (b) improve the use and
maintenance of plant and equipment by training operators and mechanics;
(c) increase the effectiveness of work planning and supervision by training
middle and upper management in contract procedures, site management and
quality control; and (d) strengthen the agencies and institutions involved in
training for the construction industry. The project had original training
targets of: (a) 45,000 workers in basic construction skills; (b) upgrading of
about 9,600 existing workers in their construction skills; (c) about 1,800
workers in equipment operation and maintenance; (d) about 900 supervisors in
work supervision and quality control; and (e) about 80 senior staff in
improved work planning and management. With the slower rate of expansion in
public works after 1980-81, the initial projections of increases in the
construction workforce in the order of 15 percent per annum proved to be



-11-
optimistic. The targets for manpower training in the project were therefore
reduced in 1983. There were three reasons for reducing the training targets:
(a) the original targets set at appraisal were too ambitious for a three-year
project; (b) the project had a slow start-up, and (c) construction industry
activities declined after 1981.
37.     The Government established a temporary Project Cell in the Urban
Development Authority (UDA) under the HLGHC. A comittee consisting of the
secretaries of the ILGIC (Chairman), NYAE, Plan Implementation, MDJE, Lands
and Land Development, Mahaweli Development, and IDL, was established to
formulate policy and oversee the implementation of the project. The
Government agreed to implement through the NAB, standardization of the selec-
tion of trainees, training, testing, certification and registration of con-
struction workers, supervisors and specialists. This task has been completed
already and implementation is now being handled by the NAB. The Government
also agreed to implement standardization of the construction industry con-
tracting specifications, procedures and documentation. This was handled by a
temporary National Steering Committee. The work is nov completed and has
been approved by the Cabinet for implementation.
38.     Under Credit 1130-CE, attempts are also being made to recover or
share part of the costs of the training programs with primary and secondary
beneficiaries (trainees and contractors). For example, in skill training,
the CITP finances the costs for the 10-week institutional training period
plus 10 weeks of the 40-week on-site phase. Contractors pay the trainees a
comparable or higher stipend during the remaining 30 weeks of the supervised
on-site training period. For upper and middle management courses and trade
testing, fees have been levied from the inception of the project. The CITP
also undertakes several activities which generate revenue as part of the
training program. These practices need to be strengthened and expanded, so
that the financial burden to the Government from operating these programs is
substantially reduced (para. 56).
39.     The project objectives have largely been met, but continued support
is required in order to institutionalize and consolidate these achievements.
The modular training system has been established, but requires that curricula
and training manuals be updated to reflect changes in construction techniques
as well as instructional methodology; middle and upper management training
programs would have to be expanded, particularly in view of the urgent need
to increase public sector efficiency and the expanding role of private sector
contractors. The agencies involved in construction industry training, mainly
the IE,  ML and IffAE, have been assisted under the project.  Coordination
has been enhanced through the temporary Secretaries' Committee and Project
Cell. This organizational device must now be formalized to prevent duplica-
tion of programs and facilities, and to manage programs and policies which
can stimulate the role of the private sector. By December 1985, 24,000
persons had been trained under the project and it is expected that a total of
about 30,000 persons would be trained by project completion. Tracer studies
conducted in 1983, 1984 and 1985 showed that up to 85 percent of trainees



-12-
have found employment in their area of training. The 1985 study also showed
that the rate of employment (permanent, self or casual) and the wage earning
capacity were higher for CITP trainees than for non-CITP trained workers.  On
average about 35 percent of CITP-trained artisans (carpenters, plumbers,
masons, electricians) found full-time permanent employment while the others
were either self-enployed or operated as casual (daily) workers. The average
daily wage of CITP-trained artisans was about 44 percent higher than for
unskilled/untrained workers (Rs 36 per day compared with Rs 15-25).
CITP-trained equipment operators and mechanics achieved almost 100 percent
permanent full-time employment with average monthly vages of Rs 1,500 which
is about 10 percent above the average for other permanently employed skilled
workers in the private sector. Employed construction site supervisors (lower
level managers) had an average monthly wage of Rs 1,368, and this compares
favorably with supervisors at similar levels in the construction industry.
Employment ProsDects in the Construction Industry
40.     Although emigration to the Middle East has slackened and Sri Lanka's
investment program has been reduced since 1982, there is still a substantial
unmet demand for training, including upgrading of already employed workers.
Further, there is a need to strengthen the links between training and other
activities contributing to the development of the construction sector. The
expected mix of new investments in the Public Investment Program (1986-1990),
the Government's emphasis on better maintenance of existing capital assets,
and its policy to strengthen the local private construction industry would
generate a substantial demand for skilled and semi-skilled workers.
Estimates of training requirements have been obtained from an analysis of
the Public Investment Program (1986-1990), and an assumed breakdown of staff
required for the construction and maintenance of ordinary and complex
buildings, road construction and maintenance, slum and shanty development,
semi-permanent and permanent housing, irrigation, water supply and drainage
works. It is clear from this analysis that the skill mix needed for future
investments would differ from that required in the period up to 1981, during
which heavy construction in Mahaweli, the Free Trade Zone (factory
construction), and the tourism (hotels) sectors expanded rapidly. The
implications of the change in the investment profile are, first, that a skill
gap would exist with the reduction of expatriate firms and workers in the
construction sector and, second, a significant retraining effort of existing
workers would have to be undertaken to meet the requirements.
41.     In estimating future training requirements, factors such as worker
retirement, exodus of construction workers for overseas employment, return of
construction workers from overseas to employment in the sector, and the
contribution of other institutional and non-institutional (apprenticeship)
training were taken into account. On this basis, the estimated total train-
ing need over the nine-year project period would be on the order of 120,000
persons. Allowing for training to be provided by existing institutions and
programs as well as on-the-job upgrading and other informal practices, it is
estimated that the residual requirements for training, to be provided under



-13-
the proposed project, would amount to about 76,000, of which 50,000 would be
new entrants to the sector, and 26,000 would be existing workers who are to
be retrained and upgraded in specific trade areas. This would average about
8,400 workers per year (5,600 new and 2,800 existing workers). This level is
slightly above the first project (Cr. 1130-CE), where the training load now
averages about 6,000 per year (5,000 nev and 1,000 existing workers). It is
clear that the emphasis would be on upgrading of existing workers, while the
training of new entrants to the labor force would remain at present levels.
IDA support through a second project, therefore, would build on the momentum
gained in developing rational training programs started under the first
project, while contributing to strengthening the key institutions which
design and provide training.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.     The proposed project was prepared by the Ministry of Local
Government, Housing and Construction. The project was appraised in August
1985 and post-appraised in December 1985. Negotiations were held in
Washington D.C. from March 18-25, 1986. The Sri Lankan delegation was led by
Mr. R. Paskaralingam, Secretary, NLGC. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled
"Sri Lanka - Second Vocational Training Project" (Report No. 5958-CE) dated
April 2, 1986, is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A
supplementary project data sheet is attached as Annex III.
Proiect Obiectives
43.     The objectives of the proposed project would be to:  (a) create an
institutional framework to sustain training and industry development efforts
started under Credit 1130-CE; (b) increase the supply of semi-skilled,
skilled and managerial personnel to the industry; (c) improve the quality of
manpower supplied to the sector; and (d) institute a system of cost recovery
in vocational training for the construction sector. The institutional
development objective would be achieved by establishing and developing the
Institute for Construction Industry Training and Development (ICTAD). The
manpover supply objective would be achieved by training about 50,000 new and
upgrading about 26,000 existing semi-skilled, skilled and managerial workers
in the construction industry. The quality improvement objective would be
achieved by instituting an instructor training and upgrading program,
strengthening monitoring and evaluation of training and industry development,
and trade testing and certifying about 40,000 skilled workers and
supervisors. The cost recovery objective would be achieved by requiring that
the beneficiaries share in the training costs.



-14-
Project Descrintion
Institutional Development
44.     Eutablishina the Institute for Construction Industry Trainina and
Development (ICTAD). In order to implement the recamuendations for construc-
tion industry development which were approved by the Cabinet, to build on the
momentum gained in developing rational training programs and sustaining the
training effort, and most important, institutionalizing the experience gained
under Credit 1130-CE, the temporary Project Cell would be transformed into
the Institute for Construction Industry Training and Development (ICTAD)
under the UDA. This would require an increase of 17 professional level
project cell staff. The Government would appoint the additional staff at the
appropriate levels according to a schedule agreed vith IDA. To support the
establishment and development of ICTAD, the project would finance civil
works, equipment, vehicles, books, expert services, fellowships and con-
sumable materials and the salaries of additional staff on a declining scale.
45.     ICTAD would have two major functions:  (a) training and (b) industry
development. A Training Division would assist existing institutions to
deliver training, rather than providing training itself. The only exception
would be where no other agency has the capability (or potential) to deliver
training. The division would design, supervise and finance appropriate
training schemes. Its training activities would be centered at the technical
institutes of the MORE for craft-level training, the State Engineering
Corporation (SEC) workshops for mechanic training, the Heavy Equipment
Operator Training Center (HEOTC) for equipmeut operator training, and the
Center for Housing, Planning and Building (CUPB) for management training at
all lewels. The division would work closely with the NAB on the further
development of trade standards and tests and collaborate closely with the
NTTTC (when it is fully established) for the training of instructors.
However, in the interim, it would develop a capability to monitor the quality
of instructor training, identify gaps in the program, and assist in the
development of courses, curricula, and appropriate instructional
methodologies.
46.     The Industry DeveLopment Division of ICTAD vould have three major
functions: (a) development of technology; (b) improvement of the operating
environment of the construction industry; and (c) development of private
contractors. Technology development would provide information on construc-
tion methods, materials, and equipment which are available in other countries
and are relevant to local conditions. The encouragement of the use of local
materials, the development of appropriate specifications, standards and
building regulations, and the economics of substitution (local vs. foreign)
would be undertaken. The improvement of the operating environment of the
industry would include the collection and interpretation of construction
industry statistics including price indices, manpower demand/spply, contract
awards, etc. The data obtained would be used as the basis for reccmuending
changes in bidding procedures, contract conditions, prequalification



-15-
requirements, and regulation of foreign contractors. The development of
private contractors depend in part on government action, but largely on
actions by the contractors thenselves. It would be a function of the
Industry Development Division to work closely with the Association of
Construction Contractors of Sri Lanka (ACCSL) to determine a development
strategy and to prepare a phased program for transfer of responsibility for
these activities from ICTAD to ACCSL. This would be a gradual process and
even when achieved, there would still be a residual role for ICTAD to play.
The Government has agreed that by January 31, 1989, ICTAD would relinquish to
the ACCSL all work on the registration of contractors and the promotion of
the private sector in the construction industry.
Manpower SuDDlv
47.     Skill Training.  The objective of this component is to increase the
supply of skilled and semi-skilled workers for the construction industry
through (a) extending training to construction trades not covered by existing
training programs; (b) increasing the range of coapetencies of semi-skilled
workers who have already been trained to the Grade III (semi-skilled) level;
and (c) certifying the quality of skill training by testing construction
workers to National Skill Standards.  Approximately 72,000 skilled and semi-
skilled workers out of a total of 76,000 would be trained and/or upgraded
in various skill trades (para. 41), and of these only about 40,000 would be
trade-tested and certified, given planned trade testing capacity (para. 50)
and the existing capabilities and expected demand for these tests. Training
would be provided for new entrants in craft trades, mechanics, equipment
operation, various levels of management, and instructors.
48.    New entrants in craft trades would be trained to the basic Grade III
(semi-skilled) level while existing workers would be upgraded to either Grade
II or Grade I (skilled worker). The training program for new entrants would
consist of 10 weeks of institutional training followed by 4tl weeks of on-site
practical training. The equipment operator program would consist of 6 weeks
institutional training, followed by 200-240 hours of on-site training. For
mechanics, the program is differentiated between light and heavy mechanics.
In the case of heavy mechanics, the program includes 6 months of training at
a center, followed by 12 weeks of on-the-job training. For light equipment
mechanics, the institutional phase of the program would be reduced to 5
months. Programs to upgrade skills would be of shorter duration, modular in
design, and conducted on weekends. The upgrading of equipment mechanics
would be achieved by using modules of a longer duration.
49.     The institutional phase of all skill training programs would be
conducted at existing institutions. This gives a large degree of flexibility
to the training system because it enables courses to be scheduled in response
to training demands. Some civil works construction, however, would be
required to provide for the storage of training materials, upgrading of
existing workshops, and staff and trainee housing. The on-site or practical
part of the training program would continue to be organized by the ICTAD,



-16-
with assistance from the district training officers (DTOs) who are employees
of the Building Department of NLGHC. Trainees are placed on building con-
struction sites and supervised by both DTOT and NAB. Equipment operators and
mechanics would be given supervised practical experience either at their
place of employment or, for new entrants, on simulated or contracted work.
Trade testing would be conducted at various technical colleges, the SEC
workshop, REOTC and a National Trade Testing Centre being constructed by the
Government. Course curricula, instructional manuals, and other teaching aids
for all skill training, developed under Cr. 1130-CE, require revision to meet
the changing needs of the construction industry. In order to support this
level of skill training, the project would finance some civil works,
furniture, equipment, vehicles, books, expert services, fellowships, and, on
a declining basis, recurrent expenditures (consumable materials, operation
and maintenance, tool kits, and salaries of additional staff).
50.     Management Trainins.  About 5,700 new and existing managers and
supervisors of all grades in the Ministries of Highways, Mahaweli,
Irrigation, MLGHC, and the private sector would be trained in programs
organized by CHPB.  The program would consist largely of two to five day
seminars and workshops which focus on topics such as construction engineering
and technology, contract management, construction planning and control, as
well as financial, materials and personnel management. The Government has
agreed that all upper-level management courses beginning January 1, 1990,
would be financed by the trainees or their employers. Middle management
training courses would be mainly upgrading the skills of existing staff in
(a) specific areas of construction management, project analysis, and contract
supervision, as it relates to highways, housing building, and irrigation; and
(b) general areas of financial and personnel management. The program would
range from short one-toreight week courses conducted at CHPB, to a special-
ized degree in quantity surveying and building economics which would be
carried out at the University of Moratuwa. The training of the management
staff of the Highways Authority would also be a responsibility of the CHPB.
Lower-level (supervisory) courses for new recruits would consist of an 8-week
institutional course followed by an on-site program of 50 weeks, including a
final 4-week institutional training period. Existing supervisors who are
being upgraded would undergo training of from one-to-four weeks and this
would be both on-the-job and institutional. Trainees would take a National
Skill Standard test, developed by ICTAD and administered by NAB, at the end
of their training period. While curricula, training materials and instruc-
tional staff have been developed under Cr. 1130-CE, the expanded scope of
training and the new clientele to be trained, require that new curricula be
developed and the instructional capabilities of staff improved. In order to
support the entire management/supervisory training effort, the project would
finance expert services, fellowships, equipment, books, and consumable
materials and the salaries of additional staff on a declining scale.



-17-
Oualitv Improvement
51.     Instructor Trainina.  Three types of instructors would be trained:
trainers of craftsmen, trainers of equipment operators, and trainers of
managers. To undertake the proposed program of skill development and manage-
ment improvement, approximately 235 existing instructional staff would need
to be upgraded and a further 265 new staff recruited and trained. Existing
skill trade instructors for the basic construction trades are employed by the
N(1E and would be upgraded in both skill and instructional methodology. The
courses would be of six weeks duration and be undertaken initially at the
(Interim) Technical Teacher Training Centre of the MDHE, with practical trade
skill upgrading being carried out in the appropriate workshops of technical
colleges. The Government has ensured that by June 30, 1990, all skill-level
instructor training would be transferred to the NTTTC. ICTAD would work
closely with the NTTTC on the design and implementation of instructor courses
for the construction trades.
52.     The training of 282 equipment operators and mechanics instructors
would take place at the REOTC, SEC and NTTTC. The courses would vary in
duration, depending on the nature of the skills to be taught. The courses
would be of about three months duration for instructors and six months for
demonstrators.
53.     In order to train instructors in management subjects a staff develop-
ment program would be carried out for CHPB to increase both individual
instructor as well as institutional capacity in conducting programs using
appropriate teaching technology. The staff at technical colleges participat-
ing in the supervisory management training would also be upgraded. It is
envisaged that training links with similar staff development programs over-
seas would be established. The project would finance equipment, vehicles,
consumable materials, expert services, fellowships, and additional staff
salaries on a declining basis to support the entire instructor training
program.
54.     Nonitorina and Evaluation.  Under Credit 1130-CE, the Government was
required to establish a monitoring and evaluation system. The monitoring
of project inputs and outputs has been up-to-date and timely but evaluation
has been less systematic. The Government undertock two training needs
assesiments (1983 and 1985). The first provided the basis for adjusting
training targets under Credit 1130-CE, while the second provided the
estimates for the proposed project. The project would provide resources so
that these training needs assessments can be conducted every two years during
the project. The Government would conduct four training needs assessments,
complete then according to an agreed schedule, and review the findings with
IDA prior to their implementation. The second area of evaluation which
requires assistance are tracer studies. Three tracer studies have been
undertaken since 1981. The general conclusions were that 85 percent of the
sample remained with the industry and that their permanent employment and
wages rates were higher than those of non-CITP trainees. Under the Project,



-18-
support would be provided to expand the scope of the tracer studies to
include more detailed demographic and social data; migration (internal and
external), and household incoame and expenditure information. Four studies
would be conducted during the course of the project. The Government would
complete them according to an agreed schedule and review the findings with
IDA. The project would finance equipment, vehicles and technical assistance
to support monitoring and evaluation. Because many project activities (train-
ing targets, tracer studies, cost recovery system, NTTTC taking over instruc-
tor training, devolution of activities to ACCSL) are scheduled to be reviewed
within three years of project start-up, the Government would also conduct
a mid-term review in January 1991. This mid-term evaluation would take stock
of achievenents to date and make adjustments as necessary in light of
experience during the first years of implementation.
Cost Recovery
55.    When fully operational in 1995, the project would require about
Rs 63.58 million annually in recurrent costs. These annual recurrent expen-
ditures would represent less than 1 percent (specifically, 0.43 percent) of
projected total recurrent expenditures on education and training, but about
13.2 percent of projected recurrent expenditures on technical/vocational
training in 1995. Since the cost recovery program started under Cr. 1130-CE
is continuing under this project, the revenue generated would be used to
defray a part of the operational costs.  On the basis of ongoing revenue
mechanisms, established under the first project, it is estimated that about
Rs 9.6 million can be generated annually, which is 15 percent of projected
annual recurrent expenditures under the project. The Government has hawever
agreed to cover from sources other than the general budget all trainee
stipend and tool kit costs by December 31, 1989, and about 50 percent of all
consumable training material costs by December 31, 1994. This means that by
1994, about 50 percent of all recurrent costs of training would be covered by
non-budgetary sources.
56.     While the Government has acknowledged that beneficiaries (trainees
and contractors) should cover a larger part of the costs of training, it has
also indicated that experience would favor covering these costs by the sale
of trainee products and services and a reduction of stipends, rather than
reliance on fees and removal of stipends. Because of the inherent conflicts
which can develop when training is fully subsumed into production, as well as
the existing public budgetary constraints, all options of cost recovery must
be considered in deciding how to reach the target of 50 percent cost
recovery. A detailed study of the financial and economic costs and benefits
of publically financed construction industry skill training, the impact on
the government budget, the appropriate level of fees by course/trade area,
and the proportions to be shared by trainee, Government and private sector,
would be undertaken. The study is also expected to provide guidance on what
stipends should be reduced or eliminated, who should receive stipends, and
what level of fees can be charged for vhich courses. The Government would
complete the study and review the findings with IDA by September 30, 1987.



-1 9-
Technical Assistance
57.     The technical assistance to be provided under the project to aasist
in the accanplishment of all the above objectives, would comprise 11.0 staff-
years of expatriate expert services, 96 staff-years of local expert services,
19.6 staff-years of international and regional fellowships and 121.5-staff
years of local training.
Project Costs
58.     The total cost of the project, including duties and taxes on imported
goods (US$0.85 million) is estimated at Rs 711.05 million or US$24.48 million
equivalent. The estimated foreign exchange component is US$10.11 million or
41 percent of total project costs. Physical contingencies (USS1.04 million)
are estimated at 6 percent of base costs of all project components and price
contingencies (US$4.94 million) to cover expected price escalation at the
following rates. For civil works and goods; foreign costa at 7.5 percent in
1987, 7.7 percent in 1988, 7.6 percent in 1989 and 4.5 percent in 1990-1994;
and local costs at 9 percent in 1987 and 8 percent in 1988 and 7.6 percent in
1989 and 4.5 percent from 1990-1994. The foreign costs of salaries and
services are calculated at 7.5 percent in 1987, 7.7 percent in 1988, 7.6
percent in 1989, and 4.5 percent from 1990-1994, and local costs at 1.0
percent froa 1987-1994.
Project Financinf
59.     The proposed IDA credit of SDR 13.0 million (US$15.0 million
equivalent) would cover 63 percent of total project cost net of taxes. UNDP
(IL0) would finance US$1.0? million, and the Government would finance the
remaiing net costs of US$7.61 million (32 percent of total net costs) and
all taxes. Total external financing would cover 68 percent of total project
costs net of taxes.
60.     Retroactive Financing:   The design preparation costs for the ICTAD
headquarters building was financed under Credit 1130-CE. Construction and
bid documents have been completed, and contractors prequalified. The
estimated expenditure for the civil works to be incurred during the period
prior to credit signing is US$0.25 million. The GoverDment requested and IDA
agreed to retroactively finance these costs.
TleSmentation
61.     Implementation of the project would be the responsibility of the
I4LGHC through ICTAD. The Secretaries Committee would include the secretaries
of all the ministries involved with the project, with the Secretary, M.GHC,
as the Chairman. The other ministries would be Higher Education, Youth
Affairs and Employment, Plan Implementation, Labor, Nahaveli Development, and
Lands and Land Development, plus private sector representation. ICTAD would



-20-
coordinate the training activities which span across the ministries mentioned
above. The Secretaries Committee vould be responsible for (a) policy
formulation; (b) approval of training and development programs; (c) reviewing
and evaluating performance; (d) approving personnel and staffing policies
including tems and conditions of employment of ICTAD employees; and
(e) formulating administrative and operating procedures for the Institute.
In addition to the Secretaries Committee, ICTAD would also constitute tvo
consultative committees to advise on the broad functions of the institution.
The Consultative Committee for Training would be responsible for advising
ICTAD on issues of training, trade testing standardization, and curriculum
development. The Consultative Committee for the Construction Industry would
provide advice on issues relating to specifications, technology, msall-scale
contracting, etc.  Both comittees would have about 10 members each, divided
equally between the public and private sectors.
62.     The Chief Executive of ICTAD would be the Director General and three
divisions for training, industry development and resource management would be
established under his direction. Supervision of civil works implementation,
procurement of equipment, vehicles and training materials would also be the
responsibility of the Resource Management Division.
Accountinm  and Auditinz
63.     ICTAD would prepare and maintain project accounts in accordance with
sound accounting practices. Project accounts would be prepared and
withdrawal applications would be supported by full documentation.
Expenditures on salaries and other recurrent expenditures would be reimbursed
against statements of expenditures certified by the Director General. The
Goverrment has agreed that: (a) accounts and financial statements for each
fiscal year would be prepared and audited by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA; (b) records concerning statements of expenditure would be maintained
in accordance with sound accounting practices, and retained for at least one
year after the completion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal was made; and (ci certified copies of the audited accounts and
financial statements for each fiscal year, together with the auditors report
would be furnished to the Association as soon as available, but not later
than nine months after the end of each fiscal year.
Procurement
64.     Contracts for construction of stores, workshops, staff and student
housing, and ICTAD headquarters building would be awarded on the basis of LCB
procedures. Because the centers are dispersed around the island, it is
anticipated that 14 contracts would be awarded for the civil works program
(US$2.30 million) to local contractors. Equipment and vehicles contracts
(US$3.33 million, inclusive of taxes) would be awarded in accordance with
ICB procedures. Local manufacturers would be given a 15 percent margin of
pref- _nce.  Equipment and vehicles vould be grouped to the extent possible
in large packages for bulk procurement. Books financed by IDA (US$0.28



-21-
million) would be purchaaed directly from distributors. Consumable training
materials and trainee tool kits, would be procured through prudent shopping
on the basis of three price quotations from different sources. Fellowships
and technical assistance financed by UNDP would be in accordance with their
guidelines. All civil works contracts over US$250,000 equivalent each,
corresponding to about 75 percent of value of works, would be subject to
prior IDA review. All equipment and vehicles contracts over US$100,000
equivalent each, corresponding to about 7.5 percent of value of goods would
be subject to prior IDA review. Other contracts would be subject to selec-
tive post-ward review.
Table 1  Procurement Method
I  Category of                     $ (million)I            Total    1
|  Expenditure  : ICB B      LCB    I Oth.r   I  NA    I Cost 1/  1
ICivil Works&  I         I  2.30   1            I        I  2.30   1
I Prof. Fees    I        l (2.07)1 I            t                   I
| Furniture     I         I  0.17   1           1        1  0.17   1
I  I    I (0.13)  I                     L I        I
IEquipment      1 2.97  1           1           1        1  2.97   1
I                I (2.60) I         j           I        I
Vehicles       1 0.36  1           1          I         1  0.36   1
I  (0.23)   I       _         I _
Books          I        I          1  0.28   1          I  0.28   1
I ___________________  1 _l _______ I  1  (0.28)  1   1
I Technical Asst.l  2.36  1         1  1.02   1          1  3.38   1
_               I (2.36) I                     I         I____
IConsumable      1       1          I           1  9.52  I  9.52   f
M Xaterials &   I        I          I           1 (5.43) 1
I Tool Kits     l        I          j          J         I          I
I Incremental    1       1          I          t  5.50  1  5.50   1
I Recurrent     I        I          I           1 (1.90) I
I ExDenses      1        1          1           1        1          1
I   TOTAL       I 5.69  1  2.47   1  1.30   1 15.02  i 24.48   1
I   IDA         I (5.19) 1 (2.20)  1 (0.28)  1 (7.33) 1 15.00   1
I   UNDP        I  _    I   _       |1.02 i   -    |1.02
I   GOSL        I0.501    -         I   -       1  7.69  1  8.46   I
LI Includes contingencies and duties and taxes where applicable.
NOTE: Figures in brackets are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
Disbursements
65.     The proposed Credit would be disbursed over a period of nine years
which conforms to the disbursement profile for IDr-assisted projects in Sri
Lanka. The Crelit would cover 63 percent of tocal project costs net of taxes



-22-
and would finance 100 percent of expenditures for technical assistance; 90
percent of civil works and professional fees; 10O percent foreign expendi-
tures for directly imported equipment, furniture, books and vehicles, 100
percent of ex-factory costs of locally manufactured goods and 80 percent if
locally procured. All expenditures on salaries, consumable materials, tool
kits and operation and maintenance costs would be disbursed against state-
ments of expenditure on a declining basis from 80 percent in FY87-89 to 20
percent in FY94. Disbursements in respect of contracts for the equivalent of
US$20,000 or less for IDA-financed items would be made against statements of
expenditures certified by the Director General. The relevant documentation
would be retained by ICTAD and made available to IDA representatives for
review on request.
Special Account
66.     A Special Account of US$0.7 million equivalent is proposed for the
project, representing about four months of estimated expenditures. The
Special Account would be replenished based on the required documentation for
eligible expenditures and would be operated in accordance with terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Proiect Benefits
67.     Over 85 percent of all project trainees would be either new entrants
or existing workers at the basic skills levels in the construction industry,
and would come from lower income househoLds. Because of the employment and
income benefits which will accrue to these trainees (para. 39), the project
would have an impact on poverty alleviation. The project would increase the
capacity of the Sri Lanka construction industry to be more productive,
efficient, and capable of meeting targets in the investment program in both
the public and private sector. Benefits which would accrue from the project
include: (a) the addition of skilled construction workers to the industry;
(b) increasing the labor productivity and efficiency of the existing con-
struction personnel by up-grading their skills; (c) improving the income
levels of unemployed youths by providing necessary skills so they could
obtain gainful employment in the industry; and (d) increasing returns on
invested capital from better and efficient use of equipment. The project
would also have institutional benefits. The effectiveness and productivity
of the existing training facilities would be increased, and the standards of
the construction industry improved by introducing more appropriate
specifications.
Proiect Risks
68.     There are a number of risks associated with this project.  One con-
cerns changes in the demand for training arising out of lower levels of
construction activities or changes in the composition of skills that may be
required. The project design is oriented to provide flexibility in meeting
the requirements for skill training as diagnosed by the training needs



-23-
surveys.  A reduction of the demand f or t aining in total or for any skill in
particular may at most lead to some underutilization of project funds. As
the project would utilize existing facilities and contract additional
instructors only when very specific courses are identified, no implications
for underutilization of staff and/or facilities exist.  If a larger than
expected number of emigrants would return from the Middle East, the supply of
certain skills will be affected and some of the envisaged training may not be
required. Equally, though, some retra.ining of returnees may also be
required. The concern about the recruitment and retention in service of
qualified instructors is likely to be overcome by the steps undertaken during
the project. These include, a systematic training program (local and foreign
fellowships), training allowances and overtime pay. While there is agreement
that ICTAD should not be a regulatory agency, nor attempt to preempt
activities which should normally be undertaken by the private sector, there
is the risk that a government agencv/institution would gradually attempt to
play just such a role. The representation of the private sector on the
Consultative Committees, the Administrative Order (Cabinet Memorandum) which
established ICTAD, and the program to assist the ACCSL to undertaken more
activities should overcome this risk.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
69.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recammend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington D. C.
April 24, 1986



- 24-                                           ANNU I
*  T 1% I L &                                     Pase 3. of 6
s         t   ~~- MAtL tPONYWU lOw
mu                       (Mu 8T CC? 55mm) fl
l%         iwa        tajk.         ASIA & tAncIFIC               mui
aU (MA Q. a)
TOT&l                               63.        63.6        ISA4
RIOILTURAL                          17.2       24.2        26.1
GM UK cIT      U5)                      ..         ..        330.0              27.3                    1011.1
(RZLOIRAN  OF OIL RQUIVALVET       122.0      132.0       123.0              283.7                    5.I
MOCULTIO  AM YES STATIICS
P0r,U0ATI0N.IDzE-Aw  (nIfaAU)   939.0       12316.0    13416.0
MA   POUTI   (or TOTAL)             17.9       21.9        26.0              2.2                       23.9
POPILTIU rP0crto2   s
POPuLATI  IN TE   2000 C(ELL)                            21. 1
STIaI   T roPoUTIO  (ELL)                                22.0
rPOPOLATIO  I.7
POPULATION D051M
PIz SQ. C.                       150.7      190.8       235.0              113.5                    36.9
PE  SQ. NM. ASR. LANO            572.9      517.6       352.0             333.3                    1591.2
POPtUATUI  AGI STRUCUM  (2)
0-14 iS                          42.0       41.9        33.2              326.                      35.2
153-  nU                         54.2        36.4        60.23              9.4                      37.7
63 AIIDA_                          3.6        3.1         4.2               4.3                       2.3
POPUlTIONU GROWTH UTZZ (X)
TOTAL                              2.5        2.4         1.6                2.0                      2.3
UURSN                             4.7         4.3         2.9               4.1                       *.1
CEDE SE2MN RATE (ERR THaUS)         35.7       29.4        26.5               2.3                      20.1
cWE DEAT RATE CPm  Tl )             9.2         7.3         6.0               10.2                      9.4
Goss  RERODUCTION &ATh               2.6        2.2         1.6                1.7                      1.9
FAIRLY PUASHIN
ACWODOS. ANNUAL (T3O0S)            ..        55.3       100.3
usIS CZ OF  SIED  O)               ..         ..         33.0              49.4                      36.3
FM  AND  unTIs
IXS    or OOD PR"  PEz CAPITA
U169-71-100)                       93.0       103.0       141.0             l16.6                     124.4
M  CAPITA SUP"PL OF
CALOEIES CZ Or RQUtUUZTS)         3.0       107.0       109.0              06.3                    113.7
.Ul3  (CR6 nER DAY)              44.0        47.0        44.0              60.1                     60.3
OF WSIG  ANit AND PULSI          13.0        12.0         .0 /c            14.4                     11.1
CHILD (AS 1-4) US=  RATE            7.1         '.9         2.0               7.3                      7.2
LIFE 5x1CCr. AT st1  CTARS)         63.0       63.6        69.3              60.5                     60.6
ITAN1 IDCT. AT  (P  SITaW)         71.0        59.0        37.0              69.2                     64.9
ACCESS To sn  niAT  (Do?)
TOTA                               ..        21.0        33.0 /d           44.2                      46.0
URBAN                             ..         46.0        45.0 T            773i                     37.6
RURSL                              ..        14.0        16.0              34.6                      37.1
ACCESS TO EXCEU   DISPOSAL
(s or aPrUTIuI)
TOTAS                              ..        64.0          0 1              7.6                      50.1
ClA                               ..         76.0        6.0 1             23.3                      32.9
RURAL                              ..        61.0        63.0               3.3                      4&.7
OPULATION PU PSICAN              4490.0      "50.0       7170.0 1          3316.0                   7751.7
POP. PEE NUsiNG  RSUS            4170.0      2160.0      1340.0            '90.7                     2461.5
POP. P  HOSITAL R
TOTAL                            320.0      330.0      320.0 /ft          1093.2                   1111i
URBA                             120.0 I    210.0       240.0             2".1                     *31.4
RUmRL                           1060.0 Li   570         S05.01           60a26.2                   2"6.9
AISSUS PER HOSPITAL SkD             ..         34.4         ..               52.3                     41.1
AVERKA 5112 o0 30usa330
TOT 5..4bA                                    3.8
Una                               6.3         6.3
RURAL                             5.2         3.53
AERAG NO. Or PEiSO/R001
TOTAL                              2.0 /b     2.3
IIU4bJ                   ~~~~~~~~~2.1      2.7   .                  ..
am"L                              2.0 7r      25          .                  ..
TOTL                              .sl          .          .                  ..
mwill                            35:1 7i    34.S          .                  ..
RUXAL                             2.3 7W      3.0         .                  ..



-25-                                               ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TA SLK  1 
hIIISt                 -  tSOCIAL INOtCATORS DATA INERT
PEVS31IWA GROUPi (WtLGNTED AVERAGCS) a
MST                     (vST ReCENT VSTLIATE) lb
WT                 L OWk UINCONE S      1110  ItdCIIE
I1*Oa!     197Ut!! CSTindATII       Abl4 1 PACInC          ASIA * PACIFtC
ADJUSTD   NROLNEUT IATIOS
7SIAll:  TOTAL                    95.0        99.n      103.0               92.4                    100.7
hALE                  100.0       104.0      104.0              105.5                    14.4
ENLEC                  90.0        94.0       101.0              79.3                     97.2
UECONDTs TOTAL                    27.0       47.0        54.0               31.3                     47.5
"ALE                   38.0        ".0         52.0              40.6                     SU.6
PEDALS                 16.0        44.0       57.0               21.9                     44.o
VOCATIOIWL (I Of SECHDAat)           ..         0.4         O.4                3.2                     W6.4
PUPIL-T&ACIER, RATIO
PRXIH                             31.0        21.0       16.0               34.0                     30.4
KeONDART                           ..         ..          ..                17.4                     22.2
PASSN  CAMTITOUIIAD POP              5.4         7.0        7.3 /1             0.9                     lu.l
RADIO 2XCZIRS/TNOU5AD M0P           35.6        39.9      111.9              129A                     172.9
TV  ECCESWRS/TNOUSAND MPo            ..          ..         3.3               19.6                     58.5
NUSPANI ("DAILY 916RAL
SI_REST) CIRSJASTIO
PER THOUSAND POPULATION            36.0        48.9      110.7               25.7                     65.3
CIX  M ANNUAL ATTZEDANCEICADZTA      2.9 !J     7.8         4.3                6.0                      3.4
TOTAL LO4 PORCE (tN3S0)          3391.0      4168.0     5920.0
PE1ALS CUKUW?)                    22.6        23.7       25.2               33.2                     33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCEMT)             56.0        55.0       54.0 /d            69.6                     52.2
DUjTUE (PERCENlZ)                 14.0       14.0        14.0 r             [SA                      17.9
FARTICIPATION RATC CPERCENT)
TOTAL                             34.3        33.5       34.4               41.9                     38.9
VALE                              50.4        49.1       50.9               53.6                     50.8
FSYLZ                             16.2       16.5        l7.8               29.1                     25.8
ECONOuC DCEPEDECYCtATIO              1.3         1.4        1.0                1.C                      1.1
PCmCUT or PRIVATb INCOME
RECCVED 
EZIIHST 52 01 USEHOLDS            26.4 A      15.2
HIIHUST 20S oF HOCSCHLDS          52.1 A     43.4         ..                 ..                      tb.0
LOUIST 20S OF UOUSENOLDS           4.5         7.5        ..                 ..                       b.4
LOVEST 4OX OF _OUEIIOLDS          13.7 i      19.2        ..                 ..                      15.5
-8DAWC A3SOUZ POE    lION
LL CUSS JR CAPTA)
gumAN                              ..         ..          ..               133.9
RURAL                              ..         ..          ..               111.6                    151.9
EST TSD  EATIV  POVERTY ICom
LEVEL (uS P  CAPTA)
U34                                ..         ..          ..                 ..                     177.9
RURAL                             ..          ,.          ..                61.7                    164.7
ES2IATED PO. 3L.0  ASSOLUTE
POVRTY iNCOmE LEaEL (C)
URA                                ..          ..         ..                43.8                     23.5
URAL                               ..         ..          ..                51.7                     37.8
rOT AVAXIABLE
IWS APFLICAE
N OT TE S
/a  The group werape for sach Xadicater a*e populatc-velSited erlttutetc Wama. CoveraSe of countrie
enog the Indicatoe depeads on evallabllty of data sud Is not uniform.
/b  Unless othbwrls  noetd Dfata for 1960" refer to any year beteen 1659 and 1961; "Data for 1970V between
1969 ad 1971; and dat for "loact Raect Ette" between 1981 and 1983.
/c  1977; Id 1960;  s 1962; If 1979;  Jv 1976; h 1963; A 1975; L 1956.
JUNE. 19nS



ANNEX I
- 26 -                                             Pagerof 6
DIfEFNITONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Na:cs Although the dt are drmwn fromsourasgenerailyjudgedtIaemt autoritativeand reliable. it ahould alo be noted thaithey may not beimternttioeuafy
comparable becauK of the lack or atandardized definitions and oncerpta used by different countries in collecting ihe d1ata The dat are. nonathelea uweh to
describe ordefs or magnitude. indicate trends and chsaraterize certin major dillerencea beween countrie
The refiernce group. are (t) the same country group of the subjec country and (2) a country group with somewhat higher average income than the country
grouporthesuject country (except ror-High Income Oil ExponrCn groupwherr.Middlelncomne Nonh Africa and Middle Eat- is chown because of stronaer
scio-cultural affinitteal In the reference group data the averag  are population weighted arithmetic man for each indictor and shown only when majority
ofthe countnes in a group has data for that indicator Since the coverage orcountries among the indicators depends on the availability ordatn and is nol unirorm.
caution mus be exercised in ring averagn o one indicator o another These ageaftonly useful in companng she vluec of one indicntor at a time among
[the country and refernence groups
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                              Crude Birth Rate (perthonsamd)-Number of live births in the year
Toral-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;   per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 19113 data.                                         Crud Death Rate (per thestand)-Number of deaths in the year
Agricuurel- -Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or      per thousand or mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to   Gross Reprodactin Rate- -Average number of daughters a woman
lie rallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                              will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)- -GNP per capita estimates at current          in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calculated by same conversion method as World       Foxil Ph.uVM-AWpIWr. Annal (thaasaadsl-Annual num-
Sank Arias (1981-83 basis). 1983 data.                             ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                      family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.         FaIJy Plaing-Usrs           t (percent of nwrid wenen)-The percen-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-     tale of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
ticity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970, and    '-.,se husbands are practicing any form ofcontraception. Women
1982 data.                                                         oft hild-bearing age are generally women aged 1549. although for
sorie countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                    groups.
Total Population. Mid-Year (rhoosan&)L-- As of July 1; 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
Index of Foed Arodrn Per Capita (1969-71 10)-Index of per
Jrbm PopoWion (percent of total)   Ratio of urban to total         capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes aninal feed and sed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among counties; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data           include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Papuklion Projections                                              which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population in rear - - The projection of population for 2000.      excluded); they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy scparately. Starting with information on      vegetables. fruits. nuts, sugarcane and sugar beet livestock, and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates, mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters     on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized   1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.                 Per Capita Supply of Carie (percent afreqiirneuets)-Comput-
Stationary population-- Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplics available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate = I). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the'death rate. the age structure is also     food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population   estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
sizc was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering cnvironmcntal temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of declinc of fertility  agc and sx distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level,                                         waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Monsen:urn --Is the tendency for population growth to   Per Capta Supply of Protein (rraims per day)-Protetn content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply offood per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; tht is. even after the net reproduction rate has rcached  as above. Requirements for all countrics established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year i is measured as   provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                           75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Popmlatinr Density                                                 average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-      Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                    Per Capit Protein Spply frn Animal and Puie--Protein supply
Per sq.km. agricutural land--Computed as above for agricultural    offood derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
and only. 1960, 1970, and 1982 data.                               1970 and 1977 data.
Pbpulaion Age Strure (percentj-- Children (0-14 years). work-       Child (ages 1-4j Death Rate (per thonsaud)- Number ofdeaths of
ing age (I5-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Population Growth Rate (percent i-toata- Annual growth rates of     from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.        HEALTH
Poplaion Growth Rate (percent)-nrba- Annual growth rates           Life E&pectawy at Birrh (yerrs)-- Number of vears a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.         infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



- 27-                                        ANNE I
Page 4 of 6
at the 7  me or f its birth were to stay the suae throughout its lire.  aptI-tearher Ratio - primy. and secondary-Toal students en-
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                     roiled in primary and secondary lewis divided by numbers or
owt Mext  lAe (pe th a_d)-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding kvels.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year 1960, 1970 and 1933 dat.                                 CONSUMPlION
Acew  to S4i War (percea of   M        _u  -a     im, id      Pauegr Cus (per thouad papuAton)-Passenger cars corn-
vwuI-Nunber of people (total urban and rural) with reaonable  prise motor cars sating less than eight persons; excludes ambul-
access to sfe water supply (mdcludes treated surface waters or  ances hearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontaminated water such a that from protected  Radio Receivr (per thousamndppadien)-All types of receivers
borebole, spings and sanity welk) as pentages of their respec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
tive populations In an urban am a public fountain or stanopost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
loated not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  regstration Of radio sets was in effect; data for rect ycars may
as being within reasonable ac   of that house. In rural areas  not oe compfradbi s ince most countries abotshod licensines
reasonable acme would imply that the housewife or members of the
household do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TVReedie (per thousandlpopskidm)-TV receivers for broadcast
in fetching the family's water needs.                         to general public per thousand population: excludes unlicensed TV
Acces to Eieta Dsposal (percent o1 ort,                       rcevers in countries and m years when registration of TV sets was
ad rwuL-Number of people (totaL urban, and rural) served by   in effect.
excreta disposl as pecntages of their respctive populations.    INewspaer C'rcuier (per thousadpo.pation)-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the colection and disposal with or  age circulation of "daily gneral interest newspaper.r defined as a
without treatment, of human exacreta and waste-water by water-  periodicna publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be daily" ir it appears at least four tines a week.
PopeulAtm per PhPsidiau-Fbpulation divided by number of prac-  Cnuema Anmal Attendawe per Cpita per Yer-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Pop.l.ioper Nang PPom--bpulation divided by number or         drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses. assistant nurses.
pracical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LABOR FORCE
Ptp.hdon per Hespil Bed-tdoi, wbu ,       -      puation      Total Labr Force (tkouands)-Economically active persons. in-
(totaL urban and nrual) divided by their respective number of  duding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in public and private, general and    s p ecialid students, etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hosis and rehabiitation cenbers Hospitals are estalasn ments  various countries are not comparable: 1960 1970 and 1983 data.
permaneny staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Fealk (percent)-Fmnale labor force as percentage of total Labor
iding principally custodial care are not induded. Rural hospital  force.
however include health and medical eenters not permanently staffed  Apicnare (percent)-Labor force in farming. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse midwife. etc.)    and fishing as percentage of total labor forme; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medial facilities.                                          ndasry (percem)-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Adinssons per Hospital Bd-Total number of admissions to or    facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Ptrsation Rate (percent)-rotal, ae, anfe-iku-Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total. male. and female labor force
A.ge Szre of ousefi   (persous per househo)-,rtral, ham,      as percentages of total, male and female population of all ages
aniwl--A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex stricture of the population, and
may not be included in the household for statisfical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Average NDuner of Persou per Re_me--tal, whm, ad rural-       Econonic Dependnky Rue--Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural    65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwelimgs respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-pcmnanent structures and unoccupied parts                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percenage of Dwefgs wi  Ele_ricty-tota, har, ad rur-          Perceaer of Total Dipsabke Icome (both in casl and kid)-
Conventional dwellings with eectricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of totaL urban. and rural dwellings rcspectively.        hold income.
EDtJCATION                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4wswd Enrollmet Rados                                        The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Primary  hool - total. male and fmawle-Gross total, male and  levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrolment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Esimed Absolite Povery Inem  Level (fUS per caprta)-mrban
respective primary school-age populations. While manry countries  ad rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate dict plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For somne countries with universal  Esimaed Relative Poverty Income Levl (USS per capta)--rban
education. gross enrollrnnt may exceed 100 percent since some  and rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secndary school - total. male ad fenwale-Computed as above.    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at kast four years of approved pri-  Estimaed Popuion Belaw Absohte Poverty Income Leld (per-
mary instruction; provides general, vocatonal or teacher training  cent)--rban and rural- Pcrcent of population (urban and rural
instuctions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are absolute poor.
ence courses are genrcally excluded.
Vocainal Enrollnent (percent of secondary)-Vocational institu-          Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions indude techicaL  industrial or other programs which operate     Economnic Analysis and Projections Department
independendy or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



ANNEX I
-28-              Page 5 of 6
SRI LAYLA - ECONOMIC INDICATOU
OUTPUT IN 1984 BY SECTOR                                     ANNUAL BAT  OF CGlOUd (Z. constant Orices)
Value Added
Nllion   _Z_                      1970-77        1977-DA        1970-84
Agriculture                     1,519     28.0                     2.0             4.0           3.0
Industry gJ                     1,347     24.8                      2.1            5.3           3.9
Services                        2.2i.   -ALZ  
Total hJ                      5,432    100.0                     i               5.            4.4
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1984
GDP at Market Prices                             6,012        100.0
Investment                                       1,567        26.1
Gross National Savings                           1,347         22.4
Current Account Deficit                            220          3.7
Exports of Goods and NFS                         1.755        29.2
Imports of Goods and IFS                         2,121        35.3
GOVERNME"T FINANCE
Central Goveruent
(go million)    Z of GDP at rrket Prices
15           I= I7 18
Current Receipts SI                          33,342         17.2     18.9      21.8
Current Expenditures ly                      27,795         18.3     18.6      18.2
Current Surplus                               5,547        -1.1       0.3       3.6
Capital Expenditures 5/                      21,105         7.3      13.7      13.8
External AsAistance                          12,934         3.2       8.0       8.5
aJ  Manufacturing, mining, and construction.
b|  GDP at factor cost.
cJ  Includes capital revenue.
dI  Includes advance accounts.
e/  Includes net lending.
South Asia Programs Department
February 5, 1986



-29-                   r a. 0 of 6
mawt.A -  Ouoz  2NDC&0 
Imiff. CRUIT. -  luaU    iMP.    lizi    inD       127.1              ML     LM LU. 11 1f2 5    LUK
(eO  of period)                                                        (as NUlio.)
HAmy and quaai Iloby                  3,115    8,717    10,592   15,055   19,860   24,47   30,510   37,257   43,427
lak Czodit to Public sector           2,856   4,659    4,226    6,267   13,095   17,277  21,825   21,918    18,703
mask Credit to Private Sector         1,320    4,116    6,49    8,705   12,709  16,690   20,570   27,375    31,224
(C.ctsgtaes or Index Iumbers)
Honey a*d Quasi Nony as S of CDP       22.8    23.9    25.5       28.7    29.9    18.$    30.5    30.6         28.4
General Price  adez (1970.100)        100.0   147.0   164.8    182.6   230.2   271.6   301.1   343.3    400.5
Ama-l Percentage Chaugem in:
General Price Index                    +5.9    +1.2   +12.1    +10.1   +26.1   +18.0   +10.3   +14.0    +16.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector          +10.4    +7.7    -9.3      +.483   +109.0   +31.9   +26.3    40.4    -14.7
Dank Credit to Private Sector          .8.6   .40.5   +56.7    +35.0   +46.0   +31.3   +23.2   .33.1            14.1
ILACK of P ToR   (19A4)
(SS million)
Tue                            620       42.0
Daports of CodS, m                   1,305    1.360    1,755      Rubber                          130       8.B
ioports of Goods, WS                 2,205    2,138   2,121       Cocoot Products                  60       4.1
issorco Cap (deficit -         -)     -S0      -778    -366       A11 Other Coodities           __5        4.1a
not factor Ince                        -98    -138    -131              TOTAL                   1,475      100.0
Hot Transfers & Z_ittances             264      274     277
alance an Current Account             -734    -642    -220
TUTiAI. MIN (S Million) AL/
Direct foreign Inestat                  63       37      36
Not tLT Loas*                          403      292     311                                   Deceber   Decaber
Di.box.meut.                         472      373      410                                    1983        1984
aiortiatiom                           69       u        n
capital Grants                         162     171      154       Total Outstanding            3,678      3,738
other Capital (not)                     79      143      24
Cane in  esetwree C4 - increase)       -27      +1    +305        Total Outstanding
and Disbursed             2,214       2,420
Gross Resgesc (end-year)               527      522     735
Net Reseres (end-year)                 -22     -21      284
Crude Oil and Petrolm Products                                    DDT SlUE RATiO h  (1)         17.7       14.2
imports                              590     468      419
lkports                              158      114     129
IRRD/IDA  RUIG   untiobr 30. 1985 (US$ Million)
_E~~m 
USO1.00 - Re 15.45     US$1.00 - Re 21.32                         Outstanding and Disbursed        34.6   362.7
Rs 1.00 - US 0.06      is 1.00 - VS 0.05                          Undisbursed                      ZI2   3U 2
Rod J9.                Rod 19S                                    Outstanding, including
Us$1.00 - s 18.00      US$1.00 - Rs 25.00                           Undisbureed                    58.5   704.9
Re 1.00 - US$ 0.06     Rs 1.00 - Us$ 0.04
Di 1961               UEndI 
US$1.00 - Re 20.55     Us$1.00 - Is 26.28
as 1.00 - DS$ 0.05     Rs 1.00 - VS$ 0.04
L/ Repayable in foreign currencies and with a saturity ower one year.
II Ratio of debt rsrvice an public and publicly guaranteed 2iLT debt (including IN cbarges
and repurchases) to exports of goods and services.
South Asia Programs Department
February 5, 1986



-30-                        Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LARK
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of -March 31. 19B6)
USS Million
Loan or                                                                        Amount
Credit                                                                 (net of cancellations)
No. --- Xrn    Boroer           Purvose                              _nBc   IDA  UPndiibursed
Eight loans and sixteen credits fully disbursed                      72.9  133.2
818       1978  Sri Lanka  Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea)                   21.0      5.1
891       1979  Sri Lanka  Kurunegala Rural Development                     20.0      7.0
931       1979  Sri Lanka  Agricultural Extension and
Adaptive Research                            15.5       9.0
979       1980  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Technical Assistance               3.0      1.3
994       1960  Sri Lanka  Road Passenger Transport                         53.0     13.0
1017       1980  Sri Lanka  Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation                16.0      5.8
1020       1980  Sri Lanka  Telecamunications                                30.0      0.7
1041       1980  Sri Lanka  Second Water Supply                              30.0     12.6
1048       1980  Sri Lanka  Sixth Power                                      19.5      8.4
1079 La=   1981  Sri Lanka  Second Rural Development                         33.5     13.5
1130 la    1981  Sri Lanka  Construction Industry                            13.5      3.6
1160 /a    1981  Sri Lanka  Village Irrigation Rehabilitation                30.0     18.1
1166 la    1981  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Development III                   90.0     40.6
1182 /a    1982  Sri Lanka  SMI II                                           30.0     23.1
1210 /a    1982  Sri Lanka  Seventh Power                                    36.0     10.7
1240 /a    1982  Sri Lanka  Tea Rehabilitation and
Diversification                              20.0       9.0
2187       1982  Sri Lanka  Eighth Power                             36.7      -       2.6
1317 /a    1982  Sri Lanka  Forestry 1                                        9.0      8.4
1363 /a    1983  Sri Lanka  Third Rural Development                          23.0     12.2
1401 /a    1983  Sri Lanka  Industrial Development Project                   25.0      8.1
1494 la lb 1984  Sri Lanka  Mahaveli Ganga Development IV                    30.0     30.0
2437 /b    1984  Sri Lanka  Mahaveli Ganga Development IV            12.1             12.1
1537 /a    1985  Sri Lanka  Major Irrigation Rehabilitation                  17.0     17.6
2517       1985  Sri Lanka  Second Roads                             24.0             21.1
1562 La    1985  Sri Lanka  Fourth Tree Crops                                55.0     55.6
2576 /a Lb 1985  Sri Lanka  Dairy Development II                     38.0    _        38.0
TOTAL                                                               183.7  753.2    387.2
of which has been repaid                                           52.1    6.2      -_
Total now outstanding                                               131.6  747.0
Amount sold                                3.6
of which has been repaid                 3.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA /c                                   128.0  747.0
Total Undisbursed                                                    35.7  351.5    387.2
La  IDA 6th, and 7th replenishment Credits, principal amounts and credits not
yet effective shown in US dollars equivalent at date of negotiations, as shown
in the President's Reports and undisbursed amounts for effective credits shown
in US dollars equivalent at the rate of exchange for the SDR at March 31, 1986.
Lb  Not yet effective.
Ic  The original principal of credits under replenishments 1, 2 and 3 has been
increased by the amount of the translation adjustment as a result of the
devaluation of the US dollar in 1972 and 1973.



-31-
AINME II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMNTS (as of March 31. 1986)
Year              Oblisror                  TyRe of Business         Amount (USS Million2
Loan   Equitv  Total
1970         Pearl Textile                  Textiles                 2.50   0.75    3.25
1978/80/83   The Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon        Development Banking       -    0.45    0.45
1978/81      Bank of Ceylon                 Development Banking      7.00    -      7.00
197 9/81     Cyntex                         Textiles                 3.15   0.54    3.69
1979         Kikechris Industries           Polypropylene Bag        0.89   0.10      .99
1980/84/85   LOLC                           Leasing                  3.00   0.34    3.34
1981         Taj Lanka Hotels               Hotel                   19.30    .70   20.00
Total Gross Commitments                             35.84   2.88   38.72
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments, and Sales                        17.15    .75   17.90
Total Comitments now Held by IFC                    18.69  2.13   20.82



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SRI LANKA
SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
1 Year.
(b) Agencies preparing the project:
Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Construction.
(c) Date of first preparation mission by IDA and date of first
mission to consider the project:
October 1984.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
August 1985.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
March 25, 1986.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
90 days after signature.
Section II:   Special IDA Implementation Action:
None.
Section III: Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) signing of contract with a technical assistance agency
for IDA-financed technical assistance (para. 57); and
(b) signing of technical assistance agreements betveen GOSL
and UNDP (para. 59).



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Special Conditions:
(a) The Government would cover by December 31, 1989, the
costs of stipends and tool kits (para. 55); and
(b) The Government would, by December 31, 1994, cover in
addition to the costs of stipends and tool kits about
50 percent of consumable training materials (para. 55).
(c) The Government would complete and review with the
Association by September 30, 1987, a study on the
financing of vocational training in the construction
industry (para. 56);



SRI LANKA
rOtl                                              SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CIVIL WORKS PROGRAM
Iu    ICTAD H. dqa.etrs
TCghfioIl Collmg-
-onr  >   I      \<                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* Workshop,
9'O0                                                                      ~~ ~~~~~~             ~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 St....mo
vordl                                                                            !    M.u3hjn,g CI.OW X.rohl p
Pft.~ llFt..d.          S
0000505                               ~~~~~~~ ~~~-dPrmay Ra.ds
ps,syosrrkslr   <~                                                                   Sacondary Roads
Ro   ilr=ds
7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*   NOijorot Copirnls
UmcdiSti  B-undor s
AoUlwha=          /             t                _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Irterrotionol Soordories
c                                                                                                                   Z r- 0;,-br1so .o
*0lpl.l~~~~        r         /UsrO,Oao\                                      \
sUnnesioloot~~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~                                     ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    N D I/  A 
-bLIP  t u  ;''Vt                          /                                                                     sXer-~~~~~~~~~~~P 
INDIAN\OCEAN |
ModomH  H       <~~~~~~~~ L 161                '     X 7roooTer 
0         =                NIA   OCEA



