CREDIT NUMBER 1698 CE
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Vocational Training Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                         /        1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1698 CE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            4- -L, 7/        , 1986, between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
(B) the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations
Development Programme (hereinafter called UNDP) a grant in an
amount equivalent to $1,000,000 (the UNDP Grant) to assist in
financing part of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the term "Special Account" means the account
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to thirteen million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 13,000,000).


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably requec.., (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.


﻿-3-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1, commencing September 1, 1996, and ending
March 1, 2036. Each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 1, 2006 shall be one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
its Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Construction, with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial, economic and administrative practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance


﻿-4-
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles    consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all experditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain,    until  at  least   one  year  after   the
completion of the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was   made,   all   records   (contracts,   orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and


﻿-5-
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion  by   said  auditors  as  to  whether   the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified:
(a)  Subject to paragraph (b) below the right of the Bor-
rower to withdraw the proceeds of the UNDP Grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been sus-
pended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing therefor; or
(b) The provisions of paragraph (a) above shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Associa-
tion that: (A) such suspension, cancellation or termination is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the ollowing additional event is specified, namely,
that the event !cified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall ,ccur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of
that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit


﻿- 6 -
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) that the technical assistance agreement between the
Borrower and UNDP for the UNDP Grant has been signod; and
(b)  that the consultants to be financed from the proceeds
of the Credit have been appointed.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance and
Planning of the Borrower, is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka
Colombo, Sri Lanka
Cable address:                   Telex:
SECMINFIN                      21232 FORAID CE or
Colombo                        21409 FINMIN CE
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-7-
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement
to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
By k
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                1,700,000        90%
(including
related pro-
fessional
fees)
(2)  Equipment,                2,700,000         100% of foreign
furniture,                                 expenditures,
books and                                   100% of local
vehicles                                    expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 80%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3)  Consultants'              2,800,000         100%
services and
training
(4)  Incremental               5,100,000         80% in FY 87,
staff salaries,                             FY 88, FY 89;
honoraria, con-                             70% in FY 90;
sumable mate-                               60% in FY 91;
rials, trainee                              50% in FY 92;
tool kits and                               40% in FY 93;
operation and                               20% in FY 94
maintenance costs
(5) Unallocated                   700,000
TOTAL               13,000,000


﻿- 9 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 250,000, may be made in respect of Category (1) on account
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
September 1, 1985.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to establish an institu-
tional framework to promote construction industry development
through sustained training at semi-skilled, skilled :nd manage-
rial levels, and improvement in the efficiency and the produc-
tivity of the sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   The   establishment, staffing   and   operation  of  the
Institute   for  Construction   Industry  Training   and
Development.
Part B:   The carrying out of a program of training of about
50,000 new and 22,000 existing semi-skilled and skilled
workers in the construction industry.
Part C:   The carrying out of a program of training of about
5,000 managers and supervisors of all grades in the
public and private sector of construction industry.
Part D:   The carrying out of a program of about 500 training
instructors in skills trade, operators and mechanics,
and management and supervisory staff.
Part E:   The construction, furnishing and equipping of facili-
ties to assist in the implementation of Parts A and B
of the Project, in the following locations: Colombo,
Ampara,   Anuradhapura,   Homagama,    Badulla,   Kandy,
Kurunegala, Matara, Ratmalana, Balapitiya, Mattakkliya,
Maradana, Galle, Peliyagoda and Galkulama.
Part F:   The provision of technical assistance to carry out
training programs under the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1994.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under con--acts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent possible, contracts for equipment and vehicles
shall be grouped in large packages for bulk procurement.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A 1 hereof, goods manufactured in Sri
Lanka may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works may be let on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Books may be purchased directly from distributors.
3.   Consumable materials and trainee tool kits may be purchased
through prudent shopping on the basis of at least three price
quotations from different sources.
Part D:   Review by the    Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, and each contract or
purchase order for equipment, vehicles, consumable materials and


﻿- 12 -
trainee tool kits estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appen-
dix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such proce-
dures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Except as the Association may otherwise agree in implement-
ing the Project, the Borrower shall:
1.   (a) for the purpose of complying with paragraph (b) below,
carry out a study, under terms of reference satisfac-
tory to the Association, on the financing of vocational
training in the construction industry, and by Septem-
ber 30, 1987, review the findings of said study with
the Association;
(b) ensure that the following costs of training shall be
financed from sources other than the general budget
revenues of the Borrower: (i) by December 31, 1989,
the cost of stipends and tool kits, and (ii) by Decem-
ber 31, 1994, in addition to said costs of stipends and
tool kits, about 50% of the cost of consumable mate-
rials or such other percentage of such cost as the
Association may otherwise agree on the basis of the
findings of the study referred to in paragraph (a)
above;
2.   for  the purpose   of  carrying   out activities under    the
Project, appoint all additional staff in ICTAD and CHPB at appro-
priate levels in accordance with a schedule agreed with the
Association;
3.   ensure that, by June 30, 1990, all functions of instructor
training are transferred from ICTAD to NTTTC;
4.   ensure that, by January 31, 1989, all activities relating to
the registration of contractors and the promotion of the private
sector in the construction industry are transferred from ICTAD to
ACCSL;
5.   ensure that, by January 1, 1990, all upper-level management
training courses shall be financed by the trainees or their
employers;
6.   conduct four training needs assessments in accordance with a
schedule agreed with the Association; and review the findings


﻿-14 -
with the Association prior to implementation of recommendations
arising from such findings;
7.   conduct four tracer studies in accordance with a schedule
agreed with the Association, and review with the Association the
findings made under said studies;
8.   in January 1991, undertake with the Association a mid-term
review and evaluation of the activities under the Project, and
shall make adjustments, if necessary, based on implementation
experience up to the date of said review.
ACRONYMS:
ICTAD     -    Institute   for  Construction   Industry   Training
and Development.
MOLGHC    -    Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Con-
struction.
CHPB      -    Center for Housing, Planning and Building.
NTTTC     -    National Technical Teacher Training College.
ACCSL     -    Association of Construction Contractors of Sri
Lanka.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to SDR 700,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 16 -
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i)  the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by
the Borrower from the Credit Account in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Associa-
tion shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any


﻿- 17 -
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association for crediting to the Credit Account) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Association into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made
such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
f hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


