Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB6239 
Operation Name 
Poverty Reduction Support Credit (11) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (45%);General agriculture, 
fishing and forestry sector (25%);Other industry (15%);Primary 
education (15%) 
Project ID 
P122805 
Borrower(s) 
THE GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF FINANCE AND BUDGET AND OTHER 
MINISTRIES 
Date PID Prepared 
December 21, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 28, 2011 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 10, 2011 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Burkina Faso faces the aftermath of the global economic downturn and the current European sovereign 
debt crisis. Economic recovery in Burkina Faso has gained momentum in 2010, after a period of 
recession during the previous years. Agriculture, cotton and mining have been the main sources of 
growth, making the economy less reliant on the cotton sector. The country starts from a reasonably 
sound macroeconomic position, including strong world prices for its two principal exports, cotton and 
gold. On the other hand, its currency, pegged to the Euro, is estimated to have been overvalued by 
around 20 percent, affecting export competitiveness and increasing competition from imports. Official 
aid, which has accounted for around 9 percent of Burkina Faso’s budget in recent years, is expected to 
drop as the impact of the global economic crises affects donor countries. Moreover, a squeeze in foreign 
direct investment, not yet compensated by growth in Asia, will reduce resources for private investment 
in strategic sectors and infrastructure development. Severe floods hit the country again in July 2010, 
causing damage and casualties in 5 regions out of 13. Although poverty incidence seemed to have 
slightly decreased, it remains unevenly distributed over the population. In addition, the inadequacy of 
existing social protection institutions and policies, including social safety nets, has not helped the poor 
cope with the recent shocks. While the external position benefitted from better terms of trade as global 
cotton and gold prices increased, the current account deficit reflects strong import demand. The country 
continues to remain vulnerable to terms of trade shocks, low diversification of its export basket and high 
exposure to weather-related risks.   
 
The Government’s 2010 action plan includes measures to establish a legal and institutional framework 
for public-private partnerships (PPP) and to clarify modalities for accelerated VAT reimbursement to the 
companies to facilitate increased private sector investment; to liberalize freight transportation, diversify 
transport corridors and pursue dialogue with all sector stakeholders; to elaborate a plan for the 
readjustment of the cotton growing areas, while continuing the implementation of the SOFITEX 
restructuring plan; to promote mining sector competitiveness through a revised Mining Code and an 
amended Declaration of Mining Policy; and to reinforce revenue transparency to facilitate better 
resource allocation and to prepare transition toward program budgeting. 
Page  2
The proposed PRSG-11 will support the Government of Burkina Faso to meet budgetary financing 
needs to rebalance economic growth, and to provide the additional fiscal space needed to implement the 
forthcoming poverty reduction strategy priorities and to support rehabilitation of infrastructure following 
the successive flood episodes in 2009 and 2010. Burkina Faso qualified to receive unused IDA resources 
from the Regional envelope in an amount of US$55 million. 
 
2. 
Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed operation aims to assist the authorities’ efforts to relaunch economic growth in the 
aftermath of the global economic and the European sovereign debt crises. This operation also supports 
the authorities to launch the forthcoming poverty reduction strategy, which will aim to facilitate faster 
growth and sustainable development (Stratégie de Croissance Accélérée et de Développement Durable 
or SCADD). The SCADD is expected to be adopted at the beginning of 2011. The proposed operation 
will provide resources to accompany key reforms that are required to achieve sustainable growth and 
competitiveness, and lower the country’s vulnerability to exogenous shocks.  
 
The development objectives of PRSG-11 are to: (i) improve the investment climate and promote exports 
through: (a) private investment in strategic sectors through public-private partnerships; (b) export 
facilitation; (c) liberalization of trucking industry; (d) competitiveness of the cotton sector, through 
increased private sector participation; and (e) good governance in and improved socio-economic impact 
of the mining sector; and (ii) promote efficiency, transparency and accountability in the use of public 
resources. 
 
3. 
Preliminary description 
 
The proposed operation is a substantial part of the World Bank Group’s Country Assistance Strategy for 
FY10-12, accounting for over 30 percent of general budget support provided to Burkina Faso in 2010 by 
development partners within the joint donor framework known as CGAB. The PRSG-11 would translate 
into funding for the transition from the PRSP-II to the SCADD. 
 
PRSG-11 would complete development outcomes built over the span of the PRSC series by supporting 
measures that improve: (i) the framework for private sector development both by establishing a PPP 
framework and VAT reimbursement modalities for companies that would help exporters recoup VAT 
payments on their inputs; (ii) viability of the cotton sector mainly by transferring cotton growing areas 
from SOFITEX, the main cotton company, to another private operator, Faso Coton; and (iii) 
effectiveness and transparency of joint inter-ministerial expenditure management, and administrative 
oversight of the use of public resources through the implementation of a risk-based audit approach.  
PRSG-11 would further support a core set of critical actions to: (i) incorporate socio-environmental 
aspects related to the mining activities into a revised version of the Mining Code and publish a first EITI 
report covering mining revenues obtained during 2008-2009; and (ii) increase competition in the 
trucking sector through an action plan which focuses on the elimination of the tour de role and the 
regional quota system, and the reinforcement of controls against axle overloading by truckers. 
 
4. 
Environment Aspects 
 
The activities supported by the proposed operation are not likely to have significant negative effects on 
the environment, forests, and other natural resources.  
 
Page  3
In the cotton sector, the PRSG-
11
continues to support Government's efforts to improve the sector’s 
competitiveness.  The action plan on the transfer of cotton growing areas from SOFITEX to Faso Coton 
is not expected to have negative impacts on environment. The Government’s broader strategy is 
anticipated to have a number of environmental effects which are being tracked.  In particular, the 
Government has authorized the scaling up of GM cotton seeds; 66 percent of national plantings were 
realized during the 2010/11 cropping campaign. Expansion of this seed technology is resulting in a 
reduction in pesticide use, which is positive for the environment and for human health. Fertilizer use in 
aggregate and per hectare is not anticipated to increase as a result of the PRSG-11 supported actions. In 
the new configuration, the development of cotton growing areas is expected to take into account the 
existing ecosystems, and continue the implementation of environmental-friendly techniques, including 
through the protection of water sources, land, soil fertility and sustainable land management. To this 
end, the IDA-financed West Africa Regional Biosafety Project is enhancing regulatory capacity to 
manage environmental aspects of this activity.  
 
In the transport sector, the tighter enforcement of axle load regulations is expected to have some positive 
impact on environmental protection.  Strict control of truck overloading is expected to reduce road 
degradation and to limit the negative impacts of accidents which often result from overloading.  
 
The revision of the mining code is also likely to have a positive environmental impact.  Environmental 
issues will be addressed in the amendments to the Mining Code as the 2003 code was silent on many 
key environmental and social aspects often associated with mining activities. The new legal framework 
will facilitate better monitoring and control of respect of environmental rules as described in the official 
covenants between the State and the mining companies. These rules will also facilitate better monitoring 
of artisanal mining operations and their impacts on natural vegetation, land and surface waters. In 
addition, it will provide better tools for health protection of miners and local communities who are 
located next to these mining sites. Atmospheric, water and site pollution and the reduction of carbon 
emission are key targets of the legal reform. Other proposed triggers for PRSG-11 are not expected to 
have a significant environmental impact 
 
5. 
Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
125 
 Total 
125 
 
6. 
Contact point 
Contact: E. Philip English 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-6483 
Fax:  
Email: Penglish@worldbank.org
 
