                                                                             63542
                                          Burkina Faso
             Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and Joint IDA/IMF Staff Advisory Note
                                               and
                      Eleventh Poverty Reduction Support Grant (PRSG11)

                                     Meeting of Executive Directors

                                              July 26, 2011

                                      Chairman’s Summing Up

      The Executive Directors discussed the Poverty Reduction Strategy for Burkina Faso for 2011-
2015 (IDA/SecM2011-0522).

      Directors commended Burkina Faso on its progress in implementing reforms to improve the
investment climate, strengthen private sector investment and infrastructure development, and assist in
poverty reduction. They also acknowledged the country’s on-going governance reforms including efforts
to enhance structural reforms in public finance management and key sectors of the economy. While
recognizing the political and economic risks, Directors supported the government reform measures
undertaken to catalyze growth and commended the authorities on the maintenance of prudent fiscal
policy while accommodating additional spending on social priorities. They noted the progress made
under the IMF-supported ECF and the recent adoption of the ambitious Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper. However, Directors recognized that Burkina Faso faces major challenges and vulnerabilities of
the economy to high oil and food prices and to shocks in neighboring Ivory Coast. In this connection,
Directors noted the importance of having a sound macroeconomic framework underlying the PRSP
which is consistent with the ECF and continued financial support from development partners.


      Directors expressed broad support for the PRSP and its overall strategic direction to improve
economic diversification, enhance capacity for public and private investment, and support structural
reform implementation. Some Directors encouraged the Bank to maintain focus on private-public
partnerships and to deepen poverty analysis. The need to strengthen the monitoring system was also
highlighted. They also welcomed PRSP alignment with MDG targets with particular emphasis on
extreme poverty eradication, social inclusion and gender inequality, health, education, and sustainable
development.


      Directors emphasized the importance of close coordination with other development partners and
the need to scale up support to limit the transaction costs in order to accelerate growth and development
in the country.
                                     Summary of Discussion*


      The Executive Directors approved the Eleventh Poverty Reduction Support Grant for Burkina
Faso in the amount of US $ 125 million equivalent on the payment terms and conditions set out in the
President’s Memorandum (IDA/R2011-0126).

      Directors agreed that the Grant would be instrumental in improving Burkina Faso’s investment
environment, continuing its reform agenda, and weathering external shocks. They welcomed the
Government’s progress in economic management and poverty reduction, and encouraged continued
attention to competitiveness, governance, and fiscal management with a particular focus on promoting
efficiency, diversity, transparency, and accountability in the use of public resources, and to
decentralization.


This summary is not an approved record.
