                                                CONFORMED



                                       GRANT NUMBER H682 -BF




  Financing Agreement
   (Eleventh Poverty Reduction Support Grant)



                    between


               BURKINA FASO


                      and


INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




              Dated August 9, 2011
                                                                  GRANT NUMBER H682-BF


                                 FINANCING AGREEMENT

        AGREEMENT dated August 9, 2011, entered into between BURKINA FASO
(“Recipient?) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association?) for
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this
Agreement).

        The Recipient has furnished to the Association a letter of development policy setting
forth program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote growth and achieve
sustainable reductions in poverty (“Program?), hereby declares its commitment to the execution
of the Program and requests assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its
execution.

        The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of (a) the
actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described in
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate
macroeconomic policy framework.

        The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows:

                 ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
        integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
        the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
        Agreement.

                                ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth
        or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to seventy-eight million
        nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 78,900,000) (“Financing?).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in
        accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn
        Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.

2.04.   The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year.

2.05.   The Payment Currency is the Euro.
                                 ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01.   The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
        end:

        (a)     the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
                party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework and
                the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
                Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
                carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
                request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
                the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any situation that would
                have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any
                action taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of
                Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

                   ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a situation
        has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will
        be carried out.


                    ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that the
        Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying out the
        Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework.

5.02.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.




                                                -2-
                    ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of the Recipient at the time responsible for
        finance.

6.02.   The Recipient’s Address is:

        Minister of Economy and Finance
        Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances
        03 BP 7050
        Ouagadougou 03
        Burkina Faso

        Cable:                  Telex:                   Facsimile:

        SEGEGOUV                5555                     226-50-31-27-15


6.03.   The Association’s Address is:

        International Development Association
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable address:          Telex:                   Facsimile:

        INDEVAS                 248423(MCI)              1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.




                                               -3-
AGREED at Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, as of the day and year first above written.


                       BURKINA FASO




                       By //s// Lucien Marie Noel Bembamba
                                Authorized Representative




                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                       By //s// Galina Sotirova
                                Authorized Representative




                                     -4-
                                         SCHEDULE 1

                    Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds

Section I.      Actions under the Program

The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:

A.      Improving the Investment Climate and Promoting Exports.

1.      Public Private Partnerships. The Recipient’s cabinet has approved a strategy designed to
        facilitate public private partnerships in the Recipient’s territory.

2.      Export Facilitation. The Recipient’s ministry responsible for finance has issued an
        administrative order setting forth a clear and rational mechanism for the reimbursement
        of the value added tax credits to enterprises.

3.      Freight Transport Liberalization. The Recipient, in collaboration with private sector
        stakeholders, has implemented the following measures designed to liberalize and improve
        competition in the freight transportation industry, while preventing overloading of trucks
        so as to protect the road infrastructure and improve road safety:

        (a)    (i) carrying out of a census of truckers and their freight transport business and
               equipment, (ii) carrying out of a study to evaluate the social and economic impact
               of eliminating regional freight transport quotas and the truck queuing system for
               allocation of cargo among truckers, and (iii) on the basis of such census and study,
               adoption of a time-bound action plan for the elimination of such quotas and truck
               queuing system, such plan to include consultations with the transport unions, as
               well as with representatives of neighboring coastal countries and landlocked
               countries on such matters; and

        (b)    preparation of a periodic statistical report on axle loads along the major transport
               corridors which demonstrate improved implementation of axle overload
               prevention measures.

4.      Cotton Sector Competitiveness. The Recipient’s ministry responsible for trade has, in
        order to improve the viability of the cotton sector by reallocating its concessions of the
        cotton growing areas, issued to Faso Coton a request for a technical and financial offer
        for a concession of the Recipient’s cotton growing land and ginning facilities in
        Koudougou currently allocated to SOFITEX, following consultations with the
        Recipient’s cotton sector professional organization (“Association Inter-professionnelle du
        Coton Burkinabè? or “AICB?).

5.      Public Enterprise Restructuring. The Recipient has taken the following actions to
        restructure three public enterprises as follows:

        (a)     the Recipient has restructured its enterprise responsible for supervision of mining
                and geological exploration and testing activities, by selling off its assets related
                to water drilling;

                                               -5-
        (b)     the Recipient has sold a majority of its share ownership of its enterprise
                responsible for technical control of vehicles to a private enterprise; and

        (c)     the Recipient has contracted out the management of one enterprise in the hotel
                business to a private enterprise.

6.      Land Reform: The Recipient’s council of ministers has adopted implementing decrees
        for the Rural Land Law whose objectives are to devolve authority over land management
        to local administrative levels of government, and provide legal standing for customary
        land use, so as to enhance tenure security for land users, facilitate private investment in
        rural areas and improve land administration

B.    Promoting Efficiency, Transparency and Accountability in the Use of Public
Resources.

1.      Budget Execution. The Recipient has improved the efficiency of management of the
        budget and increased transparency of budgetary expenditures and begun preparing the
        transition toward program budgeting, by presenting the data on execution of its FY 2010
        budget in such a manner that at least 50% of the budgetary expenditures (crédits
        budgétaires) allocated as “joint inter-ministerial expenditures? and actually expended are
        broken down by administrative and functional classification.

2.      Audits. The Recipient has initiated the application of a risk-based methodology designed
        to achieve effective internal audits of the use of public resources, through the carrying
        out, in accordance with such methodology, of internal audits of high risk processes within
        the ministries responsible, respectively, for health, basic education and infrastructure.

Section II.     Availability of Financing Proceeds

A.      General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
        the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may
        specify by notice to the Recipient.

B.      Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing is allocated in a single withdrawal
        tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the Financing. The
        allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table below:

                    Allocations                      Amount of the Financing Allocated
                                                             (expressed in SDR)

         Single Withdrawal Tranche                                78,900,000

         TOTAL AMOUNT                                             78,900,000




                                               -6-
C.   Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

     1.     No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the
            Association is satisfied:

            (a)   with the Program being carried out by the Recipient; and

            (b)   with the appropriateness of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
                  framework.

D.   Deposits of Financing Amounts. Except as the Association may otherwise agree:

     1.     all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the
            Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the
            Association; and

     2.     the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing
            into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget
            management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association.

E.   Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing
     shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any
     time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded
     Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an
     amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the
     Association upon such request shall be cancelled.

F.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2012.




                                           -7-
                                         APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1.      “Excluded Expenditure? means any expenditure:

        (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
                international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the
                Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has
                financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan;

        (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
                International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
                United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the
                “SITC?), or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the
                SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient:

                         Group           Sub-group       Description of Item
                         112                             Alcoholic beverages
                         121                             Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco
                                                         refuse
                         122                             Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
                                                         containing tobacco substitutes)
                         525                             Radioactive and associated materials
                         667                             Pearls, precious and semiprecious
                                                         stones, unworked or worked
                         718             718.7           Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof:
                                                         fuel elements (cartridges), non-
                                                         irradiated, for nuclear reactors
                         728             728.43          Tobacco processing machinery
                         897             897.3           Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
                                                         group metals (except watches and
                                                         watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or
                                                         silversmiths’ wares (including set
                                                         gems)
                         971                             Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
                                                         ores and concentrates)

        (c)     for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
                consumption;
        (d)     for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
                prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which
                the Recipient is a party;


                                              -8-
        (e)     on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
                Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
                and
        (f)     with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
                collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
                Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient (or
                other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to
                the Association to address such practices when they occur.

2.      “Faso Coton? means “Faso Coton SA?, a company established and operating under the
        laws of the Recipient.

3.      “FY? means the Recipient’s fiscal year, commencing on January 1 and ending on
        December 31.

4.      “General Conditions? means the “International Development Association General
        Conditions for Credits and Grants?, dated July 31, 2010 with the modifications set forth
        in Section II of this Appendix.

5.      “Program? means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote
        growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the
        letter dated March 29, 2011 from the Recipient to the Association.

6.      “Rural Land Law? means the Recipient’s Law No.034-2009 dated June 16, 2009 entitled
        “Loi portant régime foncier rural?.

7.      “Single Withdrawal Tranche? means the amount of the Financing allocated to the
        category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche? in the table set forth in Part B of Section
        II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

8.      “SOFITEX? means the Burkina Textile Fibers Company (Société burkinabè des fibres
        textiles), a state-owned enterprise established and operating under the laws of the
        Recipient.


Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.      The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
        Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.      Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
        entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.

3.      Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 4.09 (Financial Management;
        Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in
        Article IV are renumbered accordingly.


                                               -9-
4.   Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and
     relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

5.   Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
     modified to read as follows:

            “Section 4.06. Plans; Documents; Records

            …         (c)     The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
            bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing
            until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the
            Association’s representatives to examine such records.?

6.   Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as
     follows:

            “Section 4.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

            …       (c)     The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
            to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of
            such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
            execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association
            of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the
            accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.?

7.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as
     follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to
     the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:

     (a)    The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure? is modified to read as follows:
             “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support
            of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the
            Financing Agreement.?
     (b)    The term “Financial Statements? and its definition as set forth in the Appendix
            are deleted in their entirety.
     (c)    The term “Project? is modified to read “Program? and its definition is modified
            to read as follows:
     (d)    “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support
            of which the Financing is made.? All references to “Project? throughout these
            General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program?.




                                           -10-
