Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF056544-CM 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Cameroon Forestry and Environment Policy GEF TF Grant) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated June 20, 2006 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF056544-CM 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 2006, between the REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON 
(the 
Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment 
Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of 
the Bank as participants of the GEF. 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the global 
environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic development; 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in place on 
the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank which, 
inter alia
,
established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the Bank as trustee of the 
GEF Trust Fund (Resolution 94-2); 
(C) 
the Recipient has carried out specific measures and taken actions to promote 
growth in the environment and forestry sectors, including under the third structural adjustment 
credit that was granted by the International Development Association (the Association) (the 
SAC III Forestry Reforms); 
(D) 
the Bank has received from the Recipient a letter dated March 1 2005, describing 
a
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote growth in the Recipient
’s green 
environment and forestry sectors (the Program), declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the 
execution of the Program, requesting assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund in 
support of the Program during the execution thereof; the said request having been approved in 
accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured Global 
Environment Facility approved under Resolution 94-2; 
(E) 
the Recipient has also requested the Association to provide additional financing 
for the Program and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Recipient and the 
Association (the Development Grant Agreement), the Association has agreed to provide such 
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to seventeen million and three hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 17,300,000) (the IDA Grant);  
WHEREAS on the basis, 
inter alia, 
of the foregoing, the Bank has agreed in support of 
the Program to provide such assistance to the Recipient by making the GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
three tranches upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01.
 (a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable to Loan 
and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as 
amended through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(i) Article 
I; 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (14), (15), (16), (18) and (21), 
2.02 and 2.03; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01 and 4.06; 
(v) Article 
V; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (i), (l), (m), (n), (o) and (p), 
6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
(ix) 
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;  
(x) 
Article XI; and 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04.  
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
(i) 
The term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other than in 
Sections 2.01 (6), 6.02 (f) and 5.01 (a) thereof, means the Bank acting as 
an implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the 
term “Bank” shall also include the Bank acting in its own capacity; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(ii) T
he term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Recipient; 
(iii) 
The term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means this Agreement; 
(iv) 
The term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
(v) 
The term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; 
(vi) 
A new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (o) in Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions, as follows: “an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant would exceed the resources available for disbursement from the 
GEF.”; 
(vii) 
T
he words “corrupt or fraudulent” in paragraph (c) of Section 
6.03 are replaced with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive 
or coercive”; 
(viii) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 18, is modified to read: “’Project’ means 
the program, referred to in the Preamble to the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement, in support of which the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant is made.”; 
(ix) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: “Except as the Bank and the 
Recipient shall otherwise agree, withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement.”; 
(x) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: “The Recipient shall be 
entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance 
with the provisions of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
and of these General Conditions.”; 
(xi) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; and  
(xii) Section 
9.07 
(c) 
is 
modifi
ed to read: “(c) Not later than six months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
Page  5
-
4
-
between the Recipient and the Bank, the Recipient shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in 
the Preamble to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, the performance 
by the Recipient and the Bank of their respective obligations under the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.”. 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the 
several terms defined in the General Conditions, the Development Grant Agreement, and in the 
Recitals to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Annual Budget for the Forest and Green Environment Sector” means a 
budgetary provision made by the Recipient during a Fiscal Year and allocated for management of 
forest sector and related green environment sector (but excluding urban, grey, brown and marine 
environment); 
(b) “BEAC” 
means 
Banque des Etats de l’Afrique Centrale
,
an institution 
established and operating pursuant to the 
“
Convention de Coopération Monétaire entre les Etats 
de l’Afrique Centrale et la République Française
”; 
(c) 
“BEAC Deposit Account” means the deposit account to be opened at the BEAC 
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; 
(d) “CAA” 
means 
Caisse Autonome
 d’Amortisssement
,
an institution established and 
operating pursuant to Decree No. 87/1176 dated August 28, 1985 
“
créant et organisant la Caisse 
Autonome d’Amortissement
”; 
(e) 
“CAA Deposit Account” means the deposit account to be opened by 
Caisse 
Autonome d’Amortisssement
 referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; 
(f) 
“CFAF” means 
Franc de la Communaut
é
Financière en Afrique Centrale
,
the 
currency of the Recipient; 
(g) 
“Community Forest” means a forest area as defined in Article 37 of Law No. 94-
01 dated January 20, 1994, on Forest, Wild life and Fisheries; 
(h) 
“DEPMI” means the software used by MINEFI (as hereinafter defined) for the 
management and monitoring of ministries expenditures; 
(i) 
“EMP” and “Environmental Management Plan” mean the plan adopted by the 
Recipient on October 6, 2005; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(j) 
“First Tranche” means the tranche of the proceeds of the GEF TF Grant for an 
amount of $3,800,000, to be released on or soon after the Effective Date; 
(k) 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Recipient starting on January 1 and 
ending on December 31 of the same year; 
(l) 
“Focus UTO” means the following UTOs (as hereinafter defined): Korup, 
Ndongoro, Bakossi Kupe, Campo Ma’an, Bouba Bek & Nki, Mbam & Djerem, Bénoué and 
Waza; 
(m) 
“Management Plan” or “MP” means a plan for the monitoring and management 
of a UFA (as hereinafter defined) established pursuant to Law No. 94-01 dated January 20, 1994, 
on Forest, Wildlife and Fisheries and its implementing regulations; 
(n) 
“Global Forest Watch Report” means the report produced by the Global Forest 
Watch Program of the World Resources Institute based on the Memorandum of Understanding 
signed with the Recipient on June 16, 2005; 
(o) 
“Management Efficiency Score” or “MES” means the level of efficiency in the 
management of Protected Areas (as hereinafter defined), as measured pursuant to the site level 
tracking tool developed for the World Bank-WWF Alliance in April 2003, as adapted in 2005; 
(p) 
“MINEP” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Environment and Nature Protection 
established pursuant to Decree No. 2004/320 dated December 8, 2004, organizing the 
Government and organized pursuant to Decree 2005/117 dated April 14, 2005; 
(q) 
“MINFOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Forestry and Wildlife, established 
by Decree No. 2004/320 of December 8, 2004, organizing the Government and organized 
pursuant to Decree 2005/099 dated April 6, 2005; 
(r) 
“MINEFI” the Recipient’s Ministry of Economy and Finance, established by 
Decree No. 2004/320 of December 8, 2004 organizing the Government and organized pursuant to 
Decree 2005/119 dated April 15, 2005; 
(s) 
“National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan” means the action plan 
established and in the process of being adopted by the Recipient, for the management and 
conservation of biological diversity in Protected Areas (as hereinafter defined); 
(t) 
“National Park” means a Protected Area defined and established pursuant to the 
provisions of Law No. 94-01 on Forest, Wildlife and Fisheries, and Decree No. 95/531 dated 
August 23, 1995; 
Page  7
-
6
-
(u) 
“ONADEF” means the National Forestry Development Office created by Decree 
No. 90/397 dated February 23, 1990, and replaced by ANAFOR, the National Agency for Forest 
Development established by Decree No. 2002/155 dated June 18, 2002; 
(v) 
Protected Area” means a State forest (
forêt domaniale de l’Etat
)
designated for 
conservation and/or protection pursuant to Law No. 94-01 on Forest, Wildlife and Fisheries, 
including all forest reserves mentioned in Article 2 (2) of Decree No. 95/531 dated 
August 23, 1995; 
(w) 
“SAC III Forestry Reforms” means the forestry reforms carried under the third 
structural adjustment credit financed by the Association, as referred to in Section 3.1 of the 
Program; 
(x) 
“Second Tranche” means the tranche of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant for an amount of $3,100,000, to be released on or soon after the date on which the 
conditions referred to in Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement shall have been fulfilled; 
(y) 
“Simple Management Plan” means a plan for the management of a Community 
Forest established and approved pursuant to Article 37 (2) of Law No. 94-01 on Forest, Wildlife 
and Fisheries and its implementing regulations; 
(z) 
“UFA” means a 
Unité Forestière d’Aménagement
,
established and operating 
pursuant to Law No. 94-01 on Forest, Wildlife and Fisheries, and its implementing regulations; 
and 
(aa) 
“UTO” means 
Unité Technique Opérationnelle
,
a
geographic area comprising 
permanent and non permanent forests, established for specific conservation or operation purposes 
pursuant to Decree No. 98/345 dated December 21, 1998,
 “portant organisation du Ministère de 
l’Environnement et des Forêts
”. 
ARTICLE II 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant (the GEF Grant) 
in an amount equal to ten million Dollars ($10,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the GEF Grant from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account (the GEF Grant Account) in support of the Program; 
Page  8
-
7
-
(b) 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree: (i) all withdrawals from the GEF 
Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into a deposit account opened by CAA in 
CFAF on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) the Recipient shall ensure 
that upon each deposit of an amount of the GEF Grant into said account, this amount be 
transferred in a separate deposit account opened in BEAC in CFAF on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association; 
(c) 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the GEF Grant shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the 
Bank determines at any time that an amount of the GEF Grant was used to make a payment for an 
expenditure so excluded, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon 
such request shall be cancelled; 
(d) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the GEF Grant Account after the aggregate 
amount of the GEF Grant withdrawn from the GEF Grant Account has reached the amount of 
$3,800,000 unless the Bank is satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 
of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Recipient in the carrying out of the 
Program;  
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Recipient is 
satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed between the 
Recipient and the Bank; and  
(iii) 
that the actions described in Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement have 
been taken. 
If, after said exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied, the Bank may give notice to 
the Recipient to that effect and, if within 90 days after such notice, the Recipient has not taken 
steps satisfactory to the Bank, in respect of (i), (ii) and (iii) above, as the case may be, then the 
Bank may, by notice to the Recipient, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Grant or any 
part thereof. 
(e) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the GEF Grant Account after the amount of 
the GEF Grant withdrawn from the GEF Grant Account shall have reached the amount of 
$6,900,000 unless the Association is satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 
3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Recipient in the carrying out of the 
Program;  
Page  9
-
8
-
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Recipient is 
satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed between the 
Recipient and the Association; and  
(iii) 
that the actions described in Part B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement have 
been taken.  
If, after said exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied, the Bank may give notice to 
the Recipient to that effect and, if within 90 days after such notice, the Recipient has not taken 
steps satisfactory to the Bank, in respect of (i), (ii) and (iii) above, as the case may be, then the 
Bank may, by notice to the Recipient, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Grant or any 
part thereof. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2009, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions 
specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the Bank for 
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Recipient shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken after the 
disbursement of the GEF Grant which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action specified in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 (a) of the 
General Conditions, the Recipient shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to 
the provisions of article II of this Agreement as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably 
request; 
(b) 
the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
have the CAA Deposit Account and the BEAC Deposit Account audited 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance 
Page  10
-
9
-
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the end of the Fiscal Year, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the CAA 
Deposit Account and the BEAC Deposit Account and the audit thereof as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Events of Suspension
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
(a) 
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part thereof, will be carried out; 
(b) 
that the SAC III Forestry Reforms shall have been amended without prior 
consultation with the Bank; 
(c) 
that the right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the IDA Grant shall 
have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the 
Development Grant Agreement. 
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of 
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Recipient. 
ARTICLE V 
Effectiveness; Termination
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the parties, 
provided however that the Development Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and 
all conditions precedent to its effectiveness have been fulfilled. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  11
-
10
-
Section 5.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations hereunder. 
Page  12
-
11
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Recipient responsible for Economy and Finance is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
BP 1630 
Yaoundé 
 
Republic of Cameroon 
Cable 
address: 
 
   Telex: 
 Facsimile: 
 
237
223
37
17
For the Bank: 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INTBAFRAD 248423 
(MCI) 
 
(202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  13
-
12
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Yaoundé, 
Republic of Cameroon, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON 
 
By: 
/s/ Abah Abah Polycarpe 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility) 
 
By: 
       /s/ 
Markus 
Repnik 
Authorized Representative 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the GEF Grant shall 
not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another grant, credit or a loan; 
2. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Recipient: 
Page  15
-
14
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
 
unmanufactured, 
 
tobacco refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 728 
728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
Page  16
-
15
-
3. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
4. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which 
is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which the Recipient is 
a
party; 
5. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if 
such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
6. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive, or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Recipient or 
of a beneficiary of the GEF Grant during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
the Recipient having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to 
remedy the situation. 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 2 
A. 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement 
Budget allocation and execution
1. 
As of December 31 of the Fiscal Year during which the First Tranche was released, the 
Recipient has committed not less than 75% of the fraction of its Forest and Green Environment 
Sectoral Annual Budget financed out of the Grant, the IDA Grant and its own resources. 
Environmental and Social Monitoring
2. 
The Recipient has successfully implemented activities defined for 2006 in the EMP and 
established an environmental and social monitoring mechanism, as evidenced by work programs, 
reports and implementation of mitigation measures. 
Sustainable Management of Production Forests 
3. 
The Recipient has: (i) reviewed MP for all UFA awarded before January 2002 and 
existing communal forests; and (ii) signed final concession agreements for UFA with companies 
having fulfilled their obligations and taken appropriate measures against companies in violation 
of their obligations (including, as the case may be, the termination of the concession), all as 
evidenced by copies of the signed final concession agreements and relevant notifications to 
companies. 
Wildlife and Protected Areas Management
4. 
Three Focus UTO have received a MES between 40 and 55; three Focus UTO have 
received a MES between 20 and 40; one Focus UTO has received a MES of at least 17, and one 
Focus UTO has received a MES of at least 6, all as evidenced on the basis of a third party 
evaluation carried out on terms of reference satisfactory to the Association. 
Community Management of Forests Resources
5. 
Simple Management Plans of good quality have been prepared and/or
satisfactorily 
implemented in 10 Community Forests, as evidenced by said plans, a report on their 
implementation prepared by MINFOF supervision assessments undertaken. 
Institutional Strengthening
6. 
Satisfactory computerized financial management and monitoring mechanisms are 
operational within MINFOF and MINEP at the central, provincial and departmental levels, and in 
Page  18
-
17
-
coherence with DEPMI, all as evidenced by documentation showing on-going internal and 
external monitoring of MINFOF and MINEP expenses and financial management. 
B. 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (e) of this Agreement
 
Budget allocation and execution
1. 
As of December 31 of the Fiscal Year during which the Second Tranche was released, the 
Recipient has committed not less than 75% of the fraction of its Forest and Green Environment 
Sectoral Annual Budget financed out of the Grant, the IDA Grant and its own resources. 
Environmental and Social Monitoring
2. 
An evaluation of the Program activities’ quantitative and qualitative impacts has been 
carried out, as evidenced by a publicly available report prepared on the basis of terms of reference 
defined in a participatory manner. 
Sustainable Management of Production Forests 
3. 
Illegal logging is under control in all UFA not awarded by December 2005 and in 
Protected Areas, as evidenced by satellite images used in the Global Forest Watch Report dated 
December 2005 and comparable satellite images and/or field visits of the same areas showing a 
significant decrease in the number of illegal logging roads in comparison to the level observed in 
2005.  
Wildlife and Protected Areas Management
4. 
Three Focus UTO have received a MES over 55; three Focus UTO have received a MES 
between 40 and 55; one Focus UTO has received a MES of at least 26, and one Focus UTO has 
received a MES of at least 17, all as evidenced on the basis of a third party evaluation carried out 
on terms of reference satisfactory to the Association; the National Biodiversity Strategy and 
Action Plan has been updated and adopted by MINFOF and MINEP; and the fraction of the Deng 
Deng zone retained for conservation purposes has been transformed into a wildlife reserve and 
the protection of this site has been guaranteed in the field. 
Community Management of Forests Resources
5. 
At least 90% of plantations established on state owned gazetted land and previously 
under ONADEF’s management are reassigned to appropriate management structures: competitive 
award of management contracts to the private sector, management contract with local 
communities, transformation into UFAs or integration into existing UFAs, transformation into 
Protected Areas with no productive purpose (conservation and/or protection), integration into 
National Parks, or environmental protection areas or declassification of plantations into urban 
Page  19
-
18
-
zones, all as evidenced by official signed acts by MINFOF and/or MINEP in support of the new 
status.
 
Institutional Strengthening
6. 
At least 50 forestry facilities have been rehabilitated (including through infrastructure, 
equipment and/or training) at the technical directorate, provincial and departmental level, as 
evidenced by upgrade reports, listings of works carried out, equipment bought, and field visits.
 
