ISDS
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Report No: AC533
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 09/2412004
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A. 1. Project Statistics
Country: CAMEROON                                Project ID: P070656
Global Supplemental ID: P073020
Project: CAMEROON FORESTRY/ENVIRON.              Task Team Leader: Ciiuseppe Topa
Authorized to Appraise Date: May 7, 2004        IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: December 14, 2004                 IDA Amount ($m): 15.00
Global Supplemental Amount ($m): 20.00
Managing Unit: AFTS3                             Sector: Central government administration (50%);
Lending Instrument: Sector Adjustment Loan (SAD)  Forestry (50%)
Status: Lending                                  Theme: Rural policies and institutions (P); Other
rural development (P); Other environment and
natural resources management (P); Environmental
policies and institutions (P); Biodiversity (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
Background
Forest exploitation and related activities contribute significantly to the economy of Cameroon. They were
8.9 percent of national GDP on the FY 1999/2000, and have grown at a rate of 4.7 percent per year since
then. The sector likewise contributes significantly to exports where it represented 28.2 percent of the
total non-oil exports in the same period. Forest sector financial performance has continued to expand in
recent years but this good performance has not been matched by comparable improvements in the
ecosystem protection and sustainable management of forests. Degradation has continued to occur mainly
due to short term forest exploitation strategies of the private sector and the government, and expansion of
low input/low output agriculture into forest areas.
Cameroon harbors a wide range of African forest types: from south to north, evergreen and
semi-deciduous rainforest, forest galleries, wooded savannas and scrub land create a continuous
phytosociological succession. National parks and reserves have been created to conserve biodiversity and
contribute to local income in all country's natural regions: from the Lake Chad's arid steppes to the
South's equatorial rain forest. The entire rural population, at various levels, relies on forest products for
food, medicine, fire wood and construction rnaterials. These populations also earn cash income by
trading bush meat, medicine, rattan and other products.
Cameroon is committed to develop and manage a biologically representative network of protected areas
that would include 90 percent of its biodiversity much of which is of global importance. Despite the
efforts to create this network of protected areas and the support from the international community,
management of these areas is still lacking, resulting in loss of biodiversity. Many of these areas are
de-facto open to illegal logging and poaching. Local population have little participation in the benefits
from and commitment to conserve parks and reserves. The forests' potential for eco-tourism is
under-valued, due also to weaknesses in park management, transport and infrastructure.
Forest and biodiversity erosion needs to be reversed in such a way that strengthen economic development



2
I SDS
and secure community benefits. To this effect, PSFE (Programme Sectoriel For&ts et Environnement)
favors a territorial zoning approach whereby positive economic, social & ecological outcomes are sought
at the landscape level by better management of lands resources in "Ecosystem units". An Ecosystem unit
is a non-official label for an area comprising interconnected protected areas (national parks & reserves),
hunting zones (privately or community-managed concessioned--French acronym ZIC or ZICGC) together
administered as UTOs (French acronym for Technical Operational Unit) as well as gazetted production
forests administered as UFA (French acronym for Forest management Unit) and community forest of the
rural domain.
Project development objective
Bank funds are provided in support to a national program, the Forest & Environment Sector Program
(FESP or Progranmne Sectoriel Forets Environnement PSFE), in the form of a Forest & Environment
Sector Adjustment Credit (FESAC). The FESAC's development objective is to strengthen public and
private efforts to achieve socio-economically and ecologically sustainable use of national forest and
wildlife resources.
The project seeks to: (1) promote the sustainable management of rainforests and savanna lands, (2)
increase local community involvement in and benefits from sustainable management of natural resources,
(3) improve the institutional and organizational capacity to implement new policies and regulations for
forest management and timber industry development; and (4) to enhance conservation of biodiversity,
and supply environmental services of national & global relevance.
I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
The project will disburse in tranches on the basis of agreed targets. Mechanisms & triggers will be
elaborated. The project will adopt a broad sectoral lending approach, and will include the five following
components:
C. 1. Regulation and environment information management
C.2. Production forests management
C.3. Protected area & wildlife management
C.4. Community forest resources management
C.5. Institutional strengthening, training & research
Component 1. Regulation and environment information management
Component 1 will involve the following three subcomponents: (1) Environmental regulations & impact
assessment, including (i) preparation of environmental standards, (ii) drafting & approbation of
environmental regulations, (iii) information & training on regulation enforcement, (iv) preparation of a
guide for impact assessment & training for its use, (v) environmental audits, (vi) studies on financial and
fiscal mechanisms for sustainability of impact assessment; (2) Cartography and multi-resource
inventories, including (i) resource monitoring in production forests, (ii) design and implementation of an
Environmental Information System with map production capacity, (iii) monitoring of threatened species,
and (iv) design of environmental indicators; and (3) Information and environmental awareness including
(i) design, training and operation of an information system, (ii) environmental awareness campaign, (iii)
design and implementation of a communication strategy.
Component 2. Production forests management
Component 2 will involve the following 5 subcomponents: (1) Country Zoning plan including (i)



3
ISDS
completion of phase 6 & 7 zoning in forest zone, (ii) zoning of savanna zone; (2) Implementation of
Forest Management Plans including (i) completion of UTFA gazetment, (ii) preparation of UFA
management plans & training for implementation, (iii) assistance UFA management, (iv) monitoring of
implementation of management plans, and (v) stimulation of certification process; (3) Promotion of a
wood product industrialization including (i) promotion campaign, (ii) reduction of logging waste, (iii)
organization of in-country log market, (iv) promotion of wood product utilization, and (v) support to
efficient in-country transformation; (4) Control operations and sanctions including (i) design of a control
strategy, (ii) strengthening of control institutions and tools, (iii) support to new control technologies, and
(iv) monitoring of law infractions; and (5) Valorization of Non-Timber Forest Products (NTFP) including
(i) identification of NTFP commercial routes/operators/customers, (ii) standardization of NTFP
inventories and identification of production sites, (iii) design of strategy for each potentially valuable
product or class of products, (iv) research & development on collection and transformation, and (v)
market promotion.
Component 3. Protected area & wildlife management
Component 3 will involve the following 8 subcomponents: (1) Biodiversity planning & zoning including
(i) finalization and validation of the country protected area network, (ii) creation of new protected areas;
(2) Knowledge & information management including (i) development of a Monitoring Information
System (MIS), (ii) training of MIS users, (iii) ecological data collection and treatment, (iv) map and MIS
report production; (3) Participatory protected area & hunting zone management including (i) design and
adoption of new regulations, (ii) support to community involvement on protected area management, (iii)
support to community management of hunting zones, and (iv) community consultation & training; (4)
Design & implementation of protected area management plans including (i) design & implementation of
a national bushmeat control strategy, (ii) surveillance of protected areas and hunting zones, (iii) design of
management plans, (iv) implementation of management plans with provision of work, equipment,
training and operations funds, (v) monitoring of implementation performance; (5) Optimization economic
benefits of protected areas & hunting zones including (i) design and implementation of new wildlife trade
strategy, (ii) review of wildlife fiscality, and (iii) review of tourism management, development & revenue
retention in protected areas; (6) Legal & institutional reform of protected areas & hunting zones
management including (i) standardization of management plans, (ii) job adaptation training, (iii) audit of
institutional capacity, (iv) support to Garoua Wildlife School, (v) design and adoption of new wildlife
and protected area law or regulation; (7) Sustainable financing of wildlife & protected areas including (i)
revision of management of public funds (e.g. FSF), (ii) review of wildlife & protected area fiscality, (iii)
feasibility study national foundation, (iv) if (iii) positive, creation, capacity building and fund raising for
new foundation; and (8) National Biodiversity Strategy update.
Component 4. Community forest resources management
Component 4 will involve the following 3 subcomponents: (1) Community forestry including (i) review
of the legal & institutional framework, (ii) socioeconomic studies, (iii) preparation/diffusion of procedure
manual, (iii) support to land identification and allocation, (iv) support to planning and implementation of
community forest management; (2) Reforestation and forest regeneration including (i) review of legal
framework for community plantations, (ii) strengthening of ANAFOR, (iii) support to forest seed market,
(iv) support to plantations, (v) research & demonstration, (vi) creation FDP (French acronym for an
equalization fund for forestry taxes "Fonds de Pjrequation"); and (3) Promotion of fuelwood supply
including (i) support to strategic unit, (ii) development of planning tools, (iii) forest exploitation control,
(iv) community management of savanna gazetted forests, (v) support to professionalization of
charcoal-makers, (vi) support to charcoal-making optimization, (vii) support to trading circuits, (viii)
diversification of domestic energy.



4
ISDS
Component 5. Institutional strengthening, training & research
Component 5 will involve the following 4 subcomponents: (1) Restructuring the ONADEF in ANAFOR
including (i) feasibility studies, (ii) audit of ONADEF & ANAFOR, (iii) design/implementation of a
human resources reconversion plan, (iv) organization support to ANAFOR; (2) Strengthening the MINEF
including (i) support to MINEF's reorganization, (ii) actualization of institutional & legal framework, (iii)
installation of new structures, (iv) design o f a human resource management strategy, (v) re dispatching
of human resources, (vi) training, (vii) rehabilitation of work place and provision of equipment, (viii)
strengthening of financial management capacity, (ix) revision financial management modes, (x) intemal
& external audits; (3) Rehabilitating education and research in forestry and environment sector including
(i) strengthening of the ENEF (French acronym for National Forestry School), (ii) strengthening EFF
(French acronym for Garoua Wildlife School), (iii) strengthening FASA (french acronym for the
Dschang University of agriculture), (iv) strengthening of CRESA (french acronym for the Regional
Center on Agriculture ), (v) prospective study on long termn needs; and (4) Coordination PSFE and good
governance including (i) consultation and information of stakeholders, (ii) support to PSFE
implementation capacity in MINEF, (iii) internal monitoring MINEF, (iv) external monitoring &
evaluation.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, infortnation about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The scope of the proposed operation is not location-specific, but rather national. The project will
strengthen national institutions and the civil society in ways that forest protection will be more effective
and forest use better managed, controlled and environmentally and socially responsive.
Geographical boundary of PSFE intervention will target priority landscapes delimited by "Ecological
Units" made of interconnected protected areas, hunting zones administered by UTO, gazetted production
forest, administered by UFA, and community forests of the rural domain. Each "Ecological unit" is
centered around a core protected area.
The Wildlife & Protected Area Strategy has opted to secure 50 protected areas. The total surface area of
the present protected area network is about 14 percent and with the proposed extensions it will come near
to 17 percent of the national surface area. The proposed network is expected to include 90 percent of
Cameroon's biodiversity.
The PSFE targets 26 priority areas for gazetment and/or improvement of management effectiveness. The
selection was based on criteria such as ecosystem coverage, size, potential connectivity, ongoing
conservation activity & status. The following is a subset of the priority network: (1) Kilum Ijim, (2)
Bouba Bek, (3) Nki, (4) Kup6, (5) Bakossi, (6) Banyang Mbo, (7) Ndongore, (8) Ebo, (9) Mont Oku, (10)
Campo marine, (11) Mont Cameroon, (12) Lac Lobeke, (13) Mbam Djerem, (14) Faro, (15) Bouba
Ndjida, (1.6) Campo-Ma'an, (17) Korup, (18) Waza, (19) Benoue, (20) Dja, (21) Takamanda, (21) Rumpi
Hills, (22) Douala Edea, (23) Mont Nlonako, (24) Vallee de Mbere, (25) Mpem & Djim, (26) Ramsar
sites: Lake Chad, etc.
GEF & IDA support will target sustainable forest management and biodiversity conservation within nine
under-funded "Ecosystem units" comprising of UTOs, UFAs and community forests. FESAC will
therefore disburse its tranches based on verified results in Ecosystem units centered around these



5
ISDS
protected areas: (1) Waza with Lac Chad and Logone plains, (2) Korup, Takamanda and Rumpi Hills
complex, (3) Bakossi & Mount Kupe complex, (4) Campo Ma'an & Campo-Marine complex, (5) Mbam
& Djerem, (6) Mts Nlonako and Ebo complex, (7) Ndongoro wetland, (8) Bouba Bek/Nki complex et (9)
Benoue complex.
B. Check Environmental Classification: A (Full Assessment)
Comments:
Through its focus on sectoral policy, institutional reform, forest industry reorganization incentives,
rehabilitation of degraded national parks and biodiversity conservation sites, the project is expected to
have a strong positive impact on the environment. While there will be no displacement of people, no
meaningful infrastructure investments under the project, and only positive impacts on the environment
are anticipated, a (Category A) environmental assessment is being proposed. The highly demanding Cat.
A consultative process has given the project the broadest possible exposure to stakeholders and
environmentally concerned groups both in Cameroon and abroad. This results in a richer feedback to help
improve project design and anticipate possible requests for clarification at the time of Board approval.
The EA analysis has proceeded in parallel with project preparation so that findings have been
incorporated into overall project support for strengthening MINEF's and other agencies' capacity to
monitor, evaluate and mitigate environmental impacts of activities taking place in the forest environment.
Only OP 4.01 is triggered by SECALs. However, because of the special nature of the project and the
enhancements that consideration of the other safeguards policies would bring to it, the same analytical
and management activities that they would call for is being carried out nevertheless.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on E for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
Policy                                 Triggered
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01. BP 4.01, GP 4.01)       S Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)               0 Yes S No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                0 Yes S No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                  O Yes O No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                              0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                               O Yes @ No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                      O Yes @ No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                          O Yes @ No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*    0 Yes 0 No
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Pleasefill in all relevant questions. If informationz is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
l.DI.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Significant issues : The PSFE seeks to : (1) promote the sustainable management of Cameroon's
rainforests and savanna lands, (2) increase local community involvement in and benefits from sustainable
management of natural resources, (3) improve the institutional and organizational capacity to implement



6
ISDS
new policies and regulations for forest management and timber industry development; and (4) to enhance
conservation of biodiversity, and supply environmental services of national & global relevance. In that
sense, the PSFE and its different activities are likely to have no significant or undesirable environmental
and social impacts.
Environmental Assessment: The OP 4.01 has been triggered and an Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF) has been designed during the preparation phase of the PSFE. The
ESMF has been conducted by a multi-disciplinary team and involved large participation and consultative
works with all concerned parties in the different provinces of the country. The ESMF has identified the
potential environmental and social issues that could result (directly or indirectly) from activities of the
PSFE and proposed measures to avoid or mitigate these adverse effects. The ESMF proposed screening
tools to assess potential adverse impacts of different activities of the PSFE before implementation.
Where adverse impacts are anticipated, appropriate steps are taken either through adjustment of the
activities or integration of mitigation measures.
The ESMF ensured that the PSFE was designed in compliance with national environmental policies and
with donor's safeguard policies. The national framework for the environmental management is defined
by the Law 96/12, 5 August 1996 portant Loi Cadre relative ai la gestion environnementale but some
regulatory texts are still missing, leading to significant shortcomings in the application of the Law. The
Administration's environmental management capacity is still weak; a special audit of the SPE has been
conducted during the preparation of the project to lay out strengthening of SPE's central and field
services.
Natural Habitats. The PSFE activities will operate in and/or encompass a number of natural habitats.
However the PSFE impacts on natural habitats are likely to be very positive notably through the
promotion of sustainable management of production forests and community participation in natural
resource management. The PSFE is likely to directly and indirectly induce a reduction of the pressure on
natural habitats by clearly defining the zoning plan and strengthening the control capacity of the
Administration. The project will support the validation and implementation of this network that will
cover nearly 17% of the national surface and should conserve to the tune of 90% of Cameroon's
biodiversity. The protected area network will be managed in the context of landscapes and regional
zoning plans determining land-use and modalities there-off. Wildlife corridor functions will be
established and biodiversity hotspots will be identified in forest concessions (UFAs) and sport hunting
zones (ZICs) in the peripheral zones of protected areas. The establishment of community hunting zones
will be an important element of the landscape approach. The project will ensure wildlife conservation in
both dry and humid forests representing the country's diversity of natural habitats. The sustainable
management of dry woodlands will be forcefully addressed through the establishment of community
based fuel wood master plans around major energy consumption centers in the savanna regions of the
country. Ultimately, the environmental benefits of this approach are expected to be substantial, and will
provide significant opportunities for increasing the viability of managed woodlands.
GEF & IDA support will target sustainable forest management and biodiversity conservation within nine
under-funded "Ecosystem units" comprising of UTOs, UFAs and community forests. FESAC will
therefore disburse its tranches based on verified results in Ecosystem units centered around these
protected areas (1) Waza with Lac Chad and Logone plains, (2) Korup, Takamanda and Rumpi Hills
complex, (3) Bakossi & Mount Kupe complex, (4) Campo Ma'an & Campo-Marine complex, (5) Mbam
& Djerem, (6) Mts Nlonako and Ebo complex, (7) Ndongoro wetland, (8) Bouba Bek/Nki complex, and
(9) Benoue complex.



7
ISDS
Forestrv. The PSFE is a sectorial program dedicated to sustainable management of forests and green
environment concerns.
(i) Financing commercial logging operations or the purchase of logging equipment for use in primary
tropical moist forests. The project will not in any ways direct or indirect stimulate, promote, encourage
or finance activities leading to increased level of logging in Cameroon. All project activities related to
logging will aim at bringing logging activities under strict forest management rules, full law enforcement,
transparency at the national and international level and local participation. The project will actively work
to stop all commercial forest use activities that are conducted outside the framework of approved
management plans that ensure protection of sensitive, biologically important and watershed catchments.
Participatory forest management will allow for expansion of village and cormmunity based plantation
efforts, management and rehabilitation of woodlands.
(ii) Use of a sector-wide approach for forest management. The National Forest Policy, the National
Forest Action Plan, the forestry legislation, and technical guidelines all constitute essential components
of a solid sector-wide approach to the forest sector in Cameroon. All of the Bank's policy commitments
in this regard have been addressed by GoC and include: adoption of policies and a legal institutional
framework for forest management; adoption of an appropriate forestry conservation and development
plan; use of social, economic and environmental assessments of commercial forests; setting aside
compensatory preservation forests; and establishment of institutional capacity to implement and enforce
these conmmitments. As currently designed, the project will strengthen the institutional capacity of the
Ministry of Environment and Forest as a whole. It will be implemented through the Ministry of Forests,
with enhanced participation of civil society and private sector in the decision-making process and
program implementation.
(iii) Stakeholder consultation including the private sector and local people in forest management.
Provisions for continuing stakeholder consultations are made in the framework of project preparation and
design. These include stakeholder mapping, consultation and information. Provisions are made in the law
to ensure that gazetment process for production forests and protected areas take into account the claims
of local communities. For protected areas, industrial production forests (Unites Forestiees
d'amenagement - UFA), community forests and community managed woodlands, the basic premise for
future sustainable use is the development and implementation of forest management plans. These plans
have been, are being and will be defined by a process that involve stakeholders and nurture stakeholder
participation and benefit sharing arrangements. National legislation and regulatory instruments include
specific provisions for ensuring that all stakeholders, from the private sector to local people, are included
in the development of forest management plans. Over the past few years, Government progressively got
used to integrate the views of private sector within the preparation of new implementation decrees.
During the PSFE preparation phase, two national fora (June 2000 and December 2002) have been
organized on the MINEF initiative to consult all the concerned parties (civil society, private sector,
NGOs). Some consultations have been led by the project design Team in all the 10 provinces of the
Country.
Indigenous Peoples. Pygmy populations maintain a presence in the forests of southern Cameroon. The
purpose of the procedures described in this directive is first to ensure that indigenous peoples benefit
from development projects and secondly, to ensure that potentially adverse impacts on indigenous
peoples is avoided or mitigated. According to OD 4.20, an "Indigenous Peoples development Plan" has
been prepared as a separate document during the preparation phase of the PSFE. The IPDP specifies what
needs to be done concerning consultation, information, participation of and planning with indigenous



8
ISDS
communities and addresses any potential adverse impacts and how to mitigate them. It was prepared to
ensure that the PSFE will respect the dignity, rights and culture of Pygmy population and that they also
benefit from the PSFE.
Involuntary Resettlement. The operation is not expected to require, involve or indirectly generate
involuntary resettlement of people. Construction of new Forest Department Headquarters, and local
forest stations will be undertaken in areas that already belong to and are occupied by the Government. No
new sites is expected to be acquired in the framework of the project and no legal or illegal occupants will
need to move and re-settle to accommodate project related construction works and new buildings.
II.D. lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
This program was designed to generate and speed up institutional reforms, enhance community
participation, improve control and accountability of forest industry, rehabilitate degraded national parks
and biodiversity conservation sites.
The Environmental Impact Assessment did not identify any specific cumulative impacts due to the
implementation of the PSFE. Special attention has to be given to the interactions between the PSFE and
other rural development projects such as the PNDP: indeed some components, such as the community
forests, are promoted in both programs and coordination has to be established as soon as possible
between the implementation structures -at all levels (national and local)- to avoid adverse impacts due to
redundant interventions.
UII.D. Ic Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
The EIA has not identified potential long-term undesirable impacts as a direct or indirect consequence of
this project but highlighted the fact that undesirable effects could derive from unsatisfactory
implementation of activities. For examples:
*   Unsatisfactory implementation of management plans in UFAs and community forests resulting in
an erosion of biological diversity in Cameroonian forests.
*   Uncontrolled road access in UFAs and National Parks leading to increase in illegal poaching
activities.
*   Extension of protected area network without ensuring a minimum satisfactory management in
existing PA.
*   Uncontrolled impacts of eco-tourism activities (pressure on natural resources and specifically on
wildlife).
The specific interests of Pygmy populations are not appropriately taken into consideration to ensure an
equal access to natural resources and benefits, resulting in their marginalization
I.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
No alternative project designs were considered to be necessary on environmental grounds, as no negative
environmental impacts are expected from the project. In the absence of adverse impact to mitigate, the
design of alternatives was felt to be superfluous.
However alternatives were considered on grounds other than potential negative impact. These are:
(i) No direct Bank investment in the sector. This strategic option was considered as an option that might



9
ISDS
push the Govt. to invest its own resources in this sector, now that the policy framework has been largely
improved through Bank dialogue and adjustment lending. This option was reconsidered due Govt. limited
investment capacity and its still fragile capacity to overcome, alone, the strong vested interests that exist
in the sector. In fact it was found that a close relation with the Bank and other intemational development
partners was beneficial to keep on track and consolidate the forest sector reform process.
(ii) Support through a hybrid adjustment and capacity building operation. The idea was to support the
forest sector through a hybrid operation including policy based measures and TA. This option was
reconsidered given the fact that key policy reforms that could be tackled through conditionalities have
indeed been completed and that there was a need to shift to policy implementation. Other shortcomings
of this options were: the not so positive record for Bank hybrid operations and the desire of the
Government to move away from multiple donor- and lender-funded TA interventions.
lI.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The key issues related to environmental and social safeguards are summarized here:
The ESMF proposes that environmental and social considerations be fully incorporated into the
participatory process for identifying, implementing and monitoring activities of the PSFE, in order to
ensure that all operations are screened for their potential impacts and that they are all consistent with
both national policies and World Bank safeguards policies.
Ensure the adecquacy of implementing institutions to address environmental management and
implement the ESMF - OP/BP 4.01.At the beginning of the 90s, the GoC has significantly improved
the sector's legal framework, but new rules are not entirely implemented up to now. Law No 94-01
January 20, 1994 and Law n° 96-12 August 5, 1996 respectedly set the framework for forestry and
forest-related environmental matters and for the environment. Although there are still significant
shortcomings in the national environmental management and regulatory framework, the forest sector is
supported by a strong policy and legal framework to address potential environmental concerns which
could arise as a result of this project. These are specifically contained in the relevant National Forest
Policy, the National Forestry Action Plan, and in a body of regulations that were defined in close
collaboration with the donor community and the World Bank in the framework of the Third Adjustment
Credit (1998-2002).
The present project will not require major remodeling of existing policies but will involve important
institutional reforms to reinforce the capacity of the Administration to implement the existing legal and
regulatory framework. During the preparation phase of the PSFE, a sectoral institutional audit has been
led and recommendations have been formulated and reported in the Component 5 of the PSFE
"Institutional strengthening, training ad research'. A specific audit has been focused on the Secretariat
Permanent ai I'Environnement (SPE/MINEF), which is the structure in charge of ensuring that
environmental concerns are duly integrated and respected in all activities led by all Ministerial
Departments. The recommendations of this audit are already available and have been integrated into the
design of the operation.
The ESMF has produced screening tools to anticipate potential adverse impacts of PSFE activities. The
PSFE will ensure that all levels of project management are given adequate preparation/sensitivity training
in socio-environmental issues and will build capacity for implementation of the ESMF both at the central
and field levels. Some synergies will have to be found with the ESMF of the PNDP, specifically on the
questions of training and sensitization of service providers and local communities on environmental and



10
ISDS
social issues.
Avoid or minimize involuntary resettlement as it applies in particular to encroachment in forest
reserves - OP/HBP 4.12. The project is not expected to require, involve or indirectly generate any
voluntary or involuntary resettlement. The Government preparation team has confirmed that involuntary
resettlement would not be carried out in conjunction with any project implementation activity.
Government has also agreed that in the unforeseen event that involuntary resettlement becomes necessary
in the course of project implementation, a detailed resettlement plan will be completed and subject to
IDA review well in advance of any resettlement actions associated with any of the project components.
The problem of encroachment in reserved forests is less pronounced in Cameroon than in most
comparable African countries. Pygmies maintain a presence in these forests and will continue to be
present in many production forests in the South of Cameroon, but this is not an encroachment issue. It
will not require or involve any re-settlement (see sections below on social issues). Government has put
in place various mechanisms to limit the problem of encroachment, including boundary demarcation,
increased patrols, and modification of existing forest boundaries in case of claims supported by
reasonable evidence of customary or modern rights presented by forest dwellers and supported by
socio-economic fact finding missions.
The Government of Cameroon has developed a set of detailed guidelines which define methods for
defining forest reserve boundaries, identifying encroachment problems, consulting with offenders and
establishing fines and provisions for getting such offenders off designated lands. The project will help
implement and improve them as experience is accrued. The project will promote community-based forest
management through promotion of conmmunity forests. A new regulation was adopted in 2002 (Arr&6
51 8/MINEF/CAB) to empower local communities in land management decisions, give them priority right
over industry in the process of allocation of exclusive forest rights in areas surrounding or in proximity to
their villages. A specific fiscal framework as well as specific administrative procedures are being
discussed between MINEF, MINFIB and MINAT to encourage local population to manage their natural
resource while preventing excessive forest exploitation by logging companies and countering vested
interested. The project will also strengthen effectiveness of benefit sharing schemes for communities
living in buffer zones around reserved forests and UFAs.
Avoid or minimize adverse impacts on indigenous peoples (notably the Py2mies) - OD 4.20. In the
absence of specific measures, pygmy comnmunities will not be able to share in the benefits of the PSFE
and would face increased risks of marginalization. To realize the potential positive impacts and to
mitigate the potential negative impacts, to guarantee that the indigenous population has equal or better
opportunities to participate in the benefits offered by the PSFE, that the right, dignity and culture of the
indigenous forest population are respected, that the PSFE fulfill the requirements of the OD 4.20 and that
the PSFE is able to fulfill its development objective and "assure that the living conditions of the rural
population are sustainably improved through the sustainable management of forest ecosystems", the
GoC will carry out the recommended mitigation measures summarized in the following activities:
Establish equal legal opportunities
*      Establish the capacities necessary to implement an IPDP following the OD 4.20.
*      Establish equal legal conditions for all indigenous people (ID-cards).
*      Establish equal legal conditions for all settlements of indigenous people (village).
*      Establish commnunity forests and/or communal hunting zones for all IP communities.
a      Establish new forestry regulations, which legalize the IP' to utilize their land.
*      Establish a national policy on indigenous people.



11
ISDS
Establish equal technical opportunities
*      Provide the IP with technical capacities to participate actively in natural resource management.
*      Provide the relevant GoC staff and other stakeholders with the technical capacities to cooperate
successfully with the IP.
*      Promote research on the IP and provide space for information on the IP.
Establish equal financial opportunities
*      Adjust the distribution patterns of the forestry revenue to provide the IP with the necessary funds
to participate activities and decision making processes.
Establish equal organizational opportunities
*      Facilitate the representation of IP in all forest related decision making bodies.
*      Facilitate priority access for IP to forest related job opportunities.
*      Establish a participatory monitoring and evaluation system for the IPDP of the PSFE.
Establish equal cultural opportunities
*      Sensitize the IP on the risks of the development process.
*      Assist the IP associations in capacity building to preserve the loss of traditional knowledge,
culture and livelihood patterns.
*      Foster the creation of forums for communication and exchange between IP and other ethnical
groups and accompany this process of mutual understanding.
Implement and Monitor the PSFE-IPDP. Due to the fact that the GoC has already programmed the
establishment of an implementation structure for the IPDP of the PNDP, it is advisable not to create an
additional structure for the implementation of the IPDP of the PSFE, but to adjust the PNDP-IPDP
structure. The adjustment would be based on the exchange of representatives to increase the information
flow and facilitate the fine tuning of the activities. As a matter of fact 8 amongst the 16 activities of the
PSFE-IPDP have already been adopted as GoC policy within the PNDP (2003). The GoC has already
agreed to the creation of an ad-hoc committee for the IPDP of the PNDP, that will operate till the IPDP
structure is in placed (foreseen for the end of 2004). This ad hoc committee is constituted by: 1
representative of the PNDP (Coordinator), 1 representative of MINAS (Sub-department of marginalized
populations), 1 representative of international NGOs (which is already working with Baka, Kola and Aka
in Cameroon and prepared to provide its own funding for working in this committee - if there are more
than one NGO interested to participate, they should forrn a network similar to the national network of
NGOs RACOPY), 1 representative of national NGOs (RACOPY), 1 CODEBABIK representative, 2
ASBAK representatives. This committee should be increased by 1 representative of the PSFE who could
be the Deputy Coordinator of the IPDP ad hoc committee.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Key stakeholders include: the Cameroonian population at large that has shown an increasing interest in
the conservation and management of forests; national institutions and NGOs; local governments; villages
and communities in forest/woodland adjacent communities; and forest companies and traditional small
scale saw-millers. The international conimunity interested in global environmental and governance issues
should also be included among the project stakeholders.



12
ISDS
Consultations during the Project design
The project design has been discussed publicly with a range of stakeholders since January 2001. Major
events in the participatory process include: (a) two national fora organized in June 2000 and in December
2002, with field level staff, NGOs, the private sector and the national press; (b) Joint missions with
MINEF, donor community, private sector and NGO representatives in Yaounde, as well as other parts of
the Govemment such as Ministry of Finance, Agriculture, Land Management and the Prime Minister's
Office (October 2001, February 2002, June 2002, January 2003, June 2003); (c) Regular meeting with
MINEF and local representatives of the donor community (d) workshops specifically dedicated to local
NGO's and external MINEF staff; and (e) field missions to the. provinces including ten regional
workshops. Such participatory process will intensify as the project preparation moves forward ; and at
least two additional national seminars are planned.
The project team design has ensured consultations with local representatives of Administrations, civil
society, private sector, NGOs in each of the 10 provinces of the country. Project preparation identified
the typology and the special needs and opportunities of collaboration with the different actors. Clear
guidelines from the Governments were obtained regarding how to deal with the various stakeholder types
identified through the stakeholder mapping. Moreover deeper and detailed socio-economic studies have
been and will be undertaken by various actors including the private sector in the course of standard
procedures to design and implement forest management plans.
Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMF). Stakeholder consultation was a key tool in
achieving the ESMF objectives. The ESMF team covered an intensive schedule of interviews with key
stakeholders and informants, especially with representatives of MINEF at both in Yaound6 and at the
provincial levels, of private sector, of conmnunes and communities and NGOs. Field surveys were led in
6 different provinces by the ESMF team (Nord, Extrdme-Nord, Littoral Sud-Ouest, Sud et Est) in
June-July 2002. The purpose of these visits was to meet and consult with local representatives of the
different Administrations (Forestry, Agriculture, Plan, Land management), as well as with
representatives of communes and communities to verify the initial analysis of the Project's potential
environmental and social impacts. Meeting agendas typically included an introduction of the ESMF team
and of participants/consultees, a brief overview of the project, views and comments of the consultees,
and specific questions from the ESMF team regarding the details of environmental and social
sensitivities, people's interaction with the environment, and potential impacts of the project.
A briefing meeting in Yaounde to present and discuss preliminary findings of the fieldwork was held on
July 2002. An additional work was conducted in July 2003 by an independent consultant to ensure the
conformity of the ESMF with the WB safeguard policies and the national legal framework. The final
report has been analyzed by the Interministerial Commission on Environment and made available for
public consultation
Disclosure: Hard copies of the ESMF report have been be disclosed in all the 10 provinces of the
Cameroon and in the Infoshop in Washington, with summaries both in English and French, prior to
appraisal (see disclosure requirements below).
Indigenous People Development Plan (IPDP). The IPDP field surveys were carried out in two phases:
(i) first phase on June-July 2002, (ii) second phase on August 2003. Both phases were based on
participatory meetings and in close collaboration with all stakeholders (governmental agencies, donor
organization, indigenous population as defined in OD 4.20, other rural populations, NGOs, etc.).
The findings and recommendations reported in the draft document were discussed in a participatory



13
ISDS
workshop (including representatives of the Pygmies and representatives of PSFE, MINAS and several
NGOs) on August 2003. The main actors of this IPDP are the MINEF, the sub-department of
marginalized population in MINAS, MINAT, MINEPAT, national and intemational NGOs working on
indigenous peoples issues in Cameroon, the associations of the indigenous people and the Baka, Kola and
Aka themselves. At the present level, all the participants agreed with the general findings and
recommendations but none of the stakeholders seems able - even in their own perception - to implement
an IPDP in accordance with the OD 4.20, without further training and the assistance on an international
technical advisory body. It is documented that all stakeholders are willing to act in accordance with the
documented best practice of interaction with indigenous people - the OD 4.20 -, but that they are in dire
need of training to increase their technical, financial and organizational competences to achieve a
harmonic cooperation in the process of PSFE implementation.
Disclosure: Hard copies of the IPDP report have been disclosed in all the 10 provinces of the Cameroon
and in the Infoshop in Washington, both in English and in French, prior to appraisal (see disclosure
requirements below).
E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy.
Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.
f ] S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
S3. - No safeguard issues
SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                1/22/2004     1/22/2004
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            1/22/2004     1/22/2004
Date of submission to InfoShop                             2/3/2004      4/20/2004
Date of distributing the Exec. Surmmary of the EA to the Executive  3/31/2004
Directors (For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:             Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                1/22/2004     1/24/2004
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            1/22/2004     1/22/2004
Date of submission to InfoShop                             2/3/2004      5/7/2004
Pest Management Plan:                                      Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable



14
ISDS
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                       Date
Task Team Leader:             Giuseppe Topa                          0  /z i /cf-
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Robert A. Robelus/PersonfWorld Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Anproved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Thomas E. Walton / 7$ 1V/YAs7k
Comments                                                               I
Giuseppe,
Please incorporate comments from the meeting Robert and I had with you this afternoon. Most of them
are relatively minor. However, since the operation is designated a SECAL, you need to make some
changes in the table showing safeguards policies triggered. Only 4.01 applies to SECALs; the others
should be "un-checked" or indicated "no". We agree, though, that even though the other policies don't
apply, there are aspects of the project for which they are relevant. Consequently, in the accompanying
text, I would suggest words to the effect that "Only OP 4.01 is triggered by SECALs. However, because
of the special nature of the project and the enhancements that consideration of the other safeguards
policies would bring to it, the same analytical and management activities that they would call for is being
carried out nevertheless." With that introduction, you can leave the rest of the text and its references to
the policies intact.
Thanks,
Tom
Sector Manager/Director       Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                        6    t |   (0 L
Comments
Comments from Regional Safeguards Coordinator incorporat



