Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15237
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2162-CA)
Country Operations Division
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIIVALENTS
At project approval, the CFA franc (CFAF) was tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of FF I to
CFAF 50. Since January 12. 1994. the exchange rate is FF I to CFAF 100.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BEAC                 Central Bank of Central African Countries
BIAO                 Subsidiary of Meridien Africa BIAO Group
CAISTAB              Parastatal Stabilization Fund for Agricultural Products
CAR                  Central African Republic
MOURA                Parastatal Coffee Export Company
PETROCA              Parastatal Petroleum Company
SAC                  Structural Adjustment Credit
UBAC                 Parastatal Bank in CAR
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Disector-General
Operations Evaluaton                                            December 29, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Program Completion Report for the Central African Republic - Third Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC III) (Credit 2162-CA)
Attached is the Program Completion Report (PCR) for the Central African Republic Third
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC III, Credit 2162-CA, approved FY90), prepared by the Africa
Region, with Part 11 contributed by the Borrower.
SAC III followed two earlier SACs, approved in FY87 and FY88, respectively. While some
limited adjustment measures were implemented during the period covered by the first two SACs, notably
the relaxation of price controls, major macroeconomic targets were not met. Thus, the outcome of both
operations was rated as unsatisfactory by OED. Major problems included a too complex set of actions,
insufficiently prioritized, inadequate internalization of the program, and weak Government
administration and implementation capacity. In addition, the fiscal basis for the sustainability of many
reforms remained very fragile.
The main lesson from the earlier experiences, i.e. the need to keep the program simple and
focussed, was not heeded in the case of SAC III, possibly because of excessive optimism in the Bank and
in the country: exports and GDP growth had been relatively robust during 1989 and the establishment of
a Resident Mission in 1988 had led to excellent Bank-country relations. Thus, while SAC III extended
the time-frame for many of the earlier reforms and added some new measures, it, again, was overly
complex. Its overall objectives were an increase in economic growth, improved macroeconomic
balances, strengthened administrative capacity of the Government and human resource development.
Actions to achieve these objectives included macroeconomic management (with emphasis on resource
mobilization, expenditure control and investment planning), civil service reform, reform of the enterprise
and financial sectors, greater incentives for private sector expansion, reform of agricultural institutions
and policies, and measures to address the social dimensions of adjustment.
The majority of the objectives of SAC III were not met. GDP declined, the fiscal situation
worsened and human resource development came to a virtual standstill. The time required to implement
the reforms was underestimated, priorities were not clearly set, and the conditionality package focussed
too much on action plans and not enough on actions. The deterioration in the countrv's political
situation, due to delays in an anticipated transition to democracy, compounded the problems. The
Government's weak managerial capacity deteriorated further along with the political situation. Thus, the
outcome of the program is rated as highly unsatisfactory and sustainability is rated as unlikely. The
institutional development impact is rated as negligible.
The PCR is candid and of good quality. It concludes that it would have been preferable to close
the credit earlier, instead of extending the closing date three times, and reconfirms the lesson that strong
government commitment, evidenced by up-front reforms, is essential for the success of adjustment
programs. No audit is planned.
Attachment7
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE             ..............................................................i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ..............................................................                                           iii
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .....................I
A. Introduction                              .............................................................. 1I
B. Economic and Political Context ..............................................................1I
D. Follow-up ...............................................................                                                  8
. Medium-Termu         ...............................................................9
F. Lessons Learned ..............................................................                                            10
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ..... 12
PART  Ill - BASIC  CREDIT  DATA  ............................                             .................................. 27
Annex  I:  Cumulative Credit Disbursements .......................................................  27
Annex  II:  Related Bank Credits ....................................................... 28
Annex  III:  Status of Credit Covenants .......................................................                             29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its conwents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit No. 2162-CA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Structural Adjustment Credit in
the Central African Republic (CAR) for which Cr. 2162-CA in the amount of SDR 34.5 million was
approved in June 1990 and became effective in August 1990. The Credit Closing Date, originally
anticipated for December 31, 1991, was postponed three times until June 30, 1994. The last
supervision mission took place in May 1994.
This PCR was prepared by a consultant with the assistance from staff of the Country
Operations Division (AF3C 1) of the Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department of the Africa
Region. A completion report was also prepared by the Borrower and a translation is included here as
Part II. The original report is available in the Project file.
This PCR was compiled on the basis of information available in Washington. It is based,
inter aa, on the Report and Recommendation of the President to the Executive Directors, the
Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, interviews with Bank staff involved in the project and internal Bank memoranda.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit No. 2162-CA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    With a population of 3.2 million and a surface area exceeding that of France, the Central
African Republic enjoys a wealth of agricultural and mineral resources. However, development of
these resources is constrained by inadequate transport facilities, the high cost of reaching the sea, and
problems of management. After the fall of Emperor Bokassa in 1979, the country was in need of
extensive economic and political reforms; consequently, CAR sought the support of the Bretton
Woods institutions. In 1981 and 1985, the Bank extended two technical assistance credits to the
country. Three Stand-by Arrangements were approved by the IMF in 1983, 1984 and 1985, followed
by two structural adjustment credits (SACs I and II) from IDA in September 1986 and June 1988.
2.    This first phase of adjustment helped stabilize CAR's fiscal position but failed to restore
economic growth. Over the second half of the 1980s, GNP grew 1% a year in real terms compared
with annual population growth of 2.5%. The civil service wage bill was contained at about CFAF 25
billion but continued to absorb over 60% of public revenues, which remained flat around CFAF 40
billion annually over this period. Some progress was realized in the adjustment period covered by
the first two SACs: price controls were relaxed and the number of public enterprises reduced. On the
whole, however, the program's objectives were lost and the time required to implement the
ambitious reforms was underestimated.
3.    The preparation of SAC III got under way towards the end of 1989 amid a climate of
optimism, before the second tranche of SAC II had been released. Export receipts saw strong gains
that year and, one year after Bank's setting up a resident mission in Bangui, relations between the
government and the Bank were excellent. A series of committees was created at end-1989 to help
internalize the adjustment program, and the first draft of a Letter of Development Policy was drawn
up in Bangui.
4.    In the President's Report to the Board, the objectives of the program approved on July 2,
1990 were summarized as follows: "To achieve a real annual GDP growth rate of about 3.5% during
the period of the program, while, at the same time, improving the major macro-economic balances,
pursuing greater equity, strengthening the administrative capacity of the government, human
resource development, and reducing the social costs of adjustment". A very different scenario
materialized, however, with the deterioration in CAR's political situation. Indeed, GDP posted a
decline of 1.5% per year instead of the 3.5% growth target. The public finance situation worsened
considerably, yielding an accumulation of payment arrears four times greater than receipts collected
in 1993. Without receiving regular payment, teachers stopped teaching and schools remained closed
for over two years, between 1991 and 1993. The public health centers which were not financed by
donors stopped functioning.
5.    How could such a drastic change have occurred? Those who designed the program in the
early months of 1990 believed that an opening up of the political arena was imminent following the



iv
conclusions reached at the Party Congress (RDC, CAR's sole political party). The population
awaited a declaration to that effect by President Kolingba. As no such declaration ensued, optimism
gave way to impatience and led to unrest and strikes by the end of 1990. Strikes slowed the
collection of tax receipts and the government became unable to pay civil servants, which resulted in
more strikes.
6.    In the early months of 1991, the authorities had hoped to break the vicious circle with
external financing anticipated as an outcome of a Round Table held in Geneva on April 29-30, 1991;
but the meeting was unsuccessful. The domestic political situation deteriorated, as the general strike
launched on April 27 took widespread effect and the large size of the Central African delegation
reflected poorly on the government's commitment to an austerity program. Following the Round
Table, CAR was no longer able to count on any significant external assistance without putting its
finances in order in the context of an IMF-supported program. This hardly appeared possible,
however, without a resolution of the country's political crisis, which was growing progressively
worse. Indeed, President Kolingba was becoming increasingly isolated, while the administration was
grinding to a halt.
7.     Public finances deteriorated in step with the political situation. In 1993, the Treasury's
liquid resources were sufficient to meet only two thirds of its salary and scholarship obligations for
that fiscal year and amounted to 15% of the outstanding stock of arrears which, not being
consolidated, were in principle immediately due and payable. Given the wide disparity between
resources and obligations, the Treasury did not attempt to draw up a financing program. It mainly
allocated the resources received daily to meet the priorities of the hour.
8.     The assertion of democracy through the election of President Patass6 in September 1993
brought an end to the political crisis. The liquidity crisis was resolved by the devaluation of the CFA
franc on January 12, 1994, followed by the signing of the Stand-by Arrangement with the IMF on
March 28, the release of the second tranche of the third SAC on April 27 and disbursements from
other donors during the second quarter of 1994.
9.     Two questions appear legitimate. First, given the information available at the beginning of
1990, was the program  supported by SAC III well formulated?  Secondly, in view of the
deterioration of the situation, should the credit have been closed earlier? The closing date of the
credit was extended three times. Even under the assumption of a rapid resolution of the political
problems, the program was too ambitious and did not establish priorities among objectives and
among measures. Of the ten conditions set for releasing the second tranche, some were not essential
to the success of the program. Improving the management of public finances was essential, but this
objective was not sufficiently stressed. This management deficiency was well known, however,
since the Borrower's section of the SAC II project completion report concluded that "the Treasury's
difficult situation constituted the common denominator for all the problems encountered in the
implementation of SAC II". In addition, the conditionality was too often expressed in terms of
action plans, rather than the actual implementation of specific actions.
1O.   Although the conditions for second tranche release could have been relevant for the context
that prevailed in early 1990, these conditions became less meaningful in January 1994, because the
situation had changed fundamentally. For more than two years, implementation of the program
supported by the SAC was no longer a serious concern for the government, and the interministerial
committee responsible for implementing the program had practically ceased to exist. With the
benefit of hindsight, it would have been preferable to close the credit earlier, by not extending the



v
closing date three times. Immediately after the devaluation, CAR could have benefited from an
emergency program better suited to the conditions of the moment, as did many other countries of the
CFA franc zone.
11.    Overall, SAC III was not successful, and the country is still saddled with major problems that
require urgent attention, particularly in the fiscal and public enterprise areas. The lesson learned is that
strong government commitment to reform as evidenced by key up-front actions is essential for the
success of adjustment.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Cr. 2162-CA)
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Introduction
1.1    The Third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC III, Cr. 2162-CA) to the Central African
Republic (CAR) was approved by the Board on June 21, 1990 for an amouint of 34.5 million SDRs
(US$45 million equivalent), and the first tranche of US$27.5 million was released two months later.
Following three extensions of the credit closing date, the second tranche of US$17 million was released
on April 27, 1994, three and a half months after the devaluation of the CFA franc. The ten conditions
for tranche release (Annex III, page 2) were met, with the exception of full implementation of the action
plan for petroleum sector reform.
1.2   In the Presidents Report to the Board, the objectives of the program were summarized as
follows: "To achieve a real annual GDP growth rate of about 3.5% during the period of the program,
while, at the same time, improving the major macro-economic balances, pursuing greater equity,
strengthening the administrative capacity of the government, human resource development, and
reducing the social costs of adjustment". These objectives were not attained. GDP posted a decline
of 1.5% a year instead of the target annual gain of 3.5%. Macroeconomic imbalances -- particularly
those pertaining to public finances -- worsened considerably. Fiscal receipts declined steadily and, in
December 1993, government payment arrears amounted to four times the level of revenue collected for
the year 1993. The authority of the State and its management capability had so deteriorated that schools
remained closed for over two years, while public health centers, without external financing, had ceased
to function.
1.3    The decline in economic and social conditions mirrored the country's political situation. The
civil servants' strike, in part conceived as a means to provoke the fall of President Kolingba, brought
about a reduction in fiscal receipts and, as an indirect consequence, an increase in salary arrears to the
civil service; this, in turn, induced a growing number of government employees to abandon their
responsibilities. It is noteworthy, however, that the change of regime came about through a democratic
process, which culminated in September 1993 by the election of President Patasse. Soon thereafter, the
CFA franc was devalued (January 12, 1994).
B. Economic and Political Context
2.1    With a population of 3.2 million inhabitants and a surface area exceeding that of France, CAR
has significant agricultural and mineral resources. The development of these resources has, however,
been hindered by difficulties of transport, the high cost of reaching the sea, and problems of
management. With an ever-precarious fiscal situation, in part due to a low and declining ratio of



2
revenue to GDP, the government has often had to seek external assistance to ensure payment of civil
service salaries.
The First Phase of Adjustment: SACs I and 11
2.2    After the fall of Emperor Bokassa in 1979, the country was in need of strong political and
economic reforms; early in the 1980s, CAR decided to approach the Bretton Woods institutions for
support. In 1981 and 1985 the Bank extended two technical assistance credits to the country. Three
programs supported by Stand-by Arrangements were approved by the IMF's Board of Directors in
1983, 1984 and 1985. It was during the last of these three programs that the first Structural Adjustment
Credit (SAC I) was approved by the Board of the Bank, on September 9, 1986.
2.3    CAR did not meet the IMF program targets for end-September or end-December 1986; as a
result, the Stand-by Arrangement was interrupted shortly after SAC I became effective. Despite the
slippage noted by the IMF on the macroeconomic front, the second tranche of SAC I was disbursed in
March 1987. The project completion report (PCR) for this credit presents a positive assessment of
SAC I in contrast to the critical evaluation contained in OED's audit report of project performance
(overly ambitious, 144 measures, inadequate intemalization).
2.4    The Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC II) was approved by IDA on June 9, 1988, and
the first tranche was released three months later. The credit closing date, initially envisaged for the end
of November 1988, was delayed by 18 months, and the second tranche was released in February 1990.
The objectives of SAC II were similar to those of SAC I, but more substantial progress was realized in
the course of the second program (reduction in size of PE sector and improvement in tax and customs
administration). These results were in part due to better supervision, particularly by the Bank's resident
mission that was established in Bangui in September 1988, when the SAC II became effective.
2.5    Nevertheless, the objectives of SAC II and the assumptions made regarding the time needed
to implement reforms turned out, once again, to be too optimistic. In its portion of the PCR, the
government acknowledged that the objectives were only partially realized, and attributed the
difficulties encountered in program implementation to lack of liquidity in the Treasury.
The Second Phase: SAL III
2.6    The preparation of the Third Structural Adjustment Credit began several months before the
release of the second tranche of SAC II. Spurred by the resident mission. a series of committees was
established to ensure internalization of the program, and a first draft of the Letter of Development
Policy was prepared in Bangui. The negotiations were conducted expeditiously: the President's
Report recommending the approval of SAC III was dated May 31, 1990, just a day after SAC II was
closed. On the other hand, two months passed between Board approval and credit effectiveness of
SAC III.
2.7    Negotiations of SAC III took place amid a climate of optimism. The Party Congress (RDC,
CAR's sole political party), held in Berberati in March 1990, had engendered hope of an imminent
opening up in the country's political arena. In the absence of a clear stand by President Kolingba on
the awaited measures, however, optimism gave way to impatience. Protests erupted -- sometimes



3
violent -- along with strikes, some of which severely paralyzed day-to-day activities across the
country.
2.8    The strikes served to slow the collection of fiscal receipts; the resulting buildup of salary
arrears, in turn, incited new strikes. To break the vicious circle, the government was in need of
substantial external financing assistance. Indeed, such funding was the expected outcome of the
Round Table held in Geneva on April 29-30, 1991, an event which was to mark the crowning-piece
of CAR's adjustment efforts. The meeting ended unsuccessfully, however, for three reasons,
discussed below:
(i) The IMF representative did not issue a positive statement, as needed for the Round
Table's success. An IMF mission to Bangui in November 1990 had noted slippages in macro-
economic performance relative to program targets but refrained from making alarmist statements.
By the time of the following IMF mission in March 1991, however, the slippages had exacerbated,
and the IMF could no longer continue its support to CAR in the context of the existing program.
(ii) Donors would have hoped for some reassurance in the evolution of the political situation
in CAR. However, a general strike, which evoked heavy participation, was launched on the eve of
the Round Table. Public schools were closed on April 27, 1991, and remained closed for a long
time.
(iii) The meeting in Geneva reflected poorly on the government's implementation of its
austerity program. Specifically, donors perceived the size of the CAR delegation to be excessive.
2.9    Having left Geneva without obtaining the anticipated commitments, the Finance Minister
requested the Bank to accelerate release of the second tranche of SAC III. However, a Bank mission
in Bangui from June 12-17, 1991 noted that only one of the ten conditions for tranche release had
been fully met. It became clear that CAR would be unable to obtain the needed external assistance
without first putting into order its public finances in the context of an IMF-supported program; this,
in turn, did not appear possible without a resolution of the political crisis.
2.10   A primary source of discontent among Central Africans lay in the contrast between their loss
of purchasing power since 1985 and the profits of certain individuals related or otherwise linked to
the President. Frustration also originated in the continuation of single-party rule, while neighboring
countries organized National Conferences. A dialogue between the government and the opposition
had been initiated, but with few concrete results. The President surrounded himself with a small
group of advisers, steadily isolating himself from the rest of the country, even from his own
government.
2.11   In short, the popularity of President Kolingba -- along with the credibility of the State --
deteriorated progressively. In such a context, implementation of a structural adjustment programn
was virtually impossible. One thus wonders whether it might not have been preferable to close the
credit earlier, without granting three successive extensions -- for twelve months in December 1991,
six months in December 1992 and twelve months, in June 1993.
2.12   CAR's problems following the election of President Patasse in September 1993 and the
devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994 were vastly different from those that the negotiators of
SAL III had strived to resolve four years earlier. Conditions agreed in 1990 for release of the second



4
tranche were not those which would have been considered essential to economic recovery and
improvement of social conditions in the changed environment of 1994.
C. SAC M
3.1    Considering the situation that prevailed during the early months of 1994, just before release
of the second tranche, one is struck by the optimism of those who negotiated four years earlier the
adjustment program supported by SAC III. The Letter of Development Policy constitutes, along
with the Policy Matrix, a document of 42 single-spaced pages recommending a wide-ranging series
of actions affecting CAR's economy. The program described in the President's Report covered five
main areas: (i) macroeconomic management (public finances and investment program); (ii) reform of
the civil service; (iii) enterprises (public enterprises, banks, private sector promotion); (iv) sectoral
policies (agriculture, transport, education and health); and (v) social dimensions of adjustment.
3.2    A multi-faceted attack might have produced dramatic results, if successful. However, action
failed on the fiscal front, which accounted for only a sub-section of one of the five above-mentioned
components, and brought about failure of the entire program.
Publicfinances
3.3    The public finance situation has always constituted a critical challenge for the Government
of CAR. Adjustment efforts enabled the public sector wage bill to be maintained at around CFAF 24
billion between 1985 and 1993. On the other hand, Government revenues, which were stagnant
between 1985 and 1990, fell by 35% over 1990-1993. By 1993, more than three-fourths of the
deficit (on a commitment basis) was accounted for by the buildup in payment arrears, which
increased to CFAF 32 billion for the year, bringing the stock of arrears to over CFAF 100 billion at
end-December 1993.
3.4    The build-up of arrears was the combined result of three factors. First, the Budget Law was
based on a significant deficit, of which a very small part was offset by loans and grants not taken into
consideration during budget preparation. Secondly, actual receipts fell far short of those estimated.
Thirdly, current expenditures (on a commitment basis) exceeded budgetary allocations. Capital
expenditures fell short of estimated levels, but, as loan disbursements and grants were
correspondingly reduced, the deficit on a payment basis remained unaffected.
3.5    Government revenues fell to CFAF 28.3 billion in 1993; nearly 45% of this total did not
represent available fluds, as three items classified as revenue did not contribute liquid resources to
the Treasury. The first related to CFAF 2.2 billion of fictitious customs receipts that the State would
have collected if imports linked to externally-financed projects had not been exempted from duties.
The second represented CFAF 6.4 billion in taxes that enterprises would have paid, had these taxes
not been offset by arrears owed to them by the State. The third corresponded to about CFAF 4 billion
in receipts earmarked for specific uses. Also, Treasury liquidity amounted to less than CFAF 16
billion in 1993, while the State's salary and scholarship obligations reached CFAF 24 billion.
3.6    The Treasury's liquid resources in 1993 thus represented only two thirds of its salary and
scholarship obligations for that fiscal year and amounted to only 15% of the stock of arrears which,
not being consolidated, were in principle immediately due and payable. Faced with such a disparity



5
between its resources and obligations, the Treasury did not even attempt to draw up a financing
program. It mainly allocated resources received daily to meet the priority expenditures of the next
day. Aware of this transient liquidity, the most enterprising among the creditors lined up at the
Treasury to try to obtain priority access to any inflows of cash. The provincial teacher, for example,
felt that leaving his school, to descend upon Bangui and harass the Treasury, would afford him his
only chance of ever being paid. This hand-to-mouth existence created confusion. Staying on the
alert to provide for the most immediate needs, the agents of the Treasury could no longer adhere to
even the most basic treasury plan.
3.7    Precise monthly statistics were available for overall salary arrears but not for their
breakdown across ministries or between Bangui and the rest of the country. Such a breakdown
would have been more easily obtainable for civil servants paid by check, rather than those paid in
cash, who periodically besieged the Treasury. As the cash payments were made in an atmosphere of
crisis and disorder, the payment vouchers were usually piled up without being filed. Those with
sufficient influence to obtain payment on a priority basis benefited from the confusion, and therefore,
had little interest in the restoration of order.
3.8    CAR's fiscal problems stemmed essentially from the decline in government revenues: direct
and indirect taxes fell by 47% and 40%, respectively, between 1990 and 1993. Moreover, this
decline suggests little improvement in the customs administration -- a condition for second tranche
release. The drop in receipts resulted partly from the progressive informalization of the economy but
reflected more generally an erosion of the State authority.
3.9    The decline in nominal receipts was particularly serious in a country where (i) the civil
service wage bill -- which accounted for some 60% of government revenues -- could not be reduced
in nominal terms, and (ii) the exchange rate could not be modified unilaterally. SAC III, therefore,
should have attached greater importance to strengthening the fiscal administration as the keystone of
the entire adjustment program. This action, moreover, should have been closely coordinated
between France, the IMF and the Bank, CAR's principal sources of external assistance. One
difficulty, of course, was CAR's lack of a program with the IMF between the beginning of 1991 and
March 1994.
Public Investment Program
3.10   The value of public investment diminished by a third in current terns from 1991 to 1993 due
to the accumulation of CAR's external arrears. In particular, the programs financed by the Kuwait
Fund and the African Development Bank were interrupted, as CAR had stopped repayment towards
these institutions.
3.11   Given the scarcity of budgetary resources, an important part of operating expenditures was
financed under externally-funded investment projects.  It is estimated that nearly a third of
expenditures labeled as investments in fact represented operating expenditures.
3.12   The presentation of a three-year rolling investment program acceptable to the Bank for the
1991-1993 period constituted one of the ten conditions for second tranche release. As the release
occurred only in April 1994, it appears that it would have been preferable to have linked the
conditionality to the presentation of the 1994-96 program, with the credit agreement stipulating that
the first year of the three-year period could not, in any case, precede the year in which the tranche



6
was released. Indeed, the 1994-96 program had been approved by IDA at the time of the second
tranche release. Since the beginning of 1994, significant progress appears to have been made in the
formulation of the public investment program.
Civil Service Reform
3.13   An elaborate study on civil service reform was carried out in the context of the adjustment
program supported by SAC III. Although a new civil service statute was adopted by the Parliament
in February 1994, its provisions have not yet been implemented. Such reform could indeed, if
implemented, have permitted a reduction in the wage bill, while at the same time, better motivating
civil servants.
Public Enterprises
3.14   Two of the conditions for second tranche release were linked to enterprises in which
President Kolingba was closely involved. The first related to the recovery of assets from MOURA,
the company which managed the coffee plantations, but the file was closed with no amounts being
recovered. A second condition was linked to reform of the distribution channels and pricing system
of PETROCA, a petroleum-product import company which siphoned non-budgeted resources to the
Presidency and was managed by the President's nephew. No progress was made on this matter prior
to the departure of President Kolingba.
Banking Sector
3.15   An important stage was reached in the restructuring of the banking sector in 1991, when the
BEAC assisted the government in liquidating four banks by rescheduling the debt assumed by the State
following the liquidation. The banking system was thus limited to three banks which, by order of
importance, were: UBAC, tied to Credit Lyonnais; BIAO, taken over by the Meridien group; and a
Moroccan bank established at the end of 1990. Despite this restructuring, a new crisis looms with the
two largest banks being affected by their foreign partners' problems.
Private Sector
3.16   Both conditions for disbursement related to the private sector were met. A law adopted in
September 1991 authorized foreigners to effect real estate transactions, and price controls were
abolished for all products except sugar. A project aimed at promoting the private sector was approved
by the Board in May 1991, but yielded few results due to the economic climate. In general, the formal
sector -- with the exception of breweries -- suffered as a result of the decline in public investment and
the recession. Development of the informal sector, on the other hand, allowed the country to survive in
the absence of a real government.
Agriculture
3.17   Despite price forecasts for a gradual but slow recovery, coffee and cotton, CAR's two main
income-earning crops, suffered severely from the decline in world prices that lasted through 1992.



7
Export receipts from coffee fell from CFAF 10.6 billion in 1986 to CFAF 1.3 billion in 1992, while
cotton receipts declined from CFAF 4.4 billion to CFAF 1.9 billion over the same period. This decline
led to a sharp fall in the monetary income of farmers, with serious consequences.
3.18   The situation corrected itself radically in 1994 with the devaluation, strengthened world cotton
prices and the sharp gain in coffee prices. A 50% price increase for cotton producers was announced
the day following the devaluation, while the producer price for coffee was increased by 120% for the
campaign beginning on February 1, 1994. In addition, livestock exports increased by some 30% after
the devaluation. Thus, the monetary income of herders and small farmers in the coffee and cotton
zones showed strong gains from the second half of 1994, with an appreciable demonstration effect. The
split of CAISTAB (the coffee stabilization fund) into two distinct entities to separate its commercial
and supervisory roles, was a condition of second tranche release. It does not appear, however, to have
contributed to the improvement noted in 1994.
Human Resource Development
3.19   The most glaring area of deficiency in the government was in the area of human resources:
public services which did not benefit from external financing practically stopped operating for more
than two years.
Education
3.20   The crisis in primary education was already apparent before 1991/92 and 1992/93, when the
country was altogether without schooling. By 1990/91, the repeater rate had risen to nearly 30% in
each of the six years of primary education and the dropout rate reached 60% in the final year.
Teachers were the largest group to benefit from the Voluntary Assisted Departure Program (PDVA);
they accounted for 35% of departures, though representing fewer than 20% of active civil service
employees. From 1987 to 1990, the number of teachers had diminished by a quarter while the
number of students had risen by 12.5%; also, the average number of students per teacher had climbed
from 60 to 90 over this period. Dissatisfaction was already prevalent in 1990: once payments
became irregular, teachers stopped teaching, and many schools, which remained closed for over two
years, fell victim to pillaging.
3.21   Overall resources allocated for education were insufficient; in addition, their distribution did
not correspond to the country's needs. Only one Central African teacher licensed in mathematics
taught at the high school level, and the number of university students graduating with a degree in the
Sciences accounted for less than 1% of all graduates.
3.22   The inadequacy of training, in relation to employment, was particularly flagrant in higher
education. Despite an annual increase of over 20% in the number of students in previous years, the
university was not producing science teachers for its secondary schools and most graduating
students were unable to find employment that corresponded to their university training. Scholarships
still accounted for 56% of the total cost of higher education in 1992; even when the university was
closed, students continued to receive their scholarships.
3.23   Schools reopened their doors in November 1993 with the support of donors, who financed, in
particular, the rehabilitation of school buildings, the supply of desks and pedagogical materials, and



8
technical assistance. CAR's problems in primary education are far from being resolved, however;
teachers' salaries account for about 95% of operating expenditures, and donors are not inclined to
finance salaries.
Health
3.24   The quality of public health services worsened considerably from 1990 to 1993, and the
inequality in the distribution of these services also increased over this period. In 1990, 85% of the
health budget was allocated to Bangui; furthermore, 80% of the personnel attached to the Ministry of
Health worked in the capital. In 1993, the distribution was even more unequal because the peripheral
health regions were able to draw on only a minimum of the financing intended for them. The great
majority of public health centers located in the interior of the country were not operational, lacking
qualified personnel, equipment and medicine. The deficiencies in the public sector were in part
compensated for by NGOs: the population living within the sphere of activities of an active NGO
was able to receive satisfactory health care.
3.25   The situation in the health sector improved considerably beginning in the second half of
1994, as detailed discussions between the government and donors resulted in the latter financing a
program  to restart activities in the sector.  All non-salary operating expenditures and most
investment expenditures were financed in 1994 by external sources.
3.26   The policy matrix of SAC III specified that non-salary operating expenditures were to
increase by 10% a year in the priority sectors of education and health. This increase did not
materialize, but did not constitute one of the ten conditions of disbursement of the second tranche.
The decline in benefits in health and education from 1990 to 1993 was largely due to the reduced
motivation of civil servants who were paid on an irregular basis.
D. Follow-up
Follow-up by the Borrower
4.1    The Project Completion Report of SAC II noted that the follow-up by the authorities had not
been very satisfactory. Unfortunately, the quality of the Borrower's performance did not improve in
the course of SAC III. The Credit Agreement had provided for the creation of an interministerial
follow-up committee responsible for evaluating progress and, in case of slippage, taking needed
corrective measures on a timely basis. The committee's monthly meeting was to be presided by
either the Head of State (at least once every three months) or the Minister of Finance, who was to
send a quarterly report to the Bank. However, this did not happen. The Head of State never presided
a meeting of the committee, which remained practically inactive from the end of 1991 until the
beginning of 1994.
4.2    The follow-up on imports financed by the disbursement of the first tranche of SAC III, too,
was not satisfactory. The first tranche audit was sent to the Bank in 1993, after much delay, and was
found to be inadequate. The Bank sent to the government two requests for clarification on March 17
and May 24, 1993 and was informed that government practice was to destroy Customs documents
older than three years. As those responses were also judged to be unsatisfactory, a second audit was



9
performed in November 1993. The results of the second audit were submitted to the Bank only at the
end of March 1994, over three years after the related expenditures were made.
4.3    The Minister of Finance was informed of the release of the second tranche on April 27, 1994.
The closing date of the credit was June 30, 1994 and the last disbursements took place in July. The
audit of the expenditures on imports financed by the disbursement of the second tranche concludes
that there was insufficient documentation of imports to justify the expenditures against which the
funds were released. Anticipating second tranche release in 1991, Government had not kept
Customs documents from 1990-1991 as back-up for invoices presented to IDA. The situation is
being corrected with the installation of a computerized record-keeping system for imports and
exports in Customs. In any case, future adjustment lending will be conditioned upon proof of a
satisfactory system for tracking imports.
4.4   In short, neither the follow-up of the measures nor the accounting of expenses for imports
financed by SAC III was satisfactory.
Follow-up by IDA
4.5    Ten supervision missions took place, but follow-up was not facilitated by the succession of
three economists during the program period and by the delays which elapsed between the departure
of one economist and the arrival of a successor. Follow-up on conditions for tranche release was
made difficult by the lack of specificity in the definition of some of them. The report of the
supervision mission which took place in July 1992 indicated that seven of the ten conditions related
to second tranche release were met. Progress was not sustained, however, during the period of
political unrest from 1991-1993. One condition has not been fully implemented (petroleum sector
reform). A substantial improvement in the efficiency of customs services could be observed at one
point but could not be maintained since receipts of indirect taxes fell by 40% between 1990 and
1993.
E. Medium-Term Outlook
5.1    Between the approval of SAC III by the Board on July 2, 1990 and the election of President
Patasse in September 1993, CAR's economic and social situation worsened considerably. It would not
therefore be meaningful to speak of the reforms implemented over the first 40 months of the program.
The task of the new President was to restore the govermnent's credibility by ensuring the resumption of
public services, which was the thrust of the donors' meeting organized by the Central African
government in Bangui in May 1994. This meeting took place after the devaluation of the CFA franc in
January 1994 and the approval of a Stand-by Arrangement with the IMF in March 1994. The latter was
followed by substantial external assistance towards the middle of the year, notably through the
disbursement of the second tranche of SAC III.
5.2    A year after devaluation of the CFA franc by 50% in external currency terms, the overall
results appeared positive. From December 1993 to December 1994, the consumer price index increased
by about 35%, slightly less than that assumed in the program supported by the Stand-by Arrangement.
The devaluation stimulated export growth, particularly of livestock, wood and diamonds. The total
value of exports expressed in CFA francs increased by 120% in 1994 relative to the previous year. The



10
proportion of government revenues absorbed by the civil service wage bill declined in 1994, but it still
accounted for 69% of revenue, which is high.
5.3    The problem is not just to control the wage bill but, more importantly, to raise the level of
government receipts which represented only 7.5% of GDP in 1994, as in 1993, and remains far from the
12% reached in 1990. The slippage in fiscal performance resulted in the interruption of the program
supported by the IMF Stand-by in November 1994. The restoration of budgetary discipline remains the
key problem of CAR.
5.4    Over the eight years covered by the three SACs, real per capita income declined by more than
20%. This fall was partly due to the deterioration in the terms of trade, but reflects also the inefficiency
of government management. Nevertheless, progress was made. The exchange rate was adjusted.
Trade and prices were liberalized. A rationalization of the tariff and fiscal system was introduced in the
context of the UDEAC reforms implemented following the devaluation. The government withdrew
from a certain number of productive and marketing activities. Reform of the civil service was also
initiated (freeze on recruitment; preparation of staffing plans for some ministries; promulgation of new
civil service statute). However, much remains to be done to complete the process of adjustment and to
create the conditions needed for sustainable growth.
5.5    The State should withdraw from activities that can be carried out more efficiently by the private
sector, and should concentrate its resources on essential public services such as basic education,
primary health care, maintenance of infrastructure, public finance management, and security. The State
should be selective because its resources are limited. However, in those areas where it continues to
operate, the State should provide quality services, which implies regular payment of its staff and
suppliers.
F. Lessons Learned
6.1    When the program supported by SAC III was designed, it was expected that a solution to the
prevailing political problems was imminent. Even under this assumption -- which failed to materialize
-- the program was too ambitious and did not establish priorities among objectives and among
measures. Of the ten conditions set for second tranche release, some were not essential to the success
of the program. On the other hand, the improvement in the management of public finances was
essential, and the program did not attach sufficient importance to it.
6.2    Conditionality was tied too often to studies and not enough to actions. The two conditions for
effectiveness related to recruitment of consultants to prepare studies. Several conditions for release of
the second tranche required adoption of action plans, which were not followed by subsequent actions.



I1
6.3    Since it is difficult to forecast the future, it is important to adjust to realities. The conditions for
disbursement of the second tranche could have been relevant for the context that prevailed in early 1990
but became less meaningful in January 1994, because the situation had changed fundamentally. For
more than two years, implementation of the program supported by SAC III was no longer a serious
concern for the government, and the interministerial committee responsible for monitoring the program
had practically ceased to exist. Under such conditions, it would have been preferable to close the credit
earlier by not extending the closing date three times and, immediately after the devaluation, to put in
place an emergency program better suited to the conditions of the moment, as was done for most of the
countries in the CFA franc zone.



12
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
I. INTRODUCTION
In 1986, the Central African Republic (CAR) embarked on a policy of structural adjustment in
1986 which was steadily pursued for about five years until it was interrupted by the strike movements
of 1991. Three programs were implemented:
-      SAL I from September 1986 to June 1998;
-      SAL II from June 1988 to July 1990; and
-      SAL III which followed on from SAC 11 in August 1990 and was scheduled to be completed in
December 1991 but which was subject to slippage.
These programs, supported by the Bretton Woods institutions and other bilateral and
multilateral donors, enabled the Government to undertake structural reforms, notably in the areas of
public finance, trade, the civil service and the parastatal and financial sectors.
The results of the programs under the first two structural adjustment programs were examined
in the 1990 report prepared by Ahrmed Ould Daddah (consultant).
The purpose of the present report is to assess the progress of SAL III and examine its results in
light of the program's declared objectives. There are, however, methodological problems in trying to do
this:
the first relates to the fact that some of the measures under SAL III were by nature, continuous
and progressive, and their implementation required a longer spread of time than the life of the
program of which they were a part.
This was the case under the first two SALs. Most of the measures under those programs bad to be
carried over into SAL III. This highlights the difficulty of separating the various SALs in time and of
evaluating the real impact of the measures under a given program in isolation from the programs which
preceded it.
-      the second difficulty in evaluating SAL III results relates to the particular context of transition
towards democracy in which the program was carried out. This did not facilitate smooth
execution of program measures.
Because of these difficulties, compounded by the fragmentary nature of available statistics on the
economy, we are unable to give any quantified or precise assessment of the results of SAL 111.
That being said, the present report will try first to detail the efforts made towards effective
implementation of the program and secondly, to give a qualitative analysis of the conceptual bases of
the adjustment process and of the prospects for any future possible program in light of the Central
African economic context.



13
II. IMPLEMENTATION OF SAL III REFORMS
The principal objective of SAL III was to achieve a 3.5 percent per year rate of economic
growth while at the same time restoring macro-economic balance, strengthening the government's
management capacity, bringing about a greater degree of social justice and reducing the social costs of
adjustment.
The bases of the strategy adopted to pursue these ends were:
-      improvement of macro-economic management with special emphasis on prudent monetary
policies, reduction of the structural budget deficit and better planning and programming of
public investments;
-      greater efficiency in public services through reform of the civil service;
-      speeding up of parastatal and financial sector reforms to establish a more favorable
environment for private initiative;
-      reform of agricultural institutions and policies in line with program objectives;
-      balanced development of modem businesses and SMEs in the secondary and tertiary sectors;
and
-      incorporation into the program of measures relating to the social and regional dimensions of
adjustment.
Was this strategy, which was supposed to be followed for the period of the program, in fact,
applied? In other words, what efforts did the Government make to carry out these reforms? And with
what results?
A. Overview
Of the one hundred and ten (1 10) measures included under SAL III, more than 60 percent were
fully implemented. Of those remaining at the end of the project period, thirty-three (33) were of a
progressive nature and were well advanced. Only those measures whose implementation required a
considerable financial effort on the part of the State were significantly delayed (Enterprises in default or
in the process of liquidation, such as EFBACA, SAFCA, CND, etcetera).
With respect to the ten (10) specific conditions for release of the second tranche, eight (8) had
been fully implemented by the end of 1992. The general Credit Agreement condition relative to the
establishment of a viable macro-economic framework and the adoption of an action plan for the
petroleum sector were the only conditions not fulfilled.



14
B. Results As Measured Against Objectives
Improvement of Macro-Economic Management
The SAL III measures under this heading were aimed at improvement of budgetary procedures
and the efficiency of public investments, the control of inflation and reduction of the budgetary deficit
through an increase in receipts and better control of public spending.
Budgetary Receipts. Among measures taken were the setting up of the SYDONIA system, the
drawing up of decrees relative to diplomatic exemptions and the reduction of such exemptions in the
1992 budget; the adoption of law No. 88.01 lb on the taxation of foreign-financed projects, the
buildings census to permit real estate to be taxed, more efficient recording of business turnover figures
through retrieval of financial, fiscal and economic data, the setting up of the NUMECA system,
strengthening of BECDOR operations, the establishment of a supervisory company and the operational
start-up of a value verification service.
Public Expenditure
Efforts at debt consolidation were made under the aegis of the Paris Club in 1990, conditions
for the award of student grants were made more stringent, the number of embassies was reduced and
civil service salaries were frozen and subject to reduction.
The following table, taken from the table of state financial operations and completed by the
statistics services of the Ministry of Plan, shows how the major macro-economic aggregates evolved
from 1990 to 1992, the period covered by SAL III.



15
TABLE I: FINANCIAL OPERATIONS 1990/1992
TIE/YEAR                      1990         1991          1992           1992
Actual       Actual      Projected        Actual
Total Receipts                 43.11        36.28        46.80          33.74
Tax Receipts                   40.98        32.40        43.20          30.00
Other Receipts                  2.13         3.88         3.60           3.74
Total Expenditure              85.94        87.05        78.86          76.47
Current Expenditure            48.31        47.93        44.48          45.59
Salaries and Allowances       23.84         25.13        24.41          24.40
Interest                        5.05         4.60         4.70           5.15
Transfers and Grants            4.36         5.86         5.68           5.00
Other                          11.34        10.34         9.69           10.44
PDVA (Voluntary Departures)     3.72         2.00         0.00           0.60
Equipment and Supplies         33.19        36.02        31.28          24.98
Budget                          8.54         7.75         8.76            5.58
External Funds                 24.65        28.27        22.52           19.40
Coffee and Cotton Subsidies     4.44         3.10         3.10            1.30
Unattributed                    0.00         0.00         0.00           4.60
Deficit (Commitment Basis)    -42.83        -50.77       -32.06         -42.73
Arrears (Reduction--)          3.25         15.09        -23.20          16.52
Domestic                       2.25          9.80        -13.90          10.02
Foreign                         1.00         5.29         -9.30          6.50
Deficit (Treasury Basis)      -39.83        -35.68       -55.26         -26.21
Net Financing                  39.57        35.68         34.07         26.21
Foreign                        42.21        35.67         35.47         30.25
Grants                         21.62        23.15         17.62          14.20
Budget                         7.75          5.88         7.95           4.00
Capital                        13.87        17.27         9.67           10.20
Loan Drawdown                 24.48         17.98        24.15          21.65
Treasury                       13.70         6.98         11.30          12.45
Project Loans                  10.78        11.00        12.85           9.20
Amortization                   -6.94        -5.46        -6.30           -5.60
Debt Relief                    3.05          0.00         0.00           0.00
Domestic                       - 2.64        0.01        -1.40           -4.04
Banking System                 -3.12        -0.29        -1.70           -3.72
BEAC                           -1.35         0.03        -1.70          -2.82
IMF                             0.13        -0.96         -0.90          -1.42
Drawdown                        2.27         0.00         0.00           0.00
Repurchase                     -2.14        -0.96         -0.90          -1.42
Other                          -1.48         0.99         0.80           -1.40
Commercial Banks               -1.77        -0.32         0.00           -0.90
Other                           0.48         0.30         0.30          -0.32
Financing Deficit              -0.01         0.00        -21.29          0.00
GDP Market Prices             354.34       361.43        379.50         354.46
Total Receipts                 12.17        10.04         12.33           9.52
Tax Receipts                   11.57         8.96         11.38          8.46
Salaries/Receipts              55.30        69.27        52.16          72.32
Total Expenditure              24.25        24.08        20.78          21.57
Current Expenditure            13.63        13.26        11.72           12.86
Supplies and Equipment         9.37          9.97         8.24           7.07



16
Analysis of the above figures reveals:
a downward trend in total receipts over the period 1990 to 1992 in the order of 22 percent. This
was principally due to weakening fiscal receipts (27 percent);
relatively firm control of public expenditures, which fell from CFAF 85.94 billion in 1990 to
CFAF 76.47 billion in 1992.
This positive result is due in large part to Government efforts to reduce current expenditure
(salaries, study grants and other subsidies), which fell by about 10 percent in the period.
-      a worsening of the budget deficit on a commitment basis, which peaked in 1991
(-16 percent between 1990 and 1991) before stabilizing in 1992 following further expenditure
reduction measures (salary cuts); and
-      progressive drying up of public investment as seen in the continuous decline in capital spending
(-17 percent) during the program period.
Moreover, the ratio of investments to GDP also deteriorated over the same period, falling from
10.4 percent in 1990 to 8.4 percent in 1992 as the following table illustrates.



17
TABLE II: INVESTMENT EXPENDITURE BY THE STATE: 1990 TO 1992
YEARS           19.9 -   -          191' .:  1:'. --
SECTORS               Proect| Actual-  Przojectld:d  Aeflaal Pn  cerdi     tI
Rural Development       11.60    10.20      11.40      8.70    6.90      9.60
Industry                 0.60     0.60      0.70       0.40     1.80     1.00
Economic Infrastructure    17.60    14.40  20.30      15.70    16.70     13.00
Social Infrastructure   11.40     7.80      10.30      9.80    11.00     10.20
Ration Inv/GDP          11.30%    9.30%     11.00%     9.60%    9.50%     8.80%
Domestic Financing      4.50      4.20       6.10      4.40     4.80      3.10
Foreign Financing       36.70    28.80      36.60     30.20    31.60     30.70
Subsidies               20.60    15.90      16.00     18.20    13.60     21.90
Loans                   16.10     11.90     20.60     12.00    18.00      8.80
GDP                     36.40    353.00    389.00    361.00   382.00    370.00
TOTAL                   41.20    33.00      42.70     34.70    36.40     33.80
The above figures confirm the steady decline in investment by the State. The reasons for this
harmful fall of in public investment were:
-     the delay in drawing up the Development Plan which should have followed in the wake of
the P.D.E.S for 1986-1990.  This prevented the Government from  elaborating new
development policies and strategies;
-     the fact that the Government's commitments under SAL III obliged it to be more rigorous in
selecting projects for inclusion in the investment budget;
-     the withdrawal of the State from  non-strategic  production  activities following
implementation of the structural adjustment program; and
-     inadequate mobilization of external and domestic financing.
Civil Service Reform
Since the inception of the structural adjustment program, the Central African Goverment
has pursued a courageous policy of streamlining the public administration.
Under SAL III, the following measures were taken:
the setting up of three computerized management systems: ministry staffing plans in 1990;
the creation of budget line items in 1991; and cleanup of the civil service payroll in 1992.
These actions were further reinforced by:
training in 1992 for 16 national experts in the operational support for human resources
managers;



18
the training and appointment of directors and service chiefs for personnel management in the
various ministerial departments in 1993 and the promulgation of the General Statute of the
civil service on June 13, 1993.
Seminars on reform policy were organized for members of the National Assembly, trade
union organizations and senior personnel managers to sensitize them to program objectives and the
decrees setting up the four bodies responsible for putting the new policy on personnel management
into action were signed in October 1994.
In addition to these measures:
279 civil servants were retired in 1994, corresponding to real savings of CFAF 75 million;
and
-     verification checks of civil servants and other State employees in 1994 led to the
identification of CFAF 1.156 billion in overpayment of allowances; these were taken into
account beginning in September 1994.
Financial Restructuring
The government reduced the range of subsidies to enterprises with the definition of clear
policy on support to the cotton and coffee subsectors, reduction of public water, telephone and
electricity consumption and regularization of expenditures in the budget with a view to their regular
payment.
The financial resources needed for the proper functioning of the sector were assessed, taking
into account the settlement of arrears and cross-debts as well as the cost of the restructuring or
liquidation of enterprises.
Rehabilitation of the Financial System
In CAR, the role of financial institutions has traditionally been limited to short-term
operations such as commercial or seasonal credit. This state of affairs, together with heavy
dependence of investments and financing of the budget deficit by foreign aid, is a reflection of the
weakness of the financial intermediation system. This weakness is manifest in the large share of the
monetary mass which is kept in cash form and savings outside the banking system.
To redress this situation, the Government, in collaboration with BEAC and in the context of
SAL III, adopted and implemented a plan of action for the banking system which led to:
the signing of three agreements (conventions) consolidating BEAC's debt claims against
UBAC and the three banks in liquidation (BCAD,BCI and BCND) in June 1991;
the recapitalization of BIAO following the acquisition of Afri-trust by the  Meridien
International Group;
the creation of a Moroccan-Central African Bank;



19
-     the settlement of parastatal sector arrears through the State's paying BEAC claims in the
amount of CFAF 1.314 billion against BCI/BCND and through swapping CFAF 3.8 billion
in BEAC claims on UBAC for claims on the State under the MOURA company's debts.
In addition, control systems were reinforced with the creation of an Inter-States Commission
to act as an arm of BEAC with greater powers of control and sanction.
Agricultural Policies and Institutions Reform
The SAL III reforms adopted in these areas were:
-     the strengthening of the directorate's development planning capacity;
-     merging of the agricultural research and extension services.
These measures were taken as part of the reforms adopted in 1989 when the roles of the
Ministry of Rural Development was redefined and implementation responsibilities were delegated to
line services and the department responsible for planning, monitoring, evaluation and coordination.
Recommendations were made for putting the integrated rural development strategy into
action and the adoption of approaches which involve the population in a systemic, participatory way.
This led to:
-     the splitting of SOCADA into two entities: one, SOCOCA (the Societe Cotonniere
Centrafricaine), responsible for industrial and commercial activities in the cotton sector; the
second, ACDA (Agence Centraf.ricaine de Developpement Agricole), responsible for farmer
training and extension activities for all agricultural production;
-     the creation of ICRA (Institut Centrafricain de Recherche Agricole) under the aegis of the
Agricultural Institutions Support Project. ICRA is engaged in the whole range of agro-
pastoral production activities along the lines of the systemic approach;
-     the splitting up of CAISTAB into ORCCPA (Office de Reglementation, de Controle et de
Conditionnement des Produits Agricoles) and SCC (Societe de Commercialisation du Cafe')
to allow the separation of commercial and regulatory functions;
In addition, measures were taken under the program to reduce the coffee and cotton
subsectors' deficits (reduction of intermediation and processing costs and of production costs).
Private Initiative Incentives
The Government's strategy for developing the private sector was based on greater
mobilization of resources in the local banking system and rationalization of how these resources
were allocated between the various sectors of the economy by allowing market forces to determine
prices.
Thus, the prices of all commodities except sugar were liberalized under SAL III.



20
On the institutional front, in preparation for restructuring the Chamber of Commerce to be
elected in March 1995, the Government opened a "One Stop" window for foreign investors.
Law 88.14, which establishes favorable treatment for SMEs, was modified to allow
foreigners to acquire real estate.
Finally, the Government undertook a study of the supply, pricing and distribution system in
the petroleum sector which served as basis for drawing up a sectoral plan of action.
The Social Dimensions of Adjustment
The launching of the Social Dimensions of Adjustment and Development (SDAD) Project
gave greater insight into social aspects of the financial stabilization and structural adjustment
programs and allowed their impact on the socio-economic condition of vulnerable groups to be
monitored for incorporation into the design of future programs.
Activities under the SDAD included:
the inclusion of socio-economic indicators in macro-economic analysis through the
development of a statistics and information system to be taken into account in formulation of
future policy. A socio-economic study was also done of the mechanics of how decisions
taken at a macro-economic or sectoral level impact household life and various other
activities.
the identification and implementation of social action programs aimed at promoting growth
with equity  through support for the formation of training networks which match
employment possibilities and through promotion of disadvantaged groups' participation in
the development process.
In light of the above results, can it be said that SAL III reached its objectives?
If not, what were the principal causes of the program's weak performance?
III. QUANTITATIVE ANALYSIS OF SAL III
A. SAL III and the Resumption of Economic Growth
The principal objective of SAL III, as noted in the introduction to this report, was to get the
Central African economy back into a growth mode at the rate of 3.5 percent a year. This aim grew
out of the traditional idea of what an adjustment program should be and was justified by the fact that
the first two SAL programs had been thought of as straightforward stabilization programs aimed at
correcting macro-economic disequilibria in the economy.
Thus, after the relatively successful implementation of the public finance rehabilitation
measures contained in SALs I and 11, it was thought that implementation of SAL III measures should
allow the national economy to be put back on a growth path.



21
Measured against these criteria, the results obtained do not allow us to conclude that SAL III
reached its objectives.
Two principal causes account for the weak performance:
First, a lack of administrative rigor in implementing the program's revenue-boosting
measures. This caused the government to try to balance the budget through drastic spending
cuts (salary freezes and salary reductions, elimination of subsidies on agricultural inputs) and
led to a contraction of demand and recessionary effects on the economy;
-      Second, the drop in world prices for Central Africa's principal exports deprived the State of a
part of its export receipts and led to a general fall in economic activity.
But these two external causes aside, it was still true that SAL III did not sufficiently
emphasize accompanying measures to stimulate economic growth through appropriate investment.
It is legitimate to ask whether the conditions necessary for such a relaunching of the
economy were, in fact, created by SAL III in the specific context of the CAR.
In other words, were the measures included under SAL III such as to allow the Central
African economy to get going again?
The striking feature of the SAL III reform matrix is the predominance of financial
stabilization measures. Whether in the parastatal domain or in that of public finance, the program
emphasis was on restoring macro-economic equilibria.
The civil service salary freeze and the downward revision of the investment program, far
from being offset by an increase in private consumption, were, in fact, the cause of recessionary
effects in the economy.
Moreover, this situation was compounded by the drop in prices for CAR's principal exports
and the decline in foreign aid which were reflected in diminishing public revenue, and arrears in the
payment of public servants' salaries. The resulting social tension led to work stoppages in the
administration and compromised the implementation of program measures.
SAL III's weak growth performance (GDP growth was nil), coupled with the results of the
two previous SALs lead us to question the whole SAC concept.
B. The SAL Concept
The conceptual basis for structural adjustment operations is the interplay and relative
weights of various economic variables and economic sectors (the real sector, the public sector,
banking and the external sector). Economic variables which are common to different sectors are
identified with a view to making links between the sectors in the financial programming process.
The relationship between the monetary sector, expressed as a function of the demand for
money (to meet economic transaction needs), and the real sector shows that any economy has need
for a certain amount of money. The speed with which this money circulates depends on the level of



22
transactions. In other words, money is indispensable to the development of real sector transactions,
while interest rates and prices influence the production of goods and services.
Two sorts of consequence stem from this fact:
first, to develop, an economy needs a certain amount of money;
-      next, limiting internal credit can, through the monetary sector, correct both internal and
external disequilibria and redress the balance of payments.
The logic of this has led SAL theoreticians to believe that one can easily pursue the
simultaneous objectives of stabilization and economic growth. But they often neglect the first part of
the proposition and put the main emphasis on stabilization.
In fact, the fundamental concepts of stabilization and growth call for different policies whose
objectives are difficult to reconcile over the short term.
Stabilization is a short-term policy designed to control inflation and re-establish macro-
economic equilibria, often by way of a reduction in overall demand and public spending as well as of
consumer demand via the control of credit to the economy.
Such action can only have a deleterious effect on growth in the short term.  This is
particularly so in the case of a country like the CAR where the low level of monetarization of the
economy and the embryonic state of private sector activity make private demand highly dependent
upon the public sector. In these conditions, any drastic reduction in public demand entails a
contraction of overall demand and is quickly reflected in the overall level of supply, causing a
general decrease of activity and increase of unemployment.
In such a context, only an adequate injection of investment capital can allow economic
growth to take off.
However, not only do SAL conditionalities limit the State's recourse to borrowing (only
concessional borrowing is allowed under the programs), they also as a rule earmark credits from the
Bretton Woods institutions made under such programs for the implementation of specified measures
or for provisional offsetting of revenue loss as a consequence of these measures.
This sort of short-term measure does not fit in with a policy of growth which often requires a
longer time-spread than the SAL measures.
Indeed, while the achievement of the financial stabilization objective can be foreseen in the
short-term, that of economic growth often calls for the modification of economic structures and
sometimes their adaptation to meet the needs of a given context.
In the case of the CAR's economy, the weakness of the financial structures and the fragility
of the private sector mean that when prices for the country's principal exports are not strong, the
economic rehabilitation effort has to focus on modification of the structures of production and must
also take account in doing so of the country's comparative trade advantages.



23
This priority was not given the attention it deserves in the design of SAL III which above all
emphasized stabilization measures.
Each national economy has specific characteristics which should be taken into account in the
design of reform policies. But most of the time, the various structural adjustment programs are
developed as standardized solutions to be applied anywhere without variation. This does not seem to
be a realistic approach, in that it does not take into account differences that can exist between
different economic spaces and structures.
In the case of the CAR, the lack of adequate attention to this problem in the design of SAL
III led to the real financing needs of the national economy being under-estimated and this hampered
program performance in the area of growth.
Tables 3 and 4 below show the evolution of the balance of payments and of GDP by sector
respectively.
TABLE HII: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS: 1989-1992 (CFA Billions)
YEAR                      1989          1990          1991         1992
FOB Exports                    47.243        40.984       35.439        30.666
FOB Imports                    59.334        65.778       50.399        50.036
Trade Balance                 -12.091       -24.794       -14.960      -19.370
Net Services                  -32.286       -33.036       -28.109      -32.634
Net Transfers                  33.418        33.487       25.643        30.020
Current Balance               -10.959       -24.343       -17.426      -21.984
Public Capital                 12.270        23.804       14.879        15.282
Private Capital                -3.087        -3.854        -7.838       -4.913
Debt Relief                     2.260          -            -
Capital Balance                 9.183        19.950        7.041        10.369
Omissions                       0.059        0.782        -0.413         1.673
Overall Balance                -1.717        -3.611       -10.798       -9.942
The figures in the above Table illustrate the fact that capital flows to CAR declined over the
period of SAL 111.
Between 1990 and 1992, public capital received from abroad fell from CFA 23.804 billion to
15.282 billion -- equivalent to a drop of 46 percent while private capital flows stayed negative for the
period of the program.
Moreover, the drop in world prices for CAR's principal export commodities aggravated the
balance of payments deficit, which went from minus 1.717 (sic) to minus 9.942 (sic) in 1992.
At the sectoral level, the recessionary effects of the adjustment measures were reflected in a
general stagnation of economic activity as is shown by Table 4 below.



24
TABLE IV: GDP VOLUME BY SECTOR 1989-1992 (Base 1985)
iS}iSTiCtiC$tiSt;:tYEAR 0002  i 19.89   1990go         1991          1992
Primary Sector                  106.60        104.40        107.00        108.20
Secondary Sector                117.80        126.60        123.20        113.90
Tertiary Sector                  95.30         94.60         96.30         93.50
GNP at Factor Costs             103.80        103.50        105.10        103.50
GNP at Market Prices            103.40        104.10        103.20        101.30
However, despite the difficulty of reconciling the stabilization and growth objectives in the
short term, both elements are necessary and should be rigorously phased so as to allow each
component to be successfully carried out.
SALs designed for the short term should not be substituted for national economic
development plans which are oriented toward the long term.
Unfortunately, the financial crisis in countries undergoing adjustment and the weakness of
their institutional capacity for making macroeconomic projections leads some of them to substitute
SALs for those economic and social development plans which should, in the normal course of
events, provide the framework for shorter term economic programs. Even where such development
plans do exist, their objectives are often in contradiction with SAL objectives.
This has been the case of the Central African structural adjustment programs which were
never able to be reconciled with the objectives of the Social and Economic Development Plan for
1986-1990 which was based on the growth of public investment.
Above and beyond explanations arising from the financial difficulties of the CAR at the time
the various structural adjustment programs were set in place, this poses the thorny problem of what
are the optimal resources necessary for successful implementation of an economic program.
While stabilization policies can be pursued through the reduction of overall demand, growth
policies require sustained financial support, especially in an open economy which does not have a
diverse production base.
The argument that the African countries are alone responsible for their own balance of
payments and growth problems has often led the international institutions into a sort of conceptual
asymmetry in which the perception is that countries in deficit alone are able to resolve the economic
crisis through unilateral action. This approach does not make it possible for the various structural
adjustment programs to funnel sufficient funds to sustain those economic activities most likely to re-
establish growth in the countries in question.
This problem, compounded by the low level of "nationalization" of SAL III, brought about a
fall in public investment and a deflationary process which accentuated the disintegration of the
CAR's weak industrial fabric and aggravated the impediments to economic growth.
This issue of SAL accompanying measures, seen in the light of the politico-economic cycle,
is a subject of prime interest and should be accorded more attention by the international institutions
in the design of programs, particularly as concerns the newly democratic regimes in Africa where a



25
low level of fundamental needs satisfaction often leads the population more toward claiming rights
than accepting sacrifices.
But in the final analysis, this problem raises the question of the responsibility of the program
designers in respect of the poor performance that these programs record.
While not wishing to make sweeping generalizations, we do feel that the success of a given
program depends not only on the rigor with which it is executed but also, indeed above all, on the
quality of the accompanying measures it carries.
In the case of SAL III, the insufficient attention given to this question, coupled with the lack
of care in timing the phases of the program, led the World Bank to underestimate the real financing
needs of the Central African economy -- already in deep recession. This compromised to some
extent the program's objective of re-starting economic growth.
While recognizing the significant efforts the international community has made to support
the social sectors in CAR, we think it is just as necessary that resources be channeled to the
development of productive activities.  In this way, the national economy can become more
diversified and, over time, generate sufficient revenue for the State to assume responsibility for
financing the social infrastructure. For instance, the Apex line of the IDA-financed PARDEP Credit
could be improved and expanded in light of the specificities of the CAR's economy.
IV. CONCLUSION
Despite the weak performance of the SACs in promoting growth, structural adjustment
policies are still needed and should be improved so as to produce their full effect. Their
implementation period should be carefully timed. That is to say, policy implementation should span
distinct phases which would allow appropriate accompanying measures to be taken.
Moreover, the links between adjustment programs and the various development projects
should be carefully analyzed and made explicit to avoid possible clashes of purpose or self-defeating
activity. This would require structured overall coordination of all projects at the national level.
If these questions, and the urgent question of greater coordination of adjustment policies, are
taken into account, then the level of "internalization" of these policies co'ild be raised with
consequent improvement in their results. This is particularly relevant now that the CFA franc has
been devalued and the former structural difficulties linked to over-valuation of the currency no
longer apply.
Finally, one cannot examine the performance of any economic program without asking what
would have happened without the program the "counter-factual scenario". Such a study might well
be costly but, if approached from the angle of opportunity costs, would provide the different actors
(the international financial institutions and the governments implementing adjustment) a better
understanding of the nature of SALs and permit them to make improvements.



26
ANNEX I
page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMW! -'TION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit No. 2162-CA)
PART III - BASIC CREDIT DATA
Initiating Memorandum                            March 28, 1990
Letter of Development Policy                     April 14, 1990
Negotiations                                     May 23-25, 1990
Board Approval                                   June 21, 1990
Credit Agreement Signing Date                    July 2, 1990
Effectiveness                                    August 24, 1990
Original Credit Closing                           December 31, 1991
Actual Credit Closing                            June 30, 1994
CUMULATIVE CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
FY91          FY92          FY93          FY94
Amount (SDR 34,500,000.00)
(i) Planned                 22,500,000   12,000,000       -
(ii) Actual                 22,500,000      -             -        12,000,000
(iii) (ii) as % of (i)      (100%)          (0%)



27
ANNEX I
page 2 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit No. 2162-CA)
PART m - BASIC CREDIT DATA
MISSION DATA
Month/Year   No. of weeks  No. of persons   Date of Report
Preparation           02/90       1.5                  6             03/07/90
Appraisal             04/90       1.5                  6             05/02/90
Supervision I         02/91       2.0                  5             02/28/91
Supervision II (AG)   07/91       1.0                  1            07/22/91
Supervision III (IE)    07/91     1.0                  1            08/15/91
Supervision IV         11/91      1.5                  1             11/26/91
Supervision V  (IE)2    12/91     1.5                  3             12/20/91
Supervision VI        07/92       2.0                  1             07/14/92
Supervision VII       01/93       2.0                  1             03/12/93
Supervision VIII       12/93      1.5                  1             12/30/93
Supervision IX        01/94       2.0                  1             02/17/94
Supervision X         05/94       2.0                  1             06/13/94
STAFFNEUT
FY89   FY90   FY91         FY92    FY93         FY94    FY95
- staffweeks -
LENP         0.5    72.9
LENA                  18.9
LENN                  18.9
SPN                   1.6     70.0       35.6     21.5      19.4
PCR                                                                    7.0
Staff inputs:  266.30 staffweeks
AG: Agriculture mission support to SAL III related conditionality.
2
IE: Industry/Energy mission support to SAL III related conditionality.



28
ANNEX II
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit No. 2162-CA)
RELATED BANK CREDITS
.E.. .                                                                $ tatrpose . Eear ititus
Cr. 1971-CA   Economic         To support the            1989   On-going. After
Management      Government's reform               three years of stalled
Project         program and strengthen            progress due to
core economic ministries.        political unrest,
project activities
restarted in late-1993.
Closing date
extended once to
December 1995.
Cr. 2275-CA   Social          To help Government in     1991   On-going. After four
Dimensions of   its attempt to achieve a          years of data-
Adjustment and   more equitable pattern of        gathering, project
Development    growth and to mitigate             now being re-oriented
Project         negative effects of the           to focus upon
economic crisis and              exploitation and
adjustment program.              diffusion of available
information within
country.



29
ANNEX III
page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit No. 2162-CA)
STATUS OF CREDIT COVENANTS
Credit              Subject             Status              Remarks~
Agreement
Section
Section 3.01  Borrower and IDA to        Complied  Done on a regular basis during
(a)          exchange views, from time to  with.   supervision missions and recorded
time, on progress achieved in         in proces-verbaux of same.
carrying out the Program and
the actions specified in
Schedule 3.
Section 3.01  Borrower to report on the  Complied  Secretariat prepared progress
(b)          progress achieved before      with.   reports on project activities in
exchange of views required             preparation for supervision
under 3.01 (a).                        missions.
Section 3.03  Borrower shall maintain or  Partially   No disbursements took place in
(a)          cause to be maintained records  complied  1991-93. Audit of first tranche was
and accounts adequate to      with.    carried out in 1993 and redone in
reflect, in accordance with            1994, in effort to obtain ample
consistently maintained sound          documentation to justify that funds
accounting practices, the              disbursed were spent on goods
expenditures financed out of           actually imported. (Customs
the proceeds of the Credit.            Department habitually destroyed
Have records and accounts              documents older than three years.)
audited by independent                 Audit of second tranche in 1995
auditors. Furnish to IDA a             resulted in same conclusion:
certified copy of the report of       insufficient documentation of
such audit by said auditors.          imports to justify expenditures
Maintain records and accounts          against which funds were released.
reflecting such expenditures;          Anticipating second tranche
retain, until at least one year       release in 1991, Government had
after IDA has received the             not kept Customs documents from
audit for the fiscal year in           1990-91 as back-up for invoices
which the last withdrawal              presented to IDA. Situation is
from the credit account was            being corrected with installation of
made, all records evidencing           a computerized record-keeping
such expenditures.                    system for imports and exports in
Customs.



30
ANNEX m
page 2 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
THHR) STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit No. 2162-CA)
STATUS OF CREDIT COVENANTS
if ;Xll-Creidit00707--  705 :i;i   itf  Subject              Status    Remarks.
~Agreement:
Se ton :_                                                              _  __  _
Schedule 4   Second Tranche Conditions:                      Complied  Conditions
i) a three-year rolling public investment program for   with.  were
1991-1993 has been agreed upon with the Association.        considered
ii) substantial progress has been achieved in the           satisfactoril
execution of the Action Plan for improving the              y complied
efficiency of the customs services                          with.
iii) the two entities successor to CAISTAB have been        However,
legally established.                                        this
iv) substantial progress has been achieved in the           assessment
execution of the civil service reform including, inter      was not
alia, freeze of new recruitment into the civil service at   supported
levels in effect on June 30, 1990, and receipt by the       by
Association of draft legislation revising the current       sustained
civil service general statute.                              results in
v) an Action Plan to restructure the Borrower's             the case of
financial sector has been adopted and carried out in        improving
accordance with a schedule agreed upon with the             the
Association.                                                efficiency
vi) an Action Plan to settle the liabilities of the Moura   of customs
Company and to dispose of its assets has been adopted.      services.
vii) an Action Plan to restructure the pricing and
distribution system of petroleum products has been
adopted and carried out in accordance with a schedule
agreed upon with the Association.
viii) measures have been taken to permit foreigners to
buy and sell existing buildings.
ix) a law setting up the general legal and institutional
framework for public enterprises has been enacted.
x) the control of price has been abolished for the
following products: wheat flour, ordinary salt imported
in bulk, table oil except for olive oil, milk, canned
sardines, oilchard and corned beef, tomato extract,
lamps, school textbooks, charcoal smoothing-iron,
hoes, and machetes.






IMAGING
Report No:      15237
Type: PCR



