6k  22&7 /o -l
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11715-Il
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDICA
UTAR PRIADESH SODIC LADS RECLANATION PRROJECT
4AY 13, 1993
Agrie±ulture Operations Division
Couvtry Department II
So th Asia Region
Tbis document has a resrcted disibution and may be used by recipient ody in the pedormae of
their offlicii duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dicosed wihout Wodd Bank authoriation.



CURPENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Rupees (Rs.)
US$1 - Rs. 29
ISCAL YEAR
Government of India, State - April 1 to March 31
WETGH S
The metric system is used throughout the report.
ARRRVI&TIONS MND ACRONYMS
APC         Agriculture Production Commissioner
CPM         Computerized Project Management
DOA         Department of Agriculture
DOH         Departmer, of Horticulture
DPCC        Dist,ict Project Coordination Committee
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FYM         Farm Yard Manure
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GOUP        Government of Uttar Pradesh
HA          Hectare
ICAR        Indian Council for Agricultural Research
ICE         International Competitive Bidding
-IM         Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
LDC         Land Development Corporation
LRU         Land Reclamation Unit
M           Million
MIS         Management Information System
NABARD      National Agriculture and Rural Development Bank
NAEP        National Agriculture Extension Project
NARP        National Agrioulture Research Project
NGO         Non-Government Organization
OFD         On Farm Development
PMC         Project Management Committee
RSAC        Remote Sensing Application Center
RSIC        Reclamation Site Implementation Committee
SAU         State Agricultural University
SDM         Senior District Manager
SOE         Statement of Expenditure
SSC         State Steering Committee
UP          Uttar Pradesh
UCAR        UP Council of Agricultural Research
*          Se~~£asons
kharif      Monsoon season
rabi        Dry/Winter season



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
UTTAR PRADESH SOI  LNS RECLAIdATION PROJECT
Staff Appraisal BhCport
Table of Contents
I.  CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     i
II.  THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
Agriculture in the National Economy  . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
Development Priorities   .1...  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
Agriculture in Uttar Pradesh   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
The Sodic Lands .  . . . . ................ .    2
Experience with Past Bank Lending  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
III. THE PROJECT
Country Assistance Strategy and Rationale for IDA
Involvement  .5...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  s
The Project Area, Design and Beneficiaries . . . . . . . . . .  5
Objectives   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  6
Summary Description  .6...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .
Detailed Features  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  7
Project Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Financing    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  10
Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Disbursement .13
Retroactive Financing and Special Account  . . . . . .   14
Account and Audits .14
IV. PROJECT IMTENTATION....                                                15
Overall Organization and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Site Survey, Physical Planning and Land Reclamation  . . . .   17
Reclamation Technology Dissemination, Development,
Training, and Technical Assistance . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
Environmental Impact .19
Monitoring and Evaluation .19
Project Benefits and Justification   . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
Economic and Financial Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
Project Risks .24
Project Reviews and Reporting    .       . . . . . . .         25
V.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.                                        25
This document has a restricted distribudon and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES, CHARTR ANnDMAPA
Annex 1     Project Costs
Annex 2     Past Experience with Reclamation Work in Uttar Pradesh (UP)
Annex 3     Organization and Management
Annex 4     Agro-ecological Conditions in the Project Area
Annex 5     Identification, Selection and Planning of Reclamation Sites
Annex 6     Reclamation Technology
Annex 7     Reclamation Technology Development, Dissemination and Training
Annex 8     Financing and Project Fund Flows
Annex 9     Beneficiary Profile, Participatory Management, and NGO Support
Annex 10    Environment
Annex 11    Agriculture, Ho_ciculture and Forestry Models: Cropping Patterns,
Yields and Input Usage
Annex 12    Draft Terms of Reference for the Studies on the Improvements of
the Drainage System and Shallow Tubewells
Annex 13    Economic and Financial Analysis
Annex 14    Supervision and Implementation Schedule and Physical Targets
Annex 15    Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 16    Documents Available in Project Files
Chart 1     Proposed Organization of the UP Land Development Corporation
Chart 2     Information Flow
Maps:        IBRD Nos.  24701 Distribution of Salt Affected Lands in UP
24700 Project Reclamation Areas
The report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission which
visited the project area in January/February, 1993. The mission
consisted of Messrs./Mmes. Ashok Seth (Mission Leader),S. Khan, M. Mitra,
M. Balasubramanian (World Bank) and; A. Schumacher (Consultant). The Peer
Reviewers were: Messrs. Nelson, Cunningham, Ochs and Butcher. Ms. R. Crossley
assisted with the cost tables and economic analysis of the project and
Ms. K. McGrath provided secretarial support. Messrs. S. Barghouti and
H. Vergin are the managing Division Chief and Departmental Director
respectively for the operation.



,D  A
tlTFfl  e!LN  _6    pJutM
1. CREDIT MM PROJECT SUMMARY
Enrrnw4ar:            India, Acting by its President
ERc^uting Agency:    The State of Uttar Pradesh
hmQIan~t:             IDA Credit SDR 39.5 million
(US$54.7 million equivalent)
Co-lending terms:    Government of India (GOI) would make the proceeds of the
credit available to the State of Uttar Pradesh (GOU?)
under standard arrangements for developmental assistance
to the States of India. GOl would assume the foreign
exchange risk.
Pioject DeAcrip-ion: The project would build on past experience to reclaim
sodic lands in the State by establishing models which in
the future could be replicated on a much larger scale,
emphasizing participatory management. The project design
allows flexitility to introduce changes based on
implementation experience and increasing farmer
participation. The project would reclaim about 45,000 ha
over a seven year period in ten districts. Out of this,
about 39,000 ha would be devoted to production systems
based on rice and wheat cropping, and 3,000 ha devoted to
salt tolerant horticultural crops. A further 3,000 ha
would be reclaimed on community land and devoted to tree
cultivation for fuel and fodder. The key components of
the project would include: (i) Land Renlamation through
provision of effective drainage network; on-farm
development; application of chemical amendments;
irrigation development; and support for the establishment
of food and tree crops on privately owned land, and
forest tree species on community land; (ii) Institutional
£aMo.DaIlLn comprising strengthening of (a) UP Land
Development Corporation (LDC), the main implementing
agency; (b) the Remote sensing Application Center (RSAC)
responsible for site identification ard selection in the
planning process and for monitoring and reclamation
induced evaluation of changes to soil and ground water
environments; and (c) participating NGOs through training
to assist beneficiary participation;  (iii) AizuLtza7
Developm_t and Technology ni       n      consisting of
demonstrations of reclamation models for the production
of crops, fruit trees and forestry species on sodic
lands; nursery development for fruit tree seedlings
production; and extension support involving motivational
campaigns, production of publicity material, use of mass



ii
communication techniques; and (iv) Reclamation Tenhnolocv
Develomant and Speeial Studios comprising adaptive
research to improve existing reclamation technology,
diversification of cropping systems, and development of
methods for preventing further expansion of sodicity.
Special studies to improve the efficiency of drainage
system and shallow tubewells would also be undertaken.
Project Risks:        There are three main risks to the project.  The first
risk relates to the effective coordination of various
reclamation activities which need to be planned and
undertaken in a timely manner. To minimize this risk,
Annual Action Plans using the CPM system would be
finalized at least three months prior to the beginning of
the each years work program. In addition, support from
agencies with specialized expertise and clearly defined
responsibilities would ensure timely completion of agreed
actions. A Project Management Committee, specifically
constituted to maximize inter-departmental cooperation,
would expedite actions by the participating GOUP
departments. The second risk relates to the ability to
form and sustain farmers groups for participation in
several activities, including group credit for pumpsets.
To ensure formation of successful groups, NGOs with
proven experience in participatory management are working
with LDC to organize motivational campaigns and to run
training sessions for grassroots NGOs, LDC staff and
farmers. In addition, the project design has flexibility
to adjust reclamation targets in response to farmer
demand. They would also assist in promoting benefits of
the reclamation program and assisting groups, especially
with water sharing arrangements. The third risk concerns
the ability of farmers to effectively adopt the full
reclamation package. This risk would be minimized
through the introduction of models that maintain and
improve farmers income early in the project's life. In
addition, an intensive demonstration program of
reclamation package and farmer training would encourage
adoption of the proposed technology. Furthermore,
limiting of the reclamation program to about 45,000 ha
over a seven year period would all.,w enough time to train
farmers and, if required, amend the project design based
on implementation experience.



iii
E9tmated Protjct Costa
Local ForAi-gn Total LoQal ForLigm Total
Rs. million            US$ million
A.   Land Reclamation               1486.4  270.3  1756.6  50.7   9.2    60.0
B.   Institutional Development*
i. Land Development Corp.        137.2    3.0   140.2    4.7   0.1    4.8
ii.Remote Sensing Appl.Center   32.1   26.4    58.5    1.1   0.9   2.0
iii.Non-Gov't Organizations         4.0    -        4.0    0.1   -       0.1
Subtotal                      173.3   29.4   202.7    5.9   1.0    6.9
C. Agricultural Development
& Extension Support              77.5   40.9   118.4   2.6   1.4    4.0
D.  Technology Development
& Special Studies
i. Adaptive Research               18.6    0.0     18.6    0.6   0.0   0.6
ii.Special Studies                81.5    0.0    81.5   2.8   0.0    2.8
Subtotal                      100.1    0.0   100.1    3.4   0.0    3.4
Total Baseline Costs               1837.2  340.6  2177.8  62.7  11.6   74.3
Physical Contingencies              168.6   33.0   201.6    5.8   1.1    6.9
Price Contingencies                 558.1  199.6   757.7  -2.7   1.7   -1.0
Total Project Cost                2563.9  573.1  3137.1  65.8  14.4   80.2
* The cost of the IIM Contract is included under the
Land Development Corporation component.
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign      Total
uSS million
GOUP                           13.1      ----         13.1
Beneficiaries                  10.6      1.8          12.4
IDA                            J2_1    126 5.4-7
Total                          65.8     14.4          80.2



iv
IDA Fiscal Year
(US$ million)
2   1 QA          lf2£   22    22            .2,oon
Annual                 3.3    6.6    7.6    9.8   11.0   9.8   4.4        2.2
Cumulative             3.3    9.9   17.5   27.3   38.3  48.1  52.5    54.7
Economic Rate of Return: 23%
Maps: IBRD Nos. 24700 Distribution of Salt Affected Lands in U.P.
24701 Project Reclamation Areas



t.      TIM  AGRZCUL5U   8scTOR
2.01        India has a land area of 3.27 million km2; 49% is cultivable and
about 16% irrigated. The population of about 850 maillion is growing at an
annual rate of 2.2%. GDP grew at little more than 3% per annum in the 1950s
and 1960s, but has averaged 4.5% since 1980. The increase in food production
over this period averaged 2.7%, slightly above population growth. Since the-,
the rate of agricultural growth has declined and the latest indications are of
stagnation.
2.02        Agriculture contributes 35% to GDP and employs about 65% of the
total adult population. The declining rate of growth of agriculture has
significant repercussions in employment and rural incomes. While per capita
income has increased by about 2% per annum to reach about US$300 per year in
the country as a whole, there has been little improvement in the standard of
living for the poor. This is due to declining contributions from agriculture
to GDP with no corresponding decline in its employment share. This has
widened rural-urban income inequalities and dampened increases to real wages
in agriculture. An estimated 280 million people, or 33% of the total
population, live below the poverty line; 80% of these people live in rural
areas. One-third of the agricultural labor force are women, and agriculture
is their main source of employment in rural areas. The performance of
agriculture, therefore, not only affects the overall economy but also strongly
influences attempts to alleviate poverty.
2.03        Developrent plans of the Government of India (GOI) and State
governments give priority to alleviating poverty and creating employment,
especially in rural areas. The primary determinant of rural incomes,
especially for the poor, is the performance of the agricultural sector. Since
independence, GOl development plans have emphasized agriculture and sought to
raise foodgrain production by increasing the use of fertilizers, plant
protection chemicals, and improved seed varieties. In support of these
objectives, GOl has strengthened the institutions supporting the sector - in
agricultural extension and research, seed production, and agricultural credit
- and accelerated the development of irrigation.   Notwithstanding these
efforts, and the success of the "Green Revolution," overall performance has
been disappointing. Growth has been limited by Central and State
interventions, declining capital formation, weak research and extension
support, and poor management of irrigation infrastiucture.
2.04        The pressure of an increasing population on limited land resources
means that future growth must depend largely on maximizing production on both
irrigated and rainfed lands, increaseing crop d.Lversification, and improving
efficiency of resource use. Thus, GOI's long-term strategy is to stimulats
agricultural growth and promote rural development through improvment in land
and water management, enhance efficiency of irrigation and drainage networks,
strengthen research and extension services, increase attention to
environmental protection, and further strengthen rural infrastructure.
Investment programs to address these elements and to reestablish growth ^f the
sector receive high priority from GOI and the State governments under the
Eighth Five-Year Plan (1990-95). However, growth must be accompanied by mcre
equitable distribution of its benefits, and by ensuring sustainability of the
resource base. This project has been designed to assist the government of
Uttar Pradesh (UP) in these endeavors.



2
2.05         nogral FtnaurA. Uttar Praesh, situated in north-west India has
a population of about 130 million.   This makes it the most populcus State in
the Union with about 16% of total population.   The population density is high
at 470 persons per km2, with over 80% living in rural areas.   About two
thirds of all farm holdings in UP are below 1.0 ha.   The literacy cate of the
rural population is about 29%.   Although the State is well connected to the
rest of India through national highways, railways and airways, the intrastate
communication system is inadequate. In general, the quality of life in
villages is poor.
2.06        Natural Resnurces and Perforinance of AgriculturA.  The State
cultivates about 17 million ha with an average cropping intensity varying
between 111% in the drier Bundelkhand zone to 154% in the western plains.
UP is well endowed with water resources: the average annual rainfall is about
150 cm. Irrigation covers about 10.2 million ha, about 60% of total
cultivated area. Four major sources of irrigation are: canals (35%),
tubewells (57%), wells (6%) and tanks including lakes and ponds (1%). The
estimated annual recharge rate of underground water is 71,725 mcm and the net
extraction is about 21,366 mcm.  Thus, prospects for further ground water
developments are good.
2.07        The economy of UP is predominantly agrarian, wagriculture
contributes about 56% to the State income and employs about 78% of the work
force.   Agricultural production in the state has been dominated by
traditional food crops, particularly wheat, rice, ar.d legumes. Through the
mid 60s, the major contributors to growth were expansion.in cultivated areas
and increased productivity in irrigated areas. However, in the late 1960a and
through the 1970s, the agricultural scene changed significartly with
production increases in most crops coming from rising yields.   This,
especially for rice and wheat, was largely due to the introduction of high
yielding varieties and accelerated development of private tubewells.   The
areas under other cereal crops, such as maize and barley, declined due to
decreasing profitability.   Profitable cash crops, mainly sugarcane and
oilseeds, performed well during this period, growing at 4% to 5% per annum.
Potato production maintained its earlier momentum, growing at 9.5% per annum.
In more recent years, however, the rate of growth of agriculture has declined
while the population has continued to increase at about 2.3% per annum.
2.08        Based on past sources of growth and analysis of potential, future
growth will depend largely on improved exploitation of irrigation,
horticulture, improved varieties of crops, breeds of livestock and farm
management technologies involving both the traditional and non-traditional
crops with more sustainable use of natural resources, especially land and
water.
The Sodic Lands
2.09         The salts that affect India's land originate as dissolved
components of the surface or groundwater systems, and are constituents of the
soil minerals released under saturated conditions.   These accumulate



3
naturally wherever there is a combination of high ground moisture and annual
evaporative losses that greatly exceed rainfall.   Thie accumulation is also
induced wharever irrigation is practiced under such climatic conditions with
inadequate drainage.   In these situations the soil acts as a wick, drawing
salts up the water column and concentrating them at the surface.   The soil
conditions that occur as a result of this process fall into two major
categories.   SaUne sacll. are dominated by neutral salts, such as sodium
chloride, and can usually be reclaimed by the installation of drainage and the
use of sufficient irrigation water to dissolve the accumulated salts and
maintain a net positive hydraulic head for leaching purposes.   Rodignoias
are dominated by the electro-chemical bonding of sodium onto clays, which
results in the dispersal of the finer soil particles, impedance of water and
air movement and the creation of highly alkaline conditions. In addition to
the provision of drainage, reclamation of these soils requires the
establishment of chemical equilibria favoring neutralization and the
replacement of sodium by calcium.   The salt-affected lands of UP fall
predominantly into this latter category.   Salt affected soils in India,
including both saline and sodic (saline-alkali and alkali) soils, have been
estimated to cover about 8 million ha of land.   Sodic lands are the most
extensive problematic soils of UP, located mainly in the semi-arid heartland
of the Gangetic plains and protruding gradually to sub-humid eastern plains
(IBRD May No. 24701).   Other states with significant areas include: Gujarat,
West Bengal, Rajasthan, Punjab, Maharastra, Haryana, Orissa, and Karnataka.
2.10        Three main classes of sodic lands have been identified which
indicate the severity of the problem.   These are Class C - Uncropped barren
land, Class B - Single (kharif) cropped land and Class A - Double (kharif and
raoi) cropped land.   It is  estimated that currently there are about
1.25 million ha of Class C and a further 1.25 million ha of Class A and B
lands in the State, affecting about 10% of the net cultivated area.   Detailed
information on the institutions involved in the reclamation of sodic lands in
UP and the reclamation technology being adopted are given in Annexes 2 and 6,
respectively.
2.11        Past Efforts at Re1amation*  Since 1945, UP has launched several
Central and State government sponsored schemes to reclaim sodic lands. It is
estimated that by the end of 1989 about 157,000 ha had been reclaimed.   A
survey of previous schemes shows that, in general, the reclamation work
resulted in expansion of cultivated areas over reclaimed land, increased use
of fertilizers, improved seeds and higher productivity.   However, most of
these schemes were undertaken with slightly differing approaches and types of
farmer support.   In 1990 the State government started a new scheme called
Bhoomi Sena. In this scheme the farmers were provided a full package of
reclamation technology covering drainage, on-farm development, irrigation,
chemical amendment and input support.   While this scheme has only been in
operation for two years, it has generated a positive response from farmers and
has reclaimed more than 6,000 ha.   In addition to public sector agencies, a
grassroots NGO (Sarvodya Ashram) with funding from an internediary NGO, the
Society for Promotion of Wasteland Development (SPWD), has reclaimed up to
1,000 ha of land in blocks of about 20 ha each.   Success was achieved in this
program by motivating and training farmers to enlarge reclaimed ar( ,- through
group efforts.   Large areas of sodic lands have also been successfuily
reclaimed in Haryana and Punjab.   There are, however, two important



4
differences in conditions and approach in these two states. Firstly, unlike
in UP most of the sodic lands in Haryana and Punjab belong to farmers with a
good resource base; reclamation is a way of expanding their farm size.
Secondly, Punjab and Haryana gave support to the total reclamation package
from the start, and the program was managed by a single nodal agency.
2.12          kas Aaa of Past  r-   tion Pr2grams in U.  Key weaknesses of
past work, which are being addressed under the pronosed project, include:
a) weak institutions operating with limited coordination, inadequate planning
and lack of bencbma'k data to systematically identify and delineate sodic
areas; b) inadequate understanding of the total technology package involved in
the reclamation process including poor research and extension support; and c)
the 'top-down' approach of previous schemes gave little encouragement to
beneficiary participation.
Uarana  wt BankLn
2.13        Bank SupWortd Proje=tn.   The Bank has been supporting
agriculture in India since the early 1950s. To date, 130 agricultural
projects have received US$10.2 billion equivalent IBRD/IDA financing (81% IDA
and 19% Bank), with irrigation projects dominating the portfolio. Other
projects have been for: agricultural support services (credit, research and
extension); commercial agriculture (seeds, fisheries and agro-industry);
forestry, watershed and resource conservation; livestock development and
drought assistance.   The basic thrust of Bank involvement in Indian
agriculture has been to: (a) increase irrigated areas and improve water use
efficiency; (b) improve the lending capability of institutions; (c) increase
prodx..tion of high value products such as seeds, fish and silk; (d) improve
storage, processing and other agricultural marketing facilities;
(e) strengthen research and extension services; (f) improve management of the
forested areas; and (g) introduce sustainable land management systems
affecting rainfed agriculture. In UP, 14 Bank assisted projects have been
completed and 11 are ongoing.  Seven of these projects were exclusively for UP
and the rest involved other Indian states.   The specific aims of projects in
UP have included: development of agricultural research; promotion of the T&V
system of extension; seed production of high yielding varieties; major and
minor irrigation development; forestry and wasteland development; dairy and
inland fisheries development; and improved storage and marketing for
agricultural products. The Bank has not undertaken any direct investment in
land reclamation activities in India.
2.14        Imniamentation Performance and Lessons Learnt.  Many agricultural
projects in India have suffered from implementation problems, resulting in
delays in disbursements and completion. Common problems are: delays in
project mobilization and procurement; poor quality irrigaLion and civil works;
institutional weaknesses; insufficient local funding; and poor preparation and
implementation of resettlement and rehabilitation components.   Implementation
performance of the projects in UP have been mixed.   Reasons contributing to
the poor performance have included: delayed staff recruitment; declining
standards of the research and extension services; inadequate attention to
social issues and poor beneficiary/government interaction; and low priority
given to monitoring and evaluation of project activities.   The main lessons
from the experience in UP are that: (a) institutional arrangements must be



5
clearly established to ensure effective coordination and timely
implementation; (b) availability of funding should be reviewed at regular
intervals to ensure adequate counterpart funding is provided in a timely
fashion; (c) monitoring and evaluation should be given a high priority with
flexibility in project design, enabling introduction of corrective actions if
required; (d) specific actions should be agreed as part of the project design
to ensure beneficiary participation and NGO support; and (e) private sector
participation should be encouraged wherever feasible.   These lessons,
together with GOUP's proposals to alleviate constraints, are central to the
design of this proposed project.
iXX.   TR3 PROJZC!
3.01        One of the main emphases of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
is to support Government's development policies that impact on poverty, which
remains India's most serious problem. The focus is on efficient public and
private resource allocation through adjustment reform measures and capacity-
building.  The basic strategy for agricultural growth, which under India's
constitution is a State matter, is to strengthen agricultural, irrigation and
forestry programs at the state level. The main vehicles for the Bank group's
intervention include: (a) reform of Central and State government policies that
restrict incentives and distort trade; (b) increase the efficiency of public
investment and promote greater private participation which has stagnated due
to the complimentarities between public and private investment and poor
performance of the rural credit system; (c) strengthen the programs which
generate and disseminate appropriate technologies; and (d) improve the
management of land and water resources through forestry programs and enhanced
performance of the irrigation infrastructure with emphasis on participatory
management. The proposed project fits well within this fL mework. Systematic
recl.imation of sodic lands through sound land and water management planning is
increasingly important in UP. Increasing population pressures result in a
deteriorating environment and shrinking natural resource base. IDA's
involvement would help ensure that lessons drawn from previous projects and
NGO pilot efforts would be appropriately integrated into the sector's future
development, and that experiences from other countries would be brought to
UP's participatory land reclamation efforts. In particular, IDA's continued
participation would lead to the introduction of improved management systems
for identification, planning and monitoring of reclamation work. It would
enable development and dissemination of sustainable production technologies
and allow strengthening of institutions involved in reclamation work.
me pj.  AMA. D              a_    
3.02        Prggect Area and D&1ain.   This project would build on experiences
gained through successful pilot reclamation programs undertaken in the State.
It would also establish a model emphasizing participatory management, which in
the future could be replicated on a much larger scale. The project design
allows flexibility to introduce changes based on implementation experience and
farmer participation. Agro-ecological conditions in the project area are
described in Annex 4. Sites selected for reclamation would have high



6
concentrations of sodic patches, identified using re!aote sensing techniques
and ground surveys.   Other selection criteria would include: owner occupied
lands with a high degree of beneficiary commitment to the program; proximity
to a suitable drainage outlet; easy access to the area by road or rail;
presence of sweet groundwater with watertable below 2 meters; and absence of a
severe kankar layer near the surface.  Further information on the reclamation
site identificatien, selection, and planning process are given in Annex 5.
Proposed reclamation areas are shown in Map IBRD No. 24700.
3.03        project Beneficiaries.  Based on a socio-economic study, it has
been established that about 95% of land owners in sodic areas are small and
marginal farmers with holdings of less than 1 ha; the average holding is
0.4 ha. This land is often divided into two or more plots. A significant
number of beneficiaries in the past have been landless laborers who were
allotted patches of sodic lands that previously belonged to GOUP or village
communities. Labor wages are very important source of income for such
marginal farmers and landless persons. Some are sharecroppers. The
opportunities for employment and sharecropping within the village areas are
limited, however, and out-migration by male family members to urban areas and
to Punjab and Haryana during the cropping season is common. A majority of the
proposed beneficiaries live at subsistence level; more than half of the
families have incomes less than Rs. 10,000 per annum, the official poverty
line. Their level of indebtedness to informal moneylenders is high, most
families having debts eq.lvalent to about 25% of yearly income.   Most of
them, therefore, have few savings and have poor access to institutional
credit.   Annex 9 provides further information on the socio-economic profile
of the beneficiaries.
Drajeest ObjaetLw.ka
3.04        The objectives of the project are to: (a) develop concomitant
models for environmental protection and improved agricultural production
through large scale reclamation of scdic lands; (b) strengthen local
institutions, enabling effective management of such programs with strong
beneficiary participation and NGO support; and (c) contribute towards poverty
alleviation of families managing sodic lands.
Siiar  B.sariptI.On
3.05        The proposed project is seen as part of a long-term program to
improve agricultural productivity in areas with high concentrations of salt-
affected lands and deteriorating environmental conditions.   The project would
build on past successful pilot programs to reclaim these areas, and establish
models which in the future could be replicated on a much larger scale
emphasizing participatory management.   The project design allows flexibility
to introduce changes based on implementation experience and increasing farmer
participation.   In view of this, the project size is being limited to the
reclamation of about 45,000 ha over a seven year period in ten districts.
Key components of the project would include:
a)    Land Reclamation through provision of an effective drainage
network; on-farm development; application of chemical amendments;
irrigation development; and support for food and horticultural



7
tree crops production on privately owned land, and forest tree
production on community land;
b)    lnstitutignal fevyAloment through strengthening of the UP Land
Development Corporation (LDC), the main implementing agency; the
Remote Sensing Application Center (RSAC) which is responsible for
site identification and selection, planning and monitoring of
environmental impacts due to reclamation; and participating NGOs
through training for the introduction of participatory management
practices;
c)    agriculltual DevelQoment and Technolga= DssAmination comprising
demonstrations of reclamation models for the production of crops,
fruit trees and forestry species on sodic lands; nursery
development for fruit tree seedling production; extension support;
and
d)    Reclamation Technology DevelopMent and Special Studies including
adaptive research to improve existing technology, diversification
of cropping systems, and development of systems for preventing
further sodicity expansion. Special studies to improve
effectiveness of drainage systems and efficiency of shallow
tubewells would also be supported.
Det:a4led Wreaturos
3.06        Land Reclamation (US$60 million; 81% of base costs).  Investments
would include: design, planning, construction and/or improvement of the
drainage network (main, link and field drains); provision of shallow borewells
and pumpsets for irrigation development to leach salts and support crop
growth; on-farm development, consisting of land levelling, bunding and
construction of farm drains and irrigation channels: provision of chemical
amendments for alkalinity reduction; and input support for crop production
activities until crops/trees have been successfully established and therefore
provide an effective start in the yield stabilization process.   As the
availability of funds for maintenance of the main drains in the state has been
a problem in the past, the project would finance this activity for the first
five years. Thereafter, GOUP would take on this responsibility. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that starting April 1, 1998, GOUP would
finance the costs of maintaining the main and link drains under the project,
and reflect the incremental contributions necessary in the Irrigation
Department annual budget. Of the totvl area to be reclaimed, 39,000 ha will
be brought into traditional double-cropped irrigated arable production,
growing paddy/wheat/Sesbania (leguminous green manure which adds nitrogen to
soil and builds up the organic matter). Pilot programs on about 3,000 ha
plots would be supported to achieve sustainable improvement in the environment
and soil conditions through diversified cropping systems. One such program
would include cultivation of salt-tolerant fruit tree species, and the other
improved production of fuelwood and timber on community-owned land. Detailed
information on the reclamation technology to be followed is given in Annex 6.
Production models to be adopted are discussed in Annex 13.



8
3.07        Institgtional Development (US$6.9 million, 9% of base costs).
(a)   Land Develonment Corporatinn. The operational capacity of LDC
would be expanded and strengthened through a series of measures.
These would include: (i) establishment of State, district and
reclamation site level coordination committees to assist project
coordination and beneficiary participation; (ii) restructuring of
the organization at headquarters, including separation of key
functions under full-time managers, e.g., support services
(Administration and Accounts), field implementation of reclamation
program, technical support and management systems; (iii) the
establishment of a cell to manage beneficiary participation; and
(iv) the establishment of offices at district levels to assist in
decentralization of management functions for quicker decision
making and supervision of field staff. The project would provide
funds to finance the required buildings, vehicles, equipment and
computers. In addition, the project would assist in financing a
contract under which the Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow
(II1), would assist LDC in developing a Computerized Project
Management System (CPM) and Management Information System (MIS).
The CPM would have a detailed work breakdowr. structure in which
tasks would be scheduled over the life of the project and critical
path networks identified on an annual basis. This would ensure
effective implementation and coordination of project activities by
participating agencies. The proposed MIS system would permit
computerized collection of information and preparation of reports
in the districts, and the transmission of these to LDC
headquarters. It would also include a computerized central
accounting system. LDC staff would be provided training in key
areas including the use of CPM, the MIS system, and the reporting
system.
(b) Remote sensing Aoplication Center. The main focus of
strengthening RSAC would be to ensure the selection of reclamation
sites, and the planning, monitoring and evaluation of
environmental parameters including the impact on soils, crops,
biosystems and groundwater.   The project would finance the
contract between RSOC and LDC to cover the purchase of additional
computer compatible tapes of selected scenes and new aerial
photographs from project districts, establishment of a computer
linked GIS, additional cartography facilities, photographic
equipment and analytical instruments for the soils laboratory.
The project would also finance incremental technical and support
staff and technical assistance at RSAC to undertake all project
related activities.   The local and international training for
RSAC staff to be provided under the project would focus on
upgrading of GIS skills, production and interpretation of
photographic materials, computer programming and analytical
procedures in soils chemistry; and



9
(c)   NGO Participation.  The project would finance support of
intermediary and grassroots NGOs to assist in organizing
beneficiary participation.   This would involve forr.ation of
farmer groups for water sharing, operation and maintenance of
pumpsets, OFD activities and credit management.   In addition, the
grassroots NGOs would mount awareness campaigns and train farmers.
In order to give women access to and control of resources, NGOs
would also assist in the formation of women's groups, which, in
addition to the activities outlined above, would provide training
to enhance productivity in farming operations and strengthen their
role in local decision making bodies.   The ability of NGOs to
effectively undertake these activities would be strengthened
through training.   In this process the intermediary NGOs would
play a key role by providing training to new staff of grassroots
NGOs.   They would also train LDC staff, Male and Female Mitra
Kisans, and Extension Workers in participatory management
practices.   Assessment of the progress of beneficiary
participation over the duration of the project would be undertaken
by an independent agency or NGO (para. 4.12). At negotiations,
assurances were obtained that NGOs would be selected in accordance
with the criteria agreed with IDA, and their support would be
maintained throughout the project. More information on the
proposed roles and responsibilities of NGOs and the criteria for
their selection is given in Annex 9.
3.08        AgultUral Davelg=nt and Technolgy nigi
(US$4.0 million; 5% of base costs). To ensure adoption of recommended
reclamation and management practices by the beneficiaries, demonstrations
would be undertaken on farmer's fields covering food crops, fruit trees and
new crops (aromatic grasses) being evaluated under the project. To promote
horticultural activities, nurseries would be established, mainly through
private entrepreneurs, for the multiplication and sale of salt tolerant lines
of fruit trees not readily available in the market. The dissemination of
recommended reclam-Ation and crop production practices would be supported by
LDC and DOA field staff following specialized training on specific needs of
marginal farmers cultivating sodic lands. In addition, to encourage greater
farmer involvement in technology dissemination and adoption, each
participating farmer with 50 ha of land to reclaim would be invited to
nominate one male and one female fellow farmer to be trained as the ,contact'
farmer or "Demonstrator/ Trainer Friendf (Mitra Kisan (Male) and Mahila Mitra
Kisan (Female)). These volunteers would assist with project supported
awareness campaigns, field demonstrations, and other farm level activities
aimed at technology dissemination. Further, to improve the delivery of
extension messages, the project would finance production of publicity
materials including leaflets, radio and television programs. The use of mass
communication techniques would be closely integrated with the regular farm
visit programs of the field workers.
3.09        Reelamaj ton PechnOlov Develoo   t and Spgeial Stdlges
(US$3.4 million; 5% of base costs). To further improve cost effectiveness of
the recommended practices, the project would support adaptive research on:
development of low cost reclamation techniques involving biological systems
with and without chemical amendments; intercropping of fodder grasses in



10
association with horticultural tree crops; management systems with and without
horticulture tree crops for the production of high value aromatic plants;
survey and assessment of endemic plant species suitable for fodder production;
screening of crop species, cultivars and rootstocks for tolerance to sodic
conditions. Annex 7 provides further details on the technology development
program to be supported under the project. In addition, a study would be
undertaken to establish the extent and rate of spread of salt-affected lands
in the State. Based on the findings of this study the project would initiate
a pilot program to arrest further expansion of sodic lands. Provision has
also been made for specialized studies, with technical assistance, on: (a)
improvement in effectiveness of drainage systems in relation to agricultural
areas generally and sodic soils specifically; and (b) improvement in the
efficiency of shallow tubewells. Terms of Reference for these studies are
given in Annex 12.
Pro<3ct tEoata and V4 nantc4ng
3.10         Costs.  Total projects costs are estimated to be Rs. 3,137 million
(US$80.2 million equivalent), including physical and price contingencies, and
MUS8.4 million equivalent in local taxes. The direct and indirect foreign
exchange cost is estimated to be US$14.4 million, or 18% of total project
costs. Base costs are in 1993 prices. Price contingencies of 3.1% per year
were added to the foreign exchange costs. For local costs, price
contingencies were added at a rate of 8.0% for 1993, 7.0% for 1994, 6.0% for
1995, 5.5% for 1996, and 5.0% for 1997 onwards. Details of project costs are
given in Annex 1, the summary is given in the following table:
prMiec~t Crstm summary
-                        ~~~~~~~~~Local Foreign    ertal  ,&=1  Forng _Total
Rs million      US$ million
A. Land Reclamation               1486.4 270.3   1756.6  50.7           9.2    60.0
B. Institutional Development*/
i. Land Development Corporation   137.2  3.0      140.2   4.7           0.1    4.8
ii.Remote Sensing Appl.Center     32.1   26.4    58.5    1.1            0.9    2.0
iii.Non-Government Organizations  4.0    -        4.0     0.1           -      0.1
Subtotal                173.3  29.4    202.7   5.9           1.0    6.9
C. Agricultural Development
& Extension Support     77.5   40.9    118.4   2.6           1.4    4.0
D. Technology Development & Special Studies
i. Adaptive Research     18.6   0.0     18.6    0.6           0.0    0.6
ii.Special Studies       81.5   0.0     81.5    2.8           0.0    2.8
Subtotal            100.1  0.0      100.1   3.4           0.0    3.4
Total Baseline Costs              1837.2 340.6   2177.8  62.7           11.6  74.3
Physical Contingencies           168.6  33.0    201.6   5.8            1.1    6.9
Price Contingencies              558.1  199.6    757.7  -2.7           1.7    -1.0
Total Project Cost               2563.9 573.1   3137.1   65.8          14.4   80.2
*/ The cost of IIM Contract is included under the Land Development Corporation component.
3.11    iJnanCi.n.  The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 39.5 million  (US$54.7
million equivalent) would finance 76% of total project costs, net of taxes, or
68% of total costs including taxes. Remaining financing would be provided by
GOUP and beneficiaries. IDA Credit would finance 88% of the direct and
indirect foreign exchange costs and 64% of local costs. The Credit would be



11
on standard terms and conditions to the Government of India, which would bear
the foreign exchange risk. Annex 8 describes project funds flows.   At
negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOI and GOUP that the implementing
entities would be provided all funds required under the project in accordance
with the amounts and timetables established in the consolidated Annual Action
Plans (para. 4.5). The proposed Financing Plan would be as follows:
Local          Foreign            Total
-US$ million
GOUP/LDC                     13.1              ----              13.1
Beneficiaries                10.6                1.8             12.4
IDA                         A92_
Total                        65.8               14.4             80.2
3.12        workRs  URS16S58X.  Works to be financed under the project
(excluding the cost of engineering, administration and land acquisition) would
consist of civil works comprising offices, boring for shallow tubewells, and
drainage (US$11.23 million), as well as on-farm development works (US$2.54
million). Because these works would be of small size, labor intensive in
nature, scattered over large distances, and performed over the implementation
period, none of the activities would be suitable for International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures. Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures
satisfactory to IDA would therefore be followed, with foreign bidders having
the opportunity to participate. Contracts would be entered into using a
standard bidding document satisfactory to IDA. Land acquisition for the
extension of the main and link drains, to be undertaken annually by LDC in
consultation with the Irrigation Department, and detailed design and
engineering of the works would precede invitations to bid. OFD works are not
suitable for competitive bidding because of the need for community
participation and the small amounts involved. All small civil works not
exceeding the equivalent of US$10,000 per contract, and on farm development
works, would be undertaken by the respective line agencies under Force Account
(up to an aggregate value of US$5.35 million).
3.13        Comodities 1USS26 48 millionL.  Packages estimated to cost more
than US$200,000 (up to an aggregate value of US$18.27 million) would be
procured following ICB procedures using standard bidding documents
(Commodities). For packages costing over US$20,000 and up to US$200,000 per
contract (up to an aggregate value of US$4.82 million), LCB procedures would
be followed. Commodities required urgently in small amounts, up to US$10,000
per contract and not exceeding US$1.0 million in aggregate value, may be
procured as and when necessary following local shopping procedures. Seasonal
requirements for fertilizers and crop protection chemicals (US$3.29 million)
not financed by the Credit would be procured directly by farmers.
3.14          Uqu4pmant and Materials LUS821-8 millj=n.  Packages estimated
to cost more than US$200,000 (up to an aggregate value of US$0.54 million)
would be procured following ICB procedures using standard bidding documents
(Goods). For packages costing over US$20,000 and up to US$200,000 per



12
contract (up to an aggregate value of US$3.4 million) LCB procedures would be
followed. For packages of materials and equipment including small equipment,
furniture, and construction materials for force account works costing up to
US$20,000 per contract (up to an aggregate value of US$7.85 million), local
shopping procudures would be used. Direct contracting procedures would be
followed for specialized items comprising satellite imagery and aerial
photographs (up to an aggregate value of US$0.23 million), which have to be
procured directly from the National Remote Sensing Agency, the only source of
such items. Vehicles estimated to cost US$0.79 million equivalent would be
procured in small lots by different implementing agencies and spread over the
project implementation period. They would represent a small addition to the
existing fleet and because of the need for standardization and availability of
spare parts, local shopping procedures acceptable to IDA would be followed.
Other small quantities of on-farm items, such as planting material and tools,
diesel and lubricants required for pumpset maintenance, (up to an aggregate
value of US$9.78 million) not financed by the Credit would be procured
directly by farmers.
3.15        Consultancies. Contracted services and Tg±lLhy (US$4.69 million).
In order to assist GOUP in implementing the project, LDC would employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment would be satisfactory to IDA. Such consultants would be selected
in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency," published by the Bank in
August 1981. LDC would enter into a contract with specialized agencies for
carrying out project and environmental monitoring activities following
procedures acceptable to IDA. Training of LDC and RSAC staff, as well as
farmers and extension workers, would be carried out either by LDC or agencies
with relevant expertise and subject to approval by IDA.
3.16        Crntract Review. All ICB packages, civil works packages estimated
to cost over US$ 200,000 equivalent, all goods and equipment contracts
estimated to cost over US$ 300,000 equivalent, and all contracts for
consultant's services above US$ 100,000 would be subject to IDA's prior
review.   These packages and contracts would represent about 26% of the
procurement carried out through competitive bidding. The remaining packages
may be selectively subject to the Bank's post-review.



13
3.17          The proposed procurement arrangements are summarized below:
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements (USS million equivalent)
ICB       LCB          Others  NBF        Total
------- US $ Million -------------
1.Land Acquisition                                                   1.38       1.38
2.Civil Works a/                               11.23         5.35               16.58
(9.98)      (4.78)              (14.76)
3.Commodities b/                     18.27     4.82         1.0      3.29       26.48
(15.27)   (3.36)      (0.8)               (19.44)
4.Materials & Equipment               0.54     3.40         8.08     9.78       21.80
(0.48)    (2.89)      (6.1)               (9.37)
5.Vehicles                                                  0.79                0.79
(0.61)             (0.61)
6.Consultants, Contracts and Training          4.69                  4.69
(4.27)             (4.27)
8.Incremental staff S                                       8.35                8.35
operating costs                                       (6.15)              (6.15)
TOTAL    18.82     18.54        28.38    14.46       80.2
(15.75)   (16.14)     (22.81)             (54.7)
a/ Includes on-farm development works (US$2.54 million).
bi Includes pyrite and gypsum (US$ 15.1 million) and fertilizers, seed, and crop protection
chemicals (US$ 7.8 million).
ICB:   International Competitive Bidding; LCB - Local Competitive Bidding
Others:Local shopping, direct contracting, force account and consultant recruitment.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by IDA.
3.18         The Credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a)    90% of the costs of civil works.
(b)   100% of foreign or ex-factory costs, or 80% of local costs,
for goods, equipment and vehicles.
(c)   100% of the costs of consultants, training and contracted
services.
(d)   3000 Rs./ha of LDC supervision costs for land reclamation
activities.
(e)   90% through June 30, 1993, 75% through June 30, 1995 and 60%
thereafter for incremental staff and operating costs.
3.19         Disbursements are projected over a period of seven years from
Septamber 30, 1993 to September 30, 2000. Project completion is expected by
September 2000, and Credit closing by March 31, 2001. All requests for
disbursements would be prepared by LDC and reflect the implementation schedule
specified in the Annual Action Plans (para. 4.6). Supervision costs cover



14
the costs incurred by LDC to manage and supervise this project.   Incremental
staff costs to be disbursed would only apply to RSAC, but the incremental
operating costs would apply both to LDC and RSAC. Disbursement for civil
works packages exceeding US$200,000 equivalent and for expenditures on goods
and equipment under contracts exceeding US$200,000 would be fully documented,
as would disbursements for vehicles. For the consultants this limit would be
US$ 100,000. For all other expenditures, IDA would disburse against
statements of expenditures (SOEs) in an agreed format and in accordance with
IDA's normal procedures for SOEs. SOEs would be certified by GOl as
representing eligible project expenditures. Supporting documents for SOEs
would be available for inspection by supervision missions and auditors, and
retained by LDC for one year after IDA receipt of the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit account was made.
The proctdures for preparing SOEs would be: Project expenses summarized
monthly Ly LDC and put under expense headings agreed with IDA, certified iy
the authorized officer and forwarded to the Controller of Aid Accounts and
Audit at DEA within 30 days of each month-end. GOI would fully pass on,to
GOUP the proceeds of the credit in the normal formula that assistance from the
Center is passed on to the states, with GOI assuming the foreign exchange
risk. In addition, following effectiveness, GOI would release about three
months anticipated project expenditures from GOI resources in advance to GOUP,
which amounts would be retained in a separate State revolving fund together
with GOUP contributions to be used only to finance project expenses. At
negotiations, assurances to this effect were obtained from GOI and GOUP.
_attrae!tiue  ripn        ad Sunil
3.20        To assist with project preparation activities and to expedite
project start-up, IDA would finance project costs incurred after September 30,
1992, up to a limit of US$5 million (about 10% of the Credit), provided IDA
procurement procedures were followed. The activities to be covered by
retroactive financing would include: (a) project start up and management
assistance; (b) upgrading of facilities at RSAC; (c) identification, selection
and planning of reclamation sites and on-farm improvement; (d) some activities
associated with land reclamation, such as boring for tubewells; {e) purchase
of chemical amendments; and (f) training. In order to facilitate timely
payments of project expenditures, a Special Account amounting to US$2.0
million (equivalent to four months expenditure) would be established in the
Reserve Bank of India. The account would be replenished quarterly or when the
account is drawn down to about 50% of the initial deposit, whichever occurs
first.
3.21        Project expenditures incurred by each participating department and
agency would be subject to normal GOI and State accounting procedures and
controls. Project accounts would summarize project expenditures under
categories to be agreed with IDA showing: (a) actual versus planned
expenditures for each month; (b) actual versus planned expenditures
accumulated to date; and (c) how financed for the quarter and accumulated, by
the Association and by the government. The summaries which would provide
information for the SOEs would form part of the project accounts, including
those expenditures for which reimbursement would be claimed with full



15
documentation. The project accounts would be supported by a listing with the
withdrawal applications submitted for the period. The Controller and Auditor
General and his Accountant Generals at the State level would be considered
acceptable auditors, and the audited project accounts and SOEs along with the
auditor's reports would be submitted annually, to be received by the
Association no later than nine months after the end of the fiscal year. The
Audit Report on SOEn would specifically comment on their usage and the
controls established to ensure their accuracy.   The Special Account which
would be maintained by the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) would show all
withdrawal requests disbursed, amounts advanced and reimbursed by IDA, and
balance at the end of each accounting period.   The Controller aind Auditor
General would be acceptable auditors and reports would reflect the
certification of the balance held by the Reserve Bank of India. The Audited
Special Account and the auditors report thereon would be submitted annually to
reach IDA no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.   LDC
would prepare a project report on a quarterly basis in a format to be agreed
with IDA, summarizing project progress in physical terms linked to financial
terms. The financial terms would be based on the quarterly unaudited project
accounts required above.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
project accounts would be maintained and audited annually by the Controller
and Auditor General in accordance with sound auditing standards acceptable to
IDA, and GOUP would submit certified copies of the project accounts, including
the Special Account, together with the auditor's report, including a separate
statement on SOEs, to IDA not later than nine months after the close of each
fiscal year.
IV.     PROJECT  IIPLENZN!dATZON
4.01        Land Develg=nt o *r=xtLM.   A reorganized and strengthened LDC
(Chart 1) would have the overall responsibility for coordinating the
implementation of this multi-disciplinary project.In the long-term, it is
envisaged by GOUP that, based on the experience gained in this project, LDC
would become the main agency coordinating all land reclamation activities in
the State. The Agriculture Production Commissioner (APC), GOUP, would be the
Chairman of the LDC Board of Management, and its day to day operations would
be under the control of a full-time Managing Director (MD). In preparation
for implementation of the proposed project, GOUP has reorganized Board
membership to include representatives from key GOUP departments, SAUs, UPCAR,
and NGOs. A full list of the LDC Board members is given in Annex 3. At
Headquarters, the MD would be assisted by a Joint Managing Director, and heads
of Finance, Reclamation, Technical Services and Management Services divisions
who would form a core management team. The implementation of the reclamation
program in the districts would be the responsibility of Land Reclamation Units
(LRUs). Each LRU, headed by a Senior District Manager (SDM) and supported by
field officers and administrative staff, would have the capacity to coordinete
reclamation of up to 2,000 ha per annum. The SDM would be supervised by the
Deputy General Manager, Reclamation Division, but operate in close
collaboration with the District Magistrate, responding to him
administratively. Fully staffed LRUs are already in place in the three
districts included in the first year's reclamation program. At Headquarters,



16
to strengthen LDC's technical and social skills for effective project
coordination, 60UP has transfered a number of staff from other departments,
based on criteria for selection agreed upon at appraisal. The rate of buildup
of field staff in relation to the size of the annual reclamation program would
be reviewed and finalized at the time of preparing Annual Action Plans. At
negotiations assurances were obtained that: (a) the APC would continue to be
the Chairman of the Board of LDC for the duration of the project; and (b)
build-up of LDC field staff would be in accordance with criteria agreed with
IDA.
4.02        AdviRoryl   rdinatign CommitteeR.  In order to provide policy
guidance, improve inter-agency cooperation and strengthen farmer participation
in the project activities, GOUP has established committees at the State,
District and Reclamation Site levels. These include: the State Steering
Committee (SSC); the Project Management Committee (PMC); the District Project
Coordination Comittee (DPCC); and the Reclamation Site Implementation
Committee (RSIC). Annex 3 provides full lists of membership and functions of
these committees.
4.03        Other Cooerating Agencies.  In view of the multi-disciplinary
nature of the project, many of its activities would be implemented or
monitored by cooperating agencies working under 'contractual' arrangements
with LDC. IIM would assist LDC in developing the CPM System and MIS. In
addition, it would undertake independent monitoring of the project
implementation progress. Key GOUP agencies slated to assist project
Jmplementation include: RSAC in the area of reclamation site identification,
selection and planning and monitoring activities, including groundwater;
Department of irrigation in drainage system development; Department of
Agriculture with extension support; SAUs with work on reclamation technology.
Grassroots NGOs would be trained by intermediary NGOs experienced in
participatory management and together would play a very important role in
motivating and training farmers and ensuring their full participation in
project activities. LDC would cooperate with private companies for the
distribution of chemical amendments and pumpsets. Annex 3, Attachment I,
shows the implementation responsibilities of cooperating agencies.
Arrangements for information flow between LDC and other participating agencies
are given in Chart 2. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that GOUP/LDC
would observe the provisions of each of the Memorandums of Understanding
between LDC-IMM and LDC-RSAC for implementation support monitoring under the
project.
4.04        Impact on Women.  Women contribute considerably to on-farm
activities and are also the main collectors of fodder and fuelwood from
community land or other sources.   The propo-sed forestry model would enhance
availability of forest products which women collect to provide household
subsistence and secondary income. Proposed mobilization of woments groups
with the help of NGOs for training, thrift and credit, as well as other
related activities, would ensure that they benefit from the project
activities.   Their participation would be further supported by training of
voluntary Mahila Mitra Kisans (women 'contact' farmers). In addition, an
agreement was reached with GOUP/DOA that, wherever possible, women



17
beneficiaries under the project would be integrated with other ongoing
developmental programs of GOI and GOUP. Further information on the potential
for women's participation in the project villages is given in Annex 9.
4.05        AnnUal Action Plans. Annual action plans would assist project
planning, and implementation coordination by LDC, monitoring by IIM on behalf
of LDC, and supervision by IDA. They would also facilitate year-to-year
changes in the project components or design, based on implementation
experience. IIM/LDC, in cooperation with other participating agencies, would
prepare action plans using a CPM system which would define for each project
activity the required critical path for completion and display the proposed
physical and expenditure targets for the following financial year (April 1 to
March 31). IIM would also design standard formats for participating agencies
to prepare and present their individual plans to IIM/LDC for the preparation
of a consolidated Annual Action Plan. Further information on the Annual
Action Plans is given in Annex 3. At negotiations, assurances were obtained
that by December 31 each year, starting in 1994, LDC would provide to IDA for
review and comments a copy of the approved action plan for the following year.
to±. Ruanry.  Phynis a1  2lanning  and Land R.elamatItw.~ (anmexes 5 & 6)
4.06 Each year, with the help of RSAC, LDC would develop 3 reclamation plan
about 12 months in advance of starting field work. RSAC would prepare
cadastral maps of selected sites showing areas under different categories of
sodic lands. Based on this information, LDC would undertake field surveys to
confirm land use and ownership details on a parcel-by-parcel basis. Other
details necessary to prepare the reclamation plan would include:
geomorphological/drainage data, ground water data, soil survey data, location
of existing tubewell and counter maps. Other steps involved in the
reclamation process are described in Annex 6. As availability of funds for
maintenance of the main drains in the state has been a problem in the past,
the project would finance this activity for the first five years.
Thereafter, GOUP would take on this responsibility.  At negotiations,
assurances were obtained that: (a) the reclamation site identification,
selection and planning would be undertaken in accordance with the criteria
agreed with IDA; and (b) starting on April 1, 1998, GOUP would finance the
costs of maintaining the main and link drains under the project.
4.07        Drainage Network and Land Acguisition.   The key features of the
surface drainage system to be used to service the sodic areas are discussed in
Annex 6. The network would include field drains which would be joined with
the main drainage system by link drains. Over the years the GOUP Irrigation
Department has constructed a network of main drains for the State, which would
also service the project area. However, to provide full coverage to all the
reclamation sites, 566 km of additional main drains and about 1,300 km of link
drains would be required over the entire project period.   The construction of
additional main drains, to be undertaken from the eecond year onwards, woulJ
require acquisition of about 518 ha of land. The land acquisition would take
place under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894. Payment of compensation for the
acquired land would be governed by Section (23) of GOUP order No. 7-1(3)/89-55-
R-13 dated 14/5/90. Under this order, the compensation to farmers would be
awarded at market rate for acquired land. Farmers would also be compensated
for any other loss such as standing crop. As all the land to be acquired



18
would be agricultural land, this would not result in any resettlement of
people. As far as possible, the link drains would be so plotted that they
pass through village land earmarked for irrigation channels and small drains
under the "Consolidation of Holding Scheme" of GOUP. Even if a link drain
passes through private land, past experience in UP suggests that farmers would
be willing to allow construction alongside their land. This is because
farmers realize that any loss in crop production from the small area occupied
by link drains (Annex 6) would be compensated through increased crop yields
resulting from improved drainage. The exact annual construction program and
location of the main and link drains would be determined along with the annual
reclamation program. The proposed monitoring and evaluation arrangements
(para. 4.12) would cover the socio-economic and environmental impacts of the
drainage work.
Dnamationk Yeno1oav  D a.inatitnn.  Dav3lapmnt.   ra-tag  and
2Yaoh a    kAapLftLAne    (Annez 7)
4.08        Rclamation Tachnology Diswination.  Even though the crop and
horticulture programs are distinct activities, the extension service of the
Department of Agriculture would have ultimate responsibility for providing
extension support in the project area based on principles of the T&V system.
The Department of Horticulture would provide subject matter specialists to
support fruit tree production. However, during the first two years of field
operations when land reclamation activities would be the main focus, LDC field
staff would be involved in demonstrating reclamation technology and training
farmers in wat3r management and maintenance of on-farm earth works including
drainage systems. Mitra Kisans, Mahila Mitra Kisans and NGOs would work
closely with LDC field staff and extension workers to motivate farmers and
promote group activities. Te_hnology packages to be promoted would be updated
annually based on implementation experiences and findings of the adaptive
research to be supported under the project.
4.09        Relamatign Tnehnologq  Development. The implementation of each
time-bound research topic,built on existing knowledge, would be contracted out
to a lead institution; mainly the SAUs, with UPCAR providing coordination
between implementing agencies. A technical steering/review group comprising
of senior level technical representatives from each institution involved in
the overall program, plus UPCAR, IDC and IDA, would review technical progress
on an annual basis and report on each activity reviewed.
4.10        ¶raining and Tafhnical Assistance.  Coordination of local and
international trai±n4n to be financed under the project would be undertaken by
LDC, who would prepare annual training plans based on the identified needs of
its own staff, grassroots NGOs, staff of the cooperating agencies, and
farmers. Further details on the proposed training program for field staff and
farmers are given in Annex 7. The short-term internationally recruited
tecbnical anAThtancr experts would be selected jointly by LDC and RSAC to
install and develop the GIS and to train counterpart staff at both these
agencies. Experts required to assist with drainage and shallow tubewell
efficiency studies would be selected by LDC in consultation with the
Irrigation and Minor Irrigation Departments of GOUP respectively. At



19
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the technical assistance staff
required for these studies would be engaged no later than September 30, 1994,
in accordance with IDA guidelines.                                  /
4.11                               Thure mental rmr±   The introduction of improved land and water
management practices would address environmental problem  associated with the
deteriorated environments of salt-affected lands.   The development of
diversified cropping systems to restore sodic lands to their full production
potential would re-establish active biological systems in the soils and
enhance sustainability of agriculture while increasing productivity. It would
also stabilize soil surfaces now subject to wind action and reduce levels of
airborne salt-laden particulates during the dry season. The establishment of
systems for fuelwood production on community land, if extended over a large
area, would provide the means of reducing degradation of public wooded areas
currently used for collection of these commodities. Upgrading and/or
establishment of drainage networks would improve soil conditions and arrest or
minimize continued degradation of land due to the accumulation of saltswithin
the catchment area of the drainage network surrounding the reclaimed areas.
Changes in the soil quality and land use patterns would be monitored through
remote sensing and ground surveys. Reclamation technology to be adopted under
the project is not expected to adversely affect ground or surface water
quality as the irrigation water would be impounded in the fields for leaching
and crop growth and limited salt quantity affected drainage water would be
diluted by the large volume of monsoon rainwater. These conclusions are based
on observations made in Haryana where no significant change in water quality
has been noticed after the reclamation of sodic lands over prolonged periods.
Based on data collected by the Groundwater Department over many years, it is
concluded that the increased abstraction of water through the limited numbers
of new shallow tubewells proposed under the project would have no measurable
affect on the quantity of available groundwater reserves. Nonetheless,
groundwater and surface waters will be monitored throughout implementation and
beyond project completion with respect to quality and dynamics of the systems.
This will provide a better understanding of the systems and a basis for
responding to any potentially detrimental conditions that may develop. An
environmental management and monitoring plan for the project has been
developed by GOUP and agreed with IDA, key elements are discussed in Annex 10.
4.12        Five different types of monitoring and evaluation activities have
been built into the project design (Annexes 3 and 10). These include: (a)
Pr6iact Implementatinn Pra9rea. Day-to-day monitoring of project
implementation would be undertaken by the IIM under contract to LDC. This
would encompass the achievement of established milestones and goals including
assessments of improvements in the drainage network, boring, pumpset
installation, land development, and distribution and application of amendments
and seed, green manure cultivation, crop establishment, extension service
support, and activities of cooperating departments; (b)  Agrl6nltural and
_ioetnnmin Imant ARRosmnt. IIM would also assess the impact of the
project on participants. It would evaluate agricultural productivity, income
generation, uptake of reclamation, changes in work patterns and other related
socio-economic issues within the project area. Regular assessment would be
made of women's views of the project, ways in which the project could be



20
improved to suit their needs better, and the impact of the project on their
financial status, workload and nutritional status of the family.
Agricultural productivity of land falling within the improved drainage network
funded by the project would also be assessed; (c) Landf Imrovemaent. RSAC
would be responsible for monitoring the extent of physical and chemical
improvement in land quality. This would be done through collection and
analysis of soil samples from reclaimed areas on a regular basis.
Furthermore, RSAC would assess the extent of reclamation and changes in land-
use and cropping patterns by comp^.ring aerial photographs taken mid-way and at
the end of project with those aerial photographs showing prior land use for
the entire project area. This study would also assess changes in the land
quality in areas of normal land adjacent to the project areas served by the
drainage network. A study of changes in biological diversity would also be
undertaken which would focus on identifying the degree to which plant, insect,
small mammal and bird populations are re-established after reclamation;
(d)          tanx l  * UalI*  .   RSAC would also monitor the impact of project
activities on groundwater quality and availability. This would include study
of water table depth changes, lateral and horizontal movement of salts from
reclaimed areas, quality of pumped groundwater, and drainage water quality in
selected major drains entering and leaving a reclaimed cluster. Detailed
guidelines on monitoring methodologies have been provided to RSAC and are
available in the project file; and (e) PArticip.atory Narnar -n.  An NGO or
other suitably qualified agency would be engaged by LDC to undertake an
independent assessment of the project's participatory management program on an
ongoing basis. Recommendations from this assessment would be used to improve
the implementation of this activity. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained that by September 30, 1994 LDC would appoint an NGO or other suitably
qualified agency to undertake an independent assessment of the participatory
management program and make adjustments in light of such evaluations.
4.13        Bana±t1a.  The proposed project would have both non-monetary and
monetary benefits. First, degradation of the environment would be arrested
through reclamation of sodic areas and improvements in soil quality over the
total catchment area served by the improved drainage network established
under the project. Second, new environmentally sound technologies would be
developed for the management of increasing areas with problem soils. Third,
the project would strengthen the participating institutions and develop
operational models for effective beneficiary participation while increasing
cooperation between different government departments, beneficiaries and NGOs.
The lessons from this experience would have wide applicability in a number of
different operations in the country. Fourth, approximately 80,000 small and
marginal farm families would directly benefit from the project's activities.
Restoration of sodic lands to high productivity would create rural employment
opportunities through labor intensive reclamation work and increase crop
production, which would help to alleviate poverty in the project area. For
many participating farm families, this would be a first time opportunity of
owning a small parcel of productive and potentially valuable land. Crop
intensity on currently barren (Class C) land would be increased to 200%;
Class B land would also be double cropped with paddy and wheat crops. A
third summer crop may be introduced when soil conditions are normalized.
Diversification into horticultural and forestry activities under the project



21
would produce fruits, fodder and forest products. At full maturity, the
estimated Net Present Value of incremental production resulting from the
project is expected to be approximately Rs. 1058 million. Physical outputs
are expected to be 1.8 million tons of paddy, 1.2 million tons of wheat,
1.0 million tons of aonla, 0.8 million tons of ber, and 0.07 million tons of
guava. Limited quantities of forage and building materials would be produced
through Community Forestry activities. Yield projections for all models are
presented in Annex 13.
4.14        Cost Rtcviax3 and g2ost RShrin. The public investment program
under the project focuses on land development activities (establishment of the
drainage network; amelioration of the soil's chemical properties; and drilling
of borewells) which directly affect the reclamation of salt-affected lands.
In view of the 'public good' nature of these investments, they do not readily
lend themselves to cost recovery from small and marginal farmers. For the
reclamation to be considered successful and the land productivity to
stabilize, crops must be successfully established and continual crop cover
maintained both during kharif and rabi seasons. Therefore, the support being
provided for crop production activities is targeted on the implementation of
steps essential to this process. These include an assured water supply
through a 50% contribution towards the purchase of pumpsets and provision of
inputs during the first four seasons.  This would include farmyard manure,
seeds and fertilizers. Thus, out of the total per hectare reclamation costs
on Class B land, about 44% would be taken up by land development activities,
about 11% by grant, and the remaining 45% would be contributed by farmers as
family labor and through credit. For Class C Land, contribution levels would
be 43% for land development, 12% grant, and 45% farmer contribution.
Horticultural activities support would cover tree establishment and
maintenance until the first fruiting. In the case of horticulture models,
land development activities take up about 40% of costs, grant elements about
24%, and farmer contributions about 36% of costs. For all models on privately
owned land, farmers would contribute towards the cost of pumpset purchases and
pay full operation and maintenance costs. They would also contribute their
labor to on-farm development work.   Due to the pilot nature of the forestry
model on community land, which would directly benefit women's groups, these
activities would be initially under-taken on a grant basis with groups
contributing labor. Later attempts would be made to introduce informal
savings schemes to enable groups to finance input costs. Detailed cost
breakdowns of different models are given in Annex 11.
4.15        eradit manRmgP   . Farmers would finance the purchase of pumpsets
and crop production inputs through credit. However, access to institutional
credit by poo'r and marginal farmers in UP has traditionally been limited. To
overcome this constraint it is envisaged that growers would organize
themselves into water user groups and be supported by a number of actions
under the project to promote access and to improve management of credit by
farmers. These would include: (a) use of subsidy on purchases of pumpsets as
an advance deposit which in addition to ensuring timely availability of water
for land reclamation would also lower the credit need of an individual or the
group to below Rs. 10,000, which is the threshold above which collateral is
required by commercial and cooperative banks; (b) enhanced institutional
support by banks to service the water user groups by assigning a full time
staff for this work at district level; (c) updating and computerization of



22
land records held by the Revenue Departments at the district level and
providing banks access to these records which would speed up verification of
ownership and eligibility position of individuals/groups; (d) motivational and
educational campaigns to promote formation of water users' groups;
(e) training of field officers and branch managers of banks in dealing with
groups; and (f) a joint assessment of likely credit requirements and
utilization for each reclamation block by LDC, extension staff and banks.
For the management of pump credit two different approaches would be tried.
These would be: (i) use by water user's groups of a water seller-buyer system
under which an individual taking a loan, on behalf of the group, would sell
water to other members (the practice of selling water to neighbors is common
in rural areas); and (ii) the pump rental system where the pump would be
rented by an individual, thus avoiding the need for credit to purchase
pumpsets.   The credit requirements for the pumpsets, wherever applicable,
would be channelled to farmers through commercial and coopecative banksl.
NABARD2 would associate this project with its programs aimed at poverty
alleviation and refinance credit provided by banks for group activities. A
review of the loan portfolio of banks in UP shows that minor irrigation
accounted for over 60% of loans refinanced by NABARD during 1989/90, the
remainder being largely taken up by livestock development and crop loans. As
a result, the banks have a good network of rural branches and would be in a
position to provide good coverage in the districts under the project. The
estimated credit requirement to be financed by NABARD through its own
resources, is based on the assumption that by the end of the project period
about 50% of the beneficiaries would avail of the credit facilities. The
project would also finance a study on group savings and credit management to
review the experiences of other schemes and to identify successful
institutional support models and operational mechanisms helpful in the
formation of groups; the study would also look at the development of informal
approaches to credit management.   The Terms of Reference for this study are
given in Annex 9.
4.16       LrsxBa.   Output of grains is priced using import parity prices.
Although India is practically self-sufficient in foodgrains, small quantities
of both paddy and wheat have been imported in the last few years. The project
output is expected to have a ready local market. There is a strong demand in
the state for fruits for direct consumption, as well as for pickles and
preserves, and there is potential to export to surrounding states. Farmers
are expected to sell their output directly onto the local market. All
1     Banks include: State Cooperative Banks (working through District Central
Cooperative Bank and Primary Agriculture Cooperative Society), and public and private
Commercial Banks.
2     Under the current land development and other loan schemes, farmers are eligible to
take loans for: (i) land improvement (on-farm development work and parchase of soil
amendments): (ii) purchase of diesel pumpsets; and (iii) seasonal crop loans for purchase of
inputs; and (iv) a single package composite farm loan scheme for land reclamation covering
purchase of pumpset, land improvement work and the first year;s crop loan (which is also
treated as a term loan). In addition, farmers are eligible for group loans under the poverty
alleviation program.



23
forestry products are likely to be consumed directly or marketed locally. The
standard conversion factor was used to derive the economic prices of
horticulture products. Financial and economic prices are listed in Annex 13.
4.17        EIrlg==ent. The project would generate employment for
participating households in-between and after farm activities. OFD, drainage
improvement, plan$ ing and related activities are expected to generate
approximately 35 million days of employment. Once the project is complete and
all 45,000 ha are brought into production, a further 8.5 million days of
employment will be generated. Reclamation work takes place towards the end of
the rabi season and in the early summer months prior to the kharif crop, which
is a slack time in the labor market. Labor would, therefore, be available.
During the cropping seasons most beneficiaries work on local farms for minimum
wage or less for 100 -150 days per year per person or migrate to cities to
find work. The project would therefore provide an opportunity for employment
for household members on their own land.
3St_nomI~  and WInan_4a1  k       _nLv
4.18        The main assumptions underlying the economic analysis are:
a) project implementation is over seven years; b) project life is 20 years;
c) the opportunity cost of capital (discount rate) is 12%; d) all costs and
benefits are given in constant 1993 prices; e) a standard conversion factor
(SZCF) of 0.8 was applied to non-traded items including labor; f) import parity
prices were used for paddy and wheat, the major outputs.  All yields assumed
are given in Annex 13, Tables 2 and S.
4.19        The overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the project is
estimated to be 23% (Annex 13). The good ERR is due to the high net
productivity of the individual agriculture models, especially on the class C
lands which are currently barren and would remain so without the project.
The incremental output generated on such lands (with zero opportunity costs)
makes a significant positive impact on the ERR. The Net Present Value (NPV)
of the project is Rs.1058 million.
4.20        Sanritivity Analygia.   A number of scenarios were assumed to test
the project's viability, as shown in the table below. Cost overruns and
delays in accrued incremental benefits could occur, notwithstanding built-in
safeguards. Overall, the project is robust to increase in costs and reductions
in benefits. Switching value tests show that project costs would have to
increase by 50% or benefits have to drop by 32% for the NPV to fall to zero or
for the ERR to fall to 12%. This is unlikely to happen because of the
intensive preparation and detailed work in estimating the cost of individual
items. As for benefits, relatively conservative estimates of yields have been
used in the evaluation.



24
TeatMB  NP  (Rs.M)
Base Case                                     23%   1058
Benefits decreased 10%                        20%   725
Benefits decreased 20%                        16%   392
Benefits lagged 2 years                       14%   230
Cost increased 10%                            20%   837
Cost increased 20%                            18%   617
Benefits decreased 10%:
& cost increased 10%                       17%   504
& cost increased 20%                       15%   284
4.21  The financial returns for farmers from the project are estimated in
Annex 13 through income-expenditure analysis. Based on three scenarios of
water buyer-seller arrangements, the net cash flow for farmers is seen to be
fairly high for the agriculture crops. In spite of such high returns,
individuals have not been able to carry out reclamation work due to the
substantial infrastructural investment needed as a pre-requisite, and lack of
familiarity with the technology. Furthermore, project participants are poor,
with no surplus resources available to invest and poor access to credit, due
to their general ineligibility. In the past, people have also been reluctant
to invest due to lack of familiarity with reclamation technologies; sodic land
has lain barren for generations in many areas and there is concern that it can
be made productive again.
4.22   Project RiskR. There are three main risks to the project.   The first
risk relates to the effective coordination of various reclamation activities
which need to be planned and undertaken in a timely manner. To minimize this
risk, Annual Action Plans using the CPM system would be finalized at least 3
months prior to the beginning of each year's work program.   In addition,
support from agencies with specialized expertise and clearly defined
responsibilities would ensure timely completion of agreed actions. A Project
Management Committee, specifically constituted to maximize inter-departmental
cooperation, would help to avoid delays by expediting actions by the
participating GOUP departments. The second risk relates to the ability to
form and sustain farmers groups for participation in several activities,
including group credit for pumpsets. To ensure formation of successful
groups, NGOs with proven experience in participatory management are working
with LDC to organize motivational campaigns and to run training sessions for
grassroots NGOs, LDC staff and farmers. In addition, the project design is
flexibile to adjust reclamation targets in response to farmer demand. They
would also assist in promoting benefits of the reclamation program and
assisting groups, especially with water sharing arrangements. The third risk
concerns the ability of farmers to effectively adopt the full reclamation
package. This risk would be minimized through the introduction of models that
maintain and improve farmers income early in the project's life. In addition,
an intensive demonstration program of reclamation pa&kage and farmer training
would encourage adoption of the proposed technology. Furthermore, limiting of
the reclamation program to about 45,000 ha over a seven year period would
allow enough time to train farmers and, if required, amend the project design
based on implementation experience.



25
DLmV A_ R_ner4j1n_
4.23        LDC would be responsible for the internal reporting requirements
of the State and GOI, and the brief quarterly reports for submission to IDA
recording the project's implementation progress. Additionally, an annual
progress report would be submitted to IDA within 60 days of the end of the
financial year and would draw heavily on the monitoring information provided
by IIM to LDC management. This would enable the report to provide reasons for
progress or lack of progress with each component and propose measures to
resolve any problem.   At negotiations assurances were obtained that starting
January 31, 1994, suitable quarterly and annual reports would be submitted by
LDC to IDA.
4.24        By September 30, 1997, GOI, the State and IDA would jointly carry
out a detailed mid-term review of the project. The review would
particularly focus on the evaluation of cost effectiveness of the reclamation
program, developments in technology for preventing the spread of sodic lands,
consultative planning process, beneficiary participation and it would assess
the future direction for the reclamation process. This review would also
assess the information generated by the socio-economic impact survey and
environmental monitoring. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations. A project completion report would be prepared by LDC using Bank
guidelines and then submitted to IDA within six months of the closing date of
the Credit.
V. 
5.01        At negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)  NGOs would be selected in accordance with criteria agreed
with IDA, their support would be maintained throughout the
project period (para. 3.7[C]);
(b)   GOI and GOUP would implement a system satisfactory to IDA
for channelling funds required for carrying out the project
(para. 3.19);
Cc)   arrangements agreed with IDA for Project Accounts, Statement
of Expenditures, and the Special Account and their audits
would be adhered to (para. 3.21);
(d)   the Agriculture Production Commissioner would be the
Chairman of the Board of LDC for the duration of the
project; the build-up of the field staff of LDC would be in
accordance with the criteria agreed with IDA (para. 4.1);
(e)   Goup/LDC would observe the provisions of each of the
Memorandums of Understanding between LDC-IIM and LDC-RSAC
for implementation and monitoring support under the
project (para. 4.3);
(f)   by December 31 each year, starting in 1994, LDC would
provide to IDA for review and comments a copy of the
approved Annual Action Plan for the following year
(para. 4.5);



26
(g)   i) the reclamation site identification, selection and
planning would be undertaken in accordance with the criteria
agreed with IDA; and (ii) from April 1, 1998, GOUP would
provide the contributions for the maintenance of the
drainage system which would be accounted for in the annual
budget of the Irrigation Department (para. 4.6):
(h)   technical assistance staff required for studies specified in
para. 4.10 would be engaged no later than September 30, 1994
in accordance with IDA guidelines (para. 4.10);
(i)   by September 30, 1994, LDC would appoint an NGO or other
suitably qualified agency to undertake an independent
assessment of the participatory management program and make
necessary adjustments in light of such evaluations
(para. 4.12);
(j)  beginning January 31, 1993, suitable quarterly and annual
reports would be submitted by WC to IDA (para. 4.23);
(k)   by September 30, 1997, GOI and State Government, jointly
with IDA, would undertake a mid-term revpiew of project
program and implement its recommendations (para. 4.24).
5.02        With the above assurances and understandings, the project would be
suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 39.5 million (US$54.7 million equivalent) on
standard terms with 35 years maturity.



India-
Sodic Land Reclamation Project
Inflation and Exchange Rates
Up to
Up to     Project
Negotiation   Start   1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999
Inflation (in t's) /a
All goods and services
Annual rates
Local                                     0.0       0.0    8.0   7.0   6.0   5.5   5.0   5.0   5.0
Foreign                                   0.0       0.0    3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1
Compounded rates
Local                                     0.0       0.0    4.0  11.8  19.0  25.9  32.5  39.1  46.0
Foreign                                   0.0       0.0    1.6   4.7   7.9  11.3  14.7  18.3  22.0
Exchange rates (Local/Foreign) /b
All goods and services
Rates actual used                           29.3      29.3   33.7  35.9  37.9  39.5  40.6  41.6  42.4
Constant purchasing parity rates            29.3      x9.3   30.0  31.3  32.3  33.1  33.8  34.4  35.1
* deviation                                  0.0       0.0   12.3  14.6  17.3  19.1  20.0  20.8  20.9
\a Yearly values are within Each Project Year
\b Yearly values are at Project Year Midpoints
v .,



India
Sodic Land Reclamation Project
Project Componentt by Year
Totals Including Contingencies (Rs. Killion)         Totals Including Cbntinsencies (US$ Mll2ion)
1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  Total   1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998- 1999  Total
A. Institutional Development
LAnd Development Corporation Strengthening                  56.0  68.3   7.9   8.3   8.5  12.6   9.8   171.4    1.7   1.9   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.2   4.7
Strengthening of Remote Sensing Application Center          41.8   6.1   S.5   5.8   7.2   7.4   4.8    78.6    1.2   0.2   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   2.2
Non-Goversnnt Organizations                                  0.6   0.6   0.8   0.8   C 9   0.9   0.9   ___            -     -      -     -      -     -     -   0.1
Subtotal Inatitutional Development                             98.4  75.0  14.1  15.0  16.5  21.0  15.5   255.4    2.9   2.1   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.4   7.1
B. Lend Reclamation
Iqproved Drainage facilities                                14.2  38.3  75.3  97.7 113.9 119.2  61.4   520.0    0.4   1.1   2.0   2.5   2.8   2.9   1.4  13.2
Irrigation develeopmnt and reclamtion                       29.8 116.4 272.0 380.9 452.4 505.4 272.0 2,028.8    0.9   3.3   7.3   9.8  11.4 '12A   6.6 51-6
Subtotal Lad Reclemtion                                       -f44.0 154.7 347.2 476.6 566.3 624.6 333.5 2,546.8    1.3   4.4 -9.3  12.3  14.2  15.3   8.0  64.8
C. Agricultural Develope4nt & 8xtenssion Support
Crop Developments Land Class C                               0.1   0.1   1.1   4.8  14.4  28.4  46.9    95.9         -      -     -   0.1   0.4   0.7   1.1   2.3
Crop Development: Land Class D                                 -      -   1.0   4.3  13.7  27.9  46.4    93.4         -     -     -   0.1   0.3   0.1   1.1   2.2
Horticulture  Development                                      -     -   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2        0.7      -      -     -      -     -      -     -     -
B tension Support                                            1.2   2.4   1.2   1.6   1.1   0.6   0.1        8.2      -   0.1      -      -     -      -     -   0.2
Subtotal Agricultural Development 6 Extension Support           1.4   2.5   3.4  10.8  29.4  57.1  93.6   198.1          -   0.1   0.1   0.3   0.7   1.4   2.2   4.8    o
D. Reclamation Technology Research
Adaptive Research                                            1.9   5.3   5.4   4.3   3.7   3.7       -    24.4    0.1   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1         -   0.7
Special Studies                                              1.7  12.2  25.8  27.1  28.4   7.4   7.8   110.4    0.1   0.3   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.2   0.2   2.9
Subtotal Reclamation Technology Research                        3.6  17.5  31.2  31.5  32.2  11.1   7.8   134.8    0.1   0.5   0.8 -0.8   0.8   0.3   0.2   3.6
Total PRO5E  cI 061                                            147.3 249.8 395.9 535.8 644.3 713.7 40.4 3,137.1    4.4   7.0  10.6  13.8  16.1  17.4  10.6  80.2
*~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~v; t,;F



INDI, Sodic Lands Reclamation Project Expenditure Accounts by Components (US$ Millions)
4L~~e_i tAc *= SU                                                                                                                                                      a ~"1 *t we   &I>¢f _
20.4110.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:  .
1.410.1..0,6 
t.   ftbor S%oftsoapt                                                                                                                                                        6.2o _  9
*. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ 0                                0,6.60       est      0W19.i4   kw.1g64   UetitW   36006   *0:eU    #
e.                                                                                                 1:*,3 ---. ts                                                         - 4  -.   H  -e.    *4
A. 16.4*1-24 .                                                                -          -.4       o              .            _           -                   -        .         10 *.0   0.
6.    1 les   ,                              *.;           e.; --        --          4.4        0.6           1:            :            :         .                  :.    6.    0.4
0. heed 0e,ehegae4  -         -              -          .         2.6            .            --                    -         -        -    g.s  to..   -.
0.     _        _ges
1. e_6.. 6gns                                 0.1           0.2         .                          -               s         .            1 . *¢-   -         -       -   .*      6.0e.
6. 6he Iqgmm                                     -      :     .              -           -         0.          e               -           *                   -       -    0.    6.6 
*. ew-ri -,St        -i-*  -.e.  -   :   -N -
3. _c.1                                            .              -             -           -          -      .       . -        -            -         -         -       ,-   0.6  to.o      -
I. 004*o.
a. e1.10 661 w.   .4ol ;e                       -       _                               -    _     .           14           .4            -                   -             .    0.      .
*. *W"4 0  _  _t                          -4- -4 -                                             .           -             .                        -   -     -    -IN -H
O.tL  _6                              e                  -                           -i -uH -+1 e.;                                                          -; - ; *.1 -I W ;wNg
tt. eolas
a. Oa.*  2e.. etf                               -             -             -           .          -             -           -            -         -                      0. -     0.    -
0.aoseat _au gaall                                 -            -              -             -        -            -            -           -    - 2                     -    21  'uu
' c6 tt _ e .m_ . b.e -                        -                                      -           -            -            -            -                                      jS. -=Oe..
- 6                                                          e.a' 40              -             -.                      -            -          -         -        -         e.  *0.0  0.
2. 6e..1.U.e Sesolo.. 6a4 00.6,aate~-    e.$ be   ,
=         _11g  6616                                   -     ,.;        -         --  .l :7                       :            :           :                    -         :   .   io.
C .  00000 * *                                                               OA              _____.__   .  _ _ _ _ .            .J .A -A -                                              .
doeo1oo ..4     6         e                                                                                              -- ----s-- ---.2  --.  -    0--     --M    4- _4     -'-4
2.   0a6 ta 20.101                                    -.            -             -           *          .     s       a.e.        -            .-        -.                -.         *0.0    -sL
6. O.e  _t loe, Ae.21.1.e                                                        -         t._______e2                                        -                  e.t__       -      -                        ,
me.& zmamees aete                                u7 --d  ----wi  -ti   -e-                                                      2    -              0.i                . 
A2 6.   oo sega Sot* *oa
"V". a seem                                                                                                                    ---                             -       -*. 
- I   _                                           *.a t           - 0.1                               -see                       . -         - -                  -       -.   0.2  *0.0   -.  
6q4 m.6 64.16..                                          0.4             .-.---                                                                  --                -    062.          .
gpaae 6m.aa.@e                   -~...........          ...............-
*         6mm-                                                   s^              o -   -'.s -.*                                  e. -                    _         _       _ -X. -N   *1 -
2.0.1 56*U13 cow                                       4.0          2.0            0.1       12.6        41.1          1.6          1.6                    .         .       S2.6   14.2   6.2   c.o
~~.610e.hiagaodea  ~~~~~0.9                       6.2                                   CO.1 4.       6.6         0.2            .        -        0.1     0.2   .6       -
met m~~ am                    ~.;    ~.; -M                                                M              N -H                               0.2  0.1                      4 -4   "-  -
game                                                  .202                                    .   4      .0.6        0.2 -A 0.1                                             .      .      .6 61I 
tomI   Oaep                             6~~    ~    ~~~~~                 ~~~.1  3.0      S  1.6        0.6          0.6                                            14.4   6.6   1.2
A~~~~~~~~~~~~1



30
annea 2
Page 1 of 6 pages
UTTAR PRADSH soni I       BC! LAD   ~CAAION PROJECT
EAST  EBPTIECE WITH BNCLAMATION WORK IN TITTAB PBRADSH
Institutiona Tnvlye1d with Reclamation Work
1.     Due to the multi-disciplinary nature of the reclamation work, a number
of different institutions have been associated with reclamation activities.
The agencies involved and their key responsibilities are:
(a). Soil Conservation Sention. DgWartment of Agriculture
The bulk of reclamation on sodic lands in UP in the past has been
undertaken by the Soil Conservation Section of the Department of
Agriculture. This section has been responsible for reclaiming
about 0.14 mill. ha throughout the State. It is currently involved
in implementing the Bhoomi Sena Scheme which is assisting
reclamation of sodic lands owned by marginal farmers in 12
districts.
(b).  UP Land Develotment Corporation (LDC: URP Bhum Sudhar NigAm.Ltd
In the past WC 's involvement in reclamation work was limited to
the sodic lands on government seed farms and in areas around (10
selected) sugar mills, totalling about 9,000 ha. More recently it
has become involved in coordinating the " Million Wells Scheme", a
reclamation program specifically aimed at sodic lands owned by
marginal farmers, spread over 10 districts. The scheme pools
resources of several different departments of GOUP, including the
District Rural Development Agency, Minor Irrigation Department and
Department of Agriculture. In addition, LDC is also involved in
the procurement and distribution of chemical amendments such as
gypsum and pyrite. It is now seen by GOUP as the key agency for
managing reclamation of sodic lands in the State.
(c). The Remote Sensing Application Center (RSACI
This center, established in 1981 by GOUP, undertakes remote
sensing work in many fields, such as mapping and management of
wastelands, forestry, land use, environment, groundwater mapping.
It is well equipped with remote sensing instrumentation, photo-
processing laboratory and soil analysis facilities. It has
undertaken work on delineation of salt affected soils through
digital analysis of remote sensing data for the eastern part of UP
and assisted in monitoring reclaimed alkaline soils for rice
cultivation. RSAC also has experience in airborne remote sensing
techniques, multistage sampling, photo-interpretation, cartography



31
Page 2 of 6 pages
and preparation of cadastral maps. It has been involved in
identification and selection of reclamation sites and preparation
of detailed working maps for planning purposes.
(d). Tha Mingr  rrigAtion DepartMW=
This unit of GOUP assists in the development of groundwater
irrigation facilities through the shallow tubewells boring
program of the State. During 1991 it assisted in drilling of
170,000 wells.
(e).  **S-udwata  1ngArtr,n
The main function of this department is to measure groundwater
levels (highs and lows), and its quality. This work has been in
progress over the last 20 years at a sampling intensity of one for
every 700 ha. This department is able to provide basic
information for planning and in the monitoring of groundwater
levels and quality in relation to reclamation activities.
(f)* . Irrutian DaaL meL
This department plans and coordinates implementation of all major
irrigation and drainage works in the State. It has been involved
in planning and design of drainage network for reclamation
purposes.
(g). Dparttmen of Land RXPeye    and _eOAXdj
All the land records which are relevant for establishing ownership
and title of a given piece of land are maintained and verified by
this department. The records provided by this department would be
extensively used in identification and selection of project
beneficiaries.
(h).  Aetrientiural VxtAnsion Sgrvina of the Directorate of AgriUlItura
Extension is the responsibility of the Department of Agriculture.
The strengthening of this service is being supported by the Bank
under NAEP III (IDA Credit 1754-IN) and savings from NAEP I and
II (IDA Credits 1523-IN and 1569-IN). The extension service
provides information on improved farming techniques and natural
resource conservation to all farmers. However, until now the
farmers cultivating sodic lands have only received limited
attention.



32
hnniax2
Page 3 of 6 pages
(I).  _tt  Ag;nntr  tnvt~t
The State Agricultural Universities, the G.-B. Pant Universalty of
Agriculture and Technology in Pantnagar, C.S. Azad University of
Agriculture and Technology in Kanpur, and N.D. University'df'
Agriculture and Technology, Faizabad, focus their research 'iiainly
on the development of new crop varieties, fertilizer uha and pest
control. Problems related to sodic soils haive not receiveid high
priority, so far. Limited work on reclamation technology,
especially in relation to cultivation of food crops, has been
carried out at the C.S. Azad University, Kanpur. More recent work
involving horticultural crops has been undertaken by
N.D.University of agriculture and Technology; Faizabad. In
addition to the public sector agencies, the suppliers of pyrites
and gypsum, farm input supply agencies, the credit institutions
and some NGOs have also participated in the reclamation of sodic
lands in the state.
_         -it E rex         t     _inn I
2.    This review summarizes the findings of three documents which assess the
results of usar reclamation schemes undertaken to date in UP. 1
3.   Table 1 lists all schemes undertaken since 1945. Usar reclamation was
first attempted in UP in 1914. A series of state and central schemes were
initiated later, from 1945 onwards, following research by ICAR.  By the end
of 1989, 156,928 ha had been treated through central, state and non-
governmental schemes, of which 140,000 ha was under one major centrally
sponsored schem which began in 1977-78. All of the schemes targeted small
and marginal farmers or previously landless allottees, providing a complex
array of subsidies on various inputs at differing levels. Up till now,
therefore, reclamation efforts have been piecemeal and have not been continued
very consistently over a number of years.
4.   Consistent monitoring of the past schemes has not been routinely
undertaken, thus complete assessments of individual schemes are not available.
The UPDESCO report provides some indicators of the success of a combination of
previous schemes, which are summarized in Table 2.  Land allotment, prior to
reclamation, increased farmers' land holdings and the area of usar.
Reclamation resulted in increased input use and yield improvements of more
than 50% on both B and C class lands and the area cultivated also increased
significantly.   Thus, the overall objective of the schemes was generally
achieved.
1 *Usar reclamation in Uttar Pradesh) an evaluation study, by UPDESOO, 1991: 'Making Usar
Bloom , UP Council of Agricultural Research, Report on Usar Reclamation Programs' by
Society for Promotion of Wasteland Development and Sarvodya ashram.



33
^                                                  4N~~~~~~~~~~~~~nnAza_
Page 4 of 6 pages
5.    However, there are some shortcomings with the UPDESCO survey. Only 750
farmers were questioned from a total are- reclaimed to date of over 140,000
ha. The results are an aggregate of many schemes which were undertaken over
many different years arsd were of differing design. It is not known over how
many;years the improvements in yield occurred and whether they have been
sustqined over a long period of time.
6.    A number of common problems were cited in all of the three reviews;
(a).   stittina1 And arga   zatinal iaue
Ci)   Lack of synchronization of activities of agencies involved,
resulting in delays in completion of work by Government
Departments, such as the borings by the Dept. of Irrigation.
This hindered the completion of dependent activities, such
as OFD and reclamation itself. Physical targets of
reclamation were not reached.
(ii)  Insufficient funds were allocated by the agencies involved
to maintain their involvement.
(iii) Lack of understanding by the farmers of their and the
implementing agencies' roles and responsibilities.
(b). .h nt
(i)   insufficient quantities of amendments were supplied;  often
supplies were delayed.
(ii) Amendment was diverted to other purposes; fraudulent
practices were perpetrated by local vendors
(c).   ochniAl S
Mi)   Farmers did not receive sufficient technical support.  This
resulted in insufficient application of zinc sulphate, for
instance, or green manure crops not being grown.
d) . XarmAr iftVlvaimne=t
Mi)   Some farmers were reluctant / unable to bear their share of
the costs
(ii) Some farmers were reluctant to apply for long term loans and
short term crop loans due to complicated application
procedures, long delays in approval, distrust of the system
and bribery.



34
Annez2
Page 5 of 6 pages
(iii) Farmers tended to neglect reclaimed land if they also held
better land.
(iv) Some farmers did not cultivate the reclaimed land since they
did not believe that they would get sufficient return and
dare not forgo wages.
(v) Low yields on very high pH soils discouraged farmers, who
then dropped out of the schemes.
(e).   rrigatinn RUpp
(i)   Some farmers who owned pumpsets began to sell water to non -
adjacent neighbors, at high prevailing market rates,
resulting in insufficient irrigation in the adjacent 4 ha
intended to be supplied. Many could not afford the market
price for water, economized on irrigation and hence yields
were disappointing.
(ii) Some pumpsets were stolen
7.    On the basis of these findings, the following recommendations were m-ad
in the various reviews:
*     thorough identification of the sodic area in UP should be
undertaken using photo-interpretation and satellite imagery
*     a single agency should be made responsible for every aspect of
reclamation work, with staff seconded from appropriate Government
agencies.
*     100% of the drainage network installation cost and maintenance
should be covered by Government i.e. farmers themselves should not
have to contribute.
*    executing agency staff and farmers should be trained in
reclamation technology.
*     sufficient funds to cover all activities should be earmarked
yearly and channelled through a central agency
*    monitoring and evaluation of each component of the scheme should
be undertaken
*     a State Level Board should be appointed to oversee activities
*     borings should be free
*     credit should be made available through the implementing agency to
all farmers, irrespective of their outstanding loans
*     a 50% subsidy should be available on the punpset
*     a payment of Rs 2000/ ha.should be made to farmers for OFD work
*     subsidy on amendnswnt should be 90%
*     subsidy on green manure should be 100%
*     crop production support should be provided
*     equipment necessary for crop production should be subsidized by
50M



35
Page 6 of 6 pages
*     farmers should be given assistance in developing ancillary
activities since farm work not sufficient to provide a good annual
income
*    landless laborers should not be allotted less than one hectare of
usar land
*    agricultural graduates should be allotted land and their plots be
used for demonstration
*    the T&V extension system should be used in usar reclamation areas
research into low-cost reclamation technologies and the use of
other crops should be extended
*    panchayats should be provided funding to undertake reclamation
work themselves.
*    usar reclamation farmers cooperatives should be established
through liberal credit financing
8.   The majority of the recommendations listed above have been carefully
considered during the preparation of this project and incorporated wherever
possible.



36
A  2
Table 1
~A6am~4nf ~h m u~iot~pen  n Utar Pradmahl
1945 - 50 Three usar farms started in 2 districts: 126B.ha reclaimed. -
1964 - 65 Scheme begun in 5 districts; abandoned due to lack of irrigation
from State tubewells.
1974       Scheme in one district, reclaimed 400 acres (162 ha)
1977-78   Major centrally-sponsored scheme, covering 36 districts in UP.
Undertaken in areas with existing irrigation and mild alkalinity.
By August 1989, 140,000 ha had been treated in all districts. All
districts eventually transferred to state responsibility.
1978       Bhumi Sudhar Nigam Ltd. established in 1978 by the GOUP. Developed
152 ha as demonstration farms originally. Also extended to 8567
ha. in an area surrounding sugar cane factories by 1986-7, to use
their waste in reclamation work. A lack of infrastructure and
finance restricted further devpt.
1984?      Special scheme for allottees began in 5 districts;  reclaimed 1347
ha.
1986-87   Harijan and Social Welfare Department began a scheme: covered 36
districts; 100 ha per district. Deparment did intitial reclamation
work and then transferred 1 ha each to Harijan f-.milies. The scheme
was not successful.
1986-87   Centrally-sponsored Comprehensive Scheme  for Usar Reclamation"
begun, to reclaim 58380ha belonging to small and marginal farmers.
13084 ha actually reclaimed. An escalation in costs, abolition of
Government Employment Scheme, reluctance of Banks to provide credit
and farmers' credit aversion cited as reasons for lower than
expected participation.
1988-89   Bhumi Sudhar Nigam proposed a scheme to reclaim 275,000 ha in 7
districts. Proposal sent to Planning Commission for clearance.
1989       Special (Integrated) Usar Reclamation Program launched by the Soil
Convservation division of Department of Agriculture. Target of 10
districts: aimed at small and marginal farmers. 1,067 ha of a total
target of 10,000 ha achieved by October 1989.
1990       Bhoomi Sena Program began, replacing the above program.  Carried
out by the same department. Aimed at formerly landless allottees
and landless.                                            - f'
1/ A number of voluntary organizations have also undertaken reclamation work on a smaller
scale, but no details are available.



37
Am2 7W*2
SdsbdkIdkemUam ofecalbom         m   tn Fo b     UVPDK8CO upt 11 V
Ai Land qHoMing beoh  ad after _alet of land
Toal             2_                             SodiSA a             -
Hding Sizo   Bfe  aont_          Aftea _oa    i   ott _r     After _fotm   _nr
ha                     l.                     ha            he           l
.<02S            38              12.5          008           0.14        57.1
0'2O -0.49        10.8            14.7           0.18          031          81
OS-0.74           18.1 1          29.6          0.28          08          583
0.7S - 0.99                                     OAS            061         73.8
. 1.- 1.99       2DS             29.1           OS6            0S    833
2.0 >            12.6            14.1           0.8           08          g0
B. I _dicazoan of macass in usurolam m                                    I
Befun          After        bmuem
____________________     Roclmuatlm    Redlumatimnl
cIW Ywhf (mtbta)
1
Pdy       0.96           1.77          542
Wheat      0.67          125           53.6
Paddy       0            1.71
Whlat       0            1.27
Cost ofnputs, R/ab 31
2
Cl B
Paddy      771           1021          75.5
Wlaa      1061           1291          82.2
ClasssC
PaddY       0            1139
0            1532
Area ndew crops, %
3
Gowi>crops            3S.2           90.1          39.1
Growing Paddy         303             76           399
GrowingWheat           25            60.8          41.1
GrowingslimCrp          -            544
Nom
1/ Repaot covers esbeb         1977 amd 1989
2V  P_catag beneficses oNly to toalW hd
31 n 1989prces



38
Annexa
Page 1 of 9
NDIA
Up SODIC LANDS RBCLAMTION PROJECT
ProjAot Coo  ination and 4anagrmn=
1.    The guidance and coordination of the project activities would be carried
at three levels - the State, the district and the reclamation site - through
advisory committees, strengthening of the main implementing agencies and
contractual arrangements with others with specialized expertise.
I. ORO:TN
A. Proje-t Advi- oy/Coordination Committees
2.    These would include:
a)    Tha  state Steering Committee (SSCI
SSC would be headed by the Chief Secretary, GOUP.  Its other
members would include: Agricultural Production Commissioner, Secretaries
of Finance, Agriculture, Irrigation, Forest, Environment, Rural
Development, Science and Technology, Institutional Finance: Member Board
of Revenue (Land Records); and Director General , UP Council for
Agricultural Research. The Secretary of Agriculture would be the member
secretary.
The functions of this committee would include: review and approval
of policies for the State's reclamation program; approval by November 30
of each year a detailed annual investment plan under the project for
GOUP's forthcoming fiscal year prepared by LDC and approved by its
Board; comments on the project's progress reports with a primary
objective of ensuring that the project is implemented in a timely
manner: and taking of decisions on project implementation, as necessary,
on matters brought before it by the LDC Board or the Project Management
Committee. The SSC shall meet at least once every six months.
b)    The Proiet MHanagemnt Commnittee (PMCI
PMC would be headed by the Secretary of Agriculture, GOUP. Its
other members would include: Director Agriculture, Chief Engineer,
Irrigation; Chief Engineer, Drainage; Director, Ground Water Department;
Director, Environment; Director, Horticulture; Director, Social
Forestry; Director, Remote Sensing Application Center; and General
Manager , National Agriculture and Rural Development Bank (NABARD). The
Managing Director of LDC would be the member secretary.    -
The main function of this committee would be to oversee progress
of the project implementation and assist with inter-departmental



39
annex 
Page 2 of 9
coordination and resolution of any outstanding conflicts and issues by
making recommendations of corrective actions to be taken by
participating departments. It would also review the annual investment
plan prepared by LDC for submission to SSC and LDC Board. The questions
relating to the deployment and sanction of staff would also be first
reviewed by this committee. This committee would meet at least once
every three months, when, amongst other items on the agenda, it would
also consider the quarterly project progress reports prepared by LDC. In
the initial years of the project it may be necessary for this committee
to meet more frequently.
c)    Diatrict Project coordination Committee (DPCC)
DPCC would be headed by the District Magistrate. Its other member
would be the district level officials including: Chief Development
Officer; Deputy Director (Extension); District Agricultural Officer;
District Horticultural Officer; Assistant Engineer Minor Irrigation;
Assistant Engineer Drainage; Divisional Forest Officer; Chairman R..B.;
District Manager UP Agriculture and Rural Development Bank; District
Manager NABARD; District Soil Conservation Officer; Representatives of
GOO working in the district and farmer's organization.
At the district level DPCC would perform somewhat similar
functions to those outlined above for PMC at the State level. As the
District Magistrate and his staff play a key role in all development
activities at this level, support of his office would facilitate timely
implementation of field activities. The Senior Project Manager, LDC
would the member secretary responsible for convening the meeting,
preparing the agenda and distributing the minutes of meetings to all
concerned. This committee would meet once every three months.
d)    Rnlamatinn RitA It plm ntation Comnittee (RSICI
RSIC would be headed by the Gram Pradhan, an elected village
leader. Its other members would include: Assistant Manager, LDC;
Representative of the participating local NGO; Representative of
voluntary male and female contact farmers ( Kisan Mitra and Mahila Kisan
Mitra); Village level functionaries of Rural Development (health),
Irrigation and other departments concerned (Revenue Department, Lekh
Pal, Panchayat Secretary, farmer's cooperative) with the welfare of the
area; and Kisan Sahayak, would be the member secretary.
The main function of RSIC would be provide a forum for regular
interaction between the project staff, NGOs and beneficiaries to review
implementation plans and to introduce necessary changes in relation to
the expressed needs of beneficiaries. RSIC would also encourage sharing
of experience between farmers. Assistant Manager LDC would be
responsible for convening this committee and agreeing agenda with the
Chairman. RSIC would meet on a monthly basis.



40
AnnAx 3
Page 3 of 9
B.   _W Land  :Av    nt tonrpraion ELfl
3.    LDC, a GOUP funded agency,  was established in 1978. The role of this
agency in land reclamation and distribution of chemical amendments has been
increasing over the last 2 to 3 years. Its function as the main implementing
agency for the proposed project would make it the key institution in the State
for implementing such activities. To strengthen LDC's operational and
management capacity, a number of changes have already been implemented during
the preparation phase of the proposed project. These include changes in its
organizational structure, increased staff strength and introduction of revised
operational procedures. The remaining actions required to fully prepare LDC
to implement the proposed project include increased technical staff strength
and establishment of a cell to manage beneficiary participation with the help
of NGOs. These actions are to be completed prior to negotiations.
a)    O    iganizational Structuro
Proposed organizational structure for LDC is given in Chart 1. Its key
units would include:
MAn&g*x
Board                Chairman              Overall responsibility for the
Corporate affairs
Directorate          Managing Director    Overall responsibility for the
project management and other
activities of the Corporation
Jr.Managing Director Responsibility for all the
operational units
Corporate Affairs    Secretary             Personnel administration and
legal functions
Finance & Accounts   Finance Manager       Budget and budgetary control
and annual accounts
Land Reclamation     Dy.General Manager   Management of all reclamation
activities in the field. In
each district there will be a
Land Reclamation Unit, headed
by the Senior Project Manager,
to coordinate all district
level activities. A new cell
manage beneficiary t6o
participation would be a part
of this unit.



41
Annaex 3
Page 4 of 9
Tech. Services       Dy.Gen. Manager       All technical support for
engineering, cropping system
and technology development and
dissemination.
Management Services  Manager               Coordination of planning,
monitoring and evaluation
activities being undertaken by
cooperating agencies and
preparation of the quarterly
and annual progress reports.
Management of the project
scheduling GIS systems and
other related data bases on the
project beneficiaries.
Computer systems support to
head office and district
offices.
b)    LC Board
To strengthen inter-departmental collaboration and cater for the
multidisciplinary nature of the proposed project, GOUP has
reconstituted the LDC Board. It is now chaired by the Agricultural
Production Commissioner, GOUP.   Its other Directors include: Secretaries
of Agriculture, Finance and Planning; Director of Agriculture; Chief
Engineer, Minor irrigation; Chief Engineer, Drainage; Chief Conservator
of Forest (Social Forestry); Director Ground Water; Manager Sarvodya
Ashram (NGO); Executive Director, Society for Promotion of Wasteland
Development (NGO); Vice Chancellor, State Agricultural University
Faizabad; Director General, UPCAR; and Managing Director, LDC.
The Board would sanction annual work plans, approve annual budget,
sanction staff and other requirements, ensure sound financial management
and viability of funds and review and monitor progress of the proposed
project. The Board would meet monthly.
c)    LDC Saff±ng
With the exception of a few specialized areas, the proposed
increases in the WC staff strength would largely be achieved through
redeployment from other departments of GOUP, mainly the Department of
Agriculture. The staff strength of LDC would increased in relation to
the size of the reclamation program. For the secondment of Class I
officer*#a 4election committee chaired by the Secretary of Agriculture
along with selection procedure has been established. This allows for
screening of candidates by LDC management. The persons selected are being
seconded for a minimum of 3 years.



42
Anknex3
Page 5 of 9
One new activity to be undertaken by LDC would be the formation of
farmer groups for some of the project activities.   For this task LDC
would form a special cell, under General Manager, Land Reclamation,
comprising of two social scientists and two training specialists. This
cell would work in close cooperation with NGoo, Mitra Kisans, Mahila
Mitra Kisans and other field officers working directly with farmers. The
proposed Terms of Reference for the Participatory Management cell and
additional information on the institutional support to be provided to
from and sustain farmer groups are given in Annex 8.
Each district would have a fully staffed Land Reclamation Unit.
This includes one Land Reclamation Unit (LRU) per district headed by a
Senior Project' Manager who would be responsible for coordinating all
reclamation activities in his district. He would be assisted by 4 Deputy
Managers and 20 Assistant Managers. Each unit would be able to supervise
reclamation of up to 2,000 ha per year. Fully staffed LRUs are already in
place in the three districts included in the first year's reclamation
program. The rate of build up of field staff strength in the remaining
seven districts would be reviewed in relation to the projected
reclamation program and finalized along with the Annual Action Plan.
C.    Ralag andL   ponaibilLtie.n if othAr PartiCi-pating Aaii{s
4.    The implementation of this multidisciplinary project requires participation
of other agencies with specialized expertise in some of the project activities.
In most cases the tasks to be assigned to the other GOUP agencies would be within
their overall mandate for such activities in the State eg establishment of the
drainage system by Irrigation Department, identification and planning of
reclamation sites by RSAC. However, to ensure availability of adequate funds and
timely implementation of the work program, LDC would be responsible for
coordination of various activities and the sanction and release of funds.
Attachment 2 shows the role to be played by each agency during project
implementation. The most important cooperating agencies would be:
a)   ntitutei of  AAcO=nt ilml LUnow..
IDM Lucknow was established in 1984, as the fourth of a series of
national institutes whih have the mandate to improve management
capabilities in the private and public sectors. This institute has a full
time faculty of 23, and also invites visiting lecturers for special
topics. Its present annual intake is apporximately 120 students who are
drawn from the private and public sectors. It has excellent library and
computer facilities and in in the process of developing a new extensive
campus on the outskirts of Lucknow. As a major resource for management
expertise in UP, it has been requested to provide assistance to LDC in
strengthening its administrative and project implementation Capacity and
also to undertake monitoring and evaluation services.



43
Annex A
Page 6 of 9
b) Remote sensing Appliation CentAe;r (gSAC
RSAC was set up by GOUP in 1981 to undertake remote sensing projects in
mapping of wastelands, forests, soil, land use, ground water and
environment. The Center is relatively well equipped with remote sensing
instrumentation, photo processing laboratory, soil analysis facilities,
cartography and other support services.
RSAC has been assigned the responsibility of undertaking the groundwater
monitoring program after a review of the options open to the project.
This institution has a hydrogeological group as part of its staff and
access to very knowledgeable consultants. It also has excellent
laboratory facilities for groundwater monitoring, which will also be used
for soil analyses, thus optimizing the investment needed for the
laboratory upgrading and equipment purchases. RSAC technical staff and
vehicles will be used to undertake both the soil and groundwater
monitoring programs thus providing significant potential savings for the
project. The computer facilities in RSAC will be upgraded with the
addition of hardware and GIS and database management software and staff
will be trained in the use of these. Details of the environmental
monitoring plan are given in Annex 10.
c)  Irrigation Department
This is a very large department with wide ranging responsibilities for
the development of large irrigation and drainage systems in the State.
It has a big complement of qualified Engineers and good facilities design
and planning of irrigation and drainage facilities. Under the project
this department would be contracted to implement the drainage component,
excluding the field and farm drains. The design and implementation of
the main and link drains would be undertaken by its staff in the
districts based on the information supplied by LDC. In each district
this department has 1 Executive Engineer in charge of the drainage
activities. He is supported by 3 Assistant and 12 Junior Engineers. The
actual construction work would be given out through tenders to private
contractors. The coordination between drainage related on-farm
activities ( to be organized by LDC) and main drainage system (to be
organized by the Irrigation Department) would be the responsibility of
the Senior Manager (Drainage), LDC.
d)    gnRitutignal support for Farmer Uroup Formation and NMO
PartiCipation.
This is discussed in Annex 9.
II PROJECT MANAGEMENT
A.    Project AchadUling and Planning. IIM is assisting LDC with a Computerized
Project Management system (CPM) and a proposal for a management information
system (MIS). The first of these consists of a detailed work breakdown



44
Annex 3
Page 7 of 9
structure in which the activities are grouped according to the various
participating agencies that would be responsible for implementing them. Each of
these agencies was involved in the identification of the tasks to be
undertaking and their timing. Tasks have been scheduled over the life of the
project using an indigenous project scheduling program (PRISM) and critical
path networks identified. Although this will require further development of
the work done to date in the preparation of the IIM proposal, it provides a
very good basis for the establishment of an operational system. It is proposed
that as part of the future development of the CPM system a common software be
adopted by LDC, IIM and the Bank which would facilitate a common approach to
the control and monitoring of the project. To this end, the CPM will be
transferred to "Microsoft Plan," which will become the standard tool for
project control. A Project Managwment Plan prepared using Microsoft Plan is
shown as Table 2 in Annex 14.  A common data base wil also be adopted by all
theree agencies for the accumulation of project progress data. It is planned
that by the end of the first year of the project the CPM, the data base and a
GIS system in LDC should all be linked to permit management to generate graphic
documentation on project progress
The MIS system proposed by IIM envisages a network for the computerized
collection of information and preparation of reports in the districts and the
transmission of these to LDC headquarters in Lucknow. It also includes a
computerized central accounting system.
IIM will prepare and implement a training plan to. familiarize the LDC staff
with the use of the CPM and MIS systems, and with the details of the reporting
system that will be an integral part of normal project control. This will be
done prior to negotiation. The same training program will also be used to
familiarize the staff with the monitoring approach to be used in this project.
With LDC a Management Services group will be established which will have the
responsibilities of coordinating and monitoring activities and will also manage
the MIS system and the inhouse GIS system and provide support to computer users
in the head office and in the districts. All reports will be coordinated
through this group.
B.    Annual Action Plans. Action plans will be developed from the CPM, which
will be adjusted as required to reflect changes that have to be made to the !;'
initial plans as a result of actual field experience in project implementationl.V
These will provide details of all tasks to be undertaken during the year         )I:
including timing, manpower and financial resources and established milestones. :
The first such action plan with a reduced scope because the lmited area to be
reclaimed in 1993, has already been prepared by IIM.
C.   Pgrject Implementation Monitoring and Evaluation. The UP Sodic Lands
Reclamation Project is an ambitious, although essential initiative. To
successfully coordinate this project, in addition to the planned institutional
strengthening, LDC will also require assistance in establishing a system
through which project implementation experiences can be used to improve
institutional performance and delivery of reclamation services to the farmers.



45
AnnBx 3
Page 8 of 9
With these considerations in mind a rigorous and independent monitoring
of the project implementation would be undertaken. The results of the
monitoring activities will feed back to project management and to the Bank on a
regular basis (independent of the scheduled reporting periods), so as to permit
adjustments to be made to the annual work plans in response to identified
managerial or physical constraints and bottlenecks and also to technical and
environmental problems or innovations.
The CPM provides an excellent basis for establishing a consistert and
methodical approach to implementation monitoring. It permits milestones and
targets to be established for each of the project tasks in terms of work
completed, disbursements, or expended time. Real progress can be tracked
against projected progress and delays and bottlenecks identified promptly. In
planning their activities the monitoring team will identify each element of the
schedule that is supposed to have been completed or is in the process of
implementation during the monitoring period. For each of these elements
performance indicators will be identified which, as far as possible, will be
used in subsequent monitoring events. Considerations that will be taken into
account in establishing the progress indicators will be :
o     whether the indicators are qualitative or quantitative;
o     whether they relate back to the baseline socio-economic survey or
subsequent surveys:
o     whether they have relevance with respect to gender sensitivity;
o     whether they will be dependant on the perceptual assessment of
project beneficiaries or implementors; and finally
o     whether the activities represented are internal to the project (are
part of the administrative process) or whether they are external
(representing activities that are directly related to the delivery
of the project to the beneficiaries).
In executing the monitoring the team will review the quarterly and annual
reports, to understand the project status that has been represented to project
management. Any other relevant correspondence affecting the operation of the
project will also be reviewed. However, the prime task of the team will be to
visit the field and the field offices and interview and field officers to
develop an objective view of the progress that is being made and whether of not
proposed project goals are being achieved. As it is assumed that the
monitoring of farm level impacts would be carried out as a separate activity
the monitoring team will not be responsible for interviewing farmers. They
will however work closely with the socio-economic impact monitoring groups to
develop a clear understanding of the community's perceptions of project
implementation and failures.



46
Page 9 of 9
A monitoring report on projeot implementation will be issued every six months
and no more than three weeks after the completion of the field monitoring
activities. This will be discussed in detail with senior LOC staff. It will
also be discussed with visiting Bank supervision teams.
D.    9ncio-EnoaomineImact ARReamant. In addition to the tasks identified
above, IIM will undertake a program of socio-economic impact assessment. This
will consists of four major activities: (1) the collection of baseline data for
each area of the project immediately prior to implementation of reclamation
activities; (b) field surveys of beneficiaries for three years after
reclamation to monitor whether there are measurable improvemnts in their
wellbeing; (c) the survey of selected representative sites five years after
reclamation to evaluate the sustainability of the project initiatives; and (d)
the survey of farmers who are outside the the immediate project area, but who
may never-the-less be beneficiaries, because of their proximitiy to link
drains. In executing all these surveys IIM will work very closely with RSAC in
the design of the surveys. Particular atention will be given to ensuring that
the same sites are used for annual monitoring as are used for the soil and
crop production surveys. Draft questionnaires have been prepared, and will be
tested and finalized prior to project effectiveness.



WDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RECLAMATION PROJECT
Or0an    and ManheW  Matk
AcnyI                  . PiO T110AGENCY             COORDINA1NM  AGENCY 
OVMHC0MdlWAlW0fPQJ0d                     LD~~~CBaard                     Main ub an" aw dIsu  souig
Ocdo_ofp                                           ._                                         i      dcomims wakbeFaftLDClI
@~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oX  State
0)  IH.mmo              L~DC                           SeetaigCmleS   P*JOje                    ngmales. me rit-
_X_b_dbwad e an
(H    Dhf               LDC                            -_ C oomfe                      iapw _voforme          B
tec D   acvdun
(Hi) RaCANsiO Ses       LDC                            D    t A ol_                        vadch
SeXcXand_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~SI  ednda  auie
"kadw   RSACA=               ~~~LDC                          Procs  shlllymApbwsuuq2tmaoL.
3*Fwm DOeaMmI_(OFD)   LDC                              LDC
and Dsabmp Sytmm
Dovd_mm                   8m                            LDC
- Suvmy,DeiodPlann
- CFDWisuinfarhm    kdl      onDepL                    LDC
audfidddWwidlpd
rimnuds                                                 WC
-    DraM
- U nk D m e              _  ___                ____                       ___                ___
4          o DeDV_             Priva Con    wsmuing dlough LDC WC                            DePL of Mio hpia woold Fiade
tuchnic oal sqi   - in sniacton and sitin of
- Barnof ful     wbs   WC                              LDC                             binwes
- Wate-UGonFcmic                                                                            i 
NOO_C_a qs X .u atoboo Invlme aNfO.
1aw_o o kvhdve aNQO,O.



48
Annex 3
| e  i  X  |i#   3  a   . ~~~~~~Attachmnt I
It It                    1111iDl!t 
ii i i   iii    iiia§M  
10    j  !liii'    1 ij  II  H   
ii.     _      i



49
Annex 4
UTTAR pEADIH SOD IC  LNDS ECMTION PROJI-CT
AGR-ECO- OTICM. CONDITIONS IN THE PROJECT AREA
1.    LActi2a.  Based on rainfall patterns, temperature, soil slope and
existing cropping patterns, the state of UP has been divided in 10 agro-
climatic zones. The project area lies in ten districts spread over three
agro-ecological zones in the southwestern, central and eastern parts of the
State. These are:
Central Plain Zone:                  Hardoi, Etawah, Rae Bareli,
Allahabad, Fatehpur
South-Western Semi- Arid Zone:      Aligarh, Etah, Mainpuri
Eastern Plain Zone:                  Sultanpur, Pratapgarh
2.    Physiog6ra2h  Relief and Drainage.  The area is nearly flat with a few
exceptions of undulation when it tapers into rivers/rivulets. The general
gradient of terrain is nearly level but occasionally, dotted with monsoon
channels.  The surface and groundwater gradient in the selected tracts varies
from 0.3 m/km to 0.02 m/km.   The area is drained by various natural
channel/rivulets which further join various tributaries of river Ganga and
Yamuna. The natural link and main drains as well as limited numbers of
artificial drains are occasionally clogged and water discharge is not as per
requirement.
3.    Cl±m&ta.  The project area has sub-tropical monsoon climate
characterized by wet, hot summers and relatively dry winters (Table 3). The
south-western monsoon, which contributes nearly 80% of annual rainfall,
normally starts in mid-June and generally withdraws by the end of September.
The total rainfall increases from west to east but shows considerable annual
variation in amounts and distribution of precipitation and lines of onset and
termination are also uncertain. Uncerte:.nty regarding amount and distribution
of rainfall makes irrigation an essential requirement for successful crop
production. The winter season (December to February) has mean minimum daily
temperatures in the range of 6-10° C. This is followed by very hot and dry
weather in May and June with daily maximum exceeding 400 c.
4.    apricture and Land oTe.  The land use pattern shows the area is
predominantly croppbd with rice in kharif, followed by wheat in the rabi
season. Minor crops include oil seed, barley, maize (in some districts) and
berseem.
5.    Table 4 gives the current average yields of important crops and use of
plant nutrients in kg/ha. The yield in different districts of the project
area are lower than the district average for these crops outside the project
area. Similarly, the use of plant nutrients in these districts is also quite
low.



INDIA
UP SODIC LANDS RECLAMATION PROJECT
Agroclimatic Parameters
ZOE201                         ZONE 2                           O- ZNE 3
MO_T_       RAINFALL   TEMERATUBE (C)    RAINFALL    TEH PRATRE (C)           RAINFALL   TEMPERATURE (C)
(QTY. IN          -             (QTY. IN--r---                    (Qff . IN
__ _                   _.M.)  MAX.    MIN.        M.N.)      MAX.       HIN.         .M.)      H       AS
JANMURY        14.6       22.2       7.6       16.7       23.3         8.2       14.8       23.5      7.8
PEERUARY       13.2       25.5      10.2       13.3       26.5        11.2       14.3       26.6     11.2
MARCH          9.9       31.7      15.1        6.9       32.8        12.8        4.9       32.9      8.0
APRL           7.5       37.7      21.1        8.0        38.4       21.9        7.4       38.1     21.9
_    _MAY         9.6       41.8      26.6         9.2       40.7       26.3       15.5       39.0      25.2
_         65.1   _  40.5               28.8       86.2       38.9       27.9       76.4        38.6     27.1
JULY         188.6       34.9      26.8      253.4       34.2        26.2      319.7       34.2     25.7
AU _____S       218.S5 _  33.0         29.1      261.0       32.4       25.9      303.7        32.4     25.9
ISEPTEMBER     131.3       33.5      24.6      194.3       32.7        21.6      213.4       32.5     24.9
OCTOBRR        19.9       33.7      15.9       35.9       31.2        17.7       38.7       32.3     21.0
NOVEMBR.        2.1       29.4      11.9        5.4       28.8         9.7        3.7       28.2    18.5
|DECwMBR        7.3       24.1       8.2        5.6       23.4         5.0        8.4       11.9      9.5
AVERAGE       51.3       32.3      18.8       74.6        31.9       17.9       85.1       30.9    18.9
2one lt     South Western Semi-arid Zone - Aligarh, Etah, Mainpuri                                                   4
Zone 2i    Central Plain Zone - Hardoi, Etawah, Rae Bareli, Allahbad, Fatehpur
Zone s      BEastern Plain Zone - Sultanpur, Pratapgarh
Sogxca: GOUP Project Preparation Report.



INOIA
UP SODIC LRNIS IIECLRMITION PROJECT
Rulerage Yield (tIhal sof SelectedECMnm and Ure al PlIanl Nutrient lkg/hal In thg Pro fect Igllitrits
Rgro-Ecologlcal Zone      District                      Wield In t/ha    Use of Plant Nutrients k/lia
Nice    Wheat    Pidses       N    P      K       Z n
NW Semogrld               lOARII           1.8     2.0       1.9       46     15      3
.TAl              1.1     13        9.4       40    10       -      -
M-INPUBI         0.9      1.0       0.6       33    12       1      6.5
Central Plains            gunneI            1.2     1.1       9.68      53    12       -     9L5
Baum"             1.1     I2        0.7       40    19       1
aRIIAESALI        1.2     1.1       9.6       46    I       2       -
RLEIRSAD          12      1.9       9.3       50    19       2      1.0
FAJENPlUI         1.1     1.1       6.4        9      99     I      1.6
Eastern Plain             SU-LTlRNPUJ       1.9     9.6       6. 4-  4          9      -       -
PJPSMARNH         12'    1.1        L5        59    12       3     L.5
N a Nirogen
r . Phosphate
KC- Posate
Zn  Zinc
:AQ f: GOUw Project Preparation Report.



52
Annl BS
Page 1 of 3 pages
TITTAR PRADSH SODICLAS RE MTION PRsoJE
TIDENTIFC  TIon  SELECTION AND PLANNING OF RECLAMAION SITES
1.    It is generally accepted that there are around 1.25 million hectares of
sodic lands in Uttar Pradesh (UP). However, if one takes into account that
many areas of sodic soils are already being cultivated, although only with
very low crop yield, the total area of sodic soils may be double that
indicated in the above estimate. In addition, in spite of reclamation
programs, additional sodic areas are developing due to secondary sodification.
A. Main Categories of Sgdic Lands
1. The District Revenue records indicate the following land use
categories:
-     barren land
-     culturable waster
-     pastures
-     fallow
-     agricultural land
2.    For the proposed project, the following 3 categories are used which are
easy to identify through detailed photo interpreting of remote sensing data:
Class A:    Sodic soils with double crop (with low Productivity)
p-H in region of 8.5;
Class B:    Sodic soils with single crop. pH region of 9.0;
Class C:    Uncultivated usar land (pH 9.5 and above);
B. The Distribution of Sodic Lands Within UR
3.    Sodic lands are predominantly located in the southern half of the state
in riverain reaches between the Yamuna, Ganga and Graghara rivers. The areas
involved very largely overlap with the command areas of the State's major
irrigation schemes as well as with extensive riverain lands of the Ganges
plain underlain by aquifers of good groundwater quality. Figure 1 shows the
spatial distribution within the State.
4.    Based on the interpretation of Lancdsat TM imagery and selective field
checks, mapping of salt-affected wastelands in twenty districts of UP, which
were reported as chronically affected by building up salts, has been carried
out by the Remote Sensing Application Center (RSAC), UP. Three more districts
have been mapped by Indian Institute for Remote Sensing (IIRS), Dehradun, and
Survey of India. These maps show that most sodic patches are relatively small
with scattered distribution. Based on these maps only a few extensive sodic
areas (over 500 ha) can be identified.



53
Page 2 of 3 pages
C;  Distri6ts Selected fon  ReclamatThn by the Project
5.    Districts were selected for which wasteland maps on 1:50,000 are
available. Districts where reclamation projects are going on or are proposed
by other agencies were not considered. The following ten districts with
large areas of sodic lands were selected for future reclamation: Aligarh,
Allahabad, Etah, Etawah, Fatehpur, Hardoi, Mainpuri, Pratapgarh, Rae Barelli
and Sultanpur (Map IBRD--).
p- Raclanation Areas in the District
6.    The following criteria were used for selecting reclamation areas within
each district:
-     The area should have a density of salt affected land of more than
50% and total sodic land in the area should be over 10,000 ha.
Minimum size of individual patches should be more than 5 ha.
-     Preferably a main drain should be present nearby.
-     Quality of groundwater should be acceptable for irrigation
purposes. EC less than 2 ds/m and RSC less than 1.5 me/l.
-     As far as possible 8000 ha per district should be selected.  Only
6000 ha will be reclaimed and the extra 2000 ha would provide the
cushion for rejections after field inspection on willingness of
farmers or physical constraints to reclamation.
7.    According to these criteria, 19 reclamation areas were selected which
along with the number of villages involved are shown in Table 1. The area of
sodic land is based on calculations from the wasteland map on a scale of
1:50,000 prepared by RSAC. On these maps the boundary of the villages area,
villages, sodic lands and existing drains were also superimposed. Copies of
these maps are available in project files.
E. Detailed Mapping of Sodic Land
8.    The sodic lands within the reclamation areas would be delineated on the
basis of the aerial photographs on a scale of 1:10,000 or 1:15,000. A
distinction will be made according land use: A - double crop, B - mono crop
and C - uncultivated. These delineated areas will be t-ansferred to the
existing cadastral (Khaara") maps on a scale of 1:4,000.   In figure 2 a part
of such a map on reduced scale to A4 size is presented showing the "Khasra"
boundaries and the aerial photo interpretation of sodic land. Fieldwork would
be carried out to improve the interpretation if necessary.
9.     For the areas in Sultanpur, Rae Bareli and Pratapgarh, old photographs
taken in 1978 and 1984 are available. The delineation is completed for
Pratapgarl I and Sultanpur I, Rae Barelli on the basis of these photographs.
In these areas around 15% of the delineated areas had to be changed from land
use class after field inspection. For the other 7 districts, new aerial
photographs would be taken and photo interpretation work undertaken during



54
Annax s
Page 3 of 3 pages
implementation.
10.   During the field surveys soil samples would also be taken for the
measurement of the pH and Sc values, which indicate the severity of sodicity
and assist in determining the reclamation treatments and cropping systems.
From the preliminary soil analysis results, it is concluded that class A and B
soils only differ slightly in pH and Ec values, but C class land is clearly
distinct with higher pH and Ec values.
F. The Amount of Sodic Land In The Selgeted Areas
11.   In Table 2, the area of sodic lands in the reclamation areas is given
based on the revenue records as well as the wasteland maps (same as listed in
Table 1). The total sodic land in all the selected areas is about 60,000 ha.
A typical example of reclamation site for district Raebareli taken from an
aerial photograph at scale of 1:143,000 is given in Fig. 1. About 10% of the
total is class 'A' land, while 8 and C is around 35% and 55%. If class A is
not considered for reclamation, 10% of the total of 60,000 ha areas available
for reclamation would be reduced by 10%. On the basis of the aerial
photographs and fieldwork, more precise area measurements would be undertaken
as part of the planning process and the final targets adjusted in relation to
the: a) sodic lands available for reclamation; and b) the capacity of
implementing agencies and growers to undertake reclamation activities.
. Ground Survey and Village Level Planning
12.   In the field 'Khasra' boundaries are added if it is known from the
records that the areas have more than one owner. The location of
topographical features are added such as: stone boundaries, small and large
drainages, wells, tubewells, big trees, buildings, huts and graveyards. Also
the status of the community land is checked based on the information available
from the cadastral records. A typical example of a cadastral map is given in
Fig. 2.
13.   Detailed ground survey would be undertaken by LDC staff for planning of
on-farm development activities, including development of the irrigation and
drainage systems. They would use cadastral maps, showing the 'Khasra'
boundaries and 'Khasra' numbers. LDC teams at this stage would also collect
socio-economic information on the project beneficiaries and store the
information in a computerized baseline data system. At the same time,
farmers' willingness to participate in the scheme would also be assessed.



55
Aa"1
Table I
,INOlIR
lRA AR1DESH SODICI LRNDS RECILRMtAT1ON PROJECI
IDENTIEW8ATION. SELFCTION ANID PLANNING OF RECLAMRTION SIT=
Table 1:
Th size of the reclamation  and the amount of sadle land and number of village
S.No. Reclamation Area    No. of    Total Vilge   Area of Sodic    Subto
_____     ama MO W__a _ _ _(ha)  per dis
1.   Algarh      I           48       18550           3755
2.   Aflgarh    11           40       13365           2090    584S
3.   Alahabad               138       33386           7553     7553
4.   Etah        I           60       15263           1126
5.   Etah       iI           50       20395           4969     6095
6.   Etawah      I           51       13265           2098
7.   Eaw_ah     1           57       19221           3905    6003
8    Fatehpur   - I          11        5376            640
9.   Fatehpur    II          22        6889            995
10.  Fatehpur    III          16       44749           13S6
1I.  Fatehpur    IV           15        3498            856    3847
12.  Hardol                   75       24616           5216    5216.
1&   MaIpur      I            31       10770           2537
14.  Manpud    11              8        6014           1555    4092
15.  Prtaarh   I              28        6788           3192
16.  Prtaarh   I              75       14751           4871     8063
17.  RaeBaei                  96       26876           6190    6190
18   Sutanr    I              65        9264           2643
19.  Sutpu    11              68       17473           3894    6537
TOTAL                  954      270209          59441



i^;    1    i  li1 5    1  §£ 11§i'§ 1     t  56
5~ =          e -  -    _ -   -     -  -  _  - -     5 i§3!aaf      
i  £      }-i i    - § iNIt. 3i  s i' 3 i _§!        _ 
a ~~ ag -}$s   -°           -z    -    -1 -t  - - - - --8  I 
|       _j~ _i _~ _ii _        _                  
tt~  13!g t              HUEs 13W !I III 



INDIA
LLP SO'DIC LANDS RECLAMATION  ROJECT
RECLAMATION SIEt .DISTT RAEBAREU.
,. .4AwhoftG,p/7  ;al. 1.143,000
-i~~AM.
-  ,          ,            .         ,.                        ,    .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
_ _ _ _   _ _ _   _  _     ...



58                                rnc5
rigure 2
''.2tPrto caatra Xa with.
aaia phot intrat.ai
* c m -\,/\, * */<;j-
,^c 4w
PZt. 2ePa   of adaStml MPvitf  h_ :F
aerial pb*      itepo tion  ..  ; 
of  .ed   lands. X 
swo. C £>
unculruatiw.ted                               \     



59
Anixa6
Page 1 of 8 pages
t?CAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RELA=AT1QN PROJECT
UCLAMA¶!6tN T&RN6LOQaY
Th~tTeriealNat=r  If sodi{n Lands
1.    The salts that affect India's land originate either as dissolved
components of the surface or groundwater systems and are constituents of the
soil minerals that are released under saturated conditions. These accumulate
naturally wherever there is a combination of high ground moisture and annual
evaporative losses that greatly exceed rainfall. This accumulation is also
induced wherever irrigation is practiced under such climatic conditions with
inadequate drainage. In these situations the soil acts as a wick, drawing
salts up the water column and concentrating them at the surface.
2.     In literature, salt-affected soils are subdivided in 3 groups according
to the electrical conductivity of the saturation extract (EC.) and the
exchangeable sodium pet ^entage (ESP):
-     Saline soils, ECe>4d S/m and ESP<15
-     Saline, sodic soils, ECe>4d S/m and ESP>15
-     Nson-saline, sodic soils, EC,>4d S/m and ESP>15
3.    Saline soils in Uttar Pradesh (UP) are found in areas with high, saline
watertables, which is typical for seepage areas that receive groundwater flow
from neighboring areas. Raline nnil-gs are dominated by natural salts, such as
sodium chloride, and can usually be reclaimed by the installation of drainage
and the use of sufficient irrigation water to dissolve the accunulated salts
and maintain a net positive hydraulic head for leaching purposes. Since these
soils only occupy about 15% of the salt-affected area, they have been excluded
under this project.
4.    Degraded alkali or solodi soils, which according to their EC. and ESP
are non-saline and non-sodic, have a low pH of about 5 and a high exchangeable
magnesium percentage, causing a poor soil structure. Since these soils also
occupy a small area and are located in. depressions with a high watertable,
which necessitates subsurface drainage for reclamation, they are also excluded
under this project.
5.    Sodic soils are dominated by the electro-chemical bonding of sodium and
clays. BC. exceeds 4d S/m but does not attain the high values of the saline
soils; the ESP is very high, attaining even values between 70 and 90, and the
pH ranges between 9 and 10.5. The high exchangeable sodium content which
causes a breakdown of soil aggregates retarding water infiltration and causing
soil surface crusting. The high pH results in reduced availability of som
plant nutrients (nitrogen and zinc) and toxic excess of others (boron,
molybaenum, selenuim). These soils make up the major part of the salt-



60
Annmx 6
Page 2 of 8 pages
affected lands in UP and are located in areas of slightly lower elevation
compared to neighboring areas of good soil.
6.    For the purposes of the proposed project the sodic lands have been
divided into the following three categories:
Class A:    Land under low productive double cropping with PH in the
region of 8.5
Class B:    Land under single crop w4th PH in the region of 9.0
Class C:    Barren land with PH of 9.5 and above.
Reclanation Process
7.    Reclamation measures presently applied consist of the following steps:
a) jrriteatin Svstam
Water is an essential component of sodic land reclamation process. It
is needed for (i) leaching of salts from the root zone and (ii) crop
production. The main source of water under the project would be a shallow
cavity/strainer tubewell fitted with 8-8.5 H.P. diesel pumpset. It will have a
command area of about 4 ha for a crop rotation based on rice and wheat
cultivation. It is estimated that there are 2,307 existing tubewells in the
project area. The total requirement of tubewells for the project would be
about 15,000. Thus, about 12,700 new tubewells will be bored under project
financing. The boring 'work would be undertaken by private contractors with
LDC managing the contracts and the Minor Irrigation Department providing
technical supervision.
b) nu-Farm nvellpment lOFDL
The fields would be burided and levelled in order to: prevent run off
from fields; allow uniform distribution of applied chemicals; and retain the
maximum of irrigation water and rainfall for leaching and moisture storage in
the soil profile.  Maximum amount of OD work would be required on class 'C'
sodic lands which are currently uncultivated.  Farmer's contribution towards
this work would be hit labor. In addition, under the supervision of LDC
staff, farmers would also construct or rehabilitate irrigation channel and
field drains. The preparation of design details for this work would be
developed by the LDC technical staff.
c) Drainagg Syafem DevAlopmnt
In the reclamation of and subsequent management of sodic soils,
effective drainage of land plays an important role. Since the removal of salt
from the soil profile (root zone) would largely be resulting from vertical
drainage through the soil profile, improvement of surface drainage has two
objectives. Firstly, it is aimed at improving the environment for crop
growth. Secondly, it prevents built up salts by removing excess water. The



61
Annex A
Page 3 of 8 pages
low infiltration rates, a characteristic of sodic soils, can only be improved
over time through improvements in 80i1's chemical nature (replacement of Na
with Ca and reduction in pH) and structure (incorporation of organic matter).
For the removal of excess rain and irrigation water a surface drainage
system is considered the most cost effective way of achieving this objective.
The design of the surface drainage system is based on the standard criteria
used for crop drainage elsewhere in the Indian gangetic plains. The field
drainage system would be installed in the areas selected for reclamation
(about 45,000 ha) covering approximately 17% of the total catchment area
(265,000 ha) covered by the network of the main and link drains. The field
irrigation and drainage channels would serve the command area of a tubewell (4
ha). The link drainage system would connect the field drainage system with
the main drains, which will empty the excess water into natural nala or
rivers.
Remote Sensing Application Center (RSAC) would prepare the base and grid
maps (scale 1:4,000 and 1:2,000 respectively) showing roads, cadrastal
boundaries, land title, the type of sodic land category and existing
irrigation and drainage layout. These maps would be used by LOC to show the
proposed design of the field irrigation and drainage system, bunds and
tubewell locations, includirg a bill of quantities. On this map the proposed
alignments of the link drains are also indicated. The Irrigation Department,
using their standard maps (scale 1:4,000), would design the total network of
link and main drains.
In order to provide adequate surface drainage, the design factor is
based on 3 days maximum rainfall of 15 years freqpency corresponding to 7 days
submergence with a run-off factor of 30% for 'A' districts i.e. Sultanpur,
Pratapgarh, Allahabad, Raebareli, Hardoi a Fatehpur and IS% for 'B' districts
i.e. Aligarh, mainpuri, Etah and Etawah. The main difference between the two
groups is the total annual rainfall received. On the basis of this criterion
the design discharge factor for 'A' districts (except Hardoi) and 'B'
districts has been taken as 10 cusecs/Sq. Mile These drains will also be
capable of taking up irrigation drainage water of sodic areas under
development.
It is estimated that under the project about 233 Km. of main drains
require remodelling, 1,298 Km. of main drains are to be corrected by improving
their cross-section, and 566 Km. of new main drains will be constructed. The
length of new link drains to be constructed would be around 1,300 Km. The
dimensions of the proposed main drains would vary from (12.2+20)/2 x 2.6m to
(12.2+17.6)/2 x 1.8m. The dimensions of the link drains would be about
(2.10m+0.60m)/2 x .50m and the section of the tanks would be (1.2m+0.3m)/2 x
.45m. Further information on the design and construction of the drainage
system is given in the documents contained in the project files.
Field drains would be owned and maintained by farmers. To ensure that
this work is carried out properly, the project staff and extension workers as
well as farmers would be trained in basic principles involved in the
construction and maintenance of the field irrigation and drainage system.



62
AnnsLx
Page 4 of 8 pages
Link and main drains would be maintained by the Irrigation Department through
private contractors under project financing until the sixth year of
implementation. Thereafter, the financing would be provided by GOUP.
Maintenance work would follow the norms established by the Ministry of
Agriculture ('Norms for Maintenance of Different Types of Flood Protection and
Drainage Works,' New Delhi, 1982).    Maintenance work would start one year
after construction.
In addition, in order to encourage greater participation and transfer of
responsibility to local communities, a pilot program would be started in a
small area where the ownership and maintenance responsibility for link drains
would be transferred to village Panchayat (elected authorities at village
level)*. If successful, the scope of this pilot arrangement would be extended
to cover a larger area. The cost effectiveness of mechanical construction and
maintenance of main and link drains using locally available tractor/
excavators would also be evaluated in a small area on an experimental basis.
As this has not been tried in India before, during implementation technical
assistance would be provided to prepare and monitor this experiment.
*Initially, this program would be financed under the project, with a
provision for cost recovery from beneficiaries in later years.
d) Annlication of Chemical Amendments
Chemical amendments are needed to replace sodium by calcium in the
soil's absorption complex. The usual amendments are gypsum and pyrite. The
theoretical requirement is calculated for a layer of 15 cm of soil and depends
upon the total quantity of Na to be replaced on the clay complex. This
depends on the cation exchange capacity (CEC) of the soil and the initial ESP
and the tolerance of the crop to be grown during reclamation.
Chemical amendments used in reclamation can be grouped under two
categories. Firstly, those supplying soluble calcium salts like gypsum.
Secondly the acids and acid format like sulfuric acid, s---- and pyrites.
Gypsum has been used for a large --- and is the most commonly recommended
inorganic amendment.  When applied to soil it produces Ca** and SU4         Ca*
soil solution replaces Na+ from the exchange complex. Pyrites undergo fairly
rapid oxidation under conditions of favorable moisture (60% of water holding
capacity) and temperature (30-400C). This produces sulfuric acid which reacts
with CaCO3 to produce soluble calcium to replace adsorbed sodium from the
exchange complex. Le_ acting should start after 8-10 days of application to
allow complete oxidation. A comparison of gypsum with pyrites in reclaiming
sodic soil has shown good possibility of utilizing low grade pyrites in
reclaiming soils.
Assuming a quantitative replacement of Na by soluble Ca, each mole of
Na/bOOg of soil requires 0.5 mole of Ca. The soils in the project area in
general are of medium texture, since about 80% fall within the texture classes
sandy loam, loam and silty loam. For these soils, the average CEC can be
considered about 15 meq per lOOg of soil. Thus, with an initial ESP value of
80% to be lowered to 10%, the sodium to be exchanged amounts to 0.7 x 15-10.5



63
Annax 6
Page 5 of 8 pages
meq per 100 g of soil.  Assuming a bulk density of 1.65 kg/dm3 the theoretical
requirement amounts to 21.5 T/ha for pure gypsum or 4.2 of pure sulfur or
19T/ha of pyrite containing 22% sulfur. Results of field trails have shown
that an application of 50% of the theoretical requirement generally is
sufficient to improve soil conditions in the first 10 cm of soil and obtain
satisfactory plant growth. The required quantity of the chemical amendment is
distributed evenly on soil surface, incorporated to a depth of about 10-15 cm.
Thereafter, irrigation water is brought in to commence chemical reaction which
eventually results in replacement of Na ion with Ca.
The requirement of soil amendment should invariably worked out after
washing excess of soluble carbonate with 60% alcohol. Soil amendment should
be applied after initial flushing of salts with irrigation as it has been
observed that soils in UP contain some free sodium carbonate. If this is not
removed it reacts with applied soil amendment and reduces in replacement of
exchangeable Na. Field observations show that after applying gypsum or pyrite
some spots remain barren, which may be ascribed to heterogeneity of the soil,
in which the pH varies considerably over short distance, and uneven
distribution of the amendment. These spots would receive a second application
after the first crop, for whichl an average amount of 2.0 T/ha of gypsum.
Gypsum is available in India from mines in Rajasthan with known reserves
of some 1,200 million tons. Similarly, pyrite is available in abundance from
mines in Bihar and Rajasthan. LDC would procure chemical amendments (under
ICB procedures) and distribute to growers through both public and private
sector agencies. Involvement of private traders in distribution of amendments
would be a new policy for GOUP agreed under the project.
e) Green Manure
If the fields are prepared on time during the raoi season, a crop of
dhaincha (Sesbania aculeata) can be grown before the first rice crop in
Kharif. The green manure provided by this crop will improve the structure of
the top layer and contribute to the exchange process of sodium by calcium
through the production of carbon dioxide and organic acids and dissolution of
calcium carbonate. As a result, during the monsoon period rain water will
infiltrate more readily.
Incorporation of organic matter from crop residues or farm yard manure
also remains important after the initial reclamation stage.  After the
application of the gypsum or pyrite amendment the ESP drops considerably but
does not yet decrease below 15%. This can only be achieved after several
years during which calcium is made available by dissolving calcium carbonate,
a process promoted by the production of carbon dioxide from the root system or
the decomposition of organic matter.



64
AknnAx 6
Page 6 of 8 pages
?h. as==nmv al floi Lnd.
A.                    n       n
8.    When reclamation commences, Na concentration increases in the soil
solution, but leaching by tlooding of fields avoids excessive build-up of Na.
Thus, plants tolerant of water-loggd, low oxygen conditions are generally
tolerunt of sodic conditions and are a good initial choice. A list of crops
known to be tolerant to different levels of sodicity is given in Attachment 1.
Accordingly, paddy is the crop of choice for the kharif season. Many
cultivars are now available which show a high degree of tolerance to
alkalinity. Under water-logged conditions rice roots, through their biological
activity, help in dLssolving calcium carbonates which in turn bring about soil
improvement. Wheat or barley, although much more sensitive than paddy, would
be the choices in the rabi. Sesbania (dhaincha) is the green manure of choice
for growth in the hot summer season.
9.    Plantings of fruit and forest trees would be promoted as alternatives to
annual crops. The most appropriate species are Ber, Guava and Aonla. On the
community lands the preferred tree species include casurina aguisgait6lia-
Acacia n4lana. and PrAm . niflarA_ Fodder species to be included are
para grass (flrac iha4a --..), bermuda grass (Cvnadon) and Karnal grass
(t.anInesnlna fisca-)
10.   For many sodi soils mechanical disturbance by cultivation exacerbates
loss of structure due to slaking and dispersion on wetting, which affects
water infiltration surface, water-logging, and seedling emergence. Use of
reduced tillage systems, retention of organic matter, and permanent or semi-
permanent bed systems for cropping mLnimize the sodicity problem. Under the
project, use of reduced tillage and organic matter would be given high
priority.
_ _,Z& 14  MMnAqftM9
11.   Low organic matter content and high pH impart poor fertility to sodic
soils. The high pH results in formation of relatively insoluble carbonates of
Ca and Mg with reduced availability of nitrogen (N) and Zinc (Zn). Similarly,
availability of P, Fe, and Mn may also be affected. With regards to specific
major elements:
(a)   NiLSnOM: Sadie soils are usually low in N and show high rates of
loss of applied N. Crops grown in sodic soils respond more to
higher levels of N than the crops grown in non-sodic soils. Based
on research findings, crops grown in sodic soils would be
fertilized with 20% more N than the recommended rates of non-sodic
soils. Among dlfferent sources of N, ammonium sulphate would be
the preferred source. Applications of 40 kg N/ha along with green



65
AnneX6
Page 7 of 8 pages
manuring (Sesbania) gives rice yield equivalent to 120 kg N/ha
without green manuring, thus possible savings of up to 80 kh N/ha.
(b)   ph6aphorus 1a}-  Uncultivated sodic soils can have a high amount
of soluble phosphorus. This is attributed largely to the presence
of soluble sodium phosphates. A portion of this phosphorus can
move down through leaching when the soil is reclaimed. Research
conducted at Central Soil Salinity Research Institute, Karnal,
have revealed no responses to added phosphorus in sodic soils in
the early years after reclamation. However, experience in UP
shows that sodic soils respond to phosphorus. The application
rates, however, should be based on results of soil tests.
(c)   Potassium  S1K)  Because of sufficient releases from the soil
minerals, crops show poor response to K fertilization in sodic
soils. But there are sodic soils which are low and medium in
available K status and as such significant responses to added K
are recorded. Adequate supply of K is necessary to maintain
Sodium-potassium balance in plants enabling them to withstand
sodicity hazards. Application rate of K would be based on the
soil test recommendation.
Cd)   Minr6mrtrQnft-: Among the micronutrients, zinc deficiency is most
common in sodic soils. Application of zinc sulphate at 50 Kg/ha
helps mitigation of zinc deficiency.
Iron deficiency is also found to occur in some sodic soils,
particularly in nursery beds of paddy. Green manuring/
flooding/application of ferrous sulphate at 50 Kh/ha rectifies
iron deficiency.
ProdUeCtivitv of Rae 1hplm SodiZ_ SOuR
12.   Most research has focused on evaluating productivity of cropping systems
based on rice-wheat cultivation. The findings of several research trials gave
the following results on class 'B' and 'C' soils treated with gypsum.
Grain Yield  (t/ha)
crop          Year     0            1             2             3            4
soil type       B    C       B       C     B    C        B    C        B    C
Rice           0.8  0       1.4  1.2      2.0  1.6      1.3  2.1      3.0  2.6
Wheat          O    O       1.0  0.75    1.4  1.1       1.8  1.3      2.0  1.5
13.   It is clear from the above results that althotugh a crop can be grown
within three months after the commencement of the reclamation process, it
takes four to five years to reach high yields of both the grain and straw.
More in formation on the productivity of various cropping systems proposed
urnder the project is given in Annex II.



66
Ann S
Page 8 of 8 pages
C.        =R& = 8
14.   Special care and management is necessary for successful cultivation of
crops under saline-sodic affected soil conditions. Some of the considerations
include:
and"gad T4Ilagn Experimental results have led to the conclusion that
increased puddling in rice fields should not be done to avoid further
deterioration of soil structure.
ZxTi±at±l  On account of the poor vertical drainage characteristics of
sodic soil, care should be taken in irrigation. Light and frequent
irrigations prove more beneficial during rabi season. Heavy irrigation
should be avoided, otherw'ise rabi crops become chlorotic due to water
stagnation at the surface.
Regular Cro2ain= Fields once reclaimed should be cropped and irrigated
regularly, thus avoiding the problem of salt accumulation through
capillary rise.
Kankar Laver Although a kankar layer may reduce vertical water
movement, this layer is not impermeable for downward water flow. This
explains the experience at Faizabad University that usar soils with a
kankar layer at a depth of about 0.5 m can be reclaimed without major
problems. Neither the presence of a kankar layer at that depth impedes
the growth of rice or wheat. Nevertheless it appears prudent to exclude
soils with a kankar layer at shallower depth than 0.5 m because of
restricted root development.
-roundwater 6uality In the case of sodic soils, the shallow ground water
in general is of good quality, the EC ranging between 0.5 and 2 d S/m
and the RSC (Residual sodium carbonate) is up between 1 and 1.5 meq/l
which is suitable for irrigation purposes.



67
Anngx 6
Attachment 1
Tolerant - Yields not seriously affected until ESP exceeds 50 to 55.
Karnal Grass              MLeptorhlna fusca)
Rhodes Grass             (Chlcrim gayAnal
Para Grass               (Brachiaria mutical
Bermuda Grass            (Cynodon daotylont
Rice                     (Oryza sativa)
1haincha                  (Sesbania anuleata
Sugarbeet                tBeta vulMgarial
S.mi-!olveant - Yields not seriously affected until ESP exceeds 35.
Wheat                     (Tritinm aestivum)
Barley                   (Hordeum .n*gare)
Oats                     (Avena aatival
Raya                     (Braasioa iuncea)
Senji                    (!elilotus narviflora)
Baira                    (Pennisetum typhoideAj
Cotton                   (Mosa=ium hirsautum)
Berseem                  (TrifoliUM a1exan2dXnumt
Sugarcane                SSaccharum officinaranM
Sensitive - Yields affected beyond ESP 10.
Cowpea                    (vigna sinensias
Gram                     (Cicer aviet4numt
Groundnut                (Arachis hypogaeal
Lentil                   (Lens eRr!ulAntal
Mash                      (Phaseolus mungo)
Cotton at germination   (Gossipium hirsutum)
Mung                      (Phaseolus aurual
Peas                     (Pisum sativum)



68
Page 1 of 5 pages
BA                  K
1. UP has three State Agricultural Universities (SAUs). These are: G.B. Pant
University of Agriculture and Technology at Pantnagar (GBPUAT), C.S.Azad
University of Agriculture and Technology at Kanpur (CSAUAT) and N.D.
University of Agricultural Technology at Fai2abad (NDUAT). They have received
support under the Bank financed National Agriculture Research Projects I and
II (Credit 855-IN and 1631-IN) and are responsible for most of the
agricultural research in the state. The research work undertaken by these
universities has mainly focused on the development of crop varieties and
management practices, on-farm water management, animal nutrition,
horticulture, and farm implements. The problems related to the reclamation of
sodic lands have only received limited attention. Some work on the management
of sodic soils in UP ( at Kanpur) is being undertaken through an ICAR financed
All-India coordinated project on management of salt affected soils and use of
saline water. This work, however, has largely been undertaken on research
stations and the findings require further testing on farmer's fields.
2.   The currently recommended reclamation technology is largely based on the
system developed by the Central Soil Salinity Research Institute (CSSRI),
Karanl, Haryana. This system uses, in sequence, a combination of chemical
amendments, leaching and initial cropping with species tolerant of sodicity.
It is well tested system and has been applied successfully to reclamation of
an area estimated to be in excess of 400,000 ha of sodic land in the States of
Haryana and Punjab and about 160,000 in UP. Further information on this
technology is provided in Annex 4. As the characteristics of soils and the
extent of problem in different regions of UP differ from those found in
Haryana and Punjab, these recommendations require further refinement through
adaptive research, including nutrient and water management practices.
3.    In Uttar Pradesh, studies on new cropping system based on salt-tolerant
agro-forestry and fruit species have been undertaken by NDUAT. The results
show considerable promise for crop diversification, but need further testing.
Similarly, through a small scale pilot program, the Central Institute of
Medicinal and Aromatic Plants (CIMAP), located at Lucknow, has demonstrated
the possibility of cultivating high value aromatic plants like lemon grass,
vetiver and palmarosa on 8odic soils. This work also requires further testing
in the field under farmer's conditions.
4.    It is concluded, therefore, that through additional research the
currently recommended reclamation packages can be further improved for the
prevailing growing conditions in UP. There is also a potential for the
development of reclamation technologies based on new cropping systems
incorporating horticultural tree crops, salt tolerant shrubs and grasses.



69
Page 2 of 5 pages
Aream SRelein   da4fr. Further Adan4tveRman
5.    Following an assessment of the available information, the following five
areas have been identified for further research :
(a)  cadw4utton of fged e                     including work on further
refinement of the existing recommendations with respect to rates and
timings of amendment application, optimum nutrient requirements and
water management for leaching purposes;
(b)  _rnnial t    Crnp hn    t,including screening of a range of
species for tolerance to sodic conditions and inter-cropping of tree
crops with either vegetables or fodder grasses or aromatic species with
amendment applied to limited area to reduce costs:
(c) r'intinn nf bum Ka                          including testing of
different management practices and application leVels of amendments,
irrigation and nutrients for optimum production of vetiver, lemon grass
and palmarosa :
(d) fuel a  f eLty landp including development of systems
incorporating tree/shrub/grass combinations for the production of fuel
and fodder, testing of exotic species and establishment methods and a
survey and assessment of endemic plant species for low cost fodder
production; and
*e) * plnratnry    sanenrh tn   , including screening of plant species
for tolerance to sodicity.
Table 1 summarizes the research activities to be financed under the
project with full details included in the working paper on the research
assessment and development of research proposals, a document available in the
project files.
|_~innAt Ann
6.    In order to strengthen research capabilities within NUDAT and CSAUAT,
researchers at these institutions would be linked with scientists in other
institutes in India and, if necessary, abroad. For this purpose the existing
linkages between NDUAT and CSAUAT with ICAR or CSIR institutes, especially
those participating in the All India Co-ordinated Research Projects on
Management of Salt Affected Soils, would be further strengthened. In
addition, the project is also proposing to finance some training for NUDAT and
CSAUAT scientists involved with more basic research activities. These
linkages would be utilized in the implementation of individual research
proposals as identified in Table 1
~ ...



70
Annex 7
Page 3 of 5 pages
7.    UP Council of Agricultural Research (UPCAR) would have the primary role
of coordinating the research to be financed under the project. UPCAR would
convene meetings of participating scientists to finalize details for each
proposal and ensure agreement on actions, objectives, implementation schedules
for each research proposal. For each area, at least two and sometimes more
institutions are identified for collaboration on the research area.  In most
cases, NDUAT Faizabad or CSAUAT Kanpur would be the main implementing
institutions. The other institutions will act more in a supervisory and/or
advisory role and contribute specialist advice. UPCAR would monitor progress
of the adaptive research activities.
9.    Refinement of technologies and the conduct of trails in farmers' fields by
the participating institutes would utilize the existing research facilities such
as Zonal Research Stations and sub-stations of DOA located in the project area and
the Adaptive Research Centers of DOA. Zonal Research programs and Zonal Research
and Extension Advisory Committee meetings of SAUs would reflect these programs and
provide input for their modifications based on feed-back from the field.
J1  T2chnolna  Di 4mnation
10.   Technology dissemination for crop production activities in the State is
primarily carried out by the Department of Agriculture (DOA) extension
service, which is being strengthened under the on-going National Agricultural
Extension Project III (CR. 1754-IN) and National Agricultural Extension
Project l(Cr. 1523-IN).  Some reorganization of working arrangements and job
description of the regular DOA extension staff would be required to cater to
special needs of the reclamation blocks. However, in view of the need to build
up farmer's confidence in the reclamation program and to provide intensive
technical support for land reclamation and crop production activities with
close beneficiary involvement, the technology dissemination work under the
project would involve NGOs, LDC field staff and DOA extension service. in
addition, to encourage greater farmer involvement in technology dissemination
activities, for each 50 ha farmers would be invited to nominate one male and
female farmer to be trained as 'fellow demonstrator/trainer". These workers,
to be known as Mitra Kisan (Male) and Mahila Mitra Kisan (Female), would
assist with awareness campaigns, field demonstrations and other farm level
activities aimed at technology dissemination.   The reclamation process would
be coordinated by Land Reclamation Units of LDC which would involve the
participation of several departments including the extension services of DOA.
Once reclamation was completed after three years the LDC staff would move to
new areas.
11.   The key thenn    diBs  nation activities would include land
levelling, land preparation, bunding, setting up borewell and pump set,
organizing inputs, and application of amendments, raising of field crops,
introducing crop diversification in sodic lands with horticulture, agro-
forestry and sylvipastural systems, conducting crop demonstrations, field
days, and specific support to women's participation. In addition, assistance
to research staff who conduct adaptive research in the farmers field would
also be provided.



71
nanU 7
Page 4 of 5 pages
lmniantation ArranmeMnt 
12.   The roles and responsibilities of the three agencies involved in the
technology dissemination work would be as follows:
(M)   NGDA would be mainly responsible for holding awareness campaigns,
motivating farmers, assist with the training of Mitra Kisan, Mahila
Mitra Xisan and farmers in reclamation and crop production techniques
and ensuring beneficiary participation in the project activities. Annex
8 Part III provides a more detailed discussion of NGO involvement under
the project;
(ii) InC Feld Staff would play the lead role during the first two
years of reclamation by supporting farmers in the implementation of
various reclamation treatments, especially OFD works, application of
chemical amendment and irrigation development;
(iii) MA Extension NorkerA (V4llage Ewtension Ngrkars ax Nian
hahayAks) would be involved in reclamation activities right from the
very beginning but focus their attention on crop production activities.
Each Kisan Sahayak in his respective area would coopt Mitra Kisans and
Mahila Mitra Kisans as part of the contact-farmer network under the T &
V system . However, to ensure that Kisan Sahayaks based in the project
districts are fully familiar and involved with all the activities, DOA
has agreed to emphasize the land reclamation work in their job
descriptions. The project would provide training to Kisan Sahayaks to
strengthen their ability to serve farmers through specifically designed
courses.
13.   The technology dissemination  support would be provided within the
framework of the existing T&V system. Contact farmers identified will include
sodic land owners of different groups. The extension services would also work
closely with Mitra Kisan and Mahila Mitra Kisan as key technology
dissemination partners. The existing system of monthly workshops involving
SAUs would continue with a specific focus on sodic land reclamation. During
the first three years of reclamation, Kisan Sahayaks and LDC field staff would
operate in the same area to provide support to farmers. After that the LDC
staff would move out to comence reclamation work in other areas.
14.  With the expansion of the All India Radio and Doordarshan (TV) networks,
a very large proportion of farmers rely on these two medias for information.
Accordingly, in addition to the printed media, audio visual materials would be
utilized to the maximum extent possible to support field activities of all the
agencies involved irn technology dissemination work.



72
jnaBL7
Page 5 of 5 pages
I raZn±ng
15.   The staff of all the three agencies involved in field work (LDC, DOA and
NG0s) would be provided additional training through specifically designed
courses to meet the needs of farmers reclaiming sodic lands. Some of the
areas to be covered include: organization of farmers' groups, credit
management, sodic land reclamation process, water management, crop
diversification, agro-forestry, forage production, nutrient management in
problem soils, and punp set maintenance. Gender specific training to ensure
that farm women receive the necessary support for group formation and for the
land reclamation and crop production activities would be organized with the
help of NGOs, who have experience in working with grassroots organization and
training of poor women. LDC and DOA staff would also undergo gender
sensitization training. The training activities to be supported under the
project would be reviewed each year during the preparation of the Annual
Action Plan and modified to meet the changing needs of the project. Details
of the annual training programs would be an attachment to the Annual Action
Plan.
16.     As far as possible the training courses would be conducted at the
facilities available within the state (CSAUAT, NDUAT, State Training Institute
at Rahmankhere) and Central Soil Salinity Research Institute at Rarnal.
Specialized courses in fodder production and agro-forestry would be organized
at the Indian Grassland and Forage Research Institute (IGFRI), Jhansi.



SI 2SOflC LaMb  1RClM&TO ,o,l  otuC~
wuCuwaOCv  aMVMLPIIUU
1a    s  3a.*eh           Oh14at.s  of               Vn4I  9.r *tmAf.         Imm1man4= ftg   T,.mt    4na                1nw4*v*
5zaax.Laas a                                        InsiutiamaC<                               h^.nanfffl.neta
1. Production of food   Development of suitable    Effects of organic        CSAUAT, and        Cost/effectiveness        six monthly report to
crops on private     croppiag system for soils  matter and industrial  NODAT                of the amendment to be   UPCAR, half yearly
lands and             of varying sodicity and    wastes and effects                         used) better nutrient    review by UPCAR/
developcent of       further refinement of       of nutrient com                            management and devel-    UPLDC and Annual
cropping system      existing recommendations   irrigation                                  opmnat of alternate       Review by the
for sodic lands.    with a view to iproving   management for sodic                          economically viable       Technical Steering
productivity and            lands: and                                cropping systems.         Committee (TSC).
enhancing rate of          combination of
reclamation of sodlc       dlfferent crops
lands.                     including vegetables,
oilsaeds and development
of crop sequences.
2.  Tree crop         i. Development of low cost    Inter-cropping with    NDUAT, UP            Identification of             Six monthly report
horticulture on      horticultural tree crop    vegetable/aromatic       Department of      suitable inter-crops          to UPCAR: half yearly
sodic soils          systems.                    species with amend-    Horticulture.       fertilizer and                review by UPCAR/
ments applied to                          ir-igation requireents        UPLDC and Annual
lImited inter-crop                        for this system.              Review by the TSC.
area and testing
response to fertilizer
and irrigation
treatments.
ii. Tree crop models           Combination of fruit   NDUAt, NRCA,        Identification of fruit      Six monthly report
using fruit trees          tree and forage         UP Department      forage tree combinations.    to UPCAR; half yearly
species and combinations   tree species.           of Horticulture.                                 review by
of fruit tree and forage                                                                            UPLDC/UPLDC and Annual
species.                                                                                            Review by the TSC.
1



Aweae of f-napxpat    O91daIwMLk    of               NAbn tfiteatmantel    Tat- mant4In         Topo  PelS:luntnl           aeviaw  and ftaoSet4na
I11. Assessment of a wider      Greenhouse screening   NDDAT*              Identification of            Six monthly report to
range of fruit tree        and then field          Uttar Pradesh      sodicity tolerant             UPCARM  half yearly
species (cultivars and     screening of            Department of      root stocks and fruit         review by UPCARJUPLDC
root stocks) for           different fruit         Horticulture.      tree species.                 and Annual Review by
tolerance to sodic Soil.   trees and root                                                           the TSC.
stocks.
3.  Aromatic and    L.  Production of aromatic       Three different         NDUAT, CINAP,      Fixing sodicity land and      Six monthly report to
medicinal plants     grasses on class *C.        aromatic grasses at    Uttar Pradesh       agronomic practices for      UPCARt half yearly
sodic soil.                different sodicity      Departent of       higher productivity of        review by UPCARJUPLDC
levels with dlffer-    Agriculture.       aromatic grasses to           and Annual Review by
ent level of amend-                       arrive at cost effectlve    the TSC.
ments, irrigation and                     package of practices
response to fertilizer.                   and development of inter-
cropping of aromatic
ii. Development of              Intercropping           NDUAT, CTMAP      plants in fruit-tree          Six monthly report to
production systems          ln aonia with           Uttar Pradesh     system.                       UPCAR: half yearly
and managemnt               aromatic grass.         Department of                                   review by UPCAR/UPLDC
packages for aromatic                               Horticulture                                    and Annual Review by
and mdicina)                                                                                        the TSC.
plants with 6- '%.
4.  Production of   i.  Development of trees and   Trees plus Albizza        NDUAT, CSAUAT,    Identilication of              Six monthly report to
fuel and forage      grasses based system for   lebek, Sesbania          IGFRI.            suitable tree and fodder    UPCARS half yearly
from community       reclamation of soil.        grandiflora, Leucena                      combLnation: forage value    review by UPCARJUPLDC
sodic lands.                                     Leueephala, grasses                        of the sodic tolerant        and Annual Review by
etc.                                      forages.                      the TSC.
ii. Expansion of the range      Different methods of   NDUAT, IGFRI        Identification of multi-   Six monthly report to   F o
of multi-purpose forestry  establishments varied  MNCA, UP            purpose forestry            UPCAR: . ilf-yearly      *1 X
systems,                    amendments, irrigation Department of      system and management       review by UPCAR,UPL'C   F a
practlees.              Forests.          practices.                  and Annual Review by the
STL Steering Committee.
2



k,*np  of flppphwnh  D~J~~z~a            M*iw,  Yrantn*n4aI    Imeomnt4npr   TmgacP4t.                           R*v4n4, _n  _lo,4'
tflvea ftmontm           Tnntitnetig                                   a     w  and Itn
W11. Survey and assessment       Survey, ldentification NDUAT, NBRI,         Exploratory study;             Six monthly report to
of endexa4 plant species   and assessment of         IGFRI              assessing fodder value         UPCAR: half yearly
for low cost fodder         inherent tolerant                           of locally adapted             review by UPCARJUPLDC
production in sodic         plant species.                              plant species for              and Annual Review by
soils.                                                                  fodder production.             the Steering Committee.
5.  Exploratory      L.   Screening of plant           Screening of new         NDUAT              standardizing protocol        Six monthly .eport to
Research              tolerance to sodicity.      forage, fruits,                             for plants toletant to         UPCARI half yearly
Projects                                          fuel and fodder                             sodicity and screening         review by UPCAR/UPLVC
species.                                   them under dlfferent           and Anaual Review of
salinity levels both          Steering Committee.
pot and field conditions.
CINAP:  Central Institute for Medicinal and Aromatic Plants, Lucknow.
CSADAT: C.S. Asad University of Agriculture Sechnology. Kanpur.
CSSRI:   Central Soil Salinity Research Institute, Karnal.
IGCFI:   Indian Grass and Forage Research Institute. Jhansi
RERI:    National Botanical Research Institute, Lucknow
NDUAt:   Narendra Dev. University of Agricultural Technology, Faizabad
NRCA:    National Research Center for Agro-Forestry, Jhansi
3



76
Annaxft
page 1 of 1
tPrS. ~   ~    M.T
uzza  RADISH ROD IC lANs         Tom LAMATTO
Piinning and Funel Wlonw
1.    GOI would pass on the Credit in the normal formula in which assistance
is passed to the States with GOI incurring the foreign exchange risk. In
addition, GOI, within one month of project signing of the Credit, would
release, in advance, about three months of anticipated project expenditures to
GOLT which would be made available to LDC through the Department of
Agriculture.
2.    LDC, as the main implementing agency, would be responsible for
developing the annual budget for all project activities in consultations with
the participating agencies. In this process the work program, especially the
physical and expenditure targets included in the Annual Action Plans (para 4.3
and Annex 3), would be an important starting point. The budget, once ready,
would be forwarded to the Department of Agriculture for incorporation in the
GOUP's budget for the year. Presently, the budget for LDC expenditures is
compiled by the Director of Agriculture and incorporated in the overall
Agriculture Budget of GOUP under the heading %boil and Water Conservation".
Under the proposed arrangement the Director of Agriculture would receive the
project budget proposals from LDC and incorporate it. in the departmental
budget. The final responsibility for the proposal would be with LDC and any
evaluation or modification of the proposal would be done only at the Secretary
of Agriculture level. The budget for all project activities would be made
under a single identifiable head of account called the sodic project.
3.    Once the budget is approved, GOUP would issue the necessary
appropriation for the release of funds to LDC, in phased manner, to enable it
to incur expenditure on the project. All funds to the participating agencies
would be routed through WC. Under tnis arrangement, prior to the release of
funds, it would be possible for LDC to check on the performance of each
activity, against the agreed targets included in the contractual agreement
and/or the Annual Action Plan. All requests in accordance with the
disbursement schedule would be prepared by LDC. All participating agencies
would furnish to LDC the necessary details in an agreed format concerning
their expenditure. LDC would consolidate the request for the project as a
whole for submission to IDA through the Secretary of Finance, GOUP and DEA
under existing procedures.
N'



77
1. The small farm holdings and relatively poor soclo-economic status of the
project beneficiaries requires that farmers are organized into groups for some
of the project activities and given motivational and training support. To
achieve these objectives the project provides for institutional strengthening
and of NGOs support to develop close cooperation with project beneficiaries
through participatory management. Indian NGs have already demonstrated on a
pilot scale that farmers groups can be successfully formed for group
production activities and credit management. The project Is proposing to
replicate earlier pilot activities on a large scale in the sodic areas.
again seen       
2. A economic survey undertaken by the Gi6r institute of Development Studies
(GIDS) in 9 out of the 10 districts gives an overview of the prevailing socio-
economic conditions in those districts. The survey covers all faruers owning
land, rather than just those who hold sodic land.
3. Table 1 summarizes the findings of the GIDS report. The full report is
available in the project files. The entire project districts have more or less
similar social, economic and cultural features. Nearly 800 of households are
dependent on agriculture and allied activities for their primary income.
Under-employment and unemployment is widespread. There is some seasonal
migration to local urban centers. All villages have a predominance of
marginal farmers (defined as those with land holdings of less than 1 ha.) and
small farmers (1-2 ha). These farmers hold the majority of the sodic land
also. Land holdings are often divided between two or three parcels, which can
be widely spread. In most of the project blocks/villages, the proportion of
sodic land is as great as 30-40%, with poor access to public irrigation
facilities.
4. The average household income in the Sultanpur sample (in 1991) was Rs
19,300 for small farmers and Rs 7,600 for allottees, well below the official
poverty line of Rs 10,000. The GIDS survey indicates that 60% of households
live below the poverty line. Most families own a few head of cattle, but
persistent fodder shortage has reduced the numbers over the last 15-20 years.
Nevertheless, livestock continues to provide a good proportion of their annual
income. In the sample, indebtedness was found to be 55% of annual income,
with the majority of credit taken with local moneylenders.
5. A random selection of two households from the Basantpur village provides
the typical profiles of the project beneficiaries (Table 2). On aggregate,
for the village of Basantpur where these beneficiaries live, the average
family size is 7, with an annual household incom  of Rs 12080.  Each worker
earns Rs 4,960 per annum; this is equivalent of Rs 1,728 per family member. A



78
Annex 
total of 16.4 ha of sodic land is held in the village, in 42 parcels, giving
an average holding of about 0.39 ha. The main occupations are listed as
agriculture and farm labor. Most land is monocropped with paddy. A total of
14 bulls are owned by 7 out of 38 families. The average debt held is
equivalent to 24% of the annual income.
6.  Women and the Agrarian Social Strueture in UP.  Women are important
participants in the rural economy of India.   In the UP project area nearly
80% of the households depend on agriculture and wage labor for survival; women
typically are significant income earners for their families. While primary
responsibilities include household tasks such as cooking, fetching water, and
gathering fuel and fodder, women also participate in wage earning activities
and family farm work. Their situations do not change when marginal farm
families are allotted an additional patch of sodic land. In fact, womena'
access to productive resources remains limited when they do not own the land,
while their workload grows.
Pnrtioe1ator?  Management
Beneficiary Sepection
7. Prior to the beginning of reclamation work each year, the LDC staff would
interview all project participants to ascertain their interest in the program
and to gather baseline information on the socio-economic circumstances of all
families. During this work, attention would be paid to identifying
individuals with social affinity, eg., family relationships, women sharing
common concerns and other similar linkages, who would be willing to work in a
group and stay together with limited outside commitment. Many interviews in
the first-year reclamation area have already been conducted. Other selection
criteria being used include: i) undisputed ownership and possession of land;
(ii) willingness to participate in the project; (iii) ability of the family to
undertake OFD work on its own farm; and (iv) willingness to participate in
group activities. The initial focus of LDC work would be to develop groups
for water sharing. The task of motivating and educating the beneficiaries
will be undertaken by local NGOs as outlined below.
Women's Participation
8.  Wherever possible, women beneficiaries would be encouraged to form
groups. The rational for targeting and supporting women as a special group is
twofold: efficiency and equity. Between 20-25% of households in the target
group are headed by females, as men leave home in search for employment.
Up to 10% of land holdings are in the name of women. Additionally, the Land
Management Committee of each village has a definite proportion of female
members (three out of eleven), which will facilitate women's participation in
groups and in key project activities.



79
Annax q
9. Women are major contributors to family farm operations as well as income
earnings; their labor contribution is expected to be a major part of the
family labor required by project households for drainage improvement and
irrigation works, as well as crop production. In addition, women's work
participation rates are relatively high. Allowing women the opportunity to
control assets resulting from the project, and to participate fully in the
beneficiary organizations will ensure equity. Forestry activities on
community lands supported under the project would be carried out through
women's groups as well.
10. The project would facilitate women's access to and management of credit.
NGOs would be supported to organize thrift and credit societies (see para.
15). GOUP has given assurances that state and centrally supported programs
for women's economic activities such as DWCRA and IRDP, as well as support
services for childcare such as anganwadis, would be extended to the project
areas on a priority basis. In adddition, the project would facilitate the
identification of additional economic and support activities through a
participatory study of farm and landless women in the project areas.
t.,E, Vrmati=
11. Institutional support to be provided for group formation would include:
(I)   Rresentatin In tha Proiet M&UagA==: Beneficiaries will have
formal access to the project's management through NGO representation
on the LDC Board and two committees, the District Project
Coordination Committee (DRCC) and the Reclamation Site Implementation
Committee (RSIC). Participation in DRCC meetings would allow the
beneficiary representatives to influence decisions at the planning
stage of the district's reclamation program and makes suggestions for
its improvement or change. Participation in the RSIC activities
would provide the opportunity for changes at the implementation
stage. The supervision missions would meet with representatives of
these committees and NGOs to learn of the beneficiaries suggestions
and provide for adjustments in the project as necessary;
(ii) LDC Staffing: Coordination of participatory management including
motivational campaigns, farmer training and NGO support would be
undertaken by a specially established cell in the Reclamation
Management Unit at the LDC Headquarters with: (a) two sociologists
experienced in working with NGOs and community organizations, with
one having specific experience of working on women's issues; and (b)
two staff with training exparience. Field support to this cell would
be provided by the LDC Land Reclamation Units (each district would
have one such unit with 25 field staff) and grassroots level NGOs
The Terms of Reference for this cell and for the Head, Participatory
Management are given in Attachment 1;
(iii) mxtonmion Sunpprt: Extension (technology dissemination)
support for crop production activities would mainly be provided by
the Department of Agriculture extension workers (Kisan Sahayak) who



so
AuaGN- 
are based in all the 10 districts to be covered under the project.
More details on this aspect are given in Annex 7.
liv)  Mg2j m.Qcs:  A grassroots NG0 would have field staff based at
village level to provide support in motivating farmers and assisting
with group formation. Intermediary NGOs would provide training to
field workers (LDC staff, new staff of grassroots NGO, Male and
Female Mitra Klsans) in participatory management. Further details are
given below.
(v) !r-di.tt The major participating 1banks (PBs) operating under
NABARD refinancing, include Cooperatite Land Development, Canara,
Baroda and State Banks. These banks have been operating in the
State, including the project districts, for some years and have
established a good network rural branches. NABARD has agreed to
associate this project with its programs related to poverty
alleviation and rejuvenate credit provided by PBs for group
activities. Also see para. 15.
(vi)  Innt Runp14eJ.  Fertilizer and seeds would be distributed
through the established network involving the public and private
sector. To ensure timely availability of chemical amendments at the
village level, LDC would appoint additional private dealers. LDC
would also assist in the procurement and distribution of seeds of
salt tolerant crop varieties.
12.   rnn Attiv.At the commencement of the
project, the most important group activity would be for water-sharing from a
shallow tube well operated using diesel or an electric pump. Later other
activities including credit management for production purposes maintenance of
field drains and farmer trainings would be the target for group formation.
Initially the main approach for water sharing would be based on a water buyer-
seller system. The pumpsets, mainly diesel, would have a catchment area of
about 4 ha requiring a group of between 4-8 farmers. After the initial
selection of farmers based on individual preferences and other criteria,
(para. 7), farmers would join a group.
13. Under the water seller-buyer system, one of the members of the group
would be nominated by the members. The borewell, to be provided on a grant
basis, would belong to the group. The WC, lending banks, and NGOs, in
consultation with RSIC, would help in drawing up an agreement between the
group members which would specify the rate, schedule and quality of water to
be shared between members. These arrangements would be reviewed each year by
LDC to ensure that the costs are in line with the prevailing market rate for
water. The credit for the purchase of the pumpset would be taken by the
owner, who would also be responsible for its maintenance. If the nominated
buyer fails to meet the eligibility criteria on account of his holding size or
some other criteria, the group would take on the liability for the loan. LDC
staff and NGOs would assist farmers with the pump maintenance training,
completion and processing of the loan applications, with LPC and NGOs
providing further assistance, if necessary. Advance deposit towards the



81
Annex 9
purchase of pumpsets for water on behalf of the buyers during the first two
years would be made directly to the lending bank by LDC out of beneficiaries'
grant for the input supplies. Similarly, the maintenance costs during the
first two years would also be financed out of this grant due to the water
seller. Thereafter, the payment system would be mutually agreed between the
seller, the buyer and the lending bank. This arrangement for managing the
credit and water sharing has the backing of the PBs and many of the
beneficiaries interviewed so far.
14. An alternative which would also be tried is the pump rental sys9 em.
Under this system a pump owned and maintained by a third party (NGO or private
pump dealer/distributor) would be rented to an individual watet us:3r on a
hourly charge. The price to be charged would be the prevailing market rate.
Sarvadya Ashram, a NGO operating in the project area, has used this system
successfully on a pilot basis. The group under this arrangement is mainly
responsible for agreeing a equitable system for sharing access to the
borewell.
15. Credit Management. Credit management in the project area will be done
through formation of farmer groups which will decide on the most suitable
water sharing and financing arrangement for their group.  This w_ll ensure
greater participation by the farmers and help evolve a more suitable system
for farm management. The other requirement for credit is crop inputs from the
second year of the project. Since the need for credit will come only after
three cropping seasons, there is enough time to work out alternative systems
for credit and savings management in the project area. It is expected that
most of the water-sharing groups would want to work together to manage credit
for production activities. As access to credit has been a problem for
marginal farmers, the project would undertake a number of activities to
overcome this constraint. These would include: (i) use of subsidy on
purchases of pumpsets as an advance deposit which in addition to ensuring
timely availability of water for land reclamation activities would also lower
the credit need of an individual or the group to below Rs 10,000, which is the
threshold above which collateral is required by commercial and cooperative
banks: (ii) enhanced institutional support by banks to service the water user
groups by assigning a full time staff at district level; (iii) updating and
computerization of land records held by the Revenue Departments at the
district level and providing banks access to these records which would speed
up verification of ownership and eligibility position of individuals/groups;
(iv) initial motivational and educational campaigns by SPWD and SA to promote
formation of water users' c,roups which would be reinforced by supporting these
NGOs who have experience in group-based project implementation; (v) training
of field officers and branch managers of banks in dealing with groups; (vi) a
joint assessment of existing supply alternatives and demand requirements for
integrated financial services (credit and savings) in each reclamation block
by LDC, extension staff and banks to ensure demand-driven financial services
solutions; (vii) a study to assess the credit needs of beneficiaries and
develop alternative management systems for savings and credit for crop
production purposes would be undertaken for implementation from the second
year onwards. This study would also pay attention to grassroots women's thrift
and credit activities; the proposed Terms of Reference are in Attachment II.



82
Nh  Inv Ivomnt
16. It has been accepted by GOUP and LDC that for equitable and sustainable
development, beneficiary participation in the project activities is essential.
In this process, both the intermediary and grassroots NGOs would be able to
play an important role in organizing and training small and marginal farmers.
Accordingly, NGos, meeting agreed selection criteria, would assist in a number
of activities. These would include: (i) awareness camps to familiarize
farmers with the key features of the proposed program and encourage their
participation through group activities; (ii) provide training to farmers;
(iii) provide training to LDC staff on people's participation and group
formation; (iv) facilitate the formation of groups for water sharing and
credit management in a manner which facilitates the participation of poor
rural women; and (v) perform an intermediary role between beneficiaries and
project management.
17. With the exception of Sarvodya Ashram (SA), a grassroots NGO, and Society
for the Promotion of Wasteland Development (SPWD), an intermediary NGO, there
are few others in the project area who have had experience with land
reclamation. SA based in Hardoi, one of the project districts, has had about 6
years of field experience in implementing small scale reclamation projects.
SPWD has raised funds for reclamation work and has supported SA in this work.
It is proposed, therefore, that at the start of the project the two main NGOs
involved under the project would be SPWD and SA. Other NGOs would be
identified during implementation and used according to their respective
strengths. Criteria agreed for the selection of NGOs is given in
Attachment III.
18. Th  Role of SPWD and SA. LDC has entered into a contractual agreement
with SPhW/SA under which the two NGOs would: (a) organize awareness campaigns
prior to commencement of reclamation activities; (b) undertake training
programs for beneficiaries, male and female Mitra Kisans (voluntary farmer
extension facilitator or contact farmers) in reclamation technology and
problems of crop production; (c) run custom designed training programs for
newly recruited SA and LDC staff to familiarize them with approach to
reclamation of sodic lands, how to communicate this knowledge to farmers,
management of awareness campaigns and socio-economic background of project
beneficiaries; and (d) facilitate group formation, especially for water
sharing.
Monitoring of Participatory Managemnt.
19. An independent agency would be asked to undertake an assessment of the
project's participatory management program every year after the project's
commencement. This assessment would make recommendations to LDC and IDA for
improvement in the design and implementation of the program.



83
Attachment 1
t- ~ ~ ~ tis
1.    Participatory Management Cell would function under the control of the
Reclamation Management Division. The cell will consist of two sociologist and/or
anthropologist and two training specialists. The senior sociologist would be the
head of this cell. The specific responsibilities of this cell would be to:
(i)   with the help of NGOs or other consultants, develop annual work plan for:
(a) the formation of famers groups for different activities (water
sharing, credit management, etc.) giving details of methodologies,
operational procedures and norms to for the major functions; and (b) farmer
training, outlining specific activities and topics to be covered and agency
to be involved in the implementation program;
(Li)  ensure representation of GOs in various committees as prescribed;
(iii) establish a system for regular consultation and exchange of information
with NGO0 and beneficiary groups.  Tnis would include holdlng of meetings
with NGOs at the district and site levels on a regular basis. The
consultation and communication process would include discussion of project
concepts, innovative ideas, and dissemination of information on ongoing,
proposed and completed project activities. The cell may fulfill this
responsibility partly through NGOs on a contract basis;
(iv)  identify activities to be implemented by NGOs and to be included in the
annual plans and development of budgets in consultation with implementing
agencies and NGOs for approval by the Managing Director, LDC.
(v)   regular monitoring and *valuation of NGO activities being implemented with
financial assistance under the project;
(vi)  assist the ESE Division in assessing the social impact of the project
activities, and suggest corrective measures if negative impacts are
identified;
(vii) maintain a database on NGOs and beneficiary organizations in the project
area; and
(viii)prepare annual reports with specific reference to NgO activities and
people's participation under the project.



84
Anft q
Attachment 1
II. Y-''' af 3*fnI'^''f
Head, Participatory Management Cell
(sociologist/Anthropologiut)
1.   The head of the Participatory Management Cell would have a background in
the social sciences or with a masters dogre or equivalent, and field experience
of working with NGOs and coauunity organizations. ae or she would be conversant
with methods for soclo-economic analysis of rural development activities and be
willing to travel extensively in the project area. Recruitment for the position
will be undertaken by the LDC management with assistance from experienced NGOs
and Council for Advancement of People's Action and Rural Technology (CAPART).
Pronoand U.mpcrnAihi14tl.
2.   The selected caudidate would be responsible for coordinating,all activities
of this cell.  The major areas would include:
A. To access the assistance of WOOs for:
C)   participatory micro-level planning at proposed reclaation sites;
(ii) formation of farmera' groups for water-sharing credit management
and other activities as necessary:
(iii) planning of awareness campaigns about project activities and
enhancing people's participation;
(iv) development of innovative concepts relating to the project
activities;
(v)  establishing a process for consultation and communication between LDC
management and NGOO:
B. organization of training programs on:
(i)  methodologies for participatory management and social analysis for
the staff of appropriate implementing agencies and NGOs;
(ii) beneficiary organization and management of beneficiary groups:
(iii) technical issues relating to sodlc lands, reclamation process,
agricultural technologies, irrigation management, maintenance of
drainage systems and other related technical subjects for NGOs and
beneficiaries: and
(iv) other training needs for beneficiaries wiblch may be identified during
project implementation.



85
Annax 
Attachment 1
C. Funding of NOW activities through:
(L)  procesing of MOO application and submission to the LDC management
for approvals and
(ii) preparation of anual budget for the actLvities to be managed by the
cell;
D. Monitoring of proposed iwploanntation activitLes to ensure that the
procedures laid out for people's partieLpation are being adhered to and that the
beneficiaries ar& receiving the necessary project support.
E. Assist in the evaluation of the social lmpact of the project actLvities.
F. Attend of the DLittrit Project Coordlnation Committees and Reclamation Site
ImplementatLon Committees as pproprate.
G. Prepare annual report on project activitLes with speclfic reference to NGo
and beneficiary participation and social Ilact.



86
Annex a
Attachment II
UZA2
XQ.rmn o£ Rafarane.
Grnup  Savings and tradit Managomgnt  Study
1.    The existing management procedures of the established banking system
have restricted access to credit for production and consumption purposes for
poor and marginal farmers, landless patta allottees, women, and female headed
households. UP has lagged behind other States in the country in the
utilization of credit, especially in the agricultural sector. Against an all
India per capita average of Rs. 830, the figure for UP is only Rs. 360. It
is, therefore, proposed to investigate the possibility of establishing: (a)
mechanisms for enhancing access to financial services; and (b) alternative
institutional systems specifically tailored to meet the needs of project
beneficiaries on a long term and sustainable basis. Preliminary project
investigation undertaken by the MYRADA team in three villages of the project
area in September 1992 has shown considerable interest among the likely
project participants in the concept of group formation to gain access to
credit. Ae part of the demand-driven approach to the services required by
these clients, a review of the financial service providers and demand for
financial services will be conducted. This study is likely to include: (i)
local Financial Services Providers, including Commercial Banks, Regional Rural
Banks, District Central Coop Banks, Primary Agriculture Coop Banks, Land
Development Banks, Private bank/nidhi/non-banking finance companies, Informal
thrift/credit institutions, NGO-sponsored self-help groups, Post office/small
savings, Insurance Companies, and Private moneylenders/pawn brokers; (ii)
local Demand for Financial Services, including Consumption loans (survival),
Social needs/ contingency, Working capital needs (agricultural inputs, other
needs), Term Loans for productive assets, Term loans for long term productive
assets (housing, education, etc., Insurance, and Savings deposits/investment.
2.    The proposed consultancy would therefore analyze a selected number of
mainstream and alternative institutional arrangements to develop
recommendations for implementation under the project on a pilot basis. It
would identify positive institutional practices and attitudes (IPAs) and
mechanisms for enhancing or thwarting access (METAs). More specifically, the
proposed study would investigate: (a) the socio-political and economic
environment within which the rural poor in UP have access at present to credit
from private and informal sources (fieldwork should be done for this in a
selected district where the project is going to be implemented); (b) the
existing socio-economic basis upon which alternative modes of organization for
access to credit by the poor, particularly women, can be based; (c) the
effectiveness of NABARD's scheme to refinance banks for on-lending to poverty
alleviation programs in the selected district where the project would be
implemented in the first year; (d) recovery rates in rural credit in the



87
Annex g
Attachment II
selected district, including a breakdown of repayment by gender of the
borrower; (e) women's grassroots credit activities through group formation, as
carried out by SEWA, Women's World Banking, MYRADA; (f) self-help groups
promoted by NGOs such as MYRADA and PRADHAN, which have linkages with
commercial banks; and (g) thrift and savings societies promoted in UP by
PARIVARTAN.
3.    The study would involve fieldwork in UP in one project district, and
subsequent field visits to some of the selected self-help groups and women's
credit groups in Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat. The consultant would
have to liaise closely with the LDC, NABARD, NGOs and selected commercial
banks.
4.    Based on these reviews the study would recommend:
i)    institutional support and mechanisms needed to improve access to
credit by marginal farmer groups, particularly the landless and
women headed households.
ii)   in the case of informal groups, the structure, membership
composition, women's membership in mixed/separate groups, process
involved in group formation, and the management support required
from NGOs, banks, project staff, and others involved for sustained
development;
iii) likely sizes of loans and schedule of recovery in relation to the
cash flow modules for the cropping systems proposed under the
project;
iv)   training needs of project staff and bankers to service the credit
needs of the poor and worin; and
v)    training needs of participating farm households, and the women in
farming, in peer group credit needs assessment, planning, and
borrower responsibility.



88
A_2WL.I
Attachxent SII
zuDzA
UITAR PADUSB  8MDGC  aRDS   WSL         O   1
~ aba Sal.#,aIeav
The project would seek NGO participation in varios activities,
especially in areas of groups formation, credt management, famr
mobilization, technology dissemination, training. WDC would invite frm
interested EGOs detailed proposals for collaboration. The LDC would be
re3ponsible for reviewing the proposals and agreeing on appropriate mechanisms
to involve EGO in the project. The selection of KGOs would be guided by the
following criteria:
As part of legal requirements, the KGO should be a reisterd body under
the relevant State Law. it should have meticulous accounts and properli
audited annual statements of income and expenditure.
since the program involves working with marginal and small farmers with
diverse socio-cultural backgrounds, it is esential that the NGO Sih'& a rural
orientation. To avoid creating any biases and misconceptions in the minds of
the people, the EGO should be oecular in outlook and should not be affiliated
to any political organixation.
Ac the project requires MGO support for famer mobilization and field
level management of assets and resources, the MO should have adequate number
of field level staff conversant with the local languge and customs and having
a clear understanding of the socio-economic and political situation of the
area. They should also have good rappott with the commiuty so as to enthuse
and involve them in developmental activities wholheaztedly. This ability
should be reflected in some of the projects undertaken by them earlier. Good
comlunication skills are a must here.
The technical nature of the problem would necessitate s80D orientation
and training of the staff of the  WGO and the latter should be willing and
amenable to this. A prior understandLng of the matter under consideration
would be a plus point. Owing to the nature nd oetent of the physical
coverage on the program each selected EGO will be a part of the entire
process. Hence the NGO should be able to interact asoothly with and be a part
of a team.
rinally, the MGO should have internal stability so as to assure long-
term support to the project.



89
Table 1
-               ~~~~~Dt.Rmnpla
-__D: GUNRUAL TNDX| A_
Household size                                             5.70
Schedule Caste (%)                                        47.50
Sex ratio - female per 1000 population                   443.00
Illiteracy rate:
- male  ..-39-
- female                                                  71.50
Househq4d Perentage dependent on:
- Agriculture                                             86.70
- Agricultur.,'. Labor                                     4.70
- Non Agri.cLture Activities                               9.60
Worker Pa,,r  4pation rate (%)
- male
- female.                                                 40.00
Total                                                     43.70
Percentage household reporting
secondary occupation                                      70.00
Average holding/household                                  0.70
Percentage of.households in:
- marginal famers                                         86.20
- small farmers                                           12.00
- allottees
- others                                                   1.80
Percentage land area belonging to:
- marginalfazmers.                                        66.50
- sall faers                           -                  23.40
- others
10.10
Percentage of private land:
- cultivated land                                         72.40
- fallows                                                  1.10
- waste land                                              24.30
Percentage of net sown area affected
by sodicity                                               43.60



90
AnnSX
Table I
Percentage of sodic land in different
classes:
-A                                                         30.85
-8                                                         25.64
_c                                                         43.50
D. AQ2RICrWarT
Percentage of net sown area to reporting area              72.40
Percentage of net sown area under irrigation               72.40
Percentage of irrigated area irrigated by
private sources                                            59.00
Percentage of net sown area under double
cropping                                                   80.00
Crop intensity                                            180.00
Average productivity (ton/hac)
- Paddy                                                     2.28
- wheat                                                     2.01
Number of livestock/household                               3.00
Number of draft animal/household                            1.40
B.  Mg
Average annual household income of:
(from all sources)
i)   small farmers                                      19294.00
ii)  marginal farmers                                   10204.00
iii) allottees                                           7660.00
iv) others
v)   all categories                                     11083.00
Percentage of households living below
poverty line (Rs.10,000/year)                              60.70
F   T
Percentage of households taken loan                        54.70
Purpose of loan: (Percentage)
Productive activity                                        74.40
Consumption/so¢ial                                         25.60
Source of loan
Institutions                                             70.00
Private Sources                                          30.00
Average loan as percentage of household
annual income                                              25.00
Percentage household who have mortgaged
land                                                       12.00



91
Annaftz2
2abL
Note:
i) All the aibove information is extracted from the main report and the
supplementary report for Sultanpur district prepared by Giri Institute of
Development Studies (GIDS)
ii) The project area averages are based on secondary sources. District
sample is based on a sample survey carried out by GIDS. The Sultanpur sample
is again based on a more detailed sample survey made by the same institution.
iii)  The Sultanpur sample taken by GIDS was not based on scientific random
selection and is not truly representative. The date presented here should be
considered as indicative of the prevailing situation in the district.



92
lAnnaz 
Table 2
Tyu  =yienl B.niafrs1r   ornmhld PsaIllg~n  t-h  ggat Area
Number in household. . . . . . . . . . 10. . . . . . . .6
Working members. . . . . . . . . . . . 4. . . . . . . 3
Annual household lncome, Rs. . . . . 20,000. . . . . 8,500
Annual income / person. . . . . . . . 2,000. . . . . 1,400
Annual income / worker. . . . . . . . 5,000. . . . . 2,800
Primary Occupation. . . . . . . . . agriculture. . . . laborer
Secondary Occupation. . . . . . . . . business. . . agriculture
Total land holding. . . . . . . . . . . 0.9 . . . . . . 0.15
Sodic land holding. . . . . . . . . . . 0.7 . . . . . . 0.15
Number of plots. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2. . . . . . . . 1
Crops growr . . . . . . . . . . . . . paddy. . . . . . paddy
Livestock. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 bulls. . . . . .none
Literate ?.  .    .  .  . .. . . . . . . yes. . . . . . . no
Loans held, Rs . . . .     . . . . . 17,800. . . . . . 2050
Loans as % of annual income. . . . . . . 89%. . . . . . . 24%



93
Amnnazf
Page 1 of 9 Pages
mx-:
. Exlting Rwir4nmant
1.   The  sodic "usar" lands of Uttar Pradesh represent a degraded
biological system in which there have already been sxtrems, man-induced,
environmental impacts. The denuded and salt- encrusted, land patches are more
than ample evidence of the severity of the disorde' affecting the soils.
Although the region is long- settled and densely populated with little
remaining of the original vegetation or fauna, the sodification of the land
has dramatically narrowed even this already simplified *enosystem. Biological
activity in sodic soils is severely ccnstrained by high pR, the lack of
available ialcium and other essential nutrients, destruction of the organic
matter and deficiency of air and water caused by the d3spersal of the clays.
The impacts of the chemical and physical conditions assuciated with
sodification of the soils are manifested throughout the biological system
starting with the soil microorganisms and continuing through to man. In the
absence of soil microorganisms, and plants the macro-organisms, such as
earthworms and insects, which form an important food source for birds and
mammals are also eliminated. As sodification advances the affected areas
become largely sterile from a biological standpoint. The current state of the
environment is summarized in the following paragraphs.
2.    _nil Kran          .   To date there have been no specific studies of
microbial populations usar soils and little is known of their present status.
It may be surmised, however, that the microbial populations occurring in
normal (non-sodic) agricultural land are largely absent from this essentially
hostile microbial environment. Consequently there is little, if any, breakdown
of organic matter contributed by the sparse covering of grasses, or cycling of
soil nutrients, or fixation of nitrogen and the polysaccarides essential for
binding soil particles are absent.
3.    yA4.tatinn.  The original vegetation of the project area appears to have
been dry forest very small remnants of which occur along natural drainage
channels and in other areas that have not been cleared for agriculture. A
number of species have also been introduced, presumably for wind breaks and to
supply firewood because of their rapid growth habits. A list of major species
now occurring in the area includes: Safeda (Eucalyptus spp.), Babul (Acacia
azabica), Kikar (Acacia nilotica), Siris (ALbezia lebbek), Mesquite (Prosopia
jullflora), Arjun (Tezminslia arjuna), Neem (Azadlrachta Indlca), Dhak (Butea
monospezma), Karil (Capparli aphylla), Ber (Zizyphus jujube), Wild Jhar
(Zizyphus rotundiflora), Guava (Peidium guajava), Mahua (Madhuca latifo1Ua),
and Jamun (Clizizum jumbollcum). Grasses include Setaria Grass (Sataria
aphaelata), Reh-ki-ghas (Sporobolus dlander) and Doob (Cynodon dactylon   The
dense settlement and use of the land for agriculture suggests that the h.
sodification process had little effect on the original vegetation in moo
of Uttar Pradesh, since this had already been cleared.  It did have a vr
significant impact, however, on the remaining vegetation in the affected a8.



94
na,,,x 1
Page 2 of 9 Pages
whether this was crops, orchards or residual indigenous forest species. The
vegetative cover of the sodic areas now consists of very simple assemblages
consisting primarily of halophytic grasses and sedges. In more recently
affected areas, there is evidence of the past vegetation in the form of tree
trunks and even sometimes the blighted survivors of acacia and other
indigenous species.
4.   ?awmalian SReeie-.  The dense population of the area suggests that most
native terrestrial species were eliminated as the land was cleared and the
habitat destroyed. Small mammals, such as squirrels and rodents survive in
the area, and have adapted to man's presence.  There is no evidence of larger
specien. It is doubtful whether these would have been directly influenced by
the sodification of the land, most of which undoubtedly occurred after the
destruction of the natural habitats.
5.   Aiy-an Sp>c4. Fairly prolific bird life can be observed on the
agricultural land within the project area these iaclude water loving species
such as Cattle Egrets, Herons, Plovers and upland species such as Rollers,
Sparrows and other seed eaters. Raptors including Kites and Hawks can be
observed. The sodic lands are, however almost totally bereft of bird life,
indicating the generally low level of biological activity associated with them
and the absence of a viable food chain.
6.   Public Health.  The direct and indirect impacts of soil sodification on
the health of communities living in the areas where usar has developed can be
severe. Unfortunately, many of these impacts have not been well documented,
although they are fairly self-evident. Direct impacts include the effects on
peoples' health because of drinking salt contaminated water over prolonged
periods and possibly from being continually exposed to sodium laden
particulates in the air. An extreme situation was reported by Dr. D. Rai, UP
Ground Water Department (pers. comm.), of villages in which high fluoride
levels in the drinking water has led to a significant proportion of the
community (>10%) suffering from *severe fluoridosis, which is manifested in
gross abnormalities in bone and joint development. The indirect effects
include the loss of productive land by small farmers and the hardships that
have been imposed on the families living in the affected areas. It undoubtedly
contributed to the concentration of greater pressure on other land resources
and migration of families out of the affected areas. Many times improved
economic conditions result in the improvement of public health in general.
7.    The concentration of airborne particulates originating from the usar
lands is reported to be relatively high during the dry season. The salt laden
soils and salt crusts occurring at the surface are subject to wind transport
by the prevailing northeasterly wind, which is frequently very blustery, and
also by localized "dust devils" during the hotter part of the year. The
surface horizons of the soils are dominated by silt or very fine sand, the
most readily transported textural components of the soils are also exposed to
the direct effects of the winds due to the extent of the usars and the
relative absence of surface vegetation. Unpaved roads are a major source of
particulates, particularly when trafficked by motor vehicles.



95
AGlAOM-
Page 3 of 9 Pages
8.    Specific links between the health of the rural population and the levels
of airborne dust have not been conclusively proven. It is not unreasonable,
however to surmise that eye and lung problems maybe related to this exposure.
The principle covponents of the airborne particulates are likely to be:
alumino-silicates5 silicates: gypsum: calcium, sodium and magnesium
carbonates; and sodium sulphate (Thenardite).
Potontial  _=Cts gf ReclAmti2on AetivitiAs
9.   The reclamation of sodic lands, as proposed, will have a largely
ameliorative and positive imapact on the biosystem. The reduction of sodium
levels and the restoration of microbial activity in the surface horizons of
the soils will restore the fundamental elements of an active biological system
and stabilize the soil surface. Although the use of most of the land for
crops will limit the degree to which biodiversity can be restored, insects,
small mammals and birds will re-establish themselves in these areas as
conditions improve. It should also be possible in time to establish woodlots
and orchards, further improving the potential biodiversity.
10.  Despite these evident beneficial effects of reclamation, there is
potential for negative environmental impacts to soil, groundwater and surface
water systems. These are associated primarily with the fate of the salts
that might leach out of the soils and into the ground or surface water
systems. At present there is no definitive indication of the fate of the
leached salts, although evidence from long-term reclamation programs (in
Haryana) indicate no significant contamination of these systems. The absence
of reliable information on environmental impacts of reclamation is cause for
the establishment of rigorous monitoring programs.   The rationale for the
focus of the programs is discussed below.
11.  Snils.  The focus of the reclamation effort will be on the treatment of
the surface 15 cm of the soils with approximately 15 t/ha of gypsum or 18 t/ha
of pyrites, depending on the specific gypsum requirement of the soils. This
will be accompanied by the retention of as much irrigation or rain-water as
possible on the surface through the construction of field bunds and the
improvement of the drainage system to facilitate the removal of pond surface
water and shallow sub-surface water. Although the gypsum dissolves slowly, it
will in time release Ca++ and S04-- ions into the soil water solution,
increasing the ionic concentration and causing the displacement of Na+ cations
from the clay edges on which they are adsorbed. The net effect of this is the
creation, at least temporarily, of saline or saline/sodic conditions in the
treated horizons. With the hydraulic head applied by means of ponding water
on the surface, salts will migrate down the soil profile leaving relatively
salt free conditions in the surface horizons. In the absence of an artificial
subsurface drainage system to provide positive control over the water table
depths natural drainage is being relied upon to flush salts out of the soil
profile. Depending on the chemical equilibria that the salts encounter on
their passage through the soil the desired movement of the salts may or may



96
Aannazxl
Page 4 of 9 Pages
not happen. For this reason the detailed monitoring of selected sites is
essential, in order to trace the movement of salts, devolop a better
understanding of the dynamics of salt movement during reclamation.
12.  ozQwsyubtn.        It can be estimated that some 675,000 tonnes of gypsum
or gypsum equivalent will be applied to the land over the course of this
project. To this would be added salts already contained in the groundwater,
fertilizers and possibly other agrochemicals. While it is possible to make
some useful assumptions about total salt leading, it is not possible to draw
reliable conclusiona about the concentration of the different ionic species or
the hazards relating to these. It is certain that ions such as Cl, F, Na, Li,
B, K, 504, and N03 as well as C03 and HC03 will occur in the groundwater.
Hence, there is need for a rigorous groundwater monitoring plan to establish
their concentrations. In addition to providing a basis for tracking ground
water quality changes, this program would also contribute to better
understanding of the chemical dynamics occurring in both the saturated and
ursaturated soil zones. To derive the full benefit from the program it is
essential that ground water monitoring programs be carried out In conjunction
with the detailed monitoring of the soils.
13.  Surfagn Nater. The major potential sources of contamination of runoff
from reclaimed fields are gypsum, pyrites, or agrochemicals used in land
reclamation as well as naturally concentrated salts from the soil surface.
Seepage from shallow aquifers into the drainage systems may also contribute
contaminants to surface water systems particularly as a result of the
maintenance of a positive water head at the surface during the Kharif season
and more extensive irrigation during the Rabi season. The environmental
hazard associated with these potential sources are not considered to
constitute a major environm-artal or health threat given the high degree of
dilution to which they will be subjected. None the less there is a need to
guard against the possibility of contamination of surface waters, adversely
affecting downstream users and aquatic systems. On the strength of this a
surface water monitoring program has been devised.
14.  Airh O 4a1±St=.  In general the reclamation activities will lead to an
improvement of air quality. As a result of the stabilization of the soils
through re-introduction of crops and the re-establishment of active biological
systemu, the land surface will no longer be so prone to the wind erosion and
dissemination of salt-laden particulates t at now occurs in the dry season. No
specific monitoring of air quality is considered necessary at this time.
Yh  3nvi-r                   Ian IInri oring anid RVA1nation
15.   This program has both monitoring and evaluation elements and is designed
to provide a consistent framework within which observations are made and data
collected.
16.  The monitoring component is designed primarily to provide feedback on
environmental matters to the project management ensuring that any negative
impacts of the treatment are identified and dealt with in a timely manner. It



97
Afl.S, * 
Page 5 of 9 Pages
also has the function of providing the implementation team with formal
information gathering procedures to thoroughly understand the processes that
are occurr!ng in the soils and water environments as a result of the
treatments being applied. Using this they may improve their reclamation
technologies and the chances of long-term sustainabilIty of their efforts. The
environmental management plan is summarized in Table 2.
17.  The evaluation coponent will provide a framework for the critical
assessment of the achievements of the project. This will not only be used to
assess the success of this investment initiative, but will also provide the
basis for formalization of methodologies that would be applied in future sodic
land reclamation projects,
SnII & Laidl Una Mrnltnrrrng and Evalnation nf R~1amatiAon Prear.
is.    LDC has entered into an agreement with the Remote Senjing Applications
Centre (R.S.A.C) to undertake tho principal role of information collection for
planning, monitoring and evaluattvn purposes. Their planning activities are
discussed in Annex 5. Their role in project impact assessment is divided
between 3 programs: (1) project durability evaluation; (2) annual reclamation
monitoring; and (3) measuring the expansion of sodic land.
19.  prsjA1t Dru ahlIty XV lnnt4  . A GIS system and associated data base
will be installed in RSAC for the principal purpose of tracking the spatial
and qualitative progress of reclamation. Land use changes will be identified
primarily through the changes in spectral patterns within the project area,
using IRS LISS-2 images. These images will be collected twice a year, in
October and February to correspond to the times of maximum crop coverage in
the kharif and rabi seasons respectively. Individual areas will be surveyed
at the time of reclamation and subsequently five and eleven years later. In
oi4er to economize on the amount of work involved it is recommended that these
subsequent surveys be limited to the Rabi season only, since successful
reclamation is likely to be indicated during this season.
20. Data on ground truth will be collected in the areas that are mapped
annually as a part of this program to ensure that the interpretations given to
the images are correct. These data on ground truth will consist of field
observations with respect to the types of sta'nding crops, plant density and
crop health. Random sampling proceduires will be used in the selection of the
sites to be sampled. At each observ. tion site soil samples will also be taken
at 15 cm depth intervals to a depth of 1 m and subjected to the suite of
physical, chemical and biological analyses listed in Table 1, in the RSAC
laboratory. The analyses for biological activity in the soils are important
as they provide useful indicators of the success of reclamation. All data from
the field observations and the soil analysis will be stored in a data base
that is compatible with the GIS system, so that it can be subjected to
appropriate spatial and computer simulation analysis.
21. The project impact evaluation program described above will be closely
coordinated with the socio-economic impact evaluation program to be undertaken



98
Ann.&lf n
Page 6 of 9 Pages
by IDM, Lucknow. In so far as pos'oble, the crop and soil sampling will occur
on the land of individuals or groups who are also the subjects of the
socioeconomic evaluation. The purpose of this will be to provide an
opportunity to identify relationships, if any, between the physical and
chemical conditions of the soils and the social and economic conditions within
the dependant conuunities.
22.  armIni 1gwn1attnn L.=n4J-t^LL. The annual monitoring of reclaimed
areas will be undertaken with two principal goals in mind: (a) the systematic
tracking of the rate at which improvements in soil conditions are being
achieved after implementation of the reclamation program: and (b) the benefits
accruing to areas in which link drains are installed, but which are not
otherwise participating in the reclamation.   The program will require the use
of a stratified sampling design which is provided in Figure 1. Twelve
monitoring sites will be selected in a -'ciation with each reclamation site,
six on reclaimed land and six on adjacent unreclaimed land. In each case, 2
Flote will be on class A land, 2 on class 8 land and 2 on class C land. Care
will have to be taken in selecting the location of these plots as they should
be maintained for permanent reference purposes.  These are envisaged to be
farmersI fields that are appropriately identified and can be returned to
provide a relatively consistent basis for sampling and for later comparison.
In the case of the sites on reclaimed land, allowance has been made for
monitoring class A land as well as class B land, although they will be treated
in the same manner for reclamation purposes. The purpose of monitoring these
sodic land classes separately is to determine the relevance of this
categorization that was used for project planning purposes. The location of
the plots on unreclaimed land presents certain problems, the greatest of which
is to ensure that the sites are not subsequently reclaimed. If this does
happen their value will be lost for comparative purposes. These plots should
also be located where the benefits of the drainage system are likely to be
felt. They should be located no further than 50 m from an improved field
drain.
23.  The soils at each site should be sampled at depth intervals of 0-15 cm,
16-30 cm and 31 to 60 cm and analyzed for the indicative suite of parameters
provided in Table 1. The yield at each plot site should be recorded for each
crop in the cropping sequence, including the legume crop.
24.  This monitoring program will be coordinated closely with UIM, the agency
responsible for undertaking the socio-economic baseline surveys an project
impact evaluations. The farmers on whose land the monitoring sites are
established should also be surveyed as part of the baseline and subsequent
socio-economic surveys.
This sampling program would also include the collection and analysis of soil
samples from sites in which piezometer nests are installed for the detailed
monitoring of groundwater depths and quality (Paragraph 36). The sampling at
these sites would be more detailed, however, with samples taken at 15 cm
intervals to a depth of 1 m. A full suite of analyses would be conducted an
the samples (Table 1).



99
Page 7 of 9 Pages
25.   nvpagnR   ofn  Snet-Landa.  There is some controversy over <he precise
area of usar lands and Westinga (1992) provides a summary of various opinions
which range from 0.84 to 1.3 million ha. More important, however, is the
question of whether these areas are still expanding. If they are, as
suggested by Singh (1990), there is obviously a need to further develop
programs for the prevention of this phenomenon.
26.  RSAC will undertake a survey of selected areas designed to provide a
reliable answer to this question. Comparison will initially be made of LINMSAT
MSS images from 1975, with current (1992 or 1993) images from IRS LISS-1 or -2
data covering the same scenes. Should it prove difficult to reliably identify
changes throughi this approach, or should additional and more 4etailed
information be required, a study will be conducted using aerial photographs.
This will be based on the comparative study of selected 1:15,000 scale aerial
photographs taken in the early 1980s with the recent 1:10,000 photography
taken in December, 1992 for the same areas. Zor both approaches it has been
agreed with RSAC that the comparison would be undertaken with the aid of the
GIS system.
~~li~WAterQLtxn
27.   RSAC will undertake the groundwater monitoring program. This
institution has the most suitable laboratory facilities in Lucknow in which to
combine all soil and water analyses, apply consistent analytical
methodologies and quality assurance procedures. It also has its own staff
hydrogeologists and has the added benefit of highly qualified computer staff
who are available to work on the input, storage and processing of data. This
capability will be reinforced by the introduction of a GIS system that will
permit the spatial analysis of data.  This work would be undertaken in
cooperation with the Groundwater Department.
28.   VatAr Monitoring Prxorama.  The programs will consist of 3 components:
(1) collection of all available hygrographs and water quality data from
existing sources; (2) a general monitoring program designed to track water
table elevations, depths and quality throughout the reclamation area; and (3)
a detailed monitoring program designed to collect specific information on the
movement of salts through the solum and into the groundwater system.
29.   Callotion of RzintinDgiata. All accessible data relating to shallow
groundwater hydrographs, groundwater elevations, depths of aquifers, or water
quality data for the project area would be eollected immediately to prepare
the data base using a software compatible with GIS software. The principle
sources from which this information would be available are the State
Groundwater Department and the Central Groundwater Board. This information
would be used to develop a broad picture of the spatial distr:bution of the
chetical characteristics of the water as well as the depth and elevations of
groundwater tables.
30. G.n.al traundvator MLtonitrring. This program will consist of a maximum
of 70 piezometers distributed throughout the project area at a density of 3-4



100
knaxI
Page 8 of 9 Pages
per reclamation site and will constitute the principle means through which
ground water will be monitored. The details of the numbers of piezometers
selected and their locations will be the responsibility o'! the Hydrogeologist
in consultation with the Groundwater Advisor.
31.  These will be installed into the shallow aquifers that are being tapped
to provide the irrigation water used in the reclamation of the surface soils
these aquifers are most likely to be affected by the leaching of salts. Collar
elevations and map coordinates will be surveyed to ensure that absolute water
depths can be accurately defined and water flow directions detezmined. The
water depth in these piezometers will be recorded at the time they are
installed and subsequently, before and after the monsoons.  Samples will be
taken at the same time and analyzed for the parameters already suggested in
Table 1. Analytical data will be submitted to water hygiene specialist to
ensure that water quality is suitable for domestic consumption purposes and to
identify parameters that might cause problems in situations of long-term
consumption. A selected number of drinking wells will also be sampled
periodically to monitor their quality for chemical and physical analyses.
32. A total of 19 piezometers (one lper reclamation aite) wilL be provided
with automatic water l.evel recorders in order to provide a continuous
hygrograph of the shallow aquifers. These piezometers will form part of the
70 mentioned above and will not be additional to that number. These
piezometers will be installed coincidentally with the inception of the
reclamation programs and wherever possible a soil sampling site will also be
loczaed adjacent to them.
33.  fletaJs  mItoaxi ng   This will be conducted in two sites (one in Rae
Bareli and the other in Hardoi), in which reclamation procedures are being
practiced. At each site, a total of 10 piezometers will be installed to
sample zones between 2m and 40m depth. Collar elevations and coordinates will
be surveyed for each of the piezometers. Automatic water level recorders will
be established in one piezometer per site, in the other piezometers water
depths will be recorded three times per year (post irrigation of Kharif, Rabi
and Summer crops, if any) and samples taken for analysis of the suite of
parameters already recommended in Table 1. The principal goals of this program
will be to: (a) to generate continuous hydrographs of the shallow aquifers at
these sites (b) generate detailed infcruut3on of the pattern of salt movement
beneath the solum and in relationship to lithology and groundwater depths; (c)
generate a better understanding of the potential for contamination of the
groundwater; (d) define groundwater flow directions; and (e) identify
potential health hazards associated with dissolved solids in the groundwater.
The data from this project will be collected on a data base and analyzed to
identify changes that are occurring annually as well as over the long term.
34.   surfarA wnA,  sal1na. A surface water sampling program would be
developed by RSAC together with LDC. The purpose of this is to better
understand the potential impact on the quality of surface water draining into
the natural and constructed drainage system and also to ensure that downstream



101
ann"- lA
Page 9 of 9 Pages
users are not being adversely affected by this water. All major drains will be
sampled before and after the monsoons as well as a representative number of
field drains. Water samples will be subjected to all the analyses identified
in Table 1, which will also include a rapid test for E.OoU, as an indication
of the degree of contamination with faecal bacteria.
35.  fta-RRt                         S=taw.  The re-establishment of an
active bioAoojical system, even at the restricted level represented by the
rice/wheat/legums cropping system planned for most of the project area, will
provide a useful and significant indicator of the success of reclamation. The
basis of this system will be the rewestablishment of biological activity in
the soil, which is to be evaluated through the soil sampling activities of
RSAC and the analysis of aggregate stability, and organic matter. The
reestablishment of the more readily observable components of the biological
system is represented by the growth of plants and the presence of soil macro-
organisms which attract a variety of insects, small mammals and birds.   The
evaluation of the success of the project must include the assessment of the
degree to which these macro-biological systems have been reestablished and a
degree of diversity that has been achieved within the constraints of the
proposed land management systems.
36.  RSAC will carry out biological surveys in tandem with the program of
land use and reclamation achievement surveys. These will be carried out
during the year that reclamation is implemented and five and eleven years
thereafter and will foftus on the cropped areas as well as areas that are
reclaimed for agro-forestry. Surveys will take place once during the monsoon
season and again during the dry season in order to take into account the
presence or absence of migratory species that have temporary residence in the
area.
37.  Point quadrant sampling approaches will be used to establish the
representative plant and insect species present in the area. The only
stratification that would be required would be the differentiation between
cropland and land reclaimed for agro-forestry. For birds and small mammals it
is recommended that transect sampling approaches be applied in which the
transects would be established randomly in the major land use categories. As
a result of these surveys individual species frequencies and abundance will
be established and diversity indices will be established.



102
Annex-=n
Table 1
Schedule of Laboratory Analyses for Soils, Groundwater and
Biological Monitoring and Evaluation Programs
Puzpose of                                  alytical Parameters
Analv.is        ___                       _    _    _    _    .    _
_________________ _    .Soils                       Water
oral Character-          pR *                      pH
zation                     Color                issolved Solids  Suspended
Soil Texture        olids
Hydraulic Conduct. Total Hardness
Bulk Density
Organic Matter
Salinity
Hazard                      EC"                      BC
Ca++ **Ca++
Mg++ **                   g++
Na+ "                    Na+
C03                      CO3
HC02                     HC02
S04                      S04
E-                       F-
tala:                     B                         B
Zn                       8n
Li                       Li
ertility:                  P 3/                      P
R  3/                    K     N03
N03 3/
hysical: ~    qqrecrae Stability         _____________
Biolical:            tesDiration                         E.Coli 2/ 
Note:       1/   All analysis of salts and metal%s in soils to be done on
water soluble extracts only.
2/    On surface water samples only.
3/   Using standard procedures for fertility analysis
**   Standard Analyses to be applied in the soil monitoring
program.



Table 2: Environmental Management Plan
A. Matrix of Potential Environmental Impacts and Risk Reduction Measures
Isues                          Potential Project                         Effect                       Actions
__ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ __._ _ _                   Impa ct                  _ ___ __   ___ _ _ _ __ _ ___  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Biodiversity                     Increase biodiversity due to re-          Increased biological          Underake baseline survey
establishment of active biological        diversity of a highly         of fauna and flora in the
systems in soils and improved habitiat    simplified system.            project area. Monitor
conditions for insects, small mammals                                   impacts on populations
and birds. Changes in grass communities                                 throughout project
as they are replaced with                                               Measure microbial
rice/wheat/sesbania crop system.                                        activity through
___________________________  Probability of occurrence: High                                      indicative means.
Groundwater Quality              Water quality deterioration as a result   Decreased availability of     Rigorous monitoring of GW
of leaching of salts from treated         good quality irrigation       quality, elevation and
surface.                                  water.  Sustainability of     depth at 70 permanant
reclamation jeopardize d.     individual peizometer
sites and 2 multi (10)
|_____________________________  Probability of occurrence: Moderate                                       peizometer nests.
Surface Water Quality            Deterioration in quality as waterways     Decreased utility of water    Rigorous monitoring of
receive runoff contaminated with soil    for downstream users and       surface water quality in
treatment chemicals and seepage with      fisheries.                    main drains.
leached salts.
__ _ ___    Probability of occurrence: Low
Soil Quality                     Improvement of soils thr, gh reduction    Expansion of Productive       Undertake continued
in pH and SAR levels, improved            land area.                    monitoring of reclaimed
permeability, accumulation of organic                                   land and adjacent areas
matter and better physical properties                                   with improved drainage.
through use of Sesbania as green
manure.
Probability of occurrence: 8igh
Air Quality                      Improved air quality during dry season    Potential reduction of        No monitoring planned.
as soil surface is stabilized with        incidence of dust-related
vegetation.                               health problms.
I_____________________         _ ,    ,Probability  of  oeeurrence:   Nigh        ,
t4 It



Bs Institutional Matrix and Areas of Responsibility
INSTITUTION                         ROLE IN PROJECT                      PROJECT SUPPORT                 AGREED ACTION
LDC                        Executing agency responsible for: supervision              Yes            Contract RSAC, IIM  to undertake
of all reclamation activities                                            monitoring activities and provide
advice on enviromnetal management.
Where necessary adjust reclamation
technologies to reduce impacts.
RSAC                        i.   Selection of project area;                           Yes            Report findings to LDC after each
ii.  Assessing the ectension of sodic lands                              cropping season, with
iii. Annual reclamation monitorings                                      recommendations for action.
iv.  Project durability evaluation                                       Coordiante closely with IIH in
v.   General groundwater monitoring;                                     preparation of sampling design.
vi. Detailed groundwater monitoring
vii. Biodiversity monitoring;
viii.Laboratory analyses for soil a water
IrM                        Socio-Economic Surveys in reclaimed and                    Yes            Report fndings to LDC ater each
adjacent un-reclaimed areas.                                             cropping season. Coordiante
closely with PSAC in sampling                 O
design._
'-'
ow



go P,s 'Isoma
n4in U~~~~~~~~"I oig
4. aSTDa
*  .                              .assm ,a
o            l                        .                                             .    .        
OWn- lW SWM    i0 tOl    5111851111ll SOd                                            581    11
lan a uu
USTSSU SuTIdwes Su}zoluou uolpwwwIo.
iospoad uo@iwtwoSu spuwi oJPoS ali
.8



106
Page 1 of 5 pages
h~an1tne.   Roarnitr   n    eetyMta*
1.    This annex outlines the assumptions for all agricultural, horticultural
and forestry development of the project, on which the project financial and
economic analysis is based.
'rood     Prd*o,,o
2.    The project costs have been developed using the agricultural calendar;
i.e year 1 is July 1992 through June 1993. Crop production activities begin
in the second year of project implementation; land reclamation activities
(including the growing of a green manure crop) are undertaken during the first
year. Thus crop production years will be referred to as CPY2, 3 etc. which
are the equivalent of project implementation years 1, 2, etc.
Crnppimg patt=rn
3.    The majority of Class 8 and C land (52,830 ha.) will be developed using
the  traditional cropping pattern of UP, of paddy in the Rharif followed by
wheat in the Rabi, using proven salt-tolerant varieties. Daincha (sesbania
aculeata), a green manure, will be grown and incorporated into the soil as
part of the reclamation process (these costs are included under the land
reclamation component therefore). Farmers will be encouraged to continue to
plant green manure crop in later years, but a budget for a third crop has not
been included in the farm budgets. As the soil reverts to near normal
physical and chemical state, other higher value crops, such as berseem or
vegetables, may be grown by participating farmers. Project analysis has been
carried out on the basis of a paddy / wheat rotation only.
croppin Int.naity
4.    Cropping intensity will be increased on both B and C class land to 200%.
Without project cropping density on class B land is 100% (one crop, usually
paddy) but which yields very poorly.
5.    With/without project yield projections and revenues are shown in table 2
of Annx 12. These projections are conservative, and lower than those reported
in other states on reclaimed soils, to take into account the relative lack of
experience of reclamation in UP. CSSRI has achieved yields of 6 to 7 tons/
ha.of paddy and 5 tons/ha. of wheat on experimental plots; expected final
project yields have been set at less than half of these. Yields in year 7 of
the project are given as 3.0 mt for paddy and 2.0 mt for wheat. These figures
are also consistent with experience from the ongoing Bhoomi Sona Reclamation



107
Annszll
Page 2 of 5 pages
Project and previous proje- as. Most data available concerning current crop
yields are State or district aggregates, which do not separate data according
to land class as defined in this project: i.e. yields on sodic land are
averaged with yields from normal, non-sodic land. Cu-rent yields on Class B
land are known to be very poor, usually less than I Mt/ha; Class C land is
barren. It is expected that all classes of land will produce the same yield
after reclamation is completed, since the land should be restored to its
normal state.
Pur.ghapfd I== R=im
6.    Table 3, Annex 12 shows input levels recommended by the project, based
on information provided by local experts and project consultants. The levels
are high compared to current usage, but comparable to normal input levels on
good soils in productive areas. Analysis is based on the assumption that,
during the first two years of crop production, when all inputs are provided to
the farmers by the project, inputs will be used at the full recommended level.
Thereafter, on class B land, 75% of those levels will be used consistently.
On class C land, input use will drop to 50% of the recommended level (as no
subsidy is available) in year 3 but will gradually increase to 75% by the end
of the project, as farmers' experience and incomes increase.
7.   Aud varieties which have been chosen are known to be salt resistant and
tolerant to sodicity. N±txagAn use on sodic soils is recommended to be 20%
higher than on normal soils: however requirements are lower in years 2 and 3,
since the qreen manure crop is being incorporated and provides the equivalent
of 80kg of N.  Models also include N requirements (10kg) for the nursery.
2ataaa±in levels in sodic soils are high, therefore its application is not
necessary for the paddy crop. A small quantity may be necessary during Rabi.
Similarly, nhoona  is usually present in sodic soils; both should be
applied in accordance with results of soil tests.  Zinn Sulphar& (25kg/ha) is
recommended, as research indicates that crops are highly responsive to it on
sodic soils. A higher dose (40kg.) is recoinnded in the f'rst cropping
season. Significant input of EYM is also recommended as it greatly improves
the physical structure of the soil; use will be governed by local availability
however. Allowance has been made for a small application of h3muderth in CPY
5, since experience has shown that sodic patches may reappear occasionally
after a few years of crop production, as salts resurface.  water uaa
requirements have been calculated according to the capacity of the tubewells
and local conditions (See Table 1). Paddy requires 5 irrigations of 10.4
hours; wheat 7 irrigation of 12.3 hours. The 1993 market price of water is
between Rs 15 and Rs 20, depending on the time of year and demand. No cost
for water has been shown in the crop models, as it will be provided by a
jointly owm.d 8 HP diesel pumpset. Water costs are therefore shown under
*pumpset maintenance' in the land reclamation component.
Lar Lia
8.   All labor requirements for crop production are to be provided by
participating households: hired labor is not likely to be used due to the



108
Page 3 of 5 pages
abundance of family labor. For the economic analysis the labor rate of Rs 20
per hour has been adjusted by the standard conversion factor of 0.8 since
there is significant rural unemployment in UP.
prie~. of Purn sad& Inputa
9.   Financial prices of fertilizers, pesticides and seeds are based on the
prevailing prices to the farmers in 1992, provided by the LDC and corroborated
by missions. All prices are for nutrient-kg. Nitrogen Rs. 7/kg; Phosphate
Rs 17/kg; Potash Rs 9/kg; Zinc Sulphate Rs 10/kg; paddy seed (year 1 only) Rs
4/kg; wheat seed (year 1 only) Rs 5/kg. Economic prices, based on import
parity prices, are laid out in Annex 13, Table 1
Ontpnt Pr4-ng
10. The 1992 t1nang±a1 prices used are; paddy Rs 2800/mt and wheat Rs
3250/ mt. Sefolamd  prices have been calculated on an import parity basis as
shown in Annex 12, Table 1. At the farmgate these are; paddy Rs 4075/mt and
wheat Rs 5682 /mt.
LAQl of fa?¶r fort
11.   For the first two years of crop production following reclamation works,
agro-iaputs are provided to the farmer by the project, since the reclamation
process is not complete until crops have been successfully established and the
soil begins to assume normal properties. Slightly difEerent levels are
support are available to beneficiaries on land classes B & C. In CPYI, on
both classes of land, all inputs are provided to the farmer for both crops; in
CPY2, farmers on class C land are provided inputs for both seasons; famers on
class B land are provided with inputs for the paddy crop only, since original
conditions are slightly better and income levels should have improved
sufficiently for them to be able to buy the inputs for the second crop. This
would ensure that the correct and necessary levels of all inputs are used,
yields are good and provide farmers with an adequate income.  It also provides
a good incentive for farmers' participation and develops confidence that the
reclamation process works and that the land will provide a good livelihood.
For Class B land, the cost of reclamation is about Rs 58,000/ha. Of this, the
support to farmers covers only 11%, while farmer's own contributions are about
45%. Similarly, the land reclamation cost for Class C land is about Rs
68,000/ha, of which the support is 12%; farmers contribute 45%. The cost of
all inputs provided by the project in CPYl & 2 fall under the land reclamation
component in project cost tables. Table 3 provides the breakup of total cost
of reclamation into infrastructure cost, farmer contribution and support to
farmers, for crop, horticulture and forestry activities.
12. Development of fruit trees will be undertaken on 3000 ha (9%) of the
total project area. Salt tolerant species - aonla, ber and guava - have been
selected on the basis of experiments by the Department of Horticulture.



109
Page 4 of 5 nages
Fruit tree crop models, combining the fruits, are shown in Annex 13, Tables 6
(a) and (b).  These combinations were chosen sino  they begin to produce
fruit in year 3 of cultivation and also generate the greatest revenue. Other
species may be developed later in the project's life.
lant--g lansitv
13.   Planting density for aonla/ber and aonla/guava will be 156/121 plants
respectively, for both models. Pits should be 90cm * 90cm * 90cm.
14. Yield projections for the fruit tree models are outlined in Annex 12,
Table 6. These are conservative, being approximately half of the yields
achieved in research plots. The trees' productive life is token to be 10
years for ber and guava and 20 years for aonla.
ZA=L&
15.                    in matar4al is to be provided from nurseries of the Department of
Horticulture. Pits are to be filled with a mixture of sand. amsnwxnt
(6kg/pit) and EXE. Ee=±iaL*x  are to be applied according to results of soil
tests; ZaZg.igd use will be need L ,sed and in accordance with the
recommendations of the Dept. of Horticulture. * Vt  rq  antat basin
irrigation is reconmended, with 12 irrigations of 5 hours each; sufficient and
regular irrigation is particularly essential for the fruit trees during the
suimr months and frequency of irrigation may have to be increased according
to need. The cost of water is not included in the models for reasons
explained above in para.7 above.  The cost of essential smaint., such as
sprayers and dusters, are allowed for in the crop moxels.  Rousehold labnx
will be used for all activities and is priced as for agricultural activities
as noted above.
I=t   I t=  Pr!t=
16.  Prices of all purchased inputs are as given in para.9 above. There is
significant local demand for aonla, be: and guava, as well as other fruits,
for direct consumption and also for use in pickles and other condimnts.
Output will be marketed directly by the farmers through local markets, or
through cooperatives. Current farmgate prices are: Aonla Rs 12 /kg, Ber Rs
1/kg and Rs 1 /kg for guava.
PIftit S  L=at *t  fer-m
17.  Most costs of land development (excluding lbor) are provided on a grant
basis since these are infrastructural works. The faers contribute their
labor, 50% of the initial cost of the pumpset, 100% of the cost of pumpset
maintenance and OFD maintenance. All crop establishment costs for CPY1 and
maintenance costs for the first 2 years are also provided. This is important
in order to ensure that the crop is well established on tbhs soils with



110
Page S of 5 pages
difficult growing conditions. Furthermore, the majority of project
beneficiaries would not be able to afford those costs during the initial years
since revenue begins to flow from the first fruiting in year 4 only. It is
expected that farmers will continue to work for wage labor or on other land
holdings whilst tending these crops during the first few years. All models
begin to yield fruit by year 4; from then on farmers will fund 100% of the
cost of maintenance of the trees. Land reclamation cost is about Rs 18,000/ha
for horticulture crops.  The total support from the project to farmers
represents about 24% of this cost, while farmers' contribution is about 36%.
Eoreat
18.  Small, scattered patches of community land within the project area, of
an average size of 6 ha and totalling approximatoly 3,000 ha, will be
developed using models which are based on forestry species. The models have
been provided by the UP Department of Forestry based on ongoing work using
salt tolerant tree species elsewhere in the state. These models were chosen
to generate fodder, fuelwood and poles soon after establishment, so as to
provide the community with products, and hence an incentive to manage the
areas well. Benefits of this activity would be targeted to women, through
women's groups taking over responsibility for the management of comminity
forestry programs under the project, in agreement with village communities.
Yield a nd Plantiln D2nSitv
19. The main model which has been developed is based on local tree species.
Species to be used, which are known to be tolerant to sodicity, are babul,
vilayati babul, subabool, kala sirls, safed sirs, kanji, jangal jalebi, dhak
and sesbania. Trees will be planted at a density of 1200 plants per hectare
(3m * 3m spacing).
20.  Trees will be planted in pits and filled with FYM (Skg), sand (2kg) and
jypsum (2kg). Allowance has been made for the use of an auger, which is
necessary to penetrate kaokar layers which inhibit tree root development.
Planting material will be supplied by the Department of Forestry from
nurseries. Mortality of 40% in year 2 and 10% in year 3 is allowed for.
Irrigation is required 15 times per year; water cost in the case of the
forestry model is taken as the purchase price of water from adjoining farms
(at the market price of Rs 16/hr). Mulch is applied 8 times per year; no
chemical fertilizer is provided for. Labor cost for establishment and
tending, the cost for a guard will be paid. The cost of land reclamation
under the forestry component amounts to aS 29,000/ha, which is financed fully
by the project.
21. The returns from the forestry sub-component are not included in the
financial and economic analyses since the benefits are mostly of a social
nature in a very small, pilot area.



111
Annex 11
Table 1
Watwrequlremeampto
hefolowing waterfeorpad yandyoweaw rea tmAnnex S, SARofScdUPPbTubewel Pfoject
Figus are caulaed on the awssm    of 60% watr use effcicy, usingtde Puman fig  . aft efftive raia)
Each pmnpset is assumed to serve a seaof4 ha
8HPPuMp        Sam3perhoaw
Deliery
Cubic MOu ]aer Mouth/Ia
Hours R Toa         J   F   M    A   M    J   J   A    S   0   N    PD
LatePaddy          52      2W90                             70 740        310 1100 370
Le Wheat           86   I  4279  340 1073 1S73 373                                       920
hi addition to the yarly crop requreanait wate Is needed dutreingm n  oWmtegre   o
crop during the fran yd sconpd years of crop production
Reclmaio requie three ap mt   of rdgatio oScm, 15cm and 15cm respectvy.
Hence 3hacm - 03Skmn3 = 3S00 m3 /50  70 bous of irria
Oreen manure crops requre approx y 1S00 m3 of water, equvalt to 30 hours  Ioigaion
Frmers may chose to grow a thid crop In law yas of the proe  which would albo increase the yealy rqurement
Tne toal yearly wate requrement per becta  and per pumpot Is show blow.
Hors of  er/
crop           I   2    3T    4    5   6  7...
Paddy               0  52  52  52  52  52  52
What                0   86  86  86   86  86  86
Reclamation        70   0   0    0   0   0    0
Greenmue           30  30   0   0   0   0   0
Tota/ha            100  167  137  137  137  137  137
T /pmnpse         400 670 550 550 550 550 550
Ammal numing and m      _  costs ae based on tds lee of use.



LAlRSCLUcIMAOuPACAiNmSINALN3Au3
I -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
U~~~                  0    0   0   0       *   013       0     013
L~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~WO                                            MM  -a-  Mm-
Ad_ b "6 1 " O O O O O " 1e~~~~~~~~0                                  coo
sof                  ML    40   023    6        0    0   0   0   0   *            la A   n
f_mk                 BL   amD  Om       SW      a  O    O     0   0   0           a   i
IA-                                   AM   °        0° a   0   0° a        u O         0  I
*  0    0   0~~ 0   0   0    *
__ S fft t1" ~~~~~~~~~~0   0   0   0                               me  mm" 01
1__ 1 5ib 1    1     is     o o      o  o                          s e    o 
oubw_ * " w          is    as      I      0                                        eS
"IPlkLtA"OI                          2aJ   OM  3U  360 xo     no  no              29=                                         W l
________e__ _           _  __                                    0 S0_
-_                                        o    m   em    o   o   *   o             
taw                                       0   1O  14O         0   0   0            0    0
Sed                 Is       $            0        310   0   0   0   0             SO D   40
law                 mg      3             0   13  296    0   0   0   0    4       n 0    0
O1moft.             I&      3                                                      0    0
EnginE              is    VA.             4  5W   449   4   0   *   0            10  4151
TOALCAutbn           _                        M    n .             *   * *_____
_AOAo                          o  a3a  3ws  mom     m      m                 oi  0
hp%                    2$hB  Om   3xn SW sf  m    3># 3a   3B n1714  1
"Misewnzpd                    _                    U4  tu      tfi  m       t    f f UN                                      tt" s x
Notes
1/     OFD maintenanoe includes field drains, farm drains, irrigation cha0 8ls and bonds.
2/     Drain maintenance includes link and maln drains.
3/     Covers 2 orops in year 1 and paddy crop only in year 2.
4/     Includes seed, fertilllers and seed treatment.



11*M bef_ _              2    9  4   s   6   7  . h 
_,_ ___ _ __                                             _                                     _ _
Did_                 b     sm      1    S6 O    O   O   O   O   O                     SWIO
bob                  f    425  GM       I      0    a   a   0   0   0  12WIO
I_ ,      m 0 2          om   GM    SW  o    o   o   w            D   0               im
toD d"_              la            a   SCO    O    0   O   O   O   0             so  197S  1
146W                        I=~~~1   0    0   0   0   0   a  IM        O     012
__hb                                   im      0 .01  0   0   0   a   O  UWS   no   t
1-   lai                                                             
Om                   ll"  r  16   Vs   id   =2   2M 2Mt1  219  2me 21" U2         O          OI
als__vmo             ut     20    5           xo m  e   o  l0 m e   l@   @1       O    0   am
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~f  30    .   M  Xn2 3s  SIM                                   Om
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~so s   no  3MX SW  SWm                               @
lAb                  ad .D    I             O MtD - 140   O   O   O   -   2m          
sad                  ts      S            O   3m  30   O   O   O   O             100   m
L&_h                 ad     n             0   "2    m    O   O   O   0   -3       O     
Ld                    t     3D            0  4300 430   0   0   O.- 0             06    080
_f  41       1       ^  O                    4M  ItX O   O   O   O    SS  tO   S
OALCAAdMo                    _                lo           aS --- o    a  *   *         sm
OVMUITOALIAN                           MUM    S    MX2343                            "
1 _                  ~~~~~~~~~ttU    8m   am1   tOI  t0O  m    tCO10  0  1
u~~~~~~~~W   MM1b  l449       5 300Xt 3# 04 30302 S10          37M   211         
itW_pd                    .6    dut 4"                    414 tt  Ug    1         U   21 145 SZO 
Notes                                                                                                                        c 
I/     OFD maintenance iiaclues field drains# farm dralns, irrigation channels and bunds.
2/     Drain M&iftOen*Go includeg link and main drains.
3/     covers 2 crops in year 1 and paddy crop only in year 2.
4/     Includes aeed, fertilizer& and seed treatment.



-L||O-__           U,a*4  bb           I eb_ ko4 2              *   7  TA          PA   RE
_mdowde              in    sm      I   264 O0    0   0   0        0   0           50 16
LiDemk~~~mt     I.    so     I    WS      0    0   *   0   0   0             0    0s
F~~~~~~u_ ts                 1    175D    6  O   O   O   O   O              me s D 
Na_4&MN-             I     175     1   IS      0    0   0   0   0   0            3m0to 255
id_                  X     nss          175_ _  0        0        0    0             141
W___ W__ M_ C___ad_____  __ __ _ __ _     3 4   191   19   131   19   1 1   19          £ 00
YO?MLRACUY                             211   10  191  196  191  *91  O93  11113 U
N- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
ad     56   n        0   MD    0   0   0   0   0             0    0
_ V            Dd      24          ~~~o   a  0s xe          so 0e 6          o    o xo
ad     32 5         0   3      0   0   0   0   0a                  0
-A.  ml  t3O t     99 10 aM   0   0   0   0   0
L*Ai                 of     20            0    0so   00    0a   0 00                    0
^tXe                is      Ite do               To 6o  1s  W a     T  m          tok  am
T   0  A  a  U          _ _   _   _ _   _   _ _   _    _ _   _   _  _   _   _
Cxmd_ e(f                                   0    0  2M   *m  ff   0   0   Z              3
tAb     S            0A1                       0    0 11  s1    0   0   0  2811      2381   #1
tp                   Is                    O       VW OM    a O        0   50     O    
_                    IJ IAOOPK--0  "9   to  sO-  O- O   O  " 
_                 IJ      t  UabB  OMO  0           I D nO     O   0                 00 "
imOUXOALI                               02 tA t la o10    d
Notes
I/     OFD maintenance lacludes field drains, farm dralns, irrigation channels and bunds.
2/     Drain maintenance includes link and main drains.
3/     Covers 2 crops in year 1 and paddy crop only in year 2.
4/     Includes seed, (ertilizers and seed treatment.



115
Annex 11
Grant And Farmer Contribution by Type of Activity                       am    3
Land     Infrastructure            Grant           Farmers         Total Cost of
Tvpe        Cost        .____ot               Contribution       Reclamation
Rs/ha     % of     Rs/ha      % of     Rs/ha      8 of      Rs/ha
('000)    Total    ('000)    Total    ('000)    Total       ('000)
l___band__ Cost                  Cost            _  Cost
Land
Class B       25.4       44        6.3       11       26.4       45       58.1
Land
Class C       29.9       43        7.9       12       30.9       45       68.7
Horti-
culture        18        40       10.8       24       15.8       36       44.6
community-
Forestry I                        29.3      100                   -29.3
Weighted averages:
(according to % of land under each land type)
Reclamantion Cost * Rs 59.8 thousand/ha
Grant = 18.6%



116
A-nx1 2
Page 1 of 4
=JTAR                  PRO"-=6!~LNSfRea4TIn    R~~
Draft- TeMs olEf efaron   for S     Ila  studies
Yb. rainage study
1.    The inability of the current drainage system to cope an increasing
drainage load, induced by ir%3.gation, is disconcerting. In the plains of U.P.
where very little gradient change is coupled with blockage of natural drainage
paths by infrastructure developments and insufficient maintenance of the
system, the drainage conditions in some areas have deteriorated over time. As
a result, excess rain and irrigation water retains impounded for a period
after the rainy season which adversely affects the agricultural productivity
and contributes to the formation of sodic lands. The main requirement
therefore is to study and design a drainage system which ensures adequate and
t-imely removal of excess water from agricultural areas generally, and sodic
areas specifically.
2.    Under the project, the sodic soil areas to be reclaimed would be
provided with surface drainage systems down to the field level. The ID would
be responsible for the design and construction or rehabilitation of the main
and link drains. In the initial stage the drainage design to be used under
the project would be based on the standard criteria currently adopted for this
type of work by the Irrigation Department, namely a drainage coefficient of 10
cusec per 100 sq.miles (1.2 1/sec/ha). The Land Development Corporation
(LDC), with farmer participation, would ensure construction of the field/farm
drainage system. Under the proposed maintenance arrangements the main and
link drains would be serviced by the Irrigation Department and fields/farm
drains by the beneficiaries.
Prpo1aed Drainage Study
4.    The main focus of the proposed study would be to evaluate the curren.
statas of the drainage system in UP in the light of the changing needs of the
State's agriculture. As the district level Drainage Master Plans are the key
building blocks of the State's drainage plan, a number of district level plans
would be selected and used as the basis for developing an updated State
Drainage Master plan. The study would also undertake an assessment of the
need for strengthening of the UP Irrigation Department (ID) such that they can
effectively undertake planning, design, implementation and maintenance of the
drainage network based on revised criteria.



117
AnDDB2I
Page 2 of 4
5.    The specific steps in the study would involve:
(a)       Collection, collation and evaluation of data on:
(i)            general experiences with the planning, implementation
and upgrading of the main drainage systems in UP and
under sodic soil impact areas (similar to those under
the project);
(ii)           performance data on construction and maintenance
experiences on drainage works and the related costs;
(iii)          effects of main drainage upgrading (or provision of
new drainage facilities) on the spreading and/or
spontaneous improvement of sodic soils including
effects on soil's physical and chemical properties
(without the specific field reclamation measures to be
undertaken under SLRP);
(iv)           effects of main drainage upgrading on the agricultural
productivity of the nonrmal (non-sodic) agricultural
land; and
(v)            the hydrological and hydraulic characteristics and
performance of the upgraded systems.
The consultants engaged for this study would assist the ID with the design of
the data collection and the evaluation procedure related to items (i) and (ii)
above, with any additional field data collected by the ID staff. Information
on items (iii), (iv), and (v) would be available from the monitoring and
evaluation activities of the project to be undertaken by IDM and RSAC.
The upgrading of the main drainage system under the project would follow the
standard practice currently used by the ID in UP (i.e, standard planning and
design criteria and assumptions). However, the consultants would develop
proposals to test and evaluate alternative designs, construction methods and
maintenance procedures either to improve the system's efficiency and/ox cost
effectiveness. Field testing of such proposals would be incorporated in any
follow-up investment program that GOUP may decide to finance with or without
external assistance.
(b) The review of District Drainage Masterplans would be done in stages. In
the first instance these plans, which now incorporate the main drainage to be
constructed under the project, would be reviewed and if necessary revised to
meet the needs of the SLRP. At a later stage, when the results of the M & E
work to be undertaken by RSAC become available, further reviews of these DDPs
would be conducted, and appropriate modifications made, if required.
(c)   The px=arAtlon of an ACt_in PlAn
The consultants would prepare a prioritized action plan for: (i) the
changes to the District Drainage Master plans in light of the findings of the
study; (b) preparation of a Statewide strategy and implementation plan for
upgrading of the drainage system in relation to specific needs of different



118
Page 3 of 4
major agricultural areas with potential or existing drainage problems. The
action plan would take in to account the institutional capacity of the ID and
make recovmendations fo_. its further strengthening to enable effective
implementation of the proposed strategy in light of the funding likely to be
available for construction and sustainability of the drainage works.
17. The consultants would also be expected to generally assist the ID with the
following activities:
Mi}  advice on the introduction and application of procedures for general
planning and design of drainage programs and quality control in
project implementation; and
(ii) setting up of procedures for regular reporting, and routine monitoring
and evaluation of drainage activities by the ID, and for collating
this information at the State level.
Oreanization of the Consultants
MI).     The study would be coordinated by an internationally recruited
Senior Drainage Engineer consultant located within the XD in Lucknow
and supported by two Drainage Engineers, a Soil Scientist, an
Agriculturalist and support staff located in the districts selected
for the study.
(ii).    This Senior Drainage Engineer would be responsible for general
coordination of the project in cooperation with the central executing
agency (ID); (b) standardization of designs, materials and equipment:
and (c) progress monitoring and reporting to Government. Frequent
visits to the districts would be necessary on a routine basis and
whenever special issues arise. The Engineer would also be responsible
for reporting consolidated interim and final reports for all areas
under study.
(iii).   The members of the study team based in the districts would assist
with: (a) survey, investigation and review of district level plans;
(b) collection of data on the technical, financial and social aspects
of drainage maintenance information form the SLRP areas; and (c)
reporting of progress and performance of the drainage network to the
senior Drainage Engineer according to standards and procedures
established by that unit.
21. 6nalification of Consultants
XMerati4onally Becruitad Staff
(a) Team Leader/Senior Drainagge Enineer.
An internationally recruited specialist, with about 15 years
experience in coordinating and implementing drainage development
projects and a strong background in management and planning of large
scale drainage projects. The specialist would lead a consultancy
team and preferably have experience in India, or on schemes similar
to those proposed under the project. He would also preferably have
experience in drainage master plan preparation with institutions



119
Annex 1Z
Page 4 of 4
(similar to those in UP), and in operating at the highest levels of
government.
(b) Short-term Consultant on Drainage Maintenance   Senior Drainage
Engineer with experience in maintenance and management of drainage
systems in developing countries.
Loeally Recruited Staff
(c) Drainagg Engineer. A specialist, with about 10 years experience
in all aspects of drainage and with a special interest in the M&E
of drainage development. The specialist would have wide field
experience in the design, construction and maintenance of drainage
systems.
(d) Drainage Engineer. A specialist with wide practical experience in
planning, design, construction and testing of drainage systems in
India. The candidate would have experience in managing consultant
teams.
(e) Aoil Snientist. A specialist with wide experience of studies on
soil characteristics, especially salt affected problem soils. The
scientist would have practical experience in organizing studies on
analyzing changes in soil characteristics over time due to
physical and chemical interventions.
(f)  AUricilturalist. A specialist with about 10 years experience of
studying crop behavior in problem soils, and practical experience
in conducting crop productivity evaluations.
Other supp2rt Staff. To be provided by the ID as determined by the
team of engineers.
(i) The consultant would be in place on or about September 30, 1994 and would
be procured under the 'Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants'. The
terms of reference and other documentation would include sufficient
information on the objectives and scope of the proposed study and
procedures and criteria to prepare a responsive bid.
(ii)  Preference woald be given to a consultant with:  (a) experience in
drainage development and management in India or elsewhere with similar
monsoon climatic conditions; (b) experience of Indian institutions
involved in irrigation and drainage development.



120
Anniex 12 Iat
Page 1 of 4
INDI
UTTAR PBAD,SH SODIC LANDS BBCA -ATION  PROBC
Qraft Terms of Rif rZnca for Specntal Srtudy
The Rffiniencyt of Shallow Tuhnv1l0 Study
1. The increased demand for irrigation water has prompted farmers to build
shallow tubewells in Uttar Pradesh, financed by private creditors and/or
government grants. For a variety of reasons, the inefficiency of these wells
now close to 50%. This study would evaluate shallow tubewells (STWs)
constructed by farmers in the private sector, typically consisting of shallow
boreholes (capable of being hand-drilled), locally purchased pumpsets with
centrifugal pumps, and either diesel or electric prime mover. The study would
give special attention to the groundwater irrigation facilities to be provided
for reclamation of sodic soil areas under the proposed Sodic lands Reclamation
project (SLRP). To undertake these tasks, study consultants1 would be
employed over period of about 18 months (para 9).
2.  The Studv  Gro=o.   Preference would be given to consultants with:  (a)
experience in evaluation of groundwater development activities, particularly
related to private sector development in UP, or elsewhere in India; and (b)
experience with Indian institutions involved in groundwater irrigation and
drainage development and irrigated agriculture.  The study consultants would
be expected to demonstrate their ability to produce documentation relating to
following activities, inter alia: (a) the specific objectives of the proposed
study; (b) preparation of practical and prioritized action plans and related
cost estimates; (c) organization and management of field surveys and
evaluation of relevant physical resources, technical infrastructure and
irrigated agricultural impact: (d) capability to evaluate technical parameters
related to planning and design: and (e) ability to undertake financial and
economic analysis and diag.iostic analysis relevant to the proposed study.
Part A. ia-kgLam=d
4.    In the early 1980s under an ARDC operation, limited surveys and studies
were undertaken in UP to evaluate the efficiency of typical STWs financed from
credit. This identified that simple design changes could be made which would
significantly increase the 'wire to water' efficiency of STWs. This work (and
other studies undertaken by NABAPD) were detailed in a publication which also
X     The Study Group could be either a consultant firm, a research facility or an
academic institute.



121
Annex 12 (a)
Page 2 of 4
provided information on the survey methodology and surveying techniques2.
Since then there has been little work to follow up on the results of the
NABARD study. The main constraint to change appears tc have been the lack of
understanding of the technical alternatives, no incentive for farmers to make
improvements, and lack of specific direction from the Government on this
issue.
5.    Possible design improvements identified in the NABARD study have the
potential of improving the efficiency by up to 65%.The additional cost per
well point of the design improvements was estimated at only about US$ 100 per
well point, or some 10 percent on the capital cost in 1988 prices. The
possible improvements included:
(a) proper pumpset installation which reflects the suction lift and
fitting of foot valves on bore hole casing;
(b) correct selection of suction and delivery pipes to reduce
frictional losses;
(c) correct matching of pumps to engines/motors; and
(d) improved maintenance practices.
Part B.   Tho Srudy
6.    The study would be take place over about an 10 month period and consist
of three phases:
(i) an initial desk study of STN evaluation work done to date, leading
to the design (and pilot field testing) of the field survey
methodology and questionnaires, and related training of field staff
(about 2 months);
(ii) field surveys of existing STW8 to provide sufficient information to
enable statistical and diagnostic analysis of the results (6
months); and
(iii) office based analysis of the results and report writing (about 2
months).
7.    Under item (i) of the study, the consultants would prepare an Inception
Report (IR) which would confirm the technical (and other) objectives of the
study and explains how the data to be collected would enable effective
diagnostic analysis. This IR would explain the relative importance of the
technical determinants to be tested, what type of action could be taken to
alter present practice related to these determinants, and how much data needs
2     Pot Pojt St    for Qualty CDntOl of Agrcthuw Pampset NABAD,
Bombay. India Febnwy 1984.



122
Annex 12 tat
Page 3 of 4
to be collected. Also under item (i), the staff to be used to undertake the
field surveys would be carefully trained so that they understand the survey
objectives, methodology and procedures.
S.    Under the second phase of the study (item (ii) of para 6), the field
work would include detailed surveys of existing tubewells (diesel and
electric) to establish present performance, and whether farmers could
understand the importance of improved STW efficiency. The primary objective
would be to collect data on the quality, quantity and the costs of
construction and 0&M. The field survey would also attempt to collect data on
the irrigated agricultural impact of different STWs (particularly if STWs can
be identified with substantially different discharges). The field survey
would generally follow the format and methodology undertaken by NABARD in its
own surveys in the early 1980s, with appropriate updating to reflect the
special opportunities offered under the SLRP. In addition, the consultants
would supervise and monitor the construction of a small number (say 6) of
improved STWs, to be fully financed under SLRP, to: (i) demonstrate that the
improved designs are technically viable and could be replicated by typical
farmers themselves: and (ii) monitor and evaluate the technical and irrigation
performance. In return for fully cooperating with the study, on completion of
the study, these improved STWs would be handed over to farmer's groups under
the project.
9.    Under the third phase of the study (item (iii) of para 6), the
consultants would analyze and evaluate the field results of existing and
improved (project ) STWs and prepare a Final Report given their conclusions
and recommendations. Some further field work may be necessary during this
phase, if questions arise which have not been addressed under phase 2. The
Final Report would also propose a plan of action to be implemented either
under SLRP or another appropriate operation.
Part C.    Dranimation  of ths    onultantu
10. The Study Leader along with support staff would be located in Lucknow and
administrated by the LDC. He would be responsible for: (i) general
coordination of the study; (ii) presentation of documentation needed for and
organization of field surveys; and (iii) progress monitoring and reporting to
Government. Frequent visits by Study Leader to field survey areas would be
necessary, on a routine basis and whenever special issues arise. The Lucknow
based unit would also be responsible for all data processing, data analysis
and report writing (in particular, the inception and final reports and any
progress reports required. LDC would provide the necessary administrative and
logistical support to the study team.



123
Annex 12 (a)
Page 4 of 4
11. Consultalt Staff
(a) Study Leadfir/Groundwatar znginear. A specialist, with about 15 years
with a strong background in private sector groundwater development.
The specialist would have lead similar studies preferably in UP, or
on similar activities to those proposed under the project. He would
also preferably have experience on the diagnostic analysis either in
academic institutions and consultant studies.
(b) Xesarch Scientist. A specialist, with about 10 years experience in
water resources evaluation with a special interest in M&E of
groundwater development. The specialist would have wide research
experience in tasks related to the design, construction and
maintenance of surface or groundwater facilities.
(c) Short-te= Spe6iahistn/Senti=.  The study group would provide, as
required, about two staff months equivalent of short-term specialists
(with at least 12 years experience) in specialized fields, or to
supplement the staff responsible for phase 3 of the study.
12.  Limi±n.   The consultant would be in place no later then September 30,
1994, and would be employed under TOR satisfactory to IDA, and following the
'Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants'. The short-listed consultants (if a
direct appointment is not made) would be provided with any relevant
documentation and information available to the GOUP agencies.



124
Page 1 of 4 pages
I Qservle
1 *    lTe project would build on experience from past successful pilot
projects to reclaim sodic lands in the state by establishing models which in
the future could be replicated on a much larger scale, with emphasis on
participatory development. This would be achieved through investments in
nstItutional dMvMa=mant to strengthen State Agency and Departments' capacity
to carry out sodic soil reclamation, and to strengthen and expand NGW's
involvement in beneficiary motivation, lai-d rAt4St4  to improve the soil
quality and drainage,       MrAl d=            And  aghnO18q           at1n to
enhance greater returns from agricultural activities and in xoyLmau.ia
t-AchnaI  azJ ,aDm n± to improve existing reclamation technology,
diversification of cropping systems and to understand the genesis of sodic
lands to develop systems for preventing further degradation of the soils.
The project would therefore assist in addressing the environmental problems
associated with the deterioration of salt-affected lands. Specifically, the
project would benefit about 80,000 small and marginal farm families by
improving the productivity of about 42,000 ha of farmland and 3000 ha of
comunity forestry lands.. Crop intensity on currently barren (Class. C) land
would also be increased to 200%, with paddy and wheat crops; Class B land
would also be double cropped.  A third sumir crop may be introduced when soil
conditions are normalized.  Diversification into horticultural and forestry
activities under the project would produce fruits, fodder and forest products.
At full maturity, the estimated net present value of incremental production
resulting from the project is expected to be approximately Rs 1058 million.
Physical outputs are expected to be 1.8 million tons of paddy, 1.2 million
tons of wheat, 1.0 million tons of aonla, 0.8 million tons of ber, and 0.07
million tons of guava. Community forestry development is also expected to
yield significant quantities of fuelwood, forage, and building materials.
2.    Financial analysis has been done for: (i) one food crop model, based on
a paddy/wheat rotation on a one hectare plot; and (ii) two alternative
horticultural models for a one hectare plot. For food crops and horticultural,
crops, returns have been calculated in Tables 7,8, and 9, based on the
farmer's cost of reclamation and crop inputs.
3.    Analysis is based on the following assumptions: (i) for on-farm project-
related works, all labor inputs would be provided free by the farmers; (ii)
input and output prices used are shown in Table 1l (iii) all costs are in
constant 1993 prices; (iv) benefits are calculated for 20 years; (v) returns



125
Page 2 of 4 pages
are calculated from crops onlys (vi) a discount rate of 12% is used; (vii)
project iJplementation is over seven years. Analysis is also based on the
expectation that farmers will not use the full quantity of inputs recoinnded
once subsidies are not available after the firt two years (inputs are
provided free for both crops on land class C for the first two years and for
the first one and a half years on class B land). The assumptions for
subsequent years are as follows: (a) Land Class Bs 75% of reconnded levels
in all years, since beneficiaries do have soo experience of farmin their own
land and have slightly higher initial incomes (b) Land Class C: a gradual
increase in input use from 50% in year 3 to 60%, 65%, 70% and 75% in years
4,5,6 and 7, respectively. Table 3 shows the rIeommended crop reim  and
those crop input regives which the analysis assumes fa"rs would follow.
4.    In the project area, currently Class S lands are single cropped with
low yields of paddy, about 0.8 mt/ha compared to the all-India average of 1.5
st/ha. Class C lands are completely barren Oad would remain so without the
project. Under the project, all agricultural (tables 7 and 8) and
horticultural income-expenditure models (Tabla 9) show good rates of return
and are based on conservative yield projections provided in Tables 2 and Sb.
By year 6 of the project, annual incremental iac4" on class a land is Rs
12660  and, on class C land, Rs 14250  by year 10 an income of Rs 27795 (the
average of the two models) is achieved for horticultural crops. Thre
scnarios of water buyer-seller arrangements have been considered. In the
first case, a group loan for a pumpset is taken by 10 households, each owning
0.4 ha (Tables 7a, 8a, and 9a) 1. The second scenario is of a water seller who
owns 0.4 ha and sells water to nine adjacent famers (Tables 7b, 8b, and 9b).
And finally, the case of a water buyer who owns 0.4 ha ot land and does not
take a loan for a pumpset, but buys the required irrigation (Tables 7c, 8c,
and 9c). On average, the returns are highest for the water seller, followed
by the group loan scenario, and returns are lower for the water buyer. The
returns are relatively low for about the first six years for the horticulture
crops; however, since it is expected that initially horticulture will be taken
up by the relatively wealthy farmers, the overall returns through maturity
will still justify this activity. Also, the horticulture crops are of a pilot
nature, and cover a small area.
5.   The returns to the forestry component are not expected to be very high.
However, it is necessary to develop these small plots of comunity land which
are dispersed throughout the project area, otherwise sodicity from these
patches can spread to adjacent agricultural land and slowly incroease
alkalinity once again. Furtherzore, there are significant onvironmental and
social benefits, such as providing habitat, ecological diversity and
increasing work opportunities for local people.
1 For the horticUlture models, there are 12 households in a * OuP.



126
AnnUze
Page 3 of 4 pages
III. Rw~ewnre~ Ann MOIA
6.    Ecoaomic analysis was carried out on the basis of the same crop budgets
as outlined above, using the same assumptions other than (i). Labor costs
were included at a shadow wage rate of Re 16 per hour (market wage rate: Rs 20
* 0.8 Standard Conversion Factor, SCF). All local costs and non-tradeables
were converted to economic prices using the SCF of 0.8 also. Economic prices
for all inputs are shown in Table 1, which also provides the derivation of the
import parity prices for paddy and wheat, calculated on the assumption that
foodgrain production would continue to stagnate and that India will be a
marginal importer of both grains and fertilizers. Output prices for
horticultural crops are converted using the SCF of 0.8. Returns are
calculated based solely on the direct benefits from project activities,
although significant additional benefits are expected, such as increased
yields on land served by the large drainage network.
7.   The overall economic rate of return for the project is estimated to be
23% and the Net Present Value (NPV) of the project is Rs 1058 million (Table
10), asst%ming an OCC of 12%. The good return is due to the high net
productivity of the individual agriculture and horticulture activities.
The majority of the project area is barren prior to project activities; hence,
incremental yields are very high. The opportunity cost of these lands is
currently zero, and the incremental returns therefore impact the ERR
significantly.
IV. s.itivitv AIiALy.
8.   A number of scenarios were tested to establlsh the project's viability,
as shown in the table below. Cost overruns and delays in accrued Incremental
benefits could occur, notwithstanding built-in safeguards in the project.
:at                     1     MM  (Rs.M)
Base Case                     23%   1058
Benefits decreased 10%        20%   725
Benefits decreased 20%        16%   392
Benefits lagged 2 years       14%   230
Cost increased 10%            20%   837
Cost increased 20%            18%   617
Benefits decreased 10%:
a cost increased 10%       17%   504
& cost increased 20%       15%   284
9.    Switching values show that project costs would have to increase by 50%
or benefits have to drop by 32% for the NPV to fall to zero or for the ERR to
fall to 12%. This is unlikely because of the intensive preparation and
detailed work in estimating the cost of indLvidual items. As for benefits,
relatively conservative estimates of yields have been used in the evaluation.
Overall, the project is robust in financial and economic terms.  Reclamation
of sodic soils has not however been undertaken previously on the farmers' own



127
iAUUeax 
Page 4 ot 4 pages
initiative due to the large amount of infrastructural irvestment which is
needed to ensure the project's success.
V.     Prt)art Rinka.
IO.  There are three major risks which threaten the project's success, which
are detailed in the main text. Firstly, well coordlnated management and
timely implementation of all sequential activities is essential.   Secondly, a
pre-requisite for success is efficient formation and functioning of water-
sharing groups. Great effort is being made to motivate and facilitate group
formation, although social (caste) problems, credit aversion and a lack of
familiarity with the technology on the part of the participants create
impediments to successful group formation.    The project has been designed
very flexibly to accomuodate a number of dlfferent irrigation system
development options and be able to change implementation methods should the
two-yearly reviews suggest. The third risk concerns the ability of farmers to
adopt the proposed reclamation technology successfully.



128                              Annex 13
Table 1
N      P        E
.Mh   Fj,N ,b ,,M m1I ,,2   W 3P
O&IARX3FNI3               WINm.L       26      159    153    1S        107
M1UV8  JA4u l                     S        1.105   1.1OS   1.105  1.16    t1.1
(Yw1990. 193 uis
OULDft1S  30                  U8_.   3Q70.75  1t5.L66 101V6  133.175  118.7UM
QIU gh_A*ina                     S           7S      90    100    160       10
WaW4ImUBvms1                   WUL  26.4    153.1755 1069265 133.175   1182X5
AMbnMv&ft&bwmft           U 8          40      5s      SO     S0 o
CsKFmlo I -                    USSmL 2.043   21755  219.6   l17    1 5
_-                         t8D          26      26      26     26
CoE4 aP4 B_ 6RAN                          .137  541120  $MA9549 489t2S  4374.11
AddFu.OWt4  El             3Am         350      350    300    300      30
AM JwmdTa fes 61                       270    210    200    20
AMbmu_           M I4   3*_            159      w5    159    150        159
UbubhiseIpdc*sm                 3i       70891   61813  6345.7  5S413     124.1
ChMOd .1d 7                             62      95   1t0    160         1
gd,ulswpubs             3_Im      43953   5722  4345.7  55413    51.1
AdbostAe  .s .OW ql                    -130      0       0      0
M~m~sLesd_*a| 61 3#                     .30  O30        30     s0        0
AM0hEu_ma,w   FO f/ 3w                 16      .160    10i   160        1
1_~.1edm                                  OM5   J8.   667  5731W3    91
aft                        654    5.73 
tdmbirift                                          1634  1246
Ides                              2600.0  32S0.0    7600  17.6      940
a'            _1_    _    _  S _            ti5     1.7   233    0.73      0.97
~~~~~  ~ ~ ~   ~       ~       ~       ~      ~        10~~~~~~~~~t.1993.
21 WbA __46p
21  *amubftUmwbpuswmddeWu Wdwkww. F.m pat  0K
411X           Byh -1mi-IEDm1  1993
W   11*t: F=WD6 7Ib4       1,J dMX%d_ 
SI  ah   SU,Im*S1     f    h      S
61 C_1~*__^1_h_



129
Annex 13
Table 2
T=bPxOJRMON9 1TwAAND
1D14NC1A1 AND EWMIC W=15TOIPA5DY AM WUR&T,UJI/
INANCLL           1993                                   -    OONMUC,1-99'
| WNO               WI                             I I9E  _  WI            ) J---
1      2      3       4       S      6_1                 1       2       3        4       5   _  6_
Tidj            0.8    UJ   14    20          2*      30      W         as      U       IA      210       LS      310
mIdm            0.0    0.0    1J    14       is     20                 00      0.0    1.0       1-      Ls       20
240.0 2200 2920 560Q0.  7000.0  8400.0  u400m0    302   2 s6  705.4  81n06  10o183  1229  125
OA Q    .O 52.4           4          0 S4 6 5 00.0 6    Go 0.0       562.2  795?11  10        113644  11364
22O 4 0.0 2240.  71 10150  128Ia  149000  149U          3MU   32609.2 11376  1610.7  20416.2  23S903  2U5905
TSIbdlRs                    Q Q0*40    710.003   160*  126SI1              . Q4       0. 8127A  1234.   17156.   3301230
mM              0.0    0.0    1.2    L6       1t      2,6      30       0.0    0.0      L2       1.6      2.1S    26
Yis             0.0    0.0   UQ       Li      13     1i5      1         Q 0.0     0U             1,1      13      1.      1
0.     0.03360. 0 44800   518Q0S   7211Q0               0.0    0.0  404           5      1    10598    12
0.0    Q0 2437J  sM.  425S0  437!0   583.0              Q0 0 0 4251.7   4             73869    523512
0.0    0.0s       No 0 10105.012551         4.0    0.910  12770.9  150  19119.1    5
li dRw                     0.0 S797.5 8055f0 10105.0  12155.0  14A 00               0.0  910  127709  159450  19119.1  2453
su       - -- -            ~~-r   .a
liwtlRar.lWh         1     2       3       4       5      6   .*              1      2        3        4       S      6_
a                  Q0. 4930.0 1910.0  10610  1266Q0. 12660j                 Qo  S12VA  1254   75S.0  2033Q1  20301
IImC                        Q0  57O7.5 WJSA  10105 1            14                    0     150 1 1710.9  1L9410  19119.1
I b          w         " * *ut                                                     h
2.anUu1mi1m



S,JTr dmWIY                                                  aiUrI?as
1bi    1   2   5  -4   5   6   7    1   2   3   4   53   6   7    1   2  3   4   S   6   7
NOR  urMi.  14    1414 14 141414 14    14 141414 1414 14    0   14 1414d14 14   14
at.     12   12111 LA212121   121212 121212 12 12    0   1212   n212  12  12
lDimyNd.hg  Mi   S      5   7   7   7   7   7   7    S   7   7   7   7   7   7    0   7   7   7   7   7   7
ad    I     I    I   1   I   I    I   I    1    1   1   1   1    I   I    0   1   1    1   1   1    1
2b~butbs  uM.   40    40 4141414142141    40 4242 4142  24                        0  4214144242141
O.pb~~   .5.  is    I3  17  17  17  17  17  17  IS  17  17  1?  17  17  1?   0   tl  17  1V   t   17  tl
uS.   0     0   6   6   6   6   6   6    0   6   6   6   4   6   6    0   6   6   6   6   6   6
Um,&1b"    ML.   8     aa 40040 40 4040    2  40 40 404040 40    0  40 40 404040 40
Uusslkm    uS.   0   jO    S   S   S   S   S   S    0   5   S   S   S   S   S   0   S   5   s   S   S   S
Sbb?UdI*Imbo  S.   33  a8  121121t 131  131  131  131  U2  13113113t1121  131  131   0  13  L'xi 131  13  131  131
A    i.i 13         is3  is13131313 s   13  1313  is13   is 131           0   131313 13  13 i   13
3.1mb   ______________________   LU~~~~~~~~Z 10520   5   5   5         *10  s053   £S 0    755
%W      Ia.   3     35  2  3   a   a332             355 5 392  233    0   392392a922
Sad        k    a2    so2so9SD92so2929                0   92 0   0   0   0   0    0   SD  0   0   0   0   0
FMN        St   0      0   2   2   2   2   2   2    0  LS  S1 1. 5 LisL  1.1           2      1.0LO  2 1.3   LS
1W     ~~~km.  40    40130 70 70  110 110 13   40 IT  SUSU  025 .U.5.5   0120 7035   00 7  3U
P      ~~~~k&    7   7   1010 10 1010 10    7  7.57.57.57.57.579    0   10 10   S   6   7   S
K71        ks    0     0   0   0   0   0   0   0    0   0   0   0   0   0   0    0   0   0   0   0   0   0
al a/   kg.   0      0  40 2525 25 2525    0   30187S12751S351s7is£35   0  40 2513  ii  £619
AooftmUt    at.   0    0   0   0   0   5   0   0    0   0   0   0   5   0   0    0   0   0   0   S   0   0
~~J1bm   ~is    0    0   1   1   1   1   1   1    0  WS              755 A  .71 0.7   0  1lISO     05060708
A.IsIW     1*  Qi.
R~~~uaIm~S    0      0   20 2030D20 2020    0  20 2020 2020230    0   20 203020 2020
at   0      0  20 2032020 2020    0  20 20 2020 2020    *   20 20 2023020 2
.was       ML.   0     0   S   S   S   S   s   S    0   S   S   S   $   s   5    0   5   S   S   S   s   S
d.   0      0   5   S   S   S   S   5    0   5   5   5   5   5   5   0   5   S   S   S   5   5
Fa MIApgb  rSi   0     0   1   1   I   1   I   1    0   1   1   I   I   I   1   0   1   1   1   1   1   1
JI'sr Is         0     0   12 12 121212 12    0   11 12 1212 1212    0   12  1212   12  II  12
IIU&lIINia  VA    0    0  45  45  45  45  45  45    0  45  45  45  45  45  45   0  45  45  45  45  45  45
d. 0     0   10101010to1010o    0   1010o1010o10 10    0   1010 10 1010   10
SUIbTuS    od   0      0  as3a333 8333a3 3    0  03  3    es 3   3    as   0    US 3 as UU s 
od    0     0  35 is35 3535 35    0   35  S 3535Ss  35  35   0   35335 35 35   35
DsImb    ___________________~~~~~~~~~~ la 100 755755 755 755 755   LXtIO 100 353    M0 75   755
VWat      It    0      0   so  so8s858686 a    0   as6so568es8es6    0   es8658 86 868as
S.d        kg.   0     010014too  01I0100100    0100o0   0   0   0   0    01m00    0   0   0   0
N          4g    0      0   M 03020120n  12D220   012M 0    SD10190 90    012  0 0128690190
p          kg&    0    0  40 4040 4040 40    0  40302 023023020    0  402073432B0920
K          kg.   0     0  20 2020 2020 20    0  202315152s315 3    0  2010D121415   IS
hl         kg.   0     0  25 2525 2525 25    0  251it191919i  19   025  13  Is  tI  1a  19
Pwddsu.    k     0      0   101t 0201010 10    0   10  S   3   8   S   8    0   ID  S   6   1   S 



131
CROPMODWUPORLANMCLAUSB   Table 4(a)
a  a m   4      0sa 7.      S     54 *         4 O ...
AA 8M0115u1111 O   C
Al ~    ~     S UlaAD#tltY                                         }    I
_ompowu           VA   go 14       14t44 t4a       4 t4 U50            U     m   m OS
#   on    o  la la    nIsn,i           n  o      o   o      e o      0
NwuRi~aMkbo            toma          57*       17   7       8*0  144 14  84 0 t 140    0
ddi,   *  *   *   g        $ a       a     a e 0a0   0   0   0
4_O"              d4   so 0a    543 44         43  03453    Ne  O 4050  0o No  two0
caI9Ih*           ML               Is It     1 17 £ 17 1£ 5l 008 4045 #04 05  0
h8p8f.            ma.               as6 a  a        ae        0850 150150 130  513 l
Ibvhbm            ml   5008            O| 64444045   *~   O 35N              NO  NO  53 l 
m1                       W0 o1 1             is      s       0   * so  t  410 to8    80n   l   so
MUNIIbt W         04        a It      isa in A% o 1 Int 1mat1 1as 0 s t D  Ps  so  am  ma  uD
8lowtbiS.         CA                 Oa .4 a*** 0             aONm1           mem     so
14 gem
__aZpmok"         CA    a It    41   I S    UISI  It 1U  3  IS* 484480416480  410 41  484
W~.vi~           Ar..  030         *3* o11 Stais5            0 a  00    0   0   0
IN    4 0        05o050          5  00a  a5a           5   S   5   5
pvs               no.00 *  o.o So  o  o  o.o                  oass   as o      s o   o   o
Pm               1^   lote  u       o      IJ wi w4 Ai  i     oISO to  Iso  me  Is  He
N                 kg. 7A4 40 M    40 97.4   51SU1SU.S IU 2t38 64 d4A 304 MAM   NM  NM
P                      it  7 *  l       7i 7.4 77  9I   7.5  tI 1 J9 Z.V17S £11J . I £J IVJ  115J
R                 kg.    9          05000a00                  0 a0 00   0   0   0
Room              14   to  a        0to I"oU  I" 5MIIt"       0     o101`4 os  8 57oo8o o
-_                 v      0 .a3 0                      4 00 0500000430    0   0
T1m               to   400o         o o." 505 " 5 S0.o.75 57      5 10 to  50   0 so  so
bbTIo                                                       81U 37 N44 on  WO m10 W00 l"
_b1_mIm                                                       0  on  46 4d  40  5    5
7  &1,18A£w                                             54*  *1 ;46 la6  750  IN  1"
%Mhoolmvil(if                                                 aups too UN  Am  an  ups
o t t m i                         _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . - _   _ _ _ _ , - _ , _ . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
4&opD  I Whea
534507. 4 a              £ I 3Iis              4?..,
UW  1583 _U. an          Qn3y#         .NIVON. 
.4   55  0555050050              040 40 4A0  oj          Mo
.a   me _ =m I_ .s 'ooIno                                      to o to
4   1340         0558a          55 ss5     08     No0to       0    8o la
8f8"AwU""         VA      a0 a  Oaa           aaA   t a    0m            0    t   50  50
_*                ml  So            o0aa1415         15       @  SIONo    be  n o0
at    50       50atot080800              052103b5533020
bToIaw            am            a ua1  ai OSWs  S I           O£0  80 0    10 t1oo 1S
ksqhftmwu(la  isa 530               0a535555s55               0883£8six£ItoI01tin8tin
woI.I            to         0I 0             Iof a   IO II 0    0   000    0   0   0
am                1t  4. a   a U50   0 0 000   0              0450        0 0   0   5
v   78"0         0oIto so go go    to o00 0  45   4 0   6          564
XbTWL~~1    17                 O as  aas  so             0  " O  o   Ma n" lo  Nzo  No
o        P        Zkg    7 0       040       I  Is is50 0 sosoIn             50 In0  580
1 kg.    90                        0O8555   O8   5 a      Ila us        55 tO  5  In  tO
Us                kg.  80  0       O10  380 08   0  0.  7   7  0     8ISO  8o  Ito tO O
lbbT0 N 07                                                    *    8101 0 W 10  £5O8 5  t
PeTa 41110                                      0 4swX          S      3716 $115  mO  J10 as
s   W    9  O       O  9  ts IJ "  ts  1$    0 on"  1  lUm MU do" 1
urn Oo 4oo oo  om  nou
1pw               4    Se0 4O  5" 5796 73OI w  SW  O"
81 _                                                            so NUaso  MS NU  NU



132
Annex 13
Table 4 (b)
wmvf*d        vfvo                          v  **     va k.*a 
1354           E        I I    a 2S4 s 4 I
e.h   4a       qw.m                         eiya6.b
ASIANS
FMRVD_        36   a0          @14 14 14 1414         02O33020030331
a              0o o2 13u1    12 12    03u3 O  4  SW 31      164W 
i ny             O6 200           07         7 a  7      01 20t   14 t4  140  14o
It  530         0111111 0  I                3 22   35 33 e3
vxovbn           ML  a0          04a 4a 43  a4 a4 4      ous ON so0#e0  6
ow_             MA   200         017   117177            aso 00340 340 303404
bwft        =a   200          0446446                0ais121201 t12is
2WY&12N         =a  200          0 040aa4040             07200100  30
^n1            mi  20           05 o     555            01001041010w D 01001o0  100
bfv              at  is  o       0  s s  s s  s5    at  to   'M  toom " 
46b1OWZAbW       =a      0       0 1111111111131 0nis3I03a2    203 2wM0262  261
___turwa        la&   530        015  1   1 515    is    041 416 416 4U 41 46
WON              4    4 0  0    *      OOAn Aaa          *  0  0  0   0   0   0
d                i s 40          0 S 00000               0           00 0        0
N                &&  7*6  0      012070   Of 03725SU     0SW15438 266A4466451 MM4SI
p                     v.10       a0 to10 4   di7,1       011070    85  10I=  OIIV
P                     90         000000 0                0   0  0  0   0   0   0
3*804            I&   00         04  O u1   a 15101.     0  4 10 S12  30 1. 1
_                0     0 Zo      *IMo00  005 00          0   0  0  04M0    0   0
to  400         011        o* WS    040 402  6 St2 U
wd      us                                               0 474145    1  2a0N 4113
I2 2 4 *S6 *_           I a3 s4   s             -
no VA 04 Go 1   QONWtdw                           bg,R
^_         d   #  O        O &   3  0      0  soa3 l go 20  4tO6 sto   do tON
=a  21  1          a00 i"st  so 20    040 400b 400 4e  40  401>
_~~~~~a 1         0 10  O              sS s S  5S    e  oMMM M Mis w
ad  Ss O        O         s   sJ      s  s    O  UVMZle  upM1Z14
Pw__AR           ad  so0         OAII II II    0  20 20 20  20  30  8
bo_f             =6  30 O3 O           a la is lan   1  0 s0 M20 310M M0  0
NWW&uwa   L  300135 45 4 7...                    1   3aMtooM Mg7..o
St  530         0Mo o       le to t     0M40460   MM M   M
S*Tmdml  20                  0a2aaa0202              0400400400MD040040
0u1w            AP  200           0     5555 10          0 0010100  1001  100
p           k&~.  it0        05doso55a553            0   M  014013401401SIG
9           W&~m  200        0  131314131311    024M2601o0260540  26
IkhA1I m   200                   045as5s4M41445I         0  MM          US 900  900t
IbblldI&    2                      t 0    01 0 1 01 01 0       110  0 0  U3 0 m 033 I
1_ 1 O g k *                 015  1                   S63  O 3 5   011 211243111   131  47U
Tol CIm  ¢ c gf of t = @  t  o o 
ssO              4                                         dw ow om wm ow o         o oZDoo
bPi"                                                     0 OM SW N0 0O  40*8  47  S  00 0 0
Td                                                       0 oOU no oM   " 4n oa S  ue     srs UKM
'3        2       .  40           0 10 0 0 0             045    0  0   0   0   0"tOsbg  
S.A  T0                                                  O7 90  42             6234
nss o                                                    0 .m 440   11 1
U~~~ ~~~~~ ~                                 003 30           -



133                                Annex 13
FIFNNCKW AIECUL#U'EaUCALClAAT,BftZRW D       FIFS8     Table S(a)
ladcD Dada    b I tbAlw aim drom to food asp
'PoJect Yew
-_______  _  -_____________       1       2      3      4      5       6       7
Lud ClassB:
Labor             0      2640  2640   2640   2640   2640   2640
o0     4402  2m4   2784   7245   2995   299S
Labor             0      4348  4600   4600   4600   4600   4600
h 'ds             0      6066  3766   3405   81SS   4084   4228
L R.dhumlIo  C4    s I Ns
LaudCbnss 5
Oat                20182  2550    850    850    8S0    850    850
Pame                4S80  2M2   2292   2292   2292   2292   2292
Lab       13S   1t      100    100    10      100    1O0
JWkAb        3190  2672  2192   2192   2192   2192   2192
Toel               24762  S322   3142   3142   3142   3142   3142
am                 247W   2550    850    850    850    850   8nO
FaPa                4315  2m    2292   2292   2292   2292   2292
Lab       1125   lOg    100    100   100    10        100
Non-Lab      3190  2672   2192   2192   2192   2192   21.92
CO$lcusfLmdRecba,adm            29022  5322   3142   3142   3142   3142   3142
W1  2dMw1q.tpdhbo6m  ddmurb.6spsk214dsp
41  UhWMuqorbph&.bodluiIWrbo&mpaB244dqm



134                Amex 13
Table 5(b)
N  ~~~IN
o~a XoIo IoX
| ~~~~~~~~~~o                          00  o I_l
s:  °  tg  rl I   ° !   lE
-t  >i80   g8      U"* ig    04o
-  3% RE    #§l         Rs   Ro
- F i  R§    F i  RRt
It oo    oo              0o       o
{~~           ~0            000o fi oo   
fi    oo     Io j_oo              oo
11   1       a                  __  _   _  _  _
SaX_________                 ________________ sa



135
HOIUsihMCsds Raw Ms~h                Annex 13
Table 6(a)
As LAW MoN"cNs
--- . S  .NcLAMA?IO     ccgrs  ____________     __
L 1a,*utCwb It
a) iahor
WdDot                ad  20    10   23    a    0         U0
WagErb               ad  20    97  190    0    0    I9
lk4UIa               ad  20    46    2    0    0 O
3akgqagas            ad  20    18   s0    0    0         so
maam                 ad  20       s     0    0    0       0
OAST4wLAw                           3    SW 3    0    0    312
b)Wbudbpsk
pmbwI  SW    1 aoMs we   Ms                               0
sobs                  U  415    03  9on60I    90f         0
-.                   m IO  os 25 m  w2  m
aIMVd2i              is  00    LO   20D16"    230         0
Almdaba              at  we    1.  IMISZI    143          0
mazaab              1  17S    LO  15  1MO  17$           0
VWaw*Sk*41            II   0    10      0.        0       0
8mb?daWAitnbamhpu                       13         11191    121
Mduofa(              Lo  a0       i   a    0    0        60
GMkiw(Yt2aJb)        ad  20       S   to    0    0       ic0
*4   LubA*w             is! II                     m o 
SbladNom Lw2 I2                                     go     10
ladm bwnmAcud                            250        go    im
L. CROIPPRtODUCTION
AOKWUU "   AfdI121 aIaW ad hO                    I IODVAuSI  O 
tob       can SO*         "mo
31St¢fit2   | d   2D    s   SD    O    OA 1s0l
a)i 1.0wZ
_t0I                 a s          9   1     0    0      1t0
kdpaamXls            ad   3           160    0    0      1
bomb=m               ad  20    is  200    0    0         230
SldCedw                               54          0      53
halm                     0       7    0          0       0
adw               ~~~0    7    0           0       0
Pima                 m   11     551017 MO 10              0
F&IMw    dh_         is  12       I  US 1*  U             0
raw*                 is Ia  1     I 1      Ms019   150    0
3q9wmMmsw2fn     U4I  no   U     *    73 MM*   a          0
Him.        La  13       1   13160*   23 0e    J   _"
Atka                  isLID       I    0                  0 0     0
**Tosr                               GM         d  o      a



Ila  ogy;qumouwpqa 
P's
is  *_w*"Oww - Xp
am    0   am                     JBWJ#Jxffswnwj-_ q 
GM    0       m q:m"5qu.s                           B
Got    0    0    M            m9 -g WI      WM
WI        __ni9         ag  VW      _     >  nqp
0      Om   O    o  ID                        I 0   O-*Ppa
p t~~~~f
.9                        -
.6   3 0                              u1 1a00io 1   vam
3i    0    0   0IS           ,,  W i*
zt  0            0                            qqau"
to       o *      l   8 gg    0  1IS#)nu
611    0    0   611   3      It  UN_
ot    ow  oin  mu           mi -              (   _a
0t    OI   Oo   lin  - Cwp
*3C     O  XSU        gpgp  IIC 'wu eaqpg
9*: 1~ ~ ~



LASS3BLAND                          GROUPLOAN SCNAO: lOb10umdW6 pwpVs" @0Ahba per bwubold
FM *A A PLAND                                                          Yar
,___________________   .1    2    3    4    5    6    7                   8    9    tO   11   12    13   14    IS
Me_sebbw
I  NCOM
OCpmvam                  0 1972 3164 4244 S064 5064 S064 SOC4  064 S5064 5064 5064  5064  S064  5064
Wazer                    0    0    0    0    0    0    0         0     0     0     0     0     0     0      0
Non Pojee 2                9102 9102 9102 9102 9102 9102 9102 9102 9102 9102  9102 9102  9102  9102  9101
Lem rce1evd                1276 1069 1462  SS7 1449  S99  S99    0    0          0      0     0     0     0      0
T*     =aM                1378 12143 13729 1390 1561S 14765 14765 14166 14166 14166 14166 14166 14166 14166 14166
IL  3XfN3WR
1am  R.indmmagw3lCow       1    106   677  87   67  877  877  877  87    87    877  877   877  87   W7
Wwu4/                    0    0    0    0    0    0    0         0    0      0     0     0     0     0      0
NompaazrSl               0   77 1171 1114 28   1198 1198  119  119   1196  1196  1196  1198  1198  1196
I'MsI   I                         70  753 2437 140 01594 659  659    0           0     0      0     0     0     0                               -
N    ojem "mm    160D 1600 160  160 1600 1600 160  100 4000 2000                       0      0     0     0      0
Tod mlEpemU                2676 2816 4401  07 68   56  4334 4334 65  4075  2075  207S  20    2075  2075
trCAl    LOW             750A4 9327 9327 776 87SI 9497 10432 9633 80921009212 0 1292 12092 12092  12092
laerbw& i71               16.67 20.73 2073 1750 19AS 21.10 23.18 21.8  17.  2243 26         7   26.7 27   268
CACTAIONOFLOANIR EQUNMI
LT  PNapsW 9J               636
RlhpWmmwlOf              0O 66636 636    0    0    0    0              0     0     0     0     0     0      0
ST  DiedelowPS 18          6i0  10   $77    0    0    O    O    O          O     O     O      O     O     O     O 
RPy        12V           0   64  747 1156  877    0    0    0    0           0     0     0     0     0      0
Sr  Cpl  OW    3                   0  S86  557 1449  99  59          O    O      O     O      O     O     O     O
P4 met                   0    0    0  644  613 1594  69 659    0             0     0     0     0     0      0
BrTialbud I    -           1276 1069 1462  557 1449  599  S99    0         0     0     0      0     0     0     0
TOMlPi                   0   70  753 2437 1490 15    659   69          0     0     0     0     0     0      0



CLAS3BLAN!                         WATEAt SLtR WL1N#G TO 9ADJACW4r LAND OWNES WITH 4 NA EACH
EOW1EUVM                                                                      Ywg
.____________________        1     2      3     4      5      6     7      8      9    10    11    12    13    14    15
I  co.
cpiv_m                 01912  31S4  4M44          4                       5064  5064  5064   064  5064  54           4
WSW$a*s 14           7200 I20t 0 9900  9900  9900   9900  9900  9900   99009900  9900  9900900  9900  9900
NPapajcit 2             10756 10756 10756 10756 10756 10756 10756 10756 10756 107S6 107S6 10756 10756 10756 10756
Lemsodu                  1270      0     0      0      0      0     0      0      0     0      0      0     0      O'    0
TOMi .mm               30716 247   23820 24900 2S720 272025720m 252  257   2S7202S720 257 207    2S720 25720
IL EXPMiMFU
Wer 41                  0     0      0     0      0      0     0      0      -     0      0      0     0      0      0
Nmi.wal                 0    77  1171  1114  2898  1196  1198  1198  1196  119%  119 1 119   1198  1196  1198
Lm sip"                     0  2326  2326  2726  2726  2726  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037              0      0
_      bDm OjMlam         1600100 1600 4000  20o              0     0      0      0     0      0      0     0      0      0
Th    _Emdi              14360 14722 1      16640 1644 12724 11035 11035 11035 11035 11035 11035 11035  9996  9998
T CASFLOW                16O   10066  992   8260  926  2996 146   1465 1468  1465 1485 1465 1465 1I2  1I2
Reungoidbbr/nuyZ7   36.3  2237  22.05  1836  20.66  28883.   32.3   32.63  32.63  32.3  3263                   3484  34894
CALCULATION OFLOANREQUil
LT  P _aa 6up             3t
RqPymmu 1V            0   806   636  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037              0      0
W  Dk} oA S I I O60  O   O   O   O   O   O   O    O O   O   O   O   O                                                     0
Rq_ul IN               0   so100   1190  1690  Iw              0      0      0     0      0      0     0      0      0
ST  Cwlxpfq                 0      O     O      O      O     O      O      O     O      O      O     O      O      O      O
Rquaym                 0      0     0      0            o      o      o      o     o      o      o     o  
S   TTalabasm  s    12760          0     0      0      0     0      0      0     0      0      0     0      0      0      0
Toudnpwn_              0  2326  2326  2726  2726  2726  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037              0      0



CLAN BLAND                                        WATER BU  OWNINGHA BACH
RFOROWNEtOGAHA                                                               Yw
1     2      3     4     5      6     7      8     9    10    11    12    13    14    15
Qopww                 0  1972  3164  4244  5064  5064  5064  5064  5064  S064  5064  S064  S064  5064  50t4
WammI.                0      0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0
Noopoji021                 9102  9102  9102  9102  9102  9102  91M   9102  9102  9102  9102  9102  9102  9102  9102
LMMildd                     80D    7   1171      0      0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0      0
Todd1                      9902 11151 13438 13346 14166 14166 14166 14166 14166 14166 14166 14166 14166 14166 14166
IL  miIE
L=dadodoCa.w3             0      0     0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0      0      0     0     0      0
Wam41 171           8ON   1336  1096  1096  1096  1096  1096  1096  1096  1096  1096  1096  1096  1096  1096
NonwwMr5/             0    77  1171  1114  2898  1198  1198  1198  1198  1198  1198  1198  1198  1198  1198
L        _In                  0    80  S8    202        0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0     0
Ni                         IS-         160     1600  1600  1      1600  1600  400  200         0     0      0     0      0
TddRqMln e2400  3093  4755  4011  5594  3894  3894  3894  6294  4294  2294  2294  24  2294  2294
WCAS LOW                   7S0Q  808  8S83  9335  872 10272 10272 10272  7872  9872 1l182 11872 11872  I1872 11872
P*antulukwku       71     1667  1791  1929  20.74  19OS5  228   22.83  22.83  17A9  21.94  2638   26.38   2638  2638  2638
LCULATJONLOFWAN                      -S
LT     PhuuO                                                                                                                            3 0
Rqy_M                 0      0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0               0K
Sr    DiesdwforPS             0     0      0     0      0     0     0      0      0     0      0     0      0     0     0
Rasymm                0      0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0
ST     Coop m13/           80     77  1171      0      0     0     0      0      0     0      0     0      0     0      0
0    80   8U   202       0      0     0      0     0      0     0      0      0     0     0
ST     Tbikmmawa            800    771171        0      0     0     0      0      0     0      0     0      0     0      0
twapq w               0    80s8o   8   20       0     0      0      0     0      0     0      0     0      0     0



Ntf:
U     pcted  um         comeonpojectacvis
2/  Eped niVnJoj  InCOm     wa  labor, lpfivs poe hduction (aumed to yi  Ri 2000 of inom  per yot) ad ohr acviWes
Fatmy assured to coist of 3 wkosg mebes (oal dz od ) - tan fr=                repasts
Onca  B   d, RS 220his enedtmnoemena IIQncame, lefrm    o xstnddy cr  culivatpio to prmjecll a
a1moh twfftlyntbew md acnie to work for wage labor sgm all membas lab  nt nquired for de famiy bhoding;            of
bhir wking fr 150 das per yew each a  ilmu w_g
On lnd lmss Call dUee membas expectd to wk in year 1 wIe LR activies ongo; thea 2 fn year 2 onwads
/      In yea    1 cp i ud pme cost divided bemwaeeun tbe Othegrod  oest of waterf flushing sits after' Ym_dm sR             Ao
hnlud costof On= MaNo In fr 2 ya (only s                 I9y). nall ota yeLR consiss of O&M of e  pw pta y (I. cmst of diesel
ad otherm          need). Al oter A osare poiHded by te roject o a a nt 1basin
4J  Cost of waer iered trougb O&M of pupset
5/  Costof hws      npoys foriapos forOM  I em 2   3 (xcep e        sod d ndwhaa ap lnputs in year 3; al osber coasin year I to3
arecowedby 100% gr
Families In 0t  pqjet aa h    25% of deir _      poject hcome (Rsl2,000) as dekt t local moneytendes. Asumpo of 40% intes -
Calcalatobased o the am in of Rs400D loan at 40% hnra - hec Rs100            pe r year as neest &lnew
7I   Minmum wae   ra  is Rs 20 per mandy, clculaedoa the basi of 450 days wodwd per yw bawoen 3 bousebol mebers
81  AScalculationsm based an araed ofntrstof 10%
9/              loasds pe group; 50% subsidy on ponpst fom project; ost of PS   efoe 12720/  = 636
1IV Two year gSace pedotd assumed during wh_c krs ony is pid
1 1liesM cos covw  pmrae of die  and lubdco  for die PS up uti suIe cash flow b peeaed and aoan is mneted
12V  Am s a one year ge peod an fist yer of low fUli cqal am  paid off after two years
13  AssuIn lan Steo for fn  cs of Iputs to fe for we duadton of prjet
141 20 days o  bor e rm qod in    fiyt  top             ai    r cbamh   enofprojec Inom            wap labor wIll be aned by
151/ Aumg I punpose    5 ha lundeAru arndtees ds terefor 12houaodspergroip@  0.4ba
161   awsinumedtobeoldata aneodRs2Dperbor
171 Costofetm apapsatlsl 16perhow
'-d



aAL CIAS ODUPIOAN b s 1i_d pr  A p_  dt
IMSMA WLAS                                                         Yaw
______________________      1     2    3    4     5    6    7     I     9    10    It    12   13    14     15
'II
aXpmvo                  0 239 3224042 4862 50   700 S700 S700  S    S70   700 510  S100  S700  SM
WmhruI                  0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0             0
4an "*ct,,                   O    O     OO              OO110000O00  000 0000 on00000 00o    Om   O0  0 O OM   am  O0
l       taum 4            1276 1060 t16*3 36     2 t2 16M4 1691    0    0    0    0    0    0    0         0
T.ludbe                  12276 118 12099 13404 1612415334153911370  1370 1370 1300 13700 1300 13    13700
L_uRecIe"COM3u            1276 1069  877  877  877  877  8      77 8 777 s77  87      87787   87         877
Waer4/                  0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0 O            0    0    0    0        0
Nou-was5l               0    0    01362 3    1634 1691  1691  1691  1691  1691  1691  1691  1691  1691
LounpIey1hmem               0  128  810 1792 2375 3588 1797  1860    0    0    0    0    0    0            0
Nam  Jwoh     PAYmO       16010 1600 1600 16  Q0 1    1600 1600 1600 4000    0    0    0    0    0         0
TOMMEOp..*m              2876 2796 3287 5S01 8114 7699 5965 60Q8 6568 2568 2568 2S68 2S68 2S68  2S68
NKFCASFLUOW              9400 M591 8812 7m   8010 7635 9426 7672 7132 11132 11132 11132 11132 11132 11132
REgou bw/rl mwidxl       20.0  1     19958 17.27 17.0 1697 2095 1795 15.85 24.74 24.74      24.74 2.724.74  24.74
CIbLI:UTION WLOA _X_im
LT  hmjIw                 636
EREnuDm                 0UA  63.6  636    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0               0
s5r !D  e.                640 1069 877    0    0    0    0    O    O    0    0    0    0    0              0
Rqsy.o 0  647                       1156  sn       0   0      o 0        o    o    o 0    0    0       0 
sr o.    ,_m                0    0    01362 3262 1634 1691    0    0    0    0    0    0    0              0                         o- I
Rep*=*                  0    0    0    01498   88 1797 186D 0                  O    O    O    O        °
ST  Todkm                1 3        8 I 77 12 326t 134 161    0    0    0    0    0    0    0             0
Told u    I             0  In     10 17o 223753588  1797 1         0    0    0    0    0    0          0



CLAS8C LAND                        WATECR BUMLR SUJtlG TO *ADJACENT LANW OWNER WflE 0A NA EACH!
~1OUHUOAB                                                                   Yoat
IWCOm                            1     2      3      4      5     6      7      8     9     10    11    12    13    14    15
Qipre.s                0  2319  3222  4042  4862  S700  S570   5m     S700  5700  5700  S7D  s700  570  5s7o
Waul 161            7200 1200 12D62060 12120L 0  2I0   12060 12060 120 12 12060 120012060 12060 1206D 1206D
N=Vojo                  11000  8000  8000  800S  8000  80QO  80W     0  8000  8000  80M0  800   8000  8000 MD      0MD  S0W
L       _Of's vd         6360      0      0     0      0      0      0     0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0
Tabll Imulle           W2460 22379 23282 24102 24922 25760 25760 25760 25760 276  276  276  257   276  2S760
Iail d 1igliCa.         IZ760 10720  8800  8800  8800  8800   800   800  8800  8800 S800  6800 S8W0  8800o  800
QWpVoc"o
Wur                    0      0      0     0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0
NIIwwF                 0      0      0 1362  3262  1634  1691 1691  1691  t691  t11t  t691  t691  t16l  1St
Lomtium                     0   636   636  107  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037  3037  107  1037                0     0
N        l __oJMIo       I0   1600  1600  1600  1600  16Q0   1600  4000           0      0     0      0      0      0      0
Tdol Izjm               14360 12956 11036 12799 149  13070 13128 1S528  1528 It2  112  11528 I5   10491 10491
NETCAI     LOW          120   9423 12246 11303 10223 12690 1263  10232 14232 14232 14232 14232 14232 15269 1529
ROMrabla/MNia            2267 2094  2721  25.12  22.72  2820  28B7  22.74  313   3163  31.63  31.63  31.63  3393  3393
CALCULTON OF LOAN RUI_m
LT  faq                  6360
8TDlsgit.                 0     0      0      0      0     0      0      0     0      0      0      0     0      0      0
pb       wn             0     036    06  107  10B7  107  107  10   1037  1037  107  10l7  10                   0      0
sr Tciaaunw              6360      0      0     0      0      0     0      0      0      0     0      0      O      0     0
Ton  qaym.i            0   636   636  1037  1037  1037  103   1037  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037               0      0



CLASS C LAND                              WATERBUYEROWNING HA AOFLAD
FOR   A  01 LAND                                                           Yr
1     2     3     4      5     6     7      8     9    10    11    12    13    14    15
Cipeam_               0  2319  3222  4042  4862  5700  5700  50   5700  S700  50   5700  S70  S             5700
Walkrs                0     0     0     0      0     0      0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0      0
Nou                       11000  8000  800080   800D  8000  8000  8000  8000  8000  8000 800M Om        O    8000  8000
LOUme hsd                  800  1336 1096       0      0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0      0     0     0
Tdallum                   11800 11655  t318 12042 18   137   130  13700 1          137W  13W00 13tO0 1370       1370013700
nX   u
LIAdRedua,a6Ceum             0      0     0     S     0      0     0      0     0     0      0     0      0     0     0
Wao  171            800  1336  1096  1096  1096  1096  1096  1096  1096  1096  1096  1096  1096  1096  1096
NKk-W        r        0     0     0  13262  1634  1691  16D1  1691  1691  1691  1691  1691  1691  1691
Lam   I goyinsnts            0    80  934  1446 (096         0     0      0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0
N    .jse loam upaymu1s 1600  1600  160    600  1600  1600  1600  4000          0     0      0     0      0     0     0
Tw   puullm               2400  3016  3630  5504  7054  4330  4387  6787  2787  2787  2787  2787  2787  2787  2787
NITCA LOW                 9400  86    8688  6538  S808  937   9313  6913 10913 10913 10913 10913 10913 10913 10913
Relumwolaa/rol_           20.89  1920  1931  14S3  12.91 20.82  20.70  1536 242S  24M   2425 24.25  2425  24.25  24.2S
CALCULT IO  OF LOAN IEQUIRII   [s
LT    pBetFOP                0
kelymauw              0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0      0
ST     Dioulu.               0      0     0     0     0      0     0      0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0
Ropsynuw        0     0      0     00  0     0        0      0     0     0      0     0     0            0
sr     CrPk4pm"            80013361096          0     0      0     0      0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0
P _isyfimfhs         0    80  934  1446  1096        0      0     0     O      0     0     0      0     a      0
f      Tcallomau u         80  1336  1096       0     0      0     0      0     0     0    -0      0     0      0     0
lbmpqa=Mt             0    80   934  1446  1096      0      0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0      0



1Paymftammdgocmmlof3 wodhngmdms(eal Oms lc iweo16)-miakem         sorom aclseommc ropauM
On lam B 1u4 Rs 22Aft b a ioud Arm mon.lamnmmensl incuuue IeA km  de ululn Fadd CogN curbvad par toPrOJees bm Mk
ala Cs   fanymub  _ w osld for  luu ro wain  ir wag labor line Q all m oemto p k4ranct requkd f A odro fayly bulIdto
CaelTwoshagt 150 dnySo  wpo  fl  00k            0   m        w     j6Oma per yew    as h ialmhawkm
I    ald ems w ii no ws 2mend assapess so%W aekn ftbaisof45 w d aysa eekoil pg ym bILwum ye  2cwadaWmme
311 yowal castbdme pnpstcstdiid ed between wubera0(01grp wpmS te coal o f we  o ing hgsa es after muama aplcaalm  AMs
Anclcmi olwm Mi         uwe OInast a  of 1%3.y Lf                                                   o              o
91  AawmpW= 10 moosdWils). Al Stou  oai ab sidy d by Am poject aj ag Sanha6s3
IQ/as Tof ywar papund liwuogdh wb O&M ol unapsyiso
II  TmosIqcm fmerpaya ofr .pwAoG   In yeas   2& 3 (CXOQt seed .udhcka  CI      p flo ushywar3; liandra o l asn Is    yeasd  to3
aawulbc   100%pas
El  Panfls Is  e proect rshld 2% chei a5a9 ro.roeaIcme(2,000) s debtto lcalsnnylen b. ssunIo f40%  aimI-
12  CA salameion y USsmo  ptmon1f.4000 y oanotdi 0 bI rp   - hence  off aft d per yew rs 
7I  rAlumwags km    e f O per nmadof . ca th    f the basi  of 45 O da  od per yew bew    3   s       m
141  200daeulfMle messr.ba d m   rs olterymoat.1
9 2 Aosow 1O     a ylaergrp  50f  syeewpupsot  pojecls oiS    e    1272W10   636
LI /wo A      grace poeiod assumed dudrn  which Inrt  anly Is  paid
111~ Ths  ai oe  ac. of diesl and ltics forbA PS up uilsuffcler cash lo  Is generaed  asd a loan ls not nedd
1IV  Assumes a ens yew grace period on lnut yer of loaa; ful capd  amom paid off aDter iwo year
191 AssIng lou akesfor fullcost of Inptslito fannr frhe durtn of proec
14/ 200 days d lbbor are uqdrd lte first yw t prear U  laud for Isoslcuine bm  uprojectlnh    from wage labo r will be earned by
2 boseold cmber onl hr she hti   p
151 AssuIn 1 puapbetsre    aunde rulreesuzd thforc  laseod pe_S        r grnp@9AM
161 WasWsnedtobossadstamrtetueofRs2Dperbowr
1i1 C.So£frualN ;I sRtlsRS l6per_bOu
:  ~~~t



HORTICULTURE                      LGROU LOAN            0 8C3 Gt hmohdu 0? 14A  m
FURMUAWLAND                                                     Yew
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10    11   12   13   14    15
J   IICOME
mpzvme                   0    0    0  730 1210 1936  A402 6614 9333 11844 10608 13728 16224 18720 18720
Wawa                     0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0          0     0      0     0    0      0
NilIrOi  141               800  000 80M SON   000 8000 8000  000 urna  8000 6000800D  8000 000 800D  8000
Luoeeh                      602  648  S76 1096 1096 1096 520         0    0      0     0     0     0    0       0
T    ot                    86S2 8648 8576 9826103061103212922 14614 17333 19844 18608 21728 24224 2M720 26720
LandRemmulnCoss ISJ    602  648  S76  576  576  576  576   576  S6   576   S76   576   576  576   576
cmppdmcosu
WaSer                    0    0     0    0    0    0    0       0    0      0     0      0     0     0     0
Namtwa                   0    0    0 520 520  520  520  520  520  S20  S20   S20  520 520   520
0   60  190 1236 1206 1206  1206  1148       0     0     0     0     0    0       0
NinoJolmmoym                800  800  800  80D  800  800  800 2000    0          0     0     0     0     0      0
Tol Eemdtu                 1402 IS08 1566 3132 3102 3102 3102 4244  1096  1096  1096  1096  1096  1096  1096
NETCASH FLOW               7200 7140 7010 6694 7204 7930 9820 10370 16237 18748 17512 20632 23128 25624 25624
ReMuolabD/ift             14AO 15.87 158 14.8 16.01 17.62 21.82 23.05 36D8 41.66 38.92 45.8S 51.40 S6.94  5694
CALCUIATION OFLOAN REQJMTS
LT  P&U=t                   530
RPM==                    0  S3 53530  0  0  0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0
Sr Dluelo                   72  648  S76 576 576 576    0            0    0      0     0     0     0    0      0
RqPy=M                   0    7137  706  634  634  634  S76           0     0     0     0     0     0      0
S1OCrp iupls                  0    0     0520  520 520  S20          0    0      0     0     0     0     0     0
Reqmyumn                 0    0    0    05S725725S72572               0     0     0     0     0      0     0
Tomldmmnawa            602  648  S76 1096 1096 1096  520    0    0          0     0     0     0      0     0
Total lsrqm              0   60  190 1236 1206 1206 1206  1148    0         0     0     0    0       0     0



HORTICULTURo                              WATR MSE  ILUNG OUAD3ACEFLANDOWNRSW                                    HA EACH
FWNUVUM                                                                     Ywg
1     2     3      4      S      6     7      8      9    10    11    12    13    14    15
Ompmlg                  0     0      0   730  1210  1936  4402  6614  9333 11844 10608 1372  16224 1872 1872
Waernale 161          917  8250    50   250  82S0  8250  850   8250               20  8 8250 M8O0S  8250    50
No"  fin-,               8 on   on   sow           8Om   8000 Nw0   NW    NW    8000  8000 800  800  8000 8000
IAMlNdEW                 636    0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0
TdaiIus                  L5277 1620 16250 169O  17460 18186 206S2 22864 25583 28094 26858 29978 32474 3470 34970
11  DIIt
LadR_1maCom a        35  71D  72    7200  7200  7200  7200  7200  7200  7200  720   7200  720   720   72    720
a"--
wown                    0     0      0      0     0      0      0     0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0
Non4yaw                 0     0      0   108   108   108   108   10o   108   108   108   108   108   108   108
L7 _mynms                    0   636   636  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037              0     0
Noojum              m  800 800800 800 8   0   0  2                                0   0   0   0   0   0   0
TdaIE,.ah                 790   8636  8636  9145  9145  9145  9145 10345  8345   34   84   8345  8345 73083 733 
NETCAHLOW               7316.7  7614  7614  7813  8315  9041 1150? 12519 17238 19749 18513 21633 24129 272 27662
__Rmusebtfffa                 14H3  16.92  16.92  17A   18.4   20A9  2557  27.82  3831  43.89  41.14  4W   5362  61A7  61A7
CLCUATiON OF LOAlE  QDRNIS
LT  PItpm!                 360
RqwPy =                 0   636   636  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037              0      0
Sr D'dlOL 0                       0      0     0      0      0     0      0      0      0     0      0      0     0      0
ReMOW0                       0      0      0     0      0      0     0      0      0      0     0      0      0     0
ST ra   pbi !               0      0      0     0      0      0     0      0      0      0     0      0      0     0      0
Reyumm                  0     0      0      0     0      0      0     0      0      0      0     0      0      0     0 
stoakm   aM          636D     0      0      0     0      0      0     0      0      0o     0     0      0      0     0
Taupaymm                0   636   636  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037  1037  137  1037              0     0



HORTICULtURE                              WATE1U)YR OWNING OA BA OF LAND
FMBOAAOFAND                                                                Yar
r____________________ _ w          .1    2     3     4      5     6     7      8     9    10    1t    12    13    14    15
crop  wu              0     0     0   730  1210  1936  4402  6614  9333 11644 10608 13728 124 18720 18720
Watersa               0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0      0     0     0      0
Nm"oas 14/                8000  gm    Om    Om   NW    8000        0 _  800 0 SW          WO 80008000 S       000 800
Lmrouwd                    400  720  72 12405 205 2                0      0     0     0      0     0      0     0     0
TbIJUUIII3                8400  8720  8720  9970  9730 104S6 12402 14614 17333 19644 18608  21728 24224 2672D 267
LandRecwbasi Coo 151    648   576   576   S76   576   576   S76   S76   576   576   S76   S76   576   S76             0
CrprDuad=  ns
War  17J            400   720   720   720   720   720   720   720   720   720   720   720   720   720   720
Ntwmtu                0     0      05  20   20    20  520   520 520   520 520 520 520   S20   520
Aoann I9   I 1nr8            0    40   472 792  364  1292572              0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0
N=Vo0stkmnpaynms           800   SOD   800  800   800   800   soo   80   2000         0      0     0     0      0     0
TotdZ*       n S1848  2136  2S68  3408  3980  390t 3188  2616  3816  1816  1816  1816  1816  1816  1240
NZT CAUSNlLFW             6552  6S84  6152   562   750  6548  9214 11996 13517 18028 16792 19912 22408 24904 25480
r____________             13.10  14.63  13f7  1438  12.78 1S 24A7 26.66 30.04 40.06 3732 44.25  49.80 55.34 S662
CALCUATlN"Olrll N                   NIS
LT    Pham"                  0
Rqiayam               0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0      0     0     0     0
ST     WaSr                400   720  720   720       0      0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0     0      0
R4eqrtaSs             0    40   472  792   9    720         0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0     0
ST     COphypM               0     0      0  20    20 520          0     0      0     0     0      0     0     0      0
Rq_ 8m                0     0     0      0   57    572   57       0     0      0     0      0     0     0     0
Thiloanmxmit        400  720   720  240    20   520         0     0     0      0     0      0     0     0      0
Tladtowp Ms           0    40   472 3    2 364  1292 57           0     0      0     0      0     0     0      0



1/  Euesenm.mmta immomme from poises nwacevm
2/  RVOW4tdferJe  Inome fom wag Iabor, Uvalock prodol (ammmd to yield Rs2000i dof be   p  ya) and ote acie8
Pamoly smnmed lo semis of 3 woiklg members (toald slr*f .16- take frum stmceowmlc zponnst
On c    B &and,    a Rs 22Wsb I earned fom noa4cwenientol  xoej Le. *tmm ihaii pdyc   cultivstd pearto pojemp
"l two   fiy mmm sswoMld awo to work for wage lb  snc A  ub l          ar    t equed forWth fAmy holdng assupdom of
ahesr w0eking for In day per year  ah  J,d_m"so;
0O}and ca  Cal llmreeabm especW  to win In ye  I wUl LR acvIes_ ogong Sh  2 horn yeaw  2 onwn
31  hbr Ices hI lam   s _pompsu cs idedW betw mmmbea ofdo grop and 0. coo of wae for flsing salts aferappc    Alo
hldeOs cm of G       ae ure In "s 2 yeas (aly Rs 1974*b/w). In aa oer yas LRJcowultofO&M of do purejet oly (  cm ofdie
od odw nmberm _s"xb). All otc ac oo ovded by die pronec ao pas bah
4/  Coswafser w  o ered tbmuaghO&Mofpups
51  Costfha( sefam    r para fo bfforOGM In em 2& 3(excquee vd dwhimmeataphyutslayewr3, alsodercoolsIn yam I to 3
arocoied by 1I0%p
61  FaiIes I be poj eahld 25%of their pm I rojm              m(3s2,        n det to  caloeylende  Assunpian  40%l ofest-
Calwlaieuiel  themmSpee. Us 400 lot at 4% ba m1eWl - basic. Rs1600 read pe yeru iterstane
71  MnmmwagmeIsRs20 perwidWa  alciedamteboaof450das  d   peryabeteen 3bousbold mgbers
81  AN c       _aulatloasambdedoanavtoflmereofl IO.
91  AOau_10 dokhodpergrp; 50* Sabdy oa pu   -A.pcoJ l castoo                 S terefrole 127202/10'636
10/ TwoyewnepeiodmoWd du gwibh  oulsIaid
111/ lbhsoe      covwr purchase a efdiesl and libdcsi for t PS up un  sfim cah flow s  generated and alan Is not need
12  Aum    a n year pae perod on fitear 7 ofu b f lU cap    amoms paid off al r two yew
13/ AnumIng oan W     for faull cosf I   ut to flw for dh duration of pojeil
14/ 200 das of   o a equied n  e i year tore     land for          b ar         opjt  h   frm wayplbor wi be earnd by
2 lIueiod membs enly Inth.first yr
l1   AaummS I pumpsetoerr5 heS audr fnh  am and teom 12heousdwi pe obp@ OAa
161 Waar mmd lto be  eld at a mde t of Rs 20pbow
17/ Canuof ruslua peuIslR 16 perhour



0 ~ ~ ~    ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~               
4      ~GUM  slog ama 363  amh  met4 4U£out an  am 615£ fUSS             an£3 to   Gm1563  US       331 0                                 bw
mm St 55  SinU  CIS?1 P4514  to=5  mm5 £9u4 915 WM5  1  1 PI    £3 IW  mm cm   MMSaK 0 0WGowoo
"Doi gm"5NW   wsr£5 gm"1 low5 15515 15155 on" "515 SLim  KM91  mmll  tiWIg 1405 15 LM   am5  mm1  0                        W1ID-o36lpw
m am  uwe  ~s  uset am   au*gm owl 1*9514  neSs Ow m  inu DM     Ias   a mm     w  SILt 596 MU mm                          in3ltS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p   mse  o_   Om  am  am   S asn                                                wmw  o _TwhpG,w*
amt mmO          M  w  am M          ma         w  am  Om   mm oO   =a"u    MomO                                                
U 13 593 5631 £13 £143 £141  £9631 £1631 £6l1 591 £93£91  llt 1635f _11  _33  U69  51(81 1t511
U#I                       t                                                  531 Ul      1 USA U9S a  TIU 9   Ulil I D    1 91    91_
UWK  uIC  mes urn  cues uns urns ur   un  us   urns 1111# emss _sa  uses
t tlW~~~~~~K  11   IWK  6R9K  631K 63   6                                 US  6651K llWlgZII  
DlD ~ ~                                                    I    £1  U            CL:f    i t                      
qemqw
- 736



150
Anax14
Page 1 of 3 pages
flT=f p IlSH sonic           y- TAD . EL~A  INPRJC
Rmrvlainn a      Id MnTmtatin R~enaand PhvaiJa   area
1imevislern Plan
1. Effective supervision and monitoring is especially crucial to the
successful implementation of this project. While the technological aspects of
reclamation are understood and proven, the multi-disciplinary nature of the
project requires involvement of a number of agencies. This would require
effective coordination and communication between participating agencies. in
addition, in view of the strongr emphasis being placed on comulnity
participation, an approach which has not been attempted on this scale before
in the State, the implementation program is intended to be flexible to allow
incorporation of changes according to the progress and the findings of the IDA
supervision missions, input of the Borrow::,. and of the participants.
2.    =A Sup.ry   io~n Input. To ensure that the risks to successful project
implementation are overcome through appropriate and timely adjustments, during
the early stages of the project IDA supervision missions would include a
strong complement of technical experts as well as social scientists. in
addition, the Annual Action Plans (discussed in detail in Annex 3) would not
only help in the review of the progress of each component by the supervision
missions but also help to develop the close coordination necessary between
various participating agencies. it is intended that supervisions would be
undertaken twice yearly. One of those missions would concentrate on the
achievement of physical targets, procurement, disbursement and other
procedural issues. The second mission would assess the effectiveness of the
project's technical and social activities and, if required, make
recmmndtions for changes in the design and organization and management
arrangements. The start up of IDA mission would reconf ire formats required
for project accounts and reports and arrangements for procurement and
disbursement. it would review progress of reclamation activities already
begun. Prior to September 1996, provision would be made for a mid-term review
in 1997. The terms of reference for this review would be agreed with IDA and
provide for a complete assessment of the progress of the project and
facilitate major design changes if necessary. An indicative supervision
schedule and the staff input required are given below. A Coqmpterized
MangemntPlan (ClIP) is shown in Table 2, and discussed in detail in Annex 3.
3.    Th   nrvr   otrik,1tLon tetha SumWv4iLn. The Borrower would
maximize coordination and contribute towards the supervision process through
several different activities. The work of advisory/coordination conuiittees
(Para 4.2) would maximi:e coordinationi and monitoring for project activities.
The Annual Action Plans, to be completed by LDC and submitted to the Dank at
least 3 months prior to the beginning of a new project year, would provide a
very sound basis for the supervision of the project and include information on



151
Page 2 of 3 pages
all budgetary and logistical arrangements fade to facilitate implementation.
Under the project provision has been make for five different types of
monitoring and evaluation activitios (para 4.16) which would be coordinated by
the Management Services unit of LDC. This would provide an excellent data
base to assist the supervision work. LDC would also be required to produce
quarterly and annual review of the progress of project implementation,
highlighting areas of difficulty faced and furnish suggestions to overcome
these problems. These would be reviewed by the LDC management, GOUP and GOI
and the Bank's supervision mission.
1.                R6hSdulQ of Suorviaion Minnp
t! Dan4a  A  +-LXitx      Uad           rts/ I 
aZa sLZwuL3ogu±  a         (Staff weeks)
TY 94  I         start Up            Procurement               10
Disbursement
Irrigation/Drainage
:&M, Sociologist
FY94   xi        Supervision 1       Irrigation/Drainage       10
Sociologist
Economist
Agriculturalist
Environmentalist
Planning/GIS
FY95   I         Supervision 2       OM                       8
Finance/Economist
Credit/Sociologist
Horticulturalist
Organization and Management
FY95   II        Supervision 3       Irrigation /Drainage        10
Economist
Planning/GIS
Agriciilturalist/Forester
Sociologist
FY96   I         Supervision 4       0&0                       8
Finance/Economist
Sociologist / WID
Research / Extension
Environmentalist/Hydrologist
FY96   It        Supervision 5        irrigation / Drainage   8
Planning / GIS
Agriculturalist



152
Page 3 of 3 pages
FTY97    I       Supervision C       Disbursement               6
Economist
Organization and Management
FY97    SS       Mid Term Review   O0M                          20
Economist
Planning / GIS
irrigation I Drainage
Agriculturalist
Sociologist
Disbursement
Enviromnent
FY98    I        Supervision 7       Irrigation / Drainage      8
Economist
111
Sociologist
FY98      1      Supervision S       OM                        8
Sociologist
Agriculturalist
Economist
FY99    S        Supervision 9       Planning / GIS             6
Irrigation / Drainage
Finance
FY99    YS       Supervision 10    O0M                          8
Economist
34E
Sociologist
FY2000  X        Supervision 11      Irrigation / Drainage    6
Disbursement
Finance
mY2000  II       Supervision 12      O&                        8
(Copletion)        Disbursement
sociologist
FY2001  I        Project Coipletion Economist                   10
Planning / GIS
Agriculturalist/ Forester
Sociologist



153
nnox 14
XUtmtd Roclamation ZzFlnsata tl ou eiule
Ha/Yr
Year         1       2        3        4       5        6       7     TOTAL
Crops:  Class      600    1900    3800      4200    4200   4300              19000
Crops: Class       600    2000    4000      4400    4400   4600              20000
Horticulture       1S0      300     500      700      700    650              3000
Forestry           150      300     700      700      700    450              3000
Total             1500    4500      900   10000   10000  10000               45000
Cumulative
Total      1500    6000   15000   25000   35000  45000                45000
Ustb ate4 Nwbew of Dozing.
No. /Yr.
Year         1        2       3        4        5       6       7     TOTAL
Class a             50      275     600      600      600    675              2800
Class C            150      S00    1000     1100    1100   1150               5000
gorticulture        10       20      60       80       80      90              340
Total              210      795    1660     1780    1780   1915               8140
Cumulative to
210    1005    2665     4445    6225   8140                8140
Notes:
Tood Crops:   1 boring required per 4 ha.
Horticulture: 1 boring required per 5 ha.
Forestry:     1 boring required per 6 ha.
Existing number of bor ings        2307



rUDrA
Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands Reclamation Project
Cobsputerized Project NMpnDment Plam
_   .             _              I~~~~~~~~~ 1 2  1   'Is  1    I9   1                                       
2  lDAPRO.ECTUMA --_ EMENBT **rr       
3                                   _   _10         uds;     W;77   
a    P                                   |  |o dl uwnc             4 A44m"         a        
7r                                                             f*S     l11111.aPeE -         
14  C    em |8  88 fl T1       11 T    r___   t   h 
.e  _ _ I I I I l,.             W        sl^J;  i   i                                i i 1-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Is     P     RC_I                                            h11           11111 :-1                            -----    
so    PROJCTURENTA_aCrIEWA                     p     s**SC*C   
a3    _mot                                                                  I I       1L_  I                        __J 
-e2          _IDECT MMVWT             PF OAl-    t       1l111l||1lr|11Xr     X r                         z_T  
83   -    _   _  N=talh C Cm  r 4-  1     -        -          x
a    1      App*t PIf Iee  IMuW                I4.M    44  1                             111             
sofl        App  ofK' WAW'W&



155             Annex 14
Table 2 (cont.)
w
I-~M
$ . W   t - - - '11;i-'i 11 1     
L~~~~~~ I I 11 I i
_ _ , _X ][ :3X 1 ]w I
r   rag  t r Z 1 T TI E   ]]]X
1g  |1       1   1|1|1||1 X X   w ] Is



156
SIPRADISRODIC  DS RzCr       ?O PTMROThJ
IDA Fiscal                            Cumulative       % of
famat  labuxm   fobuxr&=    TtalCost
FY93a/
II               3.3           3.3            6
FY94         I                3.3           6.6           12
II               3.3           9.9           18
FY95         I                3.8          13.7           25
II               3.8          17.5           32
FY96         I                4.9          22.4           41
II               4.9          27.3          50
FY97         I                5.5          32.8           60
II               5.5          38.3          70
FY98         I                4.9          43.2           79
II               4.9          48.1          88
FY99         I                2.2          50.3           92
II               2.2          52.5           96
FY2000       I                2.2          54.7          100
a/ Includes retroactive financing of US$5.0 million and
special account of US$2.0 million.



157
Annex 16
Page 1 of 2
Tim=   PamH    ODIC  L S asLATON                OECT
Dumnts  Availab   in grojantt  VilgIA
1. Government of Uttar Pradesh/Up land Development Corporation - Project
Preparation Report - Initial and Revised Proposals.
2. Socio-economic Survey of the Project Area - A report of the research team
under the direction of Professor Ajit Kumar Singh, Giri Institute of
Development Studies, Luchnow, March 1991.
3. Making Usar Bloom - Background information current programs and future
strategies, U.P. Council of Agricultural Research, Lucknow.
4. Usar Reclestation in Uttar Pradesh - An evaluation study by Uttar Pradesh
Development Systems Corporation Ltd., Lucknow.
5. Working Papers
a) Site Identification and Planning
(1)   Remote Sensing and Planning - reports by Dr.J. Van Genderen,
January, 1990 and Dr. E. Westings, July, 1991 and July, 1992,
International Institutes for Aerospace and Earth Sciences,
Erschede, the Netherlands.
b) Drainage, OFD and Chemical Amendments
(i)   Drainage, OFD and Chemical Amendments Component - a report by
Dr. J. van Hoorn, Consultant and Dr. W. Wolkers, International
Institute for Land Reclamation and Improvement (ILRI),
Wageningen, the Netherlands, July, 1991.
(ii)  A Review of the Drainage Component - a report by
Dr.H. P.Ritzema, ILRI, Wageningen, the Netherlands, July, 1992.
c) Socio-Economic Study and NGO Participation
(i)   Socio-economic Aspects and Possibility of NGO Participation - a
report by A. Salam, Consultant, July 1991.
(ii)  Role of Participative Systems and Institutions in Fostering
Sustainability, Social and Gender Equity - a report by
Mr. A. Fernandez, MYRADA, Banglore, india, November 1991.



158
Annex 16
Page 2 of 2
(iii) Potential for Women's Participation in the Project Villages of
Sultanpur, Rae Bareili and Pratapgarh - a report by the Centre
for Social Research, New Delhi, India, April 1993.
d)        Environmental Aspects
(i)   Environmental Reconnaissance of UP Sodic Lands - a Report by
Dr. W. H. Diemont, Institute for Nature Research, Arnhem, the
Netherlands, December, 1991.
(ii)  Environmental Reconnaissance of Hydrological
Considerations - a report by Dr. J. Boorstra, ILRI, Wageningen,
the Netherlands, July, 1991.
(iii) Environmental Management - a report by Mr. A. Schumacher,
consultant, AGRITEAM, Canada, February, 1993.
e) Adaptive Research
'i)   Research Assessment and Development of Research
Proposals - a report by Dr. W.W. West, Institute for Sustainable
Agriculture, Tatara Victoria, Australia, June, 1992.
(ii)  Research Proposal Form U.P. Council of Agricultural
Research, Lucknow, October, 1992.
6. Detailed Project Costs



UTTAR PRADESH SODIC IM              RECLAMATION PROJECT                                              CHART I
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION OF THE UP LAND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
=0~4x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
mu ~   ~     oa
Lm *I,g         ~     fI~rau    r~~ZeU  
har.PiJ¶~~~J~~iizU  ~ ~   ~ * '  ~~           wi It ~~. £6 guob 1~~ S.o..................
4. ~jjsta,  t~    oe t .,.otaI.- ot.otto OOOuI..b. IO~ wih t)toon. ~....... - btIot



UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RECLAMATION PROJECT                                              CHART 2
INFOWIATION FLOM
r.
r------------------- ------------------{= 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n am"A "sP   ",C                                   al warim        mp  .or            lg
~~~~~~~~~~~~~v.,-                                 _"w ^ s . j".
F ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-*---*- --- -- -*--- -------  +.a_"    
a%:I                        a
i                                                                                                       K
*                               a                                                                          aos-  fu
*                                  .                       a_E   _
*        d   :---*-**-**~--              1I                                                                    a §I     t1  --    t--
* I _  11 as c 11 1ic                                  IE lfI                              1-^1-1 
*        ,is i,i-
1_  *                *              *               *                                                              .h
_                    a              S* 
*                                                99 



MAP SECTION



IBRD 24701
--    '                                                                44  zb8
HIMWlACHAL PADEMS  
5   \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
-            /Ri                      C H~~~~ I N A
UTTAR KAsmI
INDIA
OLAMOUJ                                     ( < t. UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS
AWYAAfAu"IN                                                                   °          - RECLAMATION PROJECT
5i1                                 7°i   -DISTRIBUTION OF SALT-AFFECTED LANDS
8.   <   S   UAORA  vj                                         SAIT-AFFECTED LANDS
7 O  f   /   <    <   j    n                                     0     DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS
TIa                                                         *     STATE CAPITAL
N ~      sj~                                                                                 NATIONA ")iGHWAYS
-$          S           .1\  NAINI 2 .f EA5
DEL          ' _         U        R  A         v       tMAN                                      -    - WRAILOD
; os. H \ / P ; % - - 5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TATE OR UNO TERRrrORY BUNAIES
ol ibd/                          r                                                                  NO
-.-INTERNATIONAL BUDRE
t4.    ~       4                            N                                    5
A(4V.o~~~~~~ Ao 
2rs                                         _               g                                   a       
28'
MfADHPYA  PRADEM 
26'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
HAMWAX ~    ~         ~        ~         IZ W
<1                                                                          8111~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DIAR
NAEADrA PRADESW
14' Thhiq mb.pp.&  I Wb'fdBA'.iora Lk il
24.
MARCH I99



IBRD 24700
78'0                                                                     ~~~~- 82-
HINACIVAi PRADESA
i~   UtAR lSHI    *.JsC  H I N A
(                                                    CH-INA~ th   g i                       INDIA
,,,,  I4AMO. 0., U    L                           UTTAR PRADESH SODIC l.ANDS
HtARrANA  N/ 0                                         Az  N                         & _ R >RECLATION PROJECT
fi;/  t t   7 °hun k   z       PITNORAGW ,i                 PROJECT RECLAMATION AREAS
IN WAH/At                                                                            c0
AL A MAa                                                         P AIORAETZ  r
t\ i  O   <   k           \  d- p                                                PROJECt RECLAMATION AREAS
0Aj... I0WfARNAG^R   /   _  ;< ~   \    _o                  DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS
IANAGAR  0h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  R.~~~~~~T\                               * ~~~~~~STATE CAPITAt
of                                          .-  . > _. ..... itJNOR&\NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
.1\ _} YNAINITAt                                                          B BROAD GAUGE RAILROADS
, °,,_. - s M < > 7 - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
aF0;   St  (_CRAtRAMAR                                                 I XS 4  ,.i;,  -  D-STRICT BOUNDARIES
^dEI                                                                                              STATE OR UNION TERRITORY BOUNDARIES
0   9   p   / % AtEIttY  )    PttEtHn 9\ 2   \    r  -'-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
BUWAUN_ \                           -_
~mwlu,eanuda d   th    ! us 01 Th WzY wtdR^P t f    \ JA'
R. >   It                                                         l  SONttHADRA \~~~~GOND
DaA@ap hedmm Maes s1d the hudem t.o °n              0              rc o  120°   160                   N  __.       '.
ma dem -a w - th ef  Gpar at he Knl IBan @raap art -udgue
- dItUfl@ l rf 0AG" t.t0t rt _1 cr at  af
t h                                                                        te
Bob ''93



