Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22886
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-25100)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 39.5 million (US$ 54,7 million equivalent)
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF
INDIA
FOR A
UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RECLAMATION PROJECT
09/28/2001
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = INR
1 1NR = US$ 0.022
US$ 1 = INR 29 (1993)
= INR 46 (2001)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAG      Comptroller and Auditor General
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy (GOIIWB)
CCL       Cash Credit Limit
DOA       Department of Agriculture
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP  World Bank/ FAO Cooperative Program
FRR      Financial Rate of Return
GOUP    Government of Uttar Pradesh
ID       Irrigation Department
IIM      Indian Institute of Management
LCB       Local Competitive Bidding
MIS       Management Information System
MK       Mitra Kisan (progressive male farmer)
MMK       Mahila Mitra Kisan (progressive female farmer)
MOA       Ministry of Agriculture
MSHG    Men Self Help Group
MTR       Mid Term Review
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NGO      Non-Government Organization
0cc       Opportunity Cost of Capital
QAE      Quality at Entry (World Bank measure)
RSAC    Remote Sensing Applications Center
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SHG       Self Help Group
SIC      Site Implementation Committee
SIP      Site Implementation Plan
UPBSN   Uttar Pradesh Bhoomi Sudhar Nigam (Land Development Corporation)
WSHG    Women Self Help Group
WUG       Water User Group
Vice President:    M. Nishirnizu
Country Manager/Director:    E. Lim
Sector Manager/Director:    R. Ali
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    G.Pathmanathan/M. Balasubramanian



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SODIC LANDS RECLAMATION PROJECT
(IDA 25100)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  8
6. Sustainability                                                                     10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    13
9. Partner Comments                                                                   14
10. Additional Information                                                            14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 26
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation                                                        27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P00996 1                                       Project Name: UP SODIC LANDS RECLA
Team Leader: M. Balasubramanian                            TL Unit: SASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: September 28, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: UP SODIC LANDS RECLA                            L/C/TFNumber: IDA-25100
Countiy/Department: INDIA                                                 Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: AY - Other Agriculture; VM - Natural Resources
Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  07/13/1990                               Effective: 09/22/1993          08/04/1993
Appraisal:  12/29/1992                                 MTR: 04/01/1997            04/17/1997
Approval:  06/10/1993                               Closing.  03/31/2001          03/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: Govenmment of India/Uttar Pradesh Bhumi Sudar Nigam (UPBSN); Govenmment
of India/Uttar Pradesh State
Other Partners:  None
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      M. Nishimizu                               A. Karaosmanoglu
Country Manager:     Edwin Lim                                  H. Vergin
Sector Manager.      R. Ali                                     J. Wijnand
Team Leader at ICR:   M. Balasubramanian
ICR Primary Author:   M. Nightingale (FAO/CP)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance. S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
Note: The project was reviewed bi QAG in 1997 and 1999 and pr(?ject supervision was rated asIIighl
Satisf ctory.



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1. The Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands Reclamation Project (Sodic I) had three objectives: (i) to
develop models for environmental protection and improved agricultural production through large-scale
reclamation of sodic lands; (ii) to strengthen local institutions to manage such schemes; and (iii) to
contribute to poverty alleviation of the families concerned. There was no revision to these objectives.
3.2 Revised Objective:
None
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1. The project was planned as a flexible operation that supported alternative approaches for
ensuring a comprehensive approach to rehabilitating sodic lands, ensuring sustainable agricultural
production and promoting environmental protection. Actions were targeted on the below poverty line
(BPL) group of the rural population in the ten districts of Uttar Pradesh, worst affected by sodic lands.
Planned investments were focused on four main components:
(i) Land reclamation, involved designing, rehabilitating and remodeling the drainage network,
constructing shallow wells and installing pump sets for irrigation to leach salts and support crop
growth, land levelling and bunding, and providing gypsum to reduce soil alkalinity. Environmental
protection was germane to these developments.
(ii) Institutional development, involved strengthening Uttar Pradesh Bhumi Sudar Nigam (UPBSN -
UP Land Development Corporation) and enabling it to provide comprehensive coordination for project
activities, business management and reporting, supporting NGOs to assist in mobilizing and organizing
the communities in the project area, and remote sensing and site planning activities.
(iii) Agricultural development and technology dissemination, aimed at fostering adoption of
recommended reclamation, agricultural, horticultural and farm management practices by beneficiaries,
and providing extension support involving motivational campaigns, production of publicity materials
and use of mass communication techniques.
(iv) Reclamation technology development and special studies included adaptive research for
improving crop production technologies and diversifying farming systems, and special technical and
socioeconomic studies.
3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1. Following good progress in physical achievements in the opening years of the project, it
was agreed at the mid-term review (MTR) to extend the targets for project coverage by over
50%, from 45,000 to 68,800 ha for land reclamation, drainage and cultivation. This implied
increasing the number of target beneficiaries to include a population of more than 1 million
people.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1. Quality at entry is satisfactory. The preparation process was thorough and comprehensive.
First, an intensive discussion process between GOUP and IDA, extending from 1989 to 1993, ensured
good project design and strong ownership by GOUP. Second, there was effective liaison between the
- 2 -



UP Department of Agriculture (DOA - which took the lead in project preparation) and the Irrigation
Department (ID). Third, the lessons learned from previous (non-holistic) efforts at sodic lands
reclamation were well reflected. Also, pilot actions implemented in the project area during the
preparation process made a positive contribution to project design. Fourth, the project design
introduced the concept of government partnership with NGOs and active community participation.
Fifth, the project preparatory efforts involved baseline socioeconomic survey. Sixth, there was
continuity in task management by IDA which resulted in better coordination of special studies that
underpinned project and good understanding and rapport with the implementing agency. The project
objectives strongly supported four of the development priorities specified in the then current CAS
(Report No. 17241-IN 12/19/97): human development and poverty alleviation, sociological and
environmental concerns, and promoting private sector and financial initiatives.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1 1  Outcome of objectives is assessed as satisfactory. Project actions successfully developed
procedures for carrying out large-scale reclamation of sodic lands. In particular, it developed effective
models for poverty alleviation, notably for landless people, environmental protection and improved
agricultural production. The overall outcome in financial and economic terms has exceeded
expectations and the environmental impact (para 6.1.7) is positive. As a result, it was decided by the
Bank to expand the scope of these works and to initiate a bigger follow-up project (UP Sodic Lands
reclamation Project 11- Cr. 3152-IN) that commenced in 1999. Furthermore, farmers in adjoining areas
are clearly benefiting from project drainage works. Added to this, (a) The Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) of the Government of India is extending this approach to other states affected by sodic lands for
which officers from GOI have already been trained by UPBSN; (b) The government of Uttar Pradesh
has issued a Government Order stating that the methodology and approach followed by this project
should be followed in the projects of similar nature; and (c) a bankable model scheme for 'Usar' (sodic)
reclamation (based on the model developed by UPBSN) has been sanctioned by National Bank for rural
Development (NABARD) with 100% re-finance.
4.1.2  Institutional development objectives for project management were exceeded. Assigning a public
corporation (UPBSN) to manage the project and the central involvement of committed NGOs from the
outset were the main reasons in the project's success. The strengthened UPBSN is now operating
projects funded by IFAD and the Bank, UNDP supported 'Women in Agriculture' besides the Bank
funded UPSLRP II. The capacity of the Remote Sensing Application Center (RSAC) in identification
and selection of suitable reclamation sites and environmental monitoring has improved considerably.
The RSAC is performing these tasks on a much larger scale under UPSLRP-II and other state and
Central government funded projects. The project was successful in strengthening the capacity of two
intermediary NGOs to provide grassroots NGO services for community mobilization, motivation and
awareness campaigns on a larger scale. In addition, for NGO personnel, the interaction and
coordination with various government departments has expanded and strengthened their human
resources to meet the growing demand for trained and committed field workers in various government
sponsored participatory projects. The responsibilities of farmers' groups for project development
actions and field organizations were significantly expanded relative to appraisal plans; this contributed
significantly to the project's success. The Water Users' Groups (WUGs) and the Site Implementation
Committees (SICs) formed at the village level have taken a key role in planning, implementing and
reviewing of project activities with the assistance of NGOs. SICs, formed at village level for project
execution, have become permanent entities in the village. Some of these groups (720) evolved into
- 3 -



farmers' clubs that provide broader technical support to sustain agriculture production.
4.1.3  The project outcome on poverty alleviation has been exemplary, both in raising living standards
and for social developments. The positive impact of project intervention on household poverty includes
rise in local wage employment, household income, consumption, savings and household assets and
wealth and fall in open unemployment, disguised unemployment, labor migration from 85 to 50 man
days/year (refer para 4.2.7). Guided by NGOs, women created more than 2000 WSHGs that leamed
to address members' problems and created savings and credit operations linked to commercial banks.
The project initiated capacity building and enabled the women to have access to information and credit;
a measure towards gender equity.
4.1.4  The project may have had some impact on the regional rural economy indirectly. Evidence of
this include; (i) increased weekly frequency of market days. The number of sellers and buyers and
volume of transaction in these markets has also increased; (ii) increased savings in the local rural banks
and repayment of loans has improved; (iii) increase in new micro-processing units (oil and flour); (iv)
new service outlets such as - barbers, laundry and transport; (v) increase in the number of input supply
centers; (vi) school enrolment and new schools established have also increased; and (vii) new
single-doctor health centers have been established and number of patients visiting formal health centers
has increased.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1   Outputs by components are all assessed as satisfactory. Detailed assessment of the
individual physical, socioeconomic and institutional impact of different components relative to SAR
targets are detailed in Annex I and summarized below.
4.2.2 Land reclamation (through provision of an effective drainage network: on-farm development:
application of chemical amendment: irrigation development: and support for food and horticultural tree
crops production: Satisfactory. Fanner-organized Water Users' Groups (WUGs) carried out on-farm
development works (i.e. boring shallow tubewells and installing pumpsets, constructing field and link
drains and irrigation channels) and applying gypsum. As a result, 68,414 ha of sodic lands (152 % of
SAR target) were reclaimed. About 36,000 ha (C class barren land) area brought under green cover for
the first time. About 2,460 km of main drains (132 % of SAR target) were rehabilitated with extended
influence within the catchment area of 400,000 ha. Some 2,500 km of link drains, connecting
farm-drains with main drains, were constructed/rehabilitated. In total, 10,930 new borings were drilled,
developed and made functional, resulting in generation of additional irrigation potential of 47,422 ha.
All of these are well above appraisal target (Annex 1).
4.2.3  Successful land reclamation has resulted in: increase in cropping intensity from 61 to 222%;
attainment of stabilized paddy and wheat yields of 3.0 and 2.7 t/ha respectively; an incremental paddy
and wheat production of 1.54 and 1.56 million tons respectively; and establishment of inter-horticulture
system in 5,240 ha.
4.2.4  In some areas soil reclamation work proceeded ahead of rehabilitation of main drains due to
belated mobilization by ID. However, prompted by agreements reached during the MTR in 1997, the
ID assigned dedicated divisions to be responsible for coordinating engineering developments. Output
from this component was, to a large extent responsible for the project's comprehensive and positive
environmental impacts.
4.2.5  Institutional development through strengthening of village level institutions (WUG.SIC,SHG)
- 4 -



UPBSN, RSAC and participating NGOs: Satisfactory. The evolving participatory management
approaches resulted in the development of 1,003 Site Implementation Committees (SICs) and
approximately 16,000 WUGs at village level. These groups took charge, respectively, of physical
planning and development, and of irrigation management. Some 720 of these groups are evolving into
farmers' clubs capable of providing a range of technical support to sustain agriculture production and
long-term socioeconomic development for the communities. Village communities nominated 1,677
animators and 2,736 Mitra Kisan/Mahila Mitra Kisan (progressive men/women farmers - equally
divided) as representatives for technical training. The most remarkable impact was the effect of the
project in women's emancipation. Guided by the NGOs, women created 2,166 Self-Help Groups
(WSHGs) that learned to address members' problems and created savings and credit operations linked
to commercial banks. Some of the funds in WSHG are being on-lent to men. In addition, some 3,156
men's self-help groups (MSHG) were formed. Health and education standards have also improved
significantly. Not only this project provided food security to this most vulnerable group of people but
also social status and acceptance in the village community.
4.2.6 The UPBSN was transformed into a mature support organization. The UPBSN has developed
professional capability in various areas like land reclamation, participatory management, women
empowerment, human resource development and technology dissemination. Now, it has well-established
state and district project offices with its own building, MIS and communication facilities. It maintained
a proactive approach to project developments in the ten districts involved and effectively coordinated
the support of associated organizations. Because of the complex nature of overall project operations,
this required a full-time team with high commitment to project developments and problem solving. This
was achieved through dynamic leadership, precision in planning, strong motivational and supervisory
strategies and, most notably, in fostering strong participatory management by beneficiaries.
The RSAC has been strengthened in terms of capacity for identification and selection of suitable
reclamation sites; capability for planning, monitoring and evaluating environmental parameters
including soil and ground water; spatial analysis capacity (including substantial remote sensing and
GIS capacity; and improved professional expertise through national and intemational technical
assistance and training.
Two NGOs, recruited at the project outset, effectively supported project implementation by developing
skills for mobilizing community groups, establishing grassroots institutions, fostering participatory
approaches and methodologies, and coordinating savings and credit operations. The beneficiary and
staff training programs contributed significantly to the successful institutional development.
Monitoring of project developments was contracted to the Indian Institute of Management (IIM)
Lucknow, which performed well in verifying data from UPBSN progress reports and carrying out
independent evaluation and studies. This provided timely information to management for strengthening
project operations and guiding development planning. Supervisory committees established at village,
district and state levels were effective in supporting UPBSN management and remedying constraints.
Village committees played a key role in mobilizing farmers, supporting farmers' groups and problem
solving.
4.2.7  Socioeconomic impact was satisfactory. The project significantly contributed to poverty
alleviation. About 95% of land owners in sodic areas are small and marginal farmers, with an average
holding of 0.4 ha. More than 50 % project beneficiaries were originally landless laborers and
share-croppers and migration of males to urban centers for work was obligatory in order to maintain
families. Compared to the 80,000 target at appraisal, there were 159,000 direct beneficiaries under the
- 5 -



project, representing some 130,000 families and more than 1 million people. About 62,800 families
were provided with formal usufruct rights to land. Of these, 22,260 (35%) were previously landless
laborers. The incidence of labor migration declined from 85 to 50 days/man/year across all families. At
the same time, real labor wage rates increased from Rs.16 to 19 and Rs.12 to 14 per day, respectively
for men and women. There was a fall in disguised unemployment from 43 to 16 percent. These
changes triggered significant increases in family incomes and it is estimated that average household
incomes have increased from Rs. 10,500 to Rs.19,500. Within this, incomes of previously landless
families and women increased by 102%, from Rs 6,565 to Rs. 13,270. In per capita terms, average
incomes increased by 87 % from Rs. 1250 to Rs. 2335. It is estimated that average incomes increased
by 109% for families that were previously marginal farmers, 90% for small-scale farmers and 59% for
large-scale farmers. Family savings typically increased from Rs. 30 to 3,000 and household wealth
from Rs.191,000 to 280,000.
4.2.8  Credit Operations. Starting in 1995, farmers were able to obtain credit from a range of
commercial banks operating in the project area. This mostly involved long-term credit for purchasing
4.650 irrigation pumps and 18,200 short-term crop production loans. Very effective mechanisms were
introduced by the NGOs for training and supporting farmers' groups in preparing applications and
maintaining records, and fostering women's self-help groups for savings activities. The total value of
loans disbursed during project implementation was Rs. 16 million (US$4.2 million), mostly for
equipment and inputs, and it is reported that nearly 100% of loans are repaid on time. The WSHGs
have accumulated savings of Rs. 15.45 million (US$410,000) that are being used for community-related
development activities and production and consumption loans for both women and men farmers. Some
of the MSHGs were granted credit rights, but their savings and loan operations were less than those of
the WSHGs.
4.2.9   Agricultural development and technology dissemination: Satisfactory. The development of
an effective reclamation model in the pre-project pilot helped to accelerate project implementation and
this, linked with social mobilization efforts, directly influenced poverty alleviation. Of the 68,414 ha of
reclaimed land, some 63,170 ha are being cropped and the cropping intensity increased and, within two
years of reclamation works, yields of rice and wheat reached (and in some cases exceeded) levels
anticipated for year 4 (SAR). Cropping intensities increased from zero in C Class and 100% in B
Class land and peaked at 250 and 270%, respectively, before leveling off at 215 and 220%. Overall
yields achieved to date, of 3 tons/ha and 2.6 tons, respectively for paddy and wheat, exceeded SAR
targets but are yet to attain the proven potential on more progressive farms in non-sodic areas. Farmers
on C Class land did not adopt the original design of the horticulture component, involving
community-based planting of 3,000 ha of salt tolerant fruit/fuel tree and fodder species (due to high pH
levels at community land and inherent management problem arising from lack of individual ownership).
Therefore, this sub-component was modified and orchard development was redesigned on individual
bases and now covers some 5,240 ha.
4.2.10 Reclamation Technology Development and Special Studies: Satisfactory. The applied
research program for technology development was undertaken by two state agriculture universities and
covered five main categories (alternative approaches to soil amelioration, cropping systems for alkaline
soils, horticulture and perennial tree crop systems, aromatic grasses, and community-based fuel and
fodder production). Outputs include development of cropping system options for different reclamation
situations, the reduction of reclamnation cost using sugar factory by-products, and the identification of
sodic tolerant fruit and vegetable species/varieties. Implementation of this component suffered from
delays and poor monitoring, and outputs were less than originally anticipated. Remedies to improve the
relevance, ownership and timeliness of research through application of competitive contracts have been
- 6 -



introduced under Sodic II.
4.2.11   The land planning and soil-monitoring component resulted in an exceptionally
well-documented tracking of qualitative changes in soil properties from the outset. The Remote
Sensing Application Center (RSAC), mapped 69,000 ha of the project area and has become a
highly competent and professional institution. It also carried out special studies.
4.2.12   Studies. Seven special studies were completed, of which assessment of the efficiency
of shallow tubewells and a comprehensive investigation of the UP drainage systems were the
most far reaching. Recommendations from these studies were incorporated into the design,
construction and maintenance of drains, and project field organization. However, there was
delay in initiating the Drainage Study. Other studies focused on soil related issues (extent cf
salt affected lands in Uttar Pradesh and associated soil/water properties, monitoring
sustainability of project reclamation, and pre/post-project crop yields for different seasons,
participatory management, horticulture,and savings and credit). Furthermore, those studies
provided valuable input for the design of Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands Reclamation II Project
(UPSLRP II) (Cr. 3152) and a proposed Uttar Pradesh Water Sector Restructuring Project.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of r eturn:
4.3.1 Economic Rate of Return. Based on incremental costs and benefits over the project life, it is
estimated that the ERR for the project is 28% with NPV at Rs. 1,125 million (Opportunity Cost of
Capital 12%). This does not take into account incremental revenues from the relatively small areas of
horticulture crops, where details are unclear but appear to be attractive. Nor does it account for
socioeconomic benefits from improved education, health and family income. The SAR estimated that
the project would yield an overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 23% with NPV at Rs. 1,058
million (OCC 12%).
4.3.2   The higher ERR relative to the SAR was partly influenced by the expanded area of
reclaimed land and the accelerated rate of development. The estimate assumes that: (i) the
maintenance of drains and provision of extension services will continue and be strengthened: (ii)
farmers will continue to develop technical and managerial skills; and (iii) yield levels will remain
static, with cropping intensity constant at 200%. Switching values (@12% OCC) indicate that
outputs of paddy and wheat would each need to decline by 12% (200% cropping) for the NPV
to be zero.
4.3.3   The actual ERR, at 28%, exceeds the SAR estimate. However, in addition to wheat
and paddy production, the latter included estimates of benefits from horticultural production as
well as income from livestock and off-farm employment. Estimates of actual achievements have
disregarded socioeconomic or environmental benefits. Similarly, no estimate has been made of
the secondary benefits accruing to farmers whose land is adjacent to the project area and is
benefiting from drainage works carried out under the project, approximately about 400,000 ha
of land. Taking into account these supplementary sources of benefit would raise the ERR
significantly.
4.3.4   The actual Net Present Value of the project, based on paddy and wheat output is
Rs1,125 million, assuming an OCC of 12%, which is similar to the SAR estimate. Nearly half
of the project area was barren (C Class land) prior to project activities and even at the modest
output levels attained, the incremental yields are high. The opportunity cost of the lands was
- 7 -



low prior to project actions and, if taken into account, would impact the ERR significantly.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Farm Income Analysis: At appraisal, it was estimated that at full development the incremental
returns to small-scale beneficiaries with average holdings of 0.4ha from wheat and paddy
production at 200% cropping intensity would range from Rs.2,770 for B Class land (previously
100% cropping) to Rs.2,913 for C Class land (previously uncultivated). Models of actual
achievements for these two categories of land estimate actual returns of Rs.3,658 and Rs.4,004,
respectively. In many cases, this income is supplemented by eamings from livestock, casual
labor or off-farm activities. Estimates of horticulture production (totally incremental) indicate
actual returns of Rs.27,780 for a 0.4 ha farm, higher than appraisal estimates of Rs.17,480.
However, farmers have been reluctant to adopt horticultural production on a larger scale, due to
uncertainties of new technologies and market outlets. In this context, as a result of farmers'
concern over market accessibility, UPBSN was able to mobilize funds for constructing some
access roads in the project area. Significant provisions for constructing access road have been
included in UPSLRP II. Any effort to diversify away from wheat and rice are likely to face
these problems and, therefore, more detailed studies are needed into potentials for commodities
and markets.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1    The project made a radical departure from the previous sodic lands reclamation
projects when it invested substantially in participatory processes and community mobilization
and organization before and during implementation. This has enabled the physical targets of
land reclamation to be scaled up substantially. The major scaling of physical targets has been
made possible due to increased community participation. The project has been able to convert
investments in social capital formation into investments by commnunity in asset improvement.
The value of community's investments is likely to grow further after the sodic soils are
reclaimed. Also the investments in community and common interest groups is likely to increase
their access to resources, skill and credit in the region as land reclamation is just one step in
poverty reduction.
4.5.2    The second aspect is the ability of UPBSN to transform its role from a land
reclamation organization to a rural development organization. A large section of the UPBSN
employees have acquired new skills (including participatory, facilitation, local organization
development) and undergone behavioral change critical for institutional change. This has
enabled them to use a new set of institutional processes which actively build on participation,
local organization development and flexible management for new activities. This would have an
impact beyond the target area. The project has also developed a good approach towards
partnership between a public institution and NGOs and had developed processes for using their
inputs in a synergistic manner and significantly contributed towards building capacity of NGOs
to work in development programs.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Willingness of communities to participate in project activities and additionally Bank performance during
preparation and supervision was supportive of the implementing agency.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
- 8 -



The decisions by GOUP to assign project management to UPBSN and to appoint a proactive
manager who remained in post for four years were key to the timely and successful
implementation.
The GOUP gave strong support to project operations, by ensuring timely budget contributions
and extending the assignment of DOA staff to project activities.
The ID was slow to initiate rehabilitation of main drains. This reflected weak "ownership"
resulting from inadequate involvement as a partner in project development, lack of incentives
and frequent staff changes. This was rectified in 1997 and dedicated drainage were established
and attached to UPBSN.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
-     The UPBSN's approach to project implementation was flexible and the decentralized
management philosophy fostered excellent teamwork and commitment from project staff and
beneficiaries.
-     The implementing agency has prepared and initiated a transition strategy emphasizing on
continuity of extension services, technical support, maintenance of infrastructure, access to
credit and other relevant linkages.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
5.4.1  The total cost of the project is estimated at Rs. 4,011.8 million (US$103.7 million) and
expenditures were completed as scheduled in the SAR. The comparison -of actual project
expenditures with SAR estimates is as follows:
Component                         Appraisal Estimates    Actual Expenditures
US$        %age       US$         %age
million               million
Land Reclamation                  64.8         81         66.9       65
Institution Development            7.1          9         10.8       10
Agricultural Development           4.7          6         23.4       23
Reclamation Technology Research &  3.6          4          2.6        2
Studies                                                I                      I
Total                            l 80.2      100         103.7      100
The total costs were 30 percent higher than appraisal estimates (in US$ terms), reflecting the
fact that the area of land reclaimed was 52 percent higher and the numbers of beneficiaries was
nearly double the SAR prediction. In addition, the percentage of total costs actually devoted to
land reclamation was lower than budgeted in the SAR (65% versus 81%) and actual agricultural
development costs were higher (23% versus 6%). The increase can be attributed to shifting of
second year crop production cost from land reclamation component to agricultural development
component which has been entirely the farmers'contribution to the project. This increased
contribution reflects the value of the program to beneficiaries and a large unmet demand.
-9-



5.4.2     Estimates of the actual financing of the project activities compared with predictions made
in the PAD are estimated as follows:
Financing Source    Appraisal Estimate        Actual Expenditures
US$ million   Percentage   US$ million    Percentage
Beneficiaries        12.0          15           37.1           36
Government of UP     13.5          17           11.9           11
IDA                 54.7           68           54.7           53
Totals              80.2          100          103.7          100
Due to increased numbers, the beneficiaries' contribution to project financing (principally in kind)
increased from 15% estimated at appraisal to 36%. Financing by GOUP was lower than predicted at
appraisal (11% versus 17%), due largely to economies in local expenditures, while IDA's contribution
remained constant.
5.4.3     Financial Management, Procurement and Covenants. UPBSN established a
management information system (MIS) for the project. Accounting procedures were fully automated
and well managed, a fact that has been confirmed in satisfactory annual audit reports. The MIS data
was effectively utilized for management analysis. There is no history of SOE suspension on account of
delays in submission of audit reports. The total audit disallowances up to 1999-2000 (Rs 57.112
million) were resolved due to persistent follow up by the project with the Comptroller and Auditor
General (CAG). Procurements under the project were generally managed in accordance with the Credit
Agreement. Inadequate familiarity with Bank procurement procedures resulted in slow disbursement of
IDA funds in the initial years but accelerated after 1995 when staff were made fully conversant with
Bank procedures through procurement workshops. The Credit was fully disbursed by March 31, 2001,
as stipulated in the Credit Agreement. Covenants included in the Credit and Project Agreements were
fully complied with.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1  Overall project benefits are likely to be sustained. Interest and commitment of all stakeholders
including Government, NGOs, farmers, and other stakeholders to continue project-initiated activities
are high. The incentive of farmers to continue cultivation in reclaimed land on optimum performance
level is particularly high, as the reclaimed lands provide them with a steady source of income; net return
to family labor is substantial; and there are positive environmental benefits. The skills and capacities
developed within UPBSN, RSAC, NGOs and farmers will remain as a continuing asset, and the
participatory approach followed in the project is likely to be sustained. Local level farmers' institutions
evolved through the project actions are taking up the responsibility of management of developments
Detailed assessment of sustainability of different aspects is given below.
6.1.2  Infrastructure Sustainability: Adequate measures have been taken for sustainability of physical
structures (infrastructure base) such as bore and pump set and drainage network. Bore and pump set is
now defacto owned by an individual farmer who would maintain its operational functionality through
- 10-



apportioning some part of income generated through supplying water, to fellow farmers, demand for
which will continue to remain, as revealed by continuous cropping (five years after reclamation) in 94
% of the area. Farmers are most likely to maintain field and link drains as they have fully evolved
suitable collaborative mechanisms (i.e. through seasonal contribution to SIC Maintenance Fun'd). This
fact is endorsed by the good track record of link drain maintenance in the earlier reclaimed areas.
Village level institutions i.e. SICs are likely to put adequate pressure, through collaborative action, on
the Irrigation Department for regular maintenance of main drains. Based on Drainage Maintenance
Policy introduced by the GOUP in, the ID has prepared a Drainage Maintenance Plan for six years till
2005-06 and the first installment for the task has already been released and utilized. However, it is to be
ensured that the drainage maintenance plan does not get diluted.
6.1.3  Technical Sustainability: a) the project used well-proven reclamation processes developed by
the Central Soil Salinity Research Institute (CSSRI), Kamal, (Haryana, India); b) farmers have
adequately internalized the essential post-reclamation management practices such as reduced tillage,
light and frequent irrigation, continuous cropping and use of balanced dozes of fertilizers and organic
manure; c) independent monitoring studies have established that there is continuous improvement in the
quality of reclaimed soil; d) the project has incorporated in-built measures/arrangements for provision
of, on continuous basis, technical support to the farmers, e.g. identification and training and skill
up-gradation of MK/MMK, formation of Farmers Clubs covering about one-third area, and their
linkage with Universities and line departments; and e) the DOA will continue to provide its technical
services to farmers as usual. However, the changes in public extension system recently introduced by
the GOUP will necessitate re-training of panchayat level multipurpose workers
6.1.4  Social sustainability: Assessment is based on the following a) intensive participatory approach
resulted in involvement of the target community in each stage of project implementation which has
resulted into community empowerment; b) a special component for women development was
implemented in form of MSHG/WSHG; c) the project has contributed significantly in the
socioeconomic uplifiment of people of disadvantaged and marginalized sections including land titling;
and d) the project has benefited even nonparticipant farmers (by virtue of proximity of their land to
improved drainage network and credit support from MSHGs/WSHGs).
6.1.5  Financial Sustainability: This assessment is based on; a) improved credit availability through
effective linkage with banks; b) creation of alternative credit structure in form of WSHGs/MSHGs; c)
continued farmers' interest and incentive in continuous cropping as net return to family labor is
substantial; d) maintenance responsibility of bore and pump-set lying with the owner; e) maintenance of
link drains by collaborative arrangements; and f) commitment on part of GOUP to arrange funds for
main drain maintenance.
6.1.6. However, there are a few threats to long term sustainability which have to be carefully attended
to/monitored. These are; a) Re-sodification could be triggered if routine maintenance of drains is
neglected; and b) continued and improved development in the reclaimed lands will be affected if
technical guidance is not forthcoming to the farmers due to recent changes created by the transfer of
extension agents from the DOA to panchayats. In order to assure the maintenance of main drains,
GOUP has introduced a scheme whereby, from 2001, funds are provided specifically for this purpose,
with 25% coming from the annual operating budget of ID and 75% being provided through district
panchayats. Technical support to farmers are to be ensured by making effective use of farmers' school
(fanner to farmer extension) and retraining of extension agents attached to Panchayat. These two areas
are being followed up by the Government.
- 11 -



6.1.7  Environmental Impact: The environmental impact of project activities has been satisfactory.
An environmental management plan was prepared by the RSAC. The quality of ground water, surface
water and soils, as well as trends in bio-diversity were monitored and evaluated from 1995, and RSAC
compiled data and prepared reports. A positive impact on air and soil quality was noticed. There is no
negative impact on ground water quality. By developing procedures for helping rural communities to
reclaim sodic lands, project actions have demonstrated the means for transforming barren land into
farrns. As a result, a large part of the population has moved above the poverty line and raised levels of
income and social development significantly. At the same time, the incidence of ailments caused by
inadequate quantities and poor quality of food has declined, as have respiratory diseases caused by
air-borne saline soil particles.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1 The borrower has prepared a credible plan of transitional arrangements to regular operations
and developed an exit policy based on sustainability study conducted in 20 % villages. This includes:
(a) recording infrastructure such as link drains, foot bridges, culverts and double-cropped area into
revenue ledgers; (b) retaining NGOs in the project area for one more year to ensure continuity of
support services for building alliances, networks, and linkages and for strengthening participating
processes; (c) promoting farmers' clubs to provide agricultural extension services; and (d) use of Mitra
Kisan (farmer's friend) of project area, as the identified Mitra Kisan of the DOA for extension work.
However, re-training of panchayat level multipurpose workers and identified Kisan Mitras on
agriculture extension and providing specialized technical guidance to farmers through subject matter
specialists should be provided by DOA. Provision has been made by GOUP to co-opt members of the
WUGs into the water committee of the Gram Sabha (local government at the village level). This will
ensure close links of the WUGs and SICs with local government.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1      Lending. The Bank's performance during the preparatory and appraisal stages was
satisfactory. Project preparation reflected intensive discussions as well as detailed sociological and
technical studies extending over three years. This ensured strong ownership both by GOUP and the
intended beneficiaries. Reference to past experience in sodic land reclamation and the fielding of a pilot
operation helped to crystallize organization and management details in the SAR.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1      Supervision. The performance in project supervision is assessed as satisfactory.
Seventeen formal review missions were carried out in conjunction with government authorities, UPBSN
and associated organizations. The fact that a single Task Team Leader was assigned from the local
office throughout the implementation encouraged smooth coordination. The skills mix in the missions
was appropriate and the flexibility in problem solving contributed significantly to the project outcome.
Project staff were encouraged to visit Bank's Delhi office to follow up on implementation issues. The
project performance indicators were developed in consultation with UPBSN and IIM Lucknow with a
log frame matrix and updated regularly.
- 12-



7.3 Overall Bank performance:
7.3.1     Overall Bank Performance. The Banks overall performance was satisfactory. The
Bank provided valuable support to the project development. The project objectives were well focussed
as preparation and implementation procedures were generally good. Appropriate actions at MTR
extended the targets for project coverage by over 50%. Procurement workshops conducted resulted in
speedy and complete disbursement of the IDA Credit.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1     Preparation. The Borrower's performance during the preparatory and appraisal stages
was satisfactory. The project benefited from constructive involvement by GOUP from the outset. The
DOA took a strong lead in identification and preparation work, ensuring regular liaison with the Bank
task team leader and support for specialist studies. The GOUP's decision to involve UPBSN was taken
at an early stage, which pernitted the organization to be effective in the pilot developments (financed
retroactively under the project), the lessons from which improved the precision of the SAR proposals.
More attention should have been given to identifying the potentials and obstacles for diversified
agricultural production in sodic lands.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1     Government Implementation Performance is assessed as satisfactory. The decision by
GOUP to appoint a dynamic general manager to head UPBSN and to leave him in post for four years
was a major reason for the successful implementation, flexible management and timely completion of
the project. The choice of contractors for specialist project activities was also well made. The project
benefited from timely and adequate provision of counterpart budget funds throughout implementation.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1     Implementation Agencies Performance is assessed as highly satisfactory. The initiative
taken by UPBSN in exploiting the project's in-built flexibility allowed for changes in approach that
enhanced project results. The UPBSN produced detailed, timely progress reports that were the basis for
IIM's analyses. Contracts with RSAC and IIM were well coordinated and executed. Compliance with
legal covenants were timely and precise and the audit reports were all satisfactory. The decision to
allow UPBSN to manage the project was appropriate as being a corporation it had a greater degree of
flexibility than a government department and was able to successfully develop participatory models for
land reclamation. More attention could have been given to involve ID for timely sequencing of drainage
rehabilitation and reclamation works in the initial years of the project implementation.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1 Overall Borrower Performance. The Borrower's performance for the project as a whole was
satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1    The Sodic I project provides seven main lessons:
* Project success is founded on a preparatory process that directly involves line departments and
intended beneficiaries, allows ample time for preparatory studies, assimilates experience from
- 13-



similar operations, carries out pilot operations and allows for flexible implementation.
* Establishing a logical sequence of development activities is a key ingredient to success; in this case,
the establishing of property rights and land titling provided the basis for assuring beneficiaries'
involvement. Then, creating organizations of poor people followed by mechanisms for resolving
technical problems and provisions of associated resources.
*   Mobilization and involvement of communities in project implementation is essential. An important
ingredient for motivating beneficiaries was that they were able to obtain returns in a short period
by participating in the project.
*   Well-selected NGOs recruited at the outset of the project can play a key role in the formation,
training and support of farmers' groups.
*   A joint partnership with all organizations that have key roles in project implementation is critical
for project success. It helps to ensure that they are fully supportive from the outset and complete
their functions in a timely manner.
*   A public corporation or society has greater flexibility in project implementation than line
department.
*   A dynamic leadership at the start of the project is more likely to ensure complete and timely
implementation.
* Continuity in the World Bank task team leadership and assignment of a specialist from the local
office enhances coordination and helps to ensure speedy problem solving and smooth
implementation.
3   Well-structured and good quality external monitoring and evaluation of project activities combined
with willingness by project management to adjust the weaknesses and adopt appropriate remedies
quickly can be instrumental to project success. These included concurrent monitoring, monthly
socio-economic and baseline mid term final post and pre-reclamation yield impact studies were
carried out.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The borrower has submitted comments on this and have basically highlighted the fact that some of
the ratings should be upgraded. All other comments have been incorporated.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
See Annex 7
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Key Performance Indicators
Particulars                                           Unit       Target        Target        Actual      Percentage
SAR          MTR                       Actual to
SAR
OVERALL PROGRESS OF PREPARATORY
ACTIVITIES, AREA SELECTION, LEACHING &
CROP COVER                 ._.._..
Villages mapped by RSAC                               No.          1003          1003          957           95
Area mapped by RSAC                                   Ha          45000         68800         65008          145
Villages selected by UPBSN for reclamation            No.          1003          1003          1003          100
Area taken by UPBSN for reclamation                   Ha          45000         68800         68800        153
Area treated                                           Ha         45000         68800         68414          152
Area treated as percent of area selected               %           100           100          99.44          99
Area selection for Crop production                     Ha         39000         61900         63170          162
Area selected & treated for crop production as % of    %            87            90           92            106
total area selected & treated
Area selection for Inter-horticulture                  Ha          6000          6900          5244          87
Area selected & treated for inter-horticulture as % of  %           13            10            8            62
total area selected & treated
Treated area under crop cover - Kharif                 Ha         39000         63170         61165          157
Treated area under crop cover - Rabi                   Ha         39000         63170         60795          159
Treated area under Inter-Horticulture                  Ha          6000          6900          5244          87
Conversion from C-Class to A-class                    Ha          20000         36026         36026        180
Conversion from B-Class to A-class                    Ha          19000         19577         19577          103
ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT WORK
Preparation of new field bunds (On C class fields)    Ha          20000         36026         36026          180
Rehabilitation of field bunds (On B+ and B class lands)    Ha     25000         32388         32388          130
Ploughing & land levelling                             Ha         45000         68414         68414          152
DRAINAGE SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
New Main Drains                                       Km           566            -             -
Remodelling/rehabilitation of Main Drain              Km           2346         2346          2463           105
Link Drain construction                               Km           1300          3340         2508          193
Area covered by Link Drains                           Ha          45000         68414         51515          114
Field Drain construction                              Km           3900          6841         5570           143
Area served by Field Drain as % of area treated        %            100          100            81            81
IRRIGATION SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT                                                                            _    _
Already-existing borings associated with project      No.          2307          5019         5019           218
New borings drilled & developed                       No.          8140         10930         10930          134
Installation of pumpset on already-existing borings   No.           -            124           124
Installation of pumpset on newly-drilled & developed    No.        8140         10930         10930          134
borings
Total borings equipped with pumpset                   No.         10447         15949         15949          153
Area served by functional borings                      Ha         45000         68414         68414          152
Area served by new borings                             Ha         32560         43720         46890          144
Area served by new borings as % of treated area        9          72.35           64            69           95
Generation of additional irrigation potential         Ha          32560         44216         47422          146
Construction/rehabilitation of irrigation channel     Km           3900         6841          5516         141
Paddy Yield
Overall                                              QtVHa           -             -            30            -
B+ class lands                                       QtVHa                        -             32            -
B class lands                                        QtVHa          25            25            31           124
C class lands                                        Qt/Ha          21            21            29         138
Particulars                                           Unit        Target        Target        Actual     Percentage
- 15 -



SAR          MTR                       Actual to
SAR
Wheat Yield
Overall                                             QtlHa         NS                          26
B+ class lands                                      QtfHa         NS             -            29             -
B class lands                                       Qt/Ha          18            18           26            144
C class lands                                       Qt/Ha          13            13           25            192
LAND ALLOTMENT                                                __l_l
New Allotment & Possession
Area                                                  Ha          NS             -           9479           -
Farmers benefited                                    No.          NS             -          22258
Average area                                      Ha/farmer       NS             -           0.43
Possession on Old allotment
Area                                                  Ha          NS             -           15887
Farmers benefited                                    No.          NS             -          40536
Average area                                      Ha/farmer       NS             -           0.39            -
LOCAL LEVEL INSTITUTIONS
Site Implementation Committees organized             No.          1003          1003         1003           100
Opening of SIC maintenance account                   No.          1003         1003          1003           100
Cumulative amount deposited in SIC account         Rs in lacs     NS             -           17.28          -
Amount utilized for infrastructure maintenance     Rs in lacs     NS                         9.12
Percentage utilization of SIC fund                    %           NS             -            53             -
Water Users' groups formed                           No.         10447         15949         15949         153
Men SHG formed                                       No.          NS             -           3156            -
Savings in Men SHG                                 Rs in lacs     NS             -           50.18
Inter-loaning in MSHG                              Rs in lacs     NS             -           28.84
Inter-loaning as % of savings in MSHG                 %           NS             -            57
Men SHG granted CCL                                  No.          NS             -           1324
Men SHG granted CCL as % of total saving groups       %           NS             -            42
Amount of CCL granted to MSHG                      Rs in lacs     NS             -           129.37
Women SHG formed                                     No.          NS             -           2166
Savings in Women SHG                               Rs in lacs     NS             -          154.54
Inter-loaning in WSHG                              Rs in lacs     NS             -          476.54
Inter-loaning as % of savings in MSHG                 %           NS             -            308
Women SHG granted CCL                                No.          NS             -           1618
Women SHG granted CCL as % of total saving groups     %           NS             -            75
Amount of CCL granted to WSHG                      Rs in lacs     NS             -          358.45
Crop loans disbursed to farmers                      No.          NS             -           16152
Amount of crop loan disbursed                      Rs in lacs     NS             -          841.94
Pumpset loans loans disbursed to farmers             No.          NS             -           2028
Amount of Pumpset loans disbursed                  Rs in lacs     NS             -          209.73
Mitra Kisan selected and trained                     No.          NS             -           1368
Mahila Mitra Kisan selected and trained              No.          NS             -           1368
Animators selected and trained                       No.          NS             -           1677
Training programs for UPBSN staff                    No.          NS             -            368
Exposure visits for UPBSN staff                      No.          NS             -            101
Training programs for NGO staff                      No.          NS             -            191
Exposure visits for NGO staff                        No.          NS             -            56
Training for staff of line departments               No.          NS             -            54
Exposure visits for staff of line departments        No.          NS             -            75
Training programs for MK/MMKIMT                      No.          NS             -            80
Training for Core Team members                       No.          NS             -            479
Training for Animators                               No.          NS             -            88
Field days                                           No.          NS             -            90
NS - Not Specified.
- 16 -



IMPACT INDICATORS
Particulars        Unit        Pre-interve  Post-intervention   Change   Percentage
ntion                                      Change
Value of C-class   Rs. in      30             125                 95      31.57
barren land        thousands
Disguised          %           43             16                -27       159.25
unemployment
Local wage         Man-days   80              130                50       160
enployment to      year
laborers
Labor migration    Man-days/  85             50                 -35       242.85
year
Local real wage    Rs./day     16             19                 3        533.33
rate                         _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Annual income of   Rs.         10,478         19,550           9,072      115.49
beneficiary families
Annual household   Rs.         10,507         16,610           6,103      172.16
consumption
Annual Household   Rs.         -30           2,939             2,969      1.01
savings
Household assets &   Rs. in    191.28        279.10            87.82      217.80
wealth            thousands
Beneficiary familie  %      |  80            55                 -25       320
below poverty line I       l
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Table 2a: Project Costs by components (in million Rs. and US$ million equivalent)
Si. Project Component   SAR Estimate   MTR Estimate  Actual-Estimatel/    % of SAR            % of MTR
No.
Rs.    US$      Rs.    US$       Rs.     US$
I Institutional         255.43    7.05  338.31    9.34   419.42   10.84  164.20   153.81  123.98  116.13
Development
U Land Reclamation    2548.74   64.80 2761.05   70.20  2588.12   66.91  101.55   103.26   93.74   95.32
By Project         2253.72   57.30 2226.67   56.61  2021.47   52.26   89.69    91.21   90.78   92.32
By Beneficiaries    295.0    7.50  534.38   13.59   566,65   14.65  192.07   195.33  106.04  107.84
11 Agriculture         198.21    4.70  786.03   18.64   905.43   23.41  456.80   498.06  115.19  125.61
Development &
Extension Support
By Project            8.2C    0.20   28.161   0.69    35.34    0.91  430.98   456.84  125.50  133.03
By Beneficiaries    190.01    4.50  757.87   17.95   870.09   22.50  457.92   499.89  114.81   125.33
IV Reclamation &         134.80    3.60   66.17    1.77    98.78    2.55   73.28    70.94  149.28  144.52
Technology
Research
Total By Project    2652.15   68.15 2659.31   68.40  2575.01   66.57   97.09    97.69   96.83   97.32
Total By              485.03   12.00 1292.25   31.53  1436.74   37.15  296.22   309.54  111.18  117.79
Beneficiaries                                 _
GRAND TOTAL         3137.18   80.15 3951.56   99.94  4011.75  103.72  127.88   129.41  101.52  103.78
The figures of actual-estimate include actual expenditure up to February 2001 plus estimate of final expenditures through March 2001
that will be disbursed by IDA by 31st July 2001.
Table 2b: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (US$ Million)
US$ Milon)                   Procurement Method - Latest Estimates 1/
_  ______ jICB            LCB    Others   NBF    Total    ICB           NCB    Other    NBF    Total
1. Land                                      1.38     1.38
acquisition
2. Civil works            11.23    5.35              16.58
(9.98)   (4.78)           (14.76)                                        (12.59)
3. Commodities   18.27     4.82      1.0     3.29    26.48                                         67.86
(15.27)   (3.36)    (0.8)           (19.44)   21.36    4.22     8.28     34.00    (16.06)
4. Materials &    0.54     3.40    8.08      9.78    21.80
Equipment       (0.48)   (2.89)    (6.1)            (9.37)                                         (10.75)
5. Vehicles                        0.79               0.79
(0.61)            (0.61)                                         (0.50)
6. Consultants,            4.69              4.69            0.28      0.06       0.75      -       1.09
Contracts                         (4.27)             (4.27)                                         (4.57)
and Training          I_I__
7. Incremental                     8.35               8.35   0.22      0.38        -      34.17    34.77
staffand                          (6.15)             (6.15)                                       (10.20)
operating cost s
TOTAL:           18.82    18.54    28.38    14.46     80.2                                         103.72
(15.75)  (16.14)  (22.81)           (54.7)                                        (54.67)
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _2 /
- 18 -



I/ Brackets denote IDA financing.
2/ Final disbursements to 31/7/2001 estimated.
Table 2c: Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Sl.No. Component           Appraisal Estimate        Actual/Latest Estimate       Percentage of Appraisal
Bank    Govt.    Co-       Bank      Govt.     Co-      Bank      Govt.      Co-
financer                    financer                     financer
I  Institutional
Development                              _                              _
I In US$ million     5.70      1.35     0.00     7.95      2.89     0.00    139.47   214.07       0.00
=__ In Rs. million       206.51    48.92      0.00   307.51    111.91     0.00    148.91   228.76       0.00
11  Land Reclamation
____  In US$ million      46.00    11.30      7.50    43.46      8.81    14.65     94.48    77.96    195.33
____ In Rs. million     1809.24   444.48   295.02  1681.08    340.39   566.65       92.92    76.58    192.07
111  Agri. Devp. &
_ Extion Support                                       _
In US$ million       0.20     0.00     4.50      0.78      0.13    22.50    390.00     0.00    500.00
In Rs. million       8.21     0.00   190.01    30.30       5.04   870.09    369.51      0.00    457.92
IV  Technology Devp.
& Spi. Studies
In US$ million       2.80     0.80     0.00     2.48       0.07     0.00     88.57     8.75       0.00
In Rs. million     104.8    29.95       0.00    96.07      2. 71    0.00      91.63     9.05      0.00
TOTAL (In US$       54.70    13.45    12.00    54.67      11.90    37.15     99.95    88.48    309.58
TOTAL (in Rs      2128.80   523.35   485.03  2114.96    460.05  1436.74      99.35    87.90    296.22
______ million)                               19-
-19 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
1.    The economic viability is reassessed by calculating the economic rate of return (ERR) using
updated prices, actual project costs, and latest information on crop production. Most of the incremental
project benefits are accrued from increased wheat/paddy yields and higher cropping intensity. Incremental
O&M costs are estimated at 5% of the total investment for land reclamation component. Costs in current
price are converted to 2001 prices by applying the Consumer Price Index to the local costs and the MUV
Index to the foreign costs. The foreign exchange component is estimated at 15% of the total. The project
investment costs in constant financial prices are converted into economic prices by applying the Standard
Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.9 to local costs. The ERR analysis has been calculated for the project as a
whole over a 20-year project life.
Estimated Economic Rates of Return and Net Present Values
Measure                 SAR Estimate                    Actual Estimate
Base Case                              23                               28
Net Present Value                 Rs.1,058 million                Rs.1,125 million
Switching Values at 12% OCC           32%              16% reduction in both paddy and wheat yields
total benefits   _
2.     Parity prices are used for major traded commodities (wheat and paddy) and the non-traded items
adjusted by a SCF of 0.9 for project benefit estimation. Based on incremental costs and benefits over the
project life, it is estimated that the ERR for the project is 28% with NPV at Rs.1,125 million (OCC 12%).
This does not take into account incremental revenues from the relatively small areas of horticulture crops,
where details are unclear but appear to be attractive. Nor does it account for socio-economic benefits from
improved education, health and family income. The SAR estimated that the project would yield an overall
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 23% with NPV at Rs.1,058 million (OCC 12%).
3.     The higher ERR relative to the SAR was partly influenced by the expanded area of reclaimed land
and the accelerated rate of developments. However, the estimates assume that: (i) weaknesses relating to
maintenance of drains and provision of extension services will be overcome: (ii) farmers will continue to
develop technical and managerial skills; and (iii) yield levels will remain static, with cropping intensity
constant at 200%. Switching values (@12% OCC) indicate that outputs of paddy and wheat would each
need to decline by 12% (200% cropping) in order for the NPV to be zero. This situation could be triggered
if routine maintenance of drains is neglected - leading to resodification. By contrast, if maintenance is
done and proactive technical advisory services are assured farmers would achieve higher yields, thereby
lifting the level of ERR.
4.     The actual ERR, at 28%, exceeds the SAR estimate. However, in addition to wheat and paddy
production, the latter included estimates of benefits from horticultural production as well as income from
livestock and off-farm employment, neither of which was analyzed during project implementation.
Estimates of actual achievements have disregarded socio-economic or environmental benefits. Similarly,
no estimate has been made of the secondary benefits accruing to farners whose land adjoins the project
area and is benefiting from drainage works carried out under the project. Taking into account these
supplementary sources of benefit would raise the ERR significantly.
5.     The actual Net Present Value of the project, based on paddy and wheat output is Rsl,125 million,
assuming an OCC of 12%, which is similar to the SAR estimate. Nearly half of the project area was
- 20 -



barren (C Class land) prior to project activities and even at the modest output levels attained, the
incremental yields are high. The opportunity cost of the lands was low prior to project actions and, if taken
into account, would impact the ERR significantly.
Risks and Sensitivity
6.    It is assessed that the sustainability of project achievements is at risk on two fronts.
-      Firstly, failure to maintain the main drains, especially on C Class lands, and to ensure continuous
crop cover by reducing summer fallow and improving soil organic matter status in such areas, are likely to
put the reclaimed lands at risk. Provision was made under the project for maintenance of civil works.
However, because of delays in rehabilitating main drains and lack of O&M planning by the ID, these funds
were not disbursed. In order to assure the maintenance of main drains, GOUP is introducing a scheme
whereby, from 2001, funds will be provided specifically for this purpose, with 25% coming from the
annual operating budget of ID and 75% being provided through district panchayats. However, it is
important to ensure that these funds will be available and applied to maintenance works and efforts under
Sodic II should help to ensure that an O&M culture for drainage is instilled in ID staff.
-      Second, it is paramount that the vacuum created by the transfer of extension agents to district
panchayats be rectified in order to ensure that technical guidance will be available to farmers and the
continued development of project farmers. In some of the more progressive villages, farmers groups are
developing fanners clubs/field schools, assigning farmers as subject matter specialists and forging direct
links with universities and other organizations in order to obtain technical advice and problem solving.
However, it is estimated that 724 of the total 1,003 villages reached directly by the project (72%) are still
in a formative stage. To some extent, village organizations (MK/MMK) are making the link; however, it
is essential that actions under Sodic II for strengthening these activities be also assured for the Sodic I
villages.
7.     A sensitivity test has been carried out to measure the impact if the situation of neglect and
inadequate back-up services, as indicated above, were to occur. From the base case above, a switching
values test (at 12% OCC) indicates that the return would be reduced to zero with 12% reduction in output
of both wheat and rice. Such a drop could result from resodification of the farmland. This indicates that,
at existing modest yield levels, the project developments would be sensitive to the risks outlined above and
emphasizes the need for mitigating actions to ensure continued economic growth in the project area.
8.     To a some extent, this situation should be avoidable through assistance from the follow-up project
(Sodic II) and other ongoing projects that are being assisted by the World Bank, including: Uttar Pradesh
Diversified Agricultural Support Project (UPDASP - Cr. 3106/Ln. 4356-IN) and the National
Agricultural Technology Project (NATP - Cr. 3048/Ln. 4296-IN). However, there are few funds included
under these projects specifically for maintaining support services in Sodic I areas and it is essential that
arrangements be made, from fiscal or project resources to ensure that these risks are mitigated.
- 21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                       Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
11/89-8/91
Appraisal/Negotiation
9/91-6/92                    5   Agronomist (1);
Irrigation/Drainage Engineer
(2); Economist (1);
Sociologist (1)
01-05/1993                   5   Agronomist (2);
Irrigation/Drainage Engineer (1);
Economist (1); Sociologist (1)
Supervision
Supervision I -               4   Agronomist (2);                      S             S
09/1993                           Procurement Splst (1);
Financial Analyst (1)
Supervision II -              1   Agronomist                           S             S
12/1993
Supervision III-              4   Agronomist (1); Procurement          S             S
01/1994                           Splst (I); Irrigation/Drainage
Engineer (1); Financial Analyst
(1)
Supervision IV -              5   Agronomist (1); Sociologist (1);     S             S
08/1994                           Procurement Splst (1);
Irrigation/Drainage Engineer (1);
Financial Analyst (1)
Supervision V -               3   Agronomist (1);                      S             S
04/1995                           Irrigation/Drainage Engineer (1);
Financial Analyst (1)
Supervision VI -              3   Agronomist (1);                      S             S
12/1995                           Irrigation/Drainage Engineer (1);
Financial Analyst (1)
Supervision VII -             5   Agronomist (1); Sociologist (1);     S             S
06/1996                           Procurement Splst (1);
Irrigation/Drainage Engineer (1);
Financial Analyst (1)
Supervision VIII -            4   Agronomist (1); Procurement          S             S
06/1996                           Splst (1); Irrigation/Drainage
Engineer (1); Financial Analyst
(1)
Supervision IX                6   Agronomist (2); Procurement          S             S
(MTR) - 04/1997                   Splst (1); Irrigation/Drainage
Engineer (1); Financial Analyst
(1); Environmental Splst (1)
Supervision X -               4   Agronomist (1); Water Res. Splst     S             S
10/1997                           (1); Irrigation/Drainage Engineer
- 22 -



(1); Financial Analyst (1)
Supervision XI -                    3    Agronomist (1); Irrigation                 S                S
04/1998                                 /Drainage Engineer (1);
Financial Analyst (1)
Supervision XII -                   4    Agronomist (1); Irrigation                 S                S
09/1998                                  /Drainage Engineer (2);
Sociologist (1)
Supervision XIII -                  3    Agronomist (1); Irrigation                 S                S
05-1999                                  /Drainage Engineer (1);
Sociologist (1)
Supervision XIV -                   7   Agronomist (1);                             S                S
11/1999 1/                              Irrigation/Drainage Engineer (1);
Sociologist (1); Procurement
Splst (1); Financial Analyst (1);
Env. Splst (1); Economist (1)
Supervision XV -                   5    Agronomist (1);                             S                S
05/2000                                  Irrigation/Drainage Engineer (1);
Sociologist (1); Procurement
Splst (1); Env. Splst (1)
Supervision XVI -                  5    Agronomist (1);                             S                S
11/2000                                 Irrigation/Drainage Engineer (1);
Sociologist (1); Env. Splst (I);
Economist (1)
ICR
ICR - 05/2001                      5     Agronomist (1);                            S                 S
Irrigation/Drainage
Engineer (1); Sociologist
(1); Fin. Analyst (1);
Economist (1)
1/ Joint with preparation for UP Sodic 11
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                             Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                     US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                          30                                105
Appraisal/Negotiation                               70                                245
Supervision                                         98                                340
ICR                                                  18                                80
Total                                              216                                770
(Identification and preparation activities extended over three years. Staff weeks involved are estimated and include specialist consultant studies. Unit
costs are also estimates).
- 23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                           O H  O SU O M  ON  * NA
El Sector Policies                         OH  OSUOM  ON  O NA
O Physical                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Financial                                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
[I Institutional Development               O H  * SU O M  O N  0 NA
LO Environmental                           O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
[Q Poverty Reduction                O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
OI Gender                            O H *SUOM O N O NA
Q Other (Please specify)             O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Private sector development               0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management                 0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                   O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
(Assessments based on actual achievements relative to staff appraisal report.)
- 24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
O Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
O Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
O Overall                                            O HS * S O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
O Preparation                                        O HS * S  O  U  O HU
O  Government implementation performance             0 HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S  O  U  O HU
Ol Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
*  Pre-Appraisal Preparation Report (Netherlands).
*  DOA Revised Project Document( 6/92).
*  Staff Appraisal Report (5/93).
*  Efficiency of Shallow Tubewells Study, finalized May 1998, WAPCOS (Water Power Cons.
Services (India) Ltd.).
*  Participatory Management Evaluation, TARU, ND (95/6) + MDP, Lucknow (98/9), 1995.
*  Horticulture, Bio-fencing Forestry on Sodic Lands and Participation of SMG (13 districts). Dr. 1.S.
Singh Narinder Dev. University of Agricultural Technology (1997).
*  Special Study on Drainage (10 districts); Mott MacDonald + Eurotech Services, Ltd. February
1998.
*  Taru Leading Edge, NG 0(5/98), Social Assessment.
*   Sustainability Monitoring Report, (20% villages from each year), UPBSN Internal Team, 98/9 and
99/00.
*  MDP Cons. (Private) Ltd. Lucknow Evaluation of Beneficiary Participation, 7/99.
*  UPBSN Workshop Report: Institutionalization of Approach and Methodology of Micro-Planning
for Villages (SIP/PRO), 01/2001.
*   Assessment of Impact of Sodic I on Migratory Trends (4 villages) IIM, 1999.
*  Group Savings and Credit Management.
*  ICR each district (including assessment, future strategy, management, targets, innovations, etc.),
UPBSN District Managers (2/2001).
Organization                                   Report Title
UP Bhumi Sudhar Nigam (UPBSN)                        Project Completion Report
(3/2001):
Volume I: The Project (Overview)
Volume II: Compliances
Volume IIIA: Physical Achievements
Volume IIB: Institutional and Financial
Achievements
Volume IV: Human Capital
Volume V: Technology Development
and Special Studies
UP Council of Agricultural Research:           Adaptive Research - Phase I
(1994/5-1999/2000) September 2000
Agricultural Management Centre, Indian Institute of    Project Completion Analysis (3/2001):
Management:                                    Part I: An Overview
Part II: Project Implementation
Monitoring
Part III: Agricultural &
Socio-Economic Impact Assessment.
Remote Sensing Applications Centre, Uttar Pradesh    UP Sodic Lands Reclamation Project,
Phase I (Report of Achievements),
March 2001
- 26 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation
Sector Context
Uttar Pradesh with annual production of 41.7 million tons of food grains from 17.5 million hectares
cultivated land contributes significantly to the national food security. The state has potential not only to
feed its teeming millions but also to meet future food requirement of the country provided 3.87 million
hectares of potentially cultivable area, which is lying unutilized due to various problems like soil and
wind erosion, water logging, sodicity, ravines and gullies etc. is managed properly and brought back
under normal cultivation. Reclamation of sodic lands had been a major step in this direction.
Beginning in year 1945, UP executed several State and Central Government sponsored schemes to
reclaim sodic lands and brought more than 1.57 lakh hectares sodic land under cultivation till the year
1992. After that, the 'UP Bhumi Sudhar Nigam' a UP Government undertaking, took up the challenge
of reclaiming sodic lands and launched, with financial assistance from the World Bank, 'UP Sodic
Lands Reclamation Project' (UPSLRP) in year 1993 in the ten sodicity-infested districts of Uttar
Pradesh with initial reclamation targets of 45,000 hectares with a total project cost of US$ 80.2 million
and project period extending up to March, 2001.
Project implementation has now been completed. With meticulous planning, systematic management
and effective beneficiary participation, it was possible to reclaim more than 68,400 hectares of sodic
land against the original SAR target of 45,000 hectares within the same timeframe and without
additional funding from World Bank.
As part of the ICR, borrower's views on the irnplementation of UPSLRP, fulfillment of project
objectives, assessment of implementation design, arrangements, borrowers performance with emphasis
on lessons learnt and performance of borrower are being presented in this chapter:
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
* Develop concomitant models for environmental protection and improved agriculture production
through large-scale reclamation of sodic lands;
* Strengthen local Institutions, enabling effective management of such programs with strong
beneficiary participation and NGO support;
* Contribute towards poverty alleviation of families managing sodic soils.
An examination of project outputs, outcomes and impacts clearly indicates that the project has achieved
its developmental objectives.
Obiective- 1
Develop concomitant model for environmental protection and improved agriculture production
through large-scale reclamation of sodic lands.
* Participatory model of land reclamation developed under this project has been adopted in GOI's and
GOUP's other schemes of similar nature.
*  Already formed the basis for much larger World Bank funded "UP Sodic Land Reclamation II
Project".
* 68,414 ha sodic area reclaimed out of which 36,026 ha barren area brought under green cover for the
first time.
- 27 -



*  2,463 km main drains remodeled and made functional. Project area is now free from impeded drainage,
water logging and sodicity.
*  C-class area (barren sodic area) brought under 215 % cropping intensity, B-class (mono-cropped sodic
area) under 219 % cropping intensity.
*  47,422 ha additional area brought under assured irrigation for the first time.
*   5,244 ha area brought under Inter-horticulture after reclamation.
*  The recommended production systems based on food and horticultural tree crops on reclaimed lands
are being adapted by farmers.
*  Regular crop production with improved yields (Paddy 30 qtlha & wheat 26 qt/ha).
* New crop models/ refined technologies developed through adaptive research.
*  No adverse impact on ground and surface water based on monitoring by RSAC (Remote Sensing
Application Center).
*  Positive impact on Micro flora and fauna in reclaimed lands.
Obiective-2
Strengthen local institutions, enabling effective management of such programs with strong
beneficiary participation and NGO support.
Key implementing institutions i.e. UP Bhumi Sudhar Nigam (UPBSN), Remote Sensing Application
Center (RSAC) and NGOs involved in the program have grown in strength and are now capable of
shouldering much bigger responsibilities.
UPBSN:
*   Strengthened UPBSN already implementing much larger World Bank funded UPSLRP II, IFAD and
World Bank funded Swa-Shakti and UNDP supported Women in Agriculture Projects.
3   Evolution of project management system where by UPBSN could manage all the activities with 42 of
its regular staff along with more than 600 staff taken either on deputation or on contract.
3   Effective information, educations and communication system developed.
*   Development of need based literature on reclamation,, cropping, horticulture, participatory
management and other related subjects, separately for farmers, NGOs and project functionaries.
*  Well defined computerized Management Information System (MIS) operationlized at all levels.
*  Professionalism in core sectors like land reclamation participatory management, women empowerment,
human resource development and technology dissemination developed.
*  As envisaged, for effective implementation, monitoring and better coordination with other agencies
project management system developed. "State Steering Committee" under the chairmanship of Chief
Secretary, and "Board of Management" under the chairmanship of Agriculture Production
Commissioner (APC) at the state level, District Implementation and Coordination Committee (DICC)
at district level, Site Implementation Committee (SIC) at village level have been made functional and
utilized effectively for monitoring and policy decisions.
Remote Sensin2 Application Center (RSAC):
*  Capacity developed for selection of suitable reclamation sites.
*  Capable of planning, monitoring and evaluating environmental parameters including soils and ground
water.
*  Installation of well equipped GIS workstation for planning and decision making at project level.
* Skill up-gradation through International and National technical assistance and training on GIS, image
processing and remote sensing and ground water monitoring.
NGOs:
- 28 -



*  NGOs' capability strengthened to ensure their contribution towards Agriculture Developmental
Activities.
*   Community mobilization and Institutional building skills at the grass root level developed.
*  New participatory approaches and methodologies have been followed for capacity building of
community and field staff.
*  NGOs with UPSLRP's experience already engaged in other important projects like UPDASP,
SWA-SHSKTI etc.
Local Institutions:
*  Farmers based 1,003 Site Implementation Comnmittees (SICs) at village level, 15,949 WUGs at field
level made functional for planning, management, monitoring & evaluation during reclamation and
maintenance thereafter.
*  Women organized 2166 Self Help Groups (SHGs), mobilizing Rs. 15.45 millions as saving with a
turnover ratio of 2.32:1.00 with Rs 19.43 million utilized by way of credit from banks.
*  Community assets such as drains etc. maintained through mobilization of community funds. In total,
1003 maintenance accounts operative with Rs. 9.12 lakh utilized out of Rs. 17.28 deposited for this
purpose.
Obiective-3
Contribute towards poverty alleviation of families managing sodic soils.
*   Out of total 1.55 lakh beneficiaries covered in UPSLRP 27.4 percent belonged to Scheduled Caste and
42.67% to Other Backward Castes. Out of the total beneficiaries, 91.17% categorized as marginal land
holders, small land holders or land allottees.
*  22,258 Landless farmers allotted and given possession of 9479 ha community land.
*  40536 old-allottees provided possession on 15887 hectares allotted to them in past years.
*  Increased crop production of Rs 30,000 ha/year from reclaimed lands.
*  Farm income increased by 188 %.
*  Proportion of Below Poverty Line (BPL) families declined from 80% to 56%.
*  Enhancement in wage rates and local employment resulting in substantial reduction in migration.
*  Three fold increase in value of reclaimed land.
IMPLEMENTATION DESIGN
a) Flexibility:
UPSLRP was designed and developed on experiences gained through execution of several projects
operated earlier, with an aim to develop a replicable model. Thus project design allowed changes based
on implementation experiences and farmers participation. Looking at the flexible nature of the project,
decision was taken to implement this project through UP Bhumi Sudhar Nigam, a Government owned
corporation, which by its very nature, could easily amend and innovate implementation procedures,
according to the need of the project. Expectedly, several changes were introduced during
implementation. Noticeable among them are:
*  Cost sharing by participating farmers; With effective beneficiary participation farmer's share was
raised from originally planned 16% to 33% resulting in coverage of more than 23,000 ha additional
sodic area under land reclamation without any additional cost.
*   Involvement of other agencies in execution; Involvement of other agencies like UP Housing Board or
UP Tubewell Corporation along with main executing agency helped in the speedy completion of main
drain targets.
*  Privatization of Services; Due to flexible nature of the project, land reclamation works could be
- 29 -



contracted out to individuals/agencies with staff deputed from several departments. Similarly task of
soil sampling, office maintenance, security and horticultural nurseries were privatized to suitable
agencies which helped in timely completion of assigned works and also relieved the organization from
the liability of creation of surplus staff.
*   Quality Control through external agencies; Checking of cost estimates, quality & quantity of
remodeling works of main drains and quality control of inputs with the help of external agencies, in
addition to already envisaged external M & E, helped in improving quality, timely completion and
reduction in cost.
*  Inclusion of double cropped sodic area; About 11,550 ha of double-cropped sodic area (B+) with
low yields could be made productive (15 qt/ha increase in yield in case of paddy and 9 qt/ha incase of
wheat).
b) Environmental Issues
*  Adherence to selection criteria for reclamation sites mentioned in SAR i.e. ground water table below
two meters, availability of good quality water for leaching purposes and nearness to the main drain
helped in sustainable reclamation of large patches without any adverse impact on the environment.
* Reclamation technology adopted in the project had no adverse impact on the surface and ground water.
Reduction in soil pH had a positive impact on biological activities of the soil.
c) Implementation Arrangements
SAR mentioned three main risks to the project. These were: a) effective coordination of various
reclamation activities; b) ability to form farmers groups for participation in project activities; and
c) ability offarmers to effectively adopt the full package.
To minimize these risks certain committees and actions and suggestions were built in the SAR. Based
on these guidelines UPBSN developed an innovative project management system which not only helped
in reducing above risks but also laid the foundation on which a replicable model could be developed and
much bigger second project could be taken up from World Bank even before the completion of first
project. Some of the noticeable features are being mentioned below.
*  Regular monitoring and effective coordination through "State Steering Committee", Board of
Management, District Coordination Committee (DCC) and Site Implementation Committee (SIC).
e For effective monitoring and facilitation at field level utilization of senior level managers as Zonal
Officers.
*  Development of quarterly and annual activity schedule separately for each category staff and regular
follow up of all the activities on activity schedule.
*  Involvement of NGOs in motivation, awareness campaigns, group formation, women empowerment,
sustainable cropping and exit from the area.
* After intensive awareness, motivation and training, mandatory utilization of Farmer's organizations
like SICs, Core team of group leaders, Mitra Kisan & Mahila Mitra Kisan, WUGs & SHGs in
planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of project activities on various easy-to-operate
printed registers maintained by the farmers themselves.
*   Formation of village specific "Site Implementation Plans" (SIP) by the beneficiaries themselves using
innovative techniques and methodologies.
*  Provision of payments for all the works only through 'WUG' bank accounts and its verification in
village SIC meetings.
* Maintenance of WUG registers by group leaders with all input distribution lists pasted in it and
distribution of inputs by group members themselves in open SIC meetings on fixed date and place.
*  Execution of all works through WUG, its payments through WUG accounts and entry of all payments
- 30 -



in WUG registers to ensure transparency. Placement of system which ensures transparency and
accountability at the level of project functionaries, NGOs and beneficiary farmers.
*   Based on field experiences, development of literature for farmers, project staff and NGOs on technical
and participatory aspects of the project. Development of training & visit schedule for effective and
uniform monitoring of each and every area.
*   Utilization of local folk, AIR and Doordarshan for dissemination of the technology.
*   Preparation of Annual Action Plans and Procurement Plans & accordingly implementing activities.
*   Phasing of entire selected area into different project units, sub-units & circles and placement of staff &
NGO workers from day one till the end of the project.
*   Help of external agencies like Indian Institute of Management (IIM) for socioeconomic impact
assessment and implementation monitoring and RSAC for durability study and monitoring of impact on
soil, ground & surface water and biodiversity.
- 31 -



d)     Implementation Methodology
|Asset Mdneai c
| Cropping & Horticulture                             Sustainability of Outputs
_ 4                                Gypsum Distrn. & Leaching|_
Credit
X _ / _ | ~~~~~~~~BornDg & Pumpsaelt- Ipt
Iputs
v:      ReviewbyCreTea              On-fam Development _  *-      Technology
O                              CJ     SIP Formation     >         IGA
Plan Map in SIC   Z
Soil Testing  ~   Income Generating
C.Soil TeTringn                                                   Activities
; .         Training    K                 
_                       \\\\ | Classification of Lands
0~~~~~~~~~~~
x.                 \' | ~~~~~~~WUG/WSHG/Core Team |n
_                   \^ | ~~~~~~~~~Selection of MKIM4MK|
_                        \  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Formation ofSI 
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
LAwareness Campaign |Beneficiy Select,on 
Site Selection by-R ]
For reclamation activities, a broad outline was provided in SAR, which was based on standard
reclamation technology practiced by (Central Soil Salinity Research Institute (CSSRI), Karnal. Though
the basic package remained same in the implementation approach of UPSLRP, systematic steps were
developed in order to ensure timely completion of all the project activities with full participation of
farmers. Steps are shown in the following schematic diagram.
BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
Land Allotment:
One of the significant achievements of UPSLRP had been in the area of land allotment and possession
thereon. In total, 22,258 landless farmers were allotted and given possession of 9479 ha community
land and 40536 old-allottees were provided possession on 15887 hectares land allotted to them in past
years
Development of Irrieation and drainaLe facility and land reclamation:
As compared to MTR targets of 68,800 hectares, 68,414 hectares of sodic lands have been reclaimed
benefiting about 1.55 lakh farming families. A total area of 63170 hectares was brought under crop
cover and 5244 hectares under inter-horticulture. Under minor irrigation component an additional area
of 47422 hectares has been brought under assured irrigation as 10,930 now boring were drilled &
developed against the MTR target of 9,261 borings in the project area. Reclaimed areas have been
- 32 -



provided with functional drainage network. A total of 2,463 kilometers of main drains were remodeled
as against the MTR targets of 2,346 kilometers.
ParticiRation of Beneficiary Farmers:
Success of UPSLRP is considerably attributable to the active participation of beneficiary-families in
the planning, implementation and monitoring of project activities. Each of 1,003 villages is served by a
SIC, responsible for task mentioned above. SIC always served as the decision making body. Entire
area is served by 15949 WUGs 1003 Core teams of beneficiary farmers consisting of Mitra Kisan,
Mahila Mitra Kisan and group leaders were formed and utilized for monitoring and reviewing the
progress of the project in SIC meetings
Human Resource Development:
One of the major factors for farmer's active participation in technology dissemination activities,
collective decision making, training of other farmers and most importantly developing leadership
qualities in marginal and small farmers has been the systematic development and utilization of human
resource at village level. More than 14,000 farmers/group leaders were trained in the form of Mitra
Kisan, Mahila Mitra Kisan, Group Leaders, Health Animators (Dai etc.), Boring and Pumpset
Mechanic and were effectively utilized. Further strengthening of their skill and networking has formed
the basis for development of "Farmer to Farmer" system of extension methodology in the state.
Exit Policy:
UPSLRP has developed a policy, aimed at further helping to consolidate the gains achieved during
implementation even after the withdrawal of the project staff/NGO from the area. Implementation of
exit policy is in progress at present. The main theme of the policy revolves around the sustainability
aspect of land reclamation which includes continuous existence of drainage network, patch treatment if
required, arrangement of credit and agriculture inputs, and access to information regarding new
technology, networking of trained farmers and development of fanner based technology dissemination
centers.
Coordination:
An efficient and effective coordination across line agencies can be cited as one of the major
achievements of the project as it was perceived to be one of the three risks envisaged in SAR. Its
impact can be gauged from the high figure of land allotment and possession in the project by Revenue
Department. Similarly, the banks operating in the area equally own all the SHGs, as 75 % eligible
groups are linked with banks. Though Irrigation department and research agencies could not be
mobilized in the initial stages for various reasons.
Women Emnowerment:
Major out come of the project has been the empowerment of women which was never foreseen in the
project at the time of appraisal. More than 36000 women from beneficiaries families got together to
from around 2000 Women Self Help Groups (WSHG). This has brought a perceptible change not only
in the economic status of the women involved but has empowered them to the extent that they are able
to move out of their houses, take decisions at house hold level and play important role in the
developmental activities of the village.
Publication of Relevant Literature:
During the initial years of implementation it was experienced that proper literature was not available which
could benefit the farners to gain better knowledge towards reclamation activities and participatory
behaviors which play key roles to improve the quality of reclamation. Although it was not envisaged in the
- 33 -



original task to develop such literature but considering its essentiality, UPBSN decided to develop in-house
literature on different topics and issues related to reclamation and participation approach. These literatures
were prepared in the language of farmers (Hindi), so that fanners could easily understand, grasp and adopt
the techniques for their betterment. Different kinds of literature, separately for farmers, UPBSN staff and
NGOs were prepared. Flipcharts, impact points, technical bulletins bimonthly magazine "Bhu-Mitra" and
scores of other publications are some of important literature developed by UPBSN.
Adaptive Research:
This component was conceived to transfer field worthy technologies from research institutions to farmers
field and to modify them as per the need of the community. Experiments conducted on food cropping,
horticulture, aromatic and medicinal grasses, fuel and fodder and on some exploratory topics led to the
adoption of several recommendations in the package of practices given by agriculture and horticulture
departments of the state. Some of the noticeable recommnendations are: (a) application of Gypsum ( 25%
Gypsum + 10 ton pressmud as soil amendment. (b) Mulching of basin of fruit tress with FYM and rice
straw and also with sugarcane trash improved the growth of Aonla & Guava.
Financial Progress:
In the financial management aspects, the major achievement was to arrange timely cash flow from
Government of UP through Budgetary allocation in advance for the financial year. The UPBSN has
developed a computerized financial management system to record all transactions. The UPBSN has
adopted uniform policy for accounting in all field units by developing a manual. Entire amount in the credit
of 54.7 million was disbursed by December 2000.
PERFORMANCE OF THE WORLD BANK
Success of UP Sodic Lands Reclamation Project can be attributed to the teamwork of its partners, i.e.,
farmers, NGOs, World Bank and Implementing Agencies (UPBSN and other Line Agencies).
Theoretically, World Bank is connoted as donor/funding agency but in practical terms it has played much
wider role not only in preparation phase but also in planning, executions and subsequent post-reclamation
phases of the project. Though it is difficult to separate the respective contribution of different actors in the
success of the project, following are indicative of excellent performance of the World Bank team:
(1)    Regular Review Mission:
Every six months, there had been a review mission consisting of experts from related fields which
rigorously reviewed every minute detail of each component, visited fields and summarized their findings in
form of mutually agreed time bound action points. This has helped not only in speedy completion of work
but also in removing several weaknesses of the project.
(2)    Continuation of Same Team:
One of the major factors for effective guidance, supervision and monitoring has been the continuation of
same team members especially in core areas. Task Leader remained unchanged for the entire project period.
This has helped in evolution of the implementation methodology and action matrix.
(3)    Role of a Facilitator:
Though these missions have been called supervision mission, but mission members always played role of
facilitators in developing many concepts such as:
Development of PRA based Site Implementation Plan (SIP) by the beneficiaries themselves.
Exit policy from reclaimed areas.
Maintenance of drains through drainage days.
- 34 -



Non-formal methods of extension.
(4)    Encouraging Attitude:
It could be possible for implementing agency to innovate, design and take important decision due to
encouraging and appreciative attitude of the World Bank.
(5)    Timely Sanctions:
Timely sanctions in almost every component helped in timely completion of all the project activities.
(6)    Learning /Sharing Sessions:
At the end of each review mission, every team member used to organize learning sessions in which
experiences were shared and documented.
(7)   Exposure of the organization:
Performance of UPBSN has been highlighted by World Bank Officials at number of occasion and on
several national and international platforms.
LESSONS LEARNT
1. Continuity of Managing Director of substantial period and his teams has been the most important
factor behind the success of the project.
2. Participation of beneficiary farmers in project planning, implementation and monitoring ensures
transparency, accountability, reduction in cost and management of post reclamation activities.
3. Groups formed through allurement are not sustainable.
4. Partnership of Government and NGO in the implementation yields better results.
5. Flexible approach of the project led to the successful development of replicable model.
6. Farmer-led extension approaches is the most effective method of disseminating knowledge to other
farmers provided farmers trainers are regularly and adequately exposed to new technologies.
7. Human Resource Development of project functionaries as well as beneficiary farmers is a key to
success of this project.
8. Comprehensive campaign using electronic and other traditional media proved very effective in
educating communities.
9. Exchange visits, exposure visits and study trips greatly help in motivating and enhancing knowledge of
all the stakeholders involved.
10. Functional drainage network and continuous crop cover are crucial for sustainable reclamation.
11. Horticulture development in reclaimed soils having pH more than 9.5 is not sustainable.
12. Empowerment of women provides stability to the implementation. Women's saving and credit groups
provided an alternative credit structure and promoted agricultural investment as well as income
generating activities.
13. External monitoring and evaluation helped in maintaining quality and timely completion of project
activities.
14. Open and transparent work environment always result into qualitative and quantitative outputs.
FUTURE STRATEGY OF CORPORATION:
With successful implementation of "UP Sodic Lands Reclamation Project " it has been possible to develop
a model which is environment friendly and replicable. Government of India and Government of UP have
already started adopting this model in their regular schemes. At present, UPBSN has been activity
- 35 -



concentrating on consolidating the gains. Sustainability of out puts achieved in last eight years occupies the
central stage in the activities of UPBSN. Intensive efforts are being made to link farmer groups who have
taken responsibility of the transferring technology to the fellow farmers, with KVKs, block and district
level functionaries of the department. Since there were changes in field staffing of the Department of
Agriculture of GoUP for agricultural extension, Exit Policy has been accorded the highest priority. Banks
are already linked with SHGs. Now major area of operation in future would be the convergence of other
programmers in these villages.
For sustainability of the organization, a corporate plan has been prepared. This plan includes future
strategy and details about the core sectors in which UPBSN plans to participate. In addition to sodic lands
reclamation, some of the key areas are watershed development consultancy in human resource development
and participatory management. UPBSN is already in the process of submitting a proposal for watershed
development for ravine reclamation.
- 36 -



