Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2510 IN
                         Project Agreement
          (Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands Reclamation Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                      STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
                        Dated June 24, 1993
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2510 IN
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 24, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and STATE OF UTTAR
PRADESH, acting by its Governor (Uttar Pradesh).
      WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India (the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to thirty nine million five hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 39,500,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that Uttar Pradesh agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
      WHEREAS Uttar Pradesh, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
Page  2
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) Uttar Pradesh declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project through LDC with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, land
reclamation and agricultural practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and Uttar Pradesh
shall otherwise agree, Uttar Pradesh shall cause LDC to carry out
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. Uttar Pradesh shall carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
      Section 2.04. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
      (b)   Uttar Pradesh shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by Uttar Pradesh of its obligations under
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
the Project of the departments or agencies of Uttar Pradesh
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   Uttar Pradesh shall:
            (i)    have its records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                   year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the
                   Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                   but in any case not later than nine months after
                   the end of each such year, the report of such
                   audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                   such detail as the Association shall have
                   reasonably requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and financial statements as well as the audit
Page  3
                   thereof, as the Association shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
      Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Uttar Pradesh thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
            (i)    the date on which the Development Credit
                   Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
                   terms; or
            (ii)   the date twenty (20) years after the date of
                   this Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify Uttar
Pradesh of this event.
      Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      For Uttar Pradesh:
            Chief Secretary
            Government of Uttar Pradesh
            Lucknow
            Uttar Pradesh, India
                                           Telex:
                                           535259  CHLW
Page  4
      Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Uttar Pradesh may be taken or executed by its
Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as Uttar Pradesh
shall designate in writing, and Uttar Pradesh shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia
                   STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
                   By /s/ N. Valluri
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in  Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed price contracts, the
invitation to bid referred to paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall
provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased
for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors
acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all foreign
currency component and the other to the local currency component of
the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in
the bid evaluation.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
Page  5
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Except as provided in paragraph 2 hereof, civil works under
the Project, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or
less per contract, and on-farm development works, both estimated to
cost up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $5,350,000, may be
carried out by force account in a manner satisfactory to the
Association.
3.    Equipment and materials estimated to cost less than $200,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $8,220,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
4.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$20,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $9,080,000, and vehicles estimated to cost $790,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
5.    Specialized items comprising satellite imagery and aerial
photographs, estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than
$230,000, may be purchased directly in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist in carrying out the Project, Uttar Pradesh
Page  6
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants' Guidelines).
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provision of the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts, nor to the employment of individuals, to single
source selection of firms, to assignment of critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Association, and to amendments to
contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or more.
3.    Without limitations to the paragraph 1 of this Section, Uttar
Pradesh shall engage the consultants for assisting in the carrying
out of the studies under Part D.2 of the Project not later than
September 30, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
1.    Uttar Pradesh shall carry out the identification, selection,
and planning of the reclamation sites under the Project in
accordance with criteria and schedule agreed with the Association.
2.    Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.01 (a) of
this Agreement, Uttar Pradesh shall provide, starting April 1, 1998,
the funds needed for maintenance of the drainage system under the
Project.
3.    For the purpose of assisting in carrying out the Project,
Uttar Pradesh shall select NGOs in accordance with procedures and
criteria agreed with the Association.
4.    Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 3 above,
Uttar Pradesh shall, not later than September 30, 1994, select an
NGO or other suitably qualified agency to undertake an independent
assessment of the participatory management program under Part B.3 of
the Project, and shall thereafter make the necessary adjustments to
the program in light of such evaluation.
5.    To ensure effective coordination of the activities under the
Project, Uttar Pradesh shall continue to keep the Agricultural
Development Commissioner as the Chairman of the Board of LDC.
6.    Uttar Pradesh shall appoint field staff for LDC in accordance
with criteria and schedule agreed with the Association.
7.    Uttar Pradesh shall furnish to the Association not later than
December 31, of each year, starting December 31, 1994, for the
Association's review and comments, an annual action plan of
activities under the Project for the following year.
8.    Uttar Pradesh shall, without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.06 (a) (iii) of the General Conditions, starting January
31, 1994, prepare and furnish to the Association, for the
Association's review and comments, quarterly and annual progress
reports of the Project.
9.    Uttar Pradesh shall, by September 30, 1997, undertake in
collaboration with the Borrower and the Association, a mid-term
review of the Project, and shall thereafter implement the
recommendations of such review.
Page  7
10.   Uttar Pradesh shall, without limitation to the provisions of
Section 2.01 of this Agreement, implement a system satisfactory to
the Association for channelling the funds required for the Project,
to the entities involved in carrying out of the Project.
11.   Uttar Pradesh shall cause LDC, RSAC and IIM to observe the
provisions of each of the Memoranda of Understanding between LDC and
IIM dated March 15, 1993, and LDC and RSAC dated March 17, 1993.
