                                    Documentof
                                  The World Bank




                                                     ReportNo.: 29124




               PROJECT PERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT

                                      INDIA

           UTTAR PRADESHSODIC LANDS RECLAMATION PROJECT
                                    (Credit 2510)




                                    June 9,2004




Sector and Thematic Evaluations Group
Operations Evaluation Department

 Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit= Rupees (Rs.)

1993                      US$l.oo               30.49
1994                      US$l.OO               31.37
1995                      US$l.OO               32.42
1996                      US$l.OO               35.43
1997                      US$1.oo               36.31
1998                      US$l.OO               41.25
1999                      US$l.OO              43.05
2000                      US$l.OO              44.94
2001                                           47.19
                          US$1.oo
                          US$1.oo
2002                                           48.61
2003                      US$l.OO              46.59
2004 (January)            US$1.oo              45.43
Source: IMF and WorldBank databases


Abbreviations and Acronyms
CDD               Community-DrivenDevelopment
CBD               Community-Based Development
GOUP              Government o f Uttar Pradesh
ICR               ImplementationCompletion Report
IIML              Indian Institute o fManagement Lucknow
M&E               Monitoring and Evaluation
MK                Mitra Kisan (farmer friend)
MMK               Mahila Mitra Kisan (women farmer friend)
MIS               Management Information System
M T R             Mid-termReview
NSS               National Sample Survey
OED               Operations EvaluationDepartment
O&M               Operation and Maintenance
PPAR              Project Performance Assessment Report
PTI               Program o f Targeted Interventions
S A R             StaffAppraisal Report
SIC               Site ImplementationCommittee
UP                Uttar Pradesh
UPBSN             Uttar Pradesh Bhumi Sudhar Nigam (UP LandDevelopment Corporation)
WUG               Water Users' Group

FiscalYear
April 1- March 31


Director-General, Operations Evaluation              : Mr.Gregory K.Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Department           : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation              : Mr.Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                         : Ms.Nalini Kumar

                                                              i



     OED Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellence and independence in evaluation.


 About this Report
       The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
 first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank's self-evaluation processand to verify that the Bank's work is producingthe
 expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and proceduresthrough the dissemination
 of lessons drawn from experience.As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of the Bank's lending
 operations. In selecting operations for assessment, preferenceis given to those that are innovative, large, or complex;
 those that are relevantto upcoming studies or country evaluations;those for which Executive Directors or Bank
 management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate important lessons. The projects,
topics, and analytical approaches selected for assessment support larger evaluation studies.
       A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion Report
 (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare PPARs, OED staff
 examine project files and other documents, interview operationalstaff, and in most cases visit the borrowing country for
onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries.The PPAR thereby seeks to validate and augment the
 information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interestto broader OED studies.
       Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary.The completed PPAR is then sent
to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of
 Executive Directors. After an assessment report has beensent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.
About the OED Rating System
       The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work. The
methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or sectoral
approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition
and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more informationis available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
       Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's current
development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals
(expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational
Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial,Modest, NegIigible.
       Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expectedto be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance.Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
       Susfainabilify: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
       lnsfitufional DevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region to
make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a) better
definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictabilityof institutional arrangements and/or (b) better
alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate,which derives from these institutional
arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a project. Possible
ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and supported
implementationthrough appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements for regular
operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrowerassumed ownership and responsibility to ensure quality
of preparationand implementation,and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the achievement of
development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
unsatisfactory.

                                                                        ..
                                                                        11



 Contents
 Principal Ratings          ..............................................................................................................    ...
                                                                                                                                              111

 Key Staff Responsible               ......................................................................................................   ...
                                                                                                                                              111

 Preface   .................................................................................................................................   v

 Summary      ..........................................................................................................................       ..
                                                                                                                                              v11

 Background        ........................................................................................................................    1

 Project Design and Implementation                           ................................................................................. 2

          Project Design .........................................................................................................             2
          Implementation Experience .....................................................................................                      4
 Evaluation Findings             ...........................................................................................................   6

          Relevance ................................................................................................................. 6
          Efficacy ....................................................................................................................        8
          Efficiency ................................................................................................................         14
          Outcome................................................................................................................ -15
          Institutional Development Impact..........................................................................                          15
          Sustainability ..........................................................................................................           16
          Bank Performance .................................................................................................                  19
         Borrower Performance .......................................................................................... 20
Lessons    ..............................................................................................................................     21

References     .........................................................................................................................      23

Annex A Participatory Aspects of Project Design
            .                                                                         ....................................................... 25

Annex B Basic Data Sheet
            .                               ..............................................................................................    28

Annex C Details on Fieldwork
            .                                       .......................................................................................   31

Annex D Statistical Annex
            .                               ..............................................................................................    37

Annex E Statements from Reports on Focus Group Sessionsthat Support the Findings
            .
    on Elite Domination                ...................................................................................................    39

Annex F Borrower Comments: UPBSN
            .                                                        .......................................................................  41


This report was preparedbyNaliniKumar. who assessedthe project inNovember 2003.AnjuGupta prepared
the household. focus group and key informant interview instruments and analyzed the household data with
contributions from Barbara Pozzoni. George Gamer Woodall analyzed the qualitative data. WilliamHurlbut
edited the report. Helen Phillip provided administrative support                     .

                                                      ...
                                                      111




PrincipalRatings

                                         ICR*                ICR Review*                      PPAR
Outcome                               Satisfactory            Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory
Sustainability                           Likely                  Likely                       UnIikely
Institutional Development             Substantial              Substantial                  Substantial
Impact
Bank Performance                      Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                  Satisfactory            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the
Bank. The ICR Review is an intermediate Operations Evaluation Department (OED) product that seeks to
independently verify the findings of the ICR.




Key StaffResponsible

Project                          TaskManagedLeader             Division Chief/        CountryDirector
                                                              Sector Manager
 Appraisal                             Ashok Seth                 J. Wijnand               H. Vergin
 Completion                       G Pathmanathan/M.                  R.AIi                Edwin Lim
                                    Balasubramanian


                                              V



Preface

        This is aproject performance assessmentreport (PPAR) for the Uttar Pradesh Sodic
LandsReclamationProject (Credit 2510). A credit inthe amount US$54.7 millionwas
approved for the project inJune 1993. The credit was closed on schedule inMarch 2001 and
fully disbursed.Totalproject costs were US$103.7 million; 29 percent greater than the
appraisal estimate.

        The report was prepared by OED basedon the ImplementationCompletionReport
(Report No. 22886, September 28,2001), the Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 11715,
May 13, 1993), the development credit agreement, a review o fBank files, reports prepared
bythe IndianInstituteo fManagement, Lucknow and a survey ofthe literature. An OED
mission traveled to India inNovember 2003 where it discussed the project with Bank staff,
relevant govemment officials, nongovernmental organizations, beneficiaries, donors,
consultants, and academics. Subsequently, surveys (1,200 households, 60 key informant
interviews, and 60 community-level focus groups) were undertaken inthree blocks of
Raebareli district inUttar Pradeshby the Center for DevelopmentEconomics, DelhiSchool
o f Economics, India. The project assessmentdraws on the findings o f the fieldwork. Annex
C discusses reasonswhy Raebareli district was selected for the fieldwork and gives
information on sources o f data, selection and sampling procedures, methodology, data
collection, andanalysis.

        The cooperation and assistance o f all stakeholders and govemment officials is
gratefully acknowledged, as i s the support o f the staff o f the World Bank Country Office in
New Delhi. Financialsupport from the Norwegian Consultant Trust Fundfor undertakingthe
fieldwork i s also gratefully acknowledged.

        Communityparticipationwas an integralpart o fproject design and implementationin
the Sodic Lands ReclamationProject and the project was chosen for assessmentprimarily as
an input into an ongoing OED evaluation o f community-drivendevelopment (CDD) efforts
supported by the Bank. Box 1inthe report provides a brief summary on the participatory
aspects o fproject design for which details are available inAnnex A.

        Following standard procedures, the draft report was sent to the Borrower for
comments. Borrower comments were received and are included as Annex F.


                                                  vii


 Summary

          Agriculture i s the main source o f livelihood for 75 percent o fthe populationinthe Indian
 state o fUttar Pradesh (UP) and accounts for about 40 percent o f its GDP. Intensive irrigation and
 the package o f agricultural inputs from the Green Revolutionbrought about a major increase in
 foodgrain productioninthe state between 1960-61 and 1995-96. Unfortunately, the expansion o f
 the canal network was not accompanied by adequate soil and water management practices.
 Consequently, large tracts o f agricultural land inthe commandareas o fmajor canals became
 increasinglywaterlogged, saline, and alkaline. Although the government investedconsiderable
 resources to reclaim the land, its efforts had varying degrees o f success.

          The Sodic Lands ReclamationProject (1993-2001)was the first Bank support for
 reclamationo f sodic soils inIndia. The project was part o f a long-termprogram to improve
 agricultural productivity inareas with highconcentration o f sodic lands andwas to be
 implementedover a 7-year periodin 10 districts ofUP.Ithadthree objectives: (i) developto
 models for environmental protection and improved agricultural productionthrough large-scale
 reclamationo f sodic lands; (ii)  to strengthen local institutions to manage such schemes; and (iii)
 to contribute to poverty alleviation o fthe families concerned.

          The project design built on UP'Sexperience with landreclamationand emphasized
 community participation. Although the reclamationtechnology itselfwas not new, its application
was supported by agricultural inputsand, most significantly, tenure security measures intendedto
 increase the incentives for farmers to undertake agricultural production on reclaimed lands.
Launchedas a pilot to allow it to develop effective arrangements for farmer participation, the
project monitored the environmental aspects o freclamationwork and explored the opportunity
for diversifying cropping systems.

         Actual total project costs at US$103.7 million were 29 percent higher than appraisal
estimates. This was becausethe area o f land reclaimed was 52 percent higher and the number o f
beneficiaries was nearly double the appraisal estimates. The beneficiary contribution to project
financing, though principally inkind, increased from 15 percent estimated at appraisal to 36
percent.

         The OEDassessmentrates the project outcome moderatelysatisfactory. The project
exceeded expectations incarrying out large-scale reclamationo f sodic soils. Over 68,400
hectares were reclaimedwith farmer participation. The project also contributed to poverty
alleviation byhelpingincrease returns to many small and marginal farmers. But this success i s
temperedby several significant weaknesses. First,though the project objectives were relevant for
poverty reduction and consistent with Bank assistance strategy for India, it gave inadequate
attention to several critical systemic issues, among others economic incentives for use and
management o fwater, resources for operation and maintenance o f drainage, that are essential to
developing a long-term program for improving agricultural productivity inareas with high
concentration o f sodic lands and deteriorating environment conditions. Second, since the
improvement inthe quality o f soil has been marginal inseveral areas, and drainage and
institutionalissues related to soil fertility management have not received enough attention, there
i s considerable risk that the reclaimed land will revert to its former state. Third, monitoring o f
environmental impact has not been adequate. The latest monitoring technology i s available to the
Remote SensingApplication Center, but the large amount o f data beinggenerated i s not being
usedeffectively. Fourth, the implementationo fthe participatoryprocess was giveninadequate

                                                       ...
                                                      V l l l



attention and, hence, instead o fputtingthe communities ina position o f decision-making and
control, the process appears to have created a sense o f dependency. Finally, the project efficiency
was ratedmodest after adjusting downwards the undulyoptimistic assumptions inthe ICR about
future crop yields and maintenance ofdrainage, which hadnot appropriately accounted for the
risk that the reclaimed land could revert to its former state.

          The assessmentrates sustainability as unlikelyfor several reasons. Themost serious
threat to sustainability i s continuing inadequate attention to drainage issues. Moreover,
institutional constraints relatedto soil fertility management have not beenaddressed. These two
factors leave the reclaimed land at risk o fresodification. Further, lack o f coordinationbetween
various government departments underminesproject achievements.

          Onbalance, the assessmentrates Bank performance as satisfactory. The project was
generally well supervised,the latter largely from the Bank Country Office inNew Delhiwith
support from Washington. This positive performance i s offset somewhat bytwo factors. The first
i s the inattention to critical systemic issues inthe project design. The other was policy issues like
the frequent transfer of government officials, which the Bank should have handled at the level o f
the state or central government at the designstage and which have had substantial negative
implications for the quality o f implementation. Borrower performance i s ratedsatisfactory.

     The project experience offers four lessons:

     0   A holistic approach to sodicityrequires not only remedial measures but also adequate
         attentionto critical systemic issues, among others, economic incentives for use and
         management o fwater, resources for operation, andmaintenance o f drainage. Failure to
         do so can undermineproject sustainability.

     0   It is important to planand execute an evaluation o fthe pilot experience before a larger
         follow-on intervention i s designed and approved. While this may leadto delays inthe
         effectiveness o fthe larger project, it i s important to allow lessons o f experience from the
         pilot to inform the design o f larger interventions.

         Ininnovativeandcomplex operations likethe Sodic Lands Reclamationproject, where
         the long-run environmentalimpact i s not easyto forecast, its monitoring and evaluation
         should be given sufficiently highpriority inproject implementation. This requires not
         only identification o f an appropriate system as was done inthis intervention, but also a
         plan to ensure that observations are evaluated and feedback i s effectively used.

         Ittakes time to builda constituency for communityparticipation, andproject designmust
         plan for it. The Bank's time-bound approach to project implementation made it difficult
         for the relevant implementingagency to dojustice to the critical process issues. Further,
         the socio-economic community contextneeds adequate attentionas participatory
         processes can bringabout complex and irreversible changes inthe social, economic, and
         political fabric o f society. Adequate attention needs to be given to incentives andreturns
         to farmers as individuals and as a group, both duringimplementationand inthe post-
         project period.


                                                                                     Gregory K.Ingram
                                                                                       Director-General
                                                                                 Operations Evaluation

                                                               1


 Background

 1.         Uttar Pradesh (UP),one o fthe largest and most populous states o f India, i s
 located centrally inthe northernplains.' Though official estimatesbased on the most
 recent National Sample Survey (NSS 55thRound, 1999-2000) show a dramatic decline in
 the number o fpoor, the state continues to be one o f the poorest inthe country, with 31
 percent o f the total populationbelow the poverty line. The extent o fpoverty also varies
 across the state, with poverty levels increasing from west to east (World Bank 2002).

 2.         Agriculture i s the major livelihood o f 75 percent o fthe populationand accounts
 for about 40 percent o f the state's GDP. The 17 millionhectares under cultivation inUP
 account for nearly 10percent o f India's net sown area and about 25 percent o f India's
 total irrigated area. Major irrigation canals have beenconstructed since the lgthcentury in
 the state, the Green Revolution latterly providing a major incentive for the expansion of
 the canal network that now irrigates about 12millionhectares. Greater availability of
 water, combined with increased agricultural inputs, raised foodgrain productioninthe
 state from 14.5 millionmetric tons in 1960-61 to 42.5 million tons in 1995-96.

 3.         Although expansion o f the canal network was critical to the growth o f agricultural
 production, poorly managed soil and water management practices have contributedto a
 growing incidence o fwaterlogging, soil salinity, and alkalinity. Inthe command areas o f
 major canals (Lower Ganga Canal, Upper Ganga Canal, and Sharda Sahayak) foodgrain
 productivity has declined as a result. With time, the problem increased andnearly 10
 percent o fthe total cultivable area inthe state was sodic (usar) inthe early 1 9 9 0 ~The                          . ~
 government has investedconsiderable resources to reclaim this landwith varying degree
 o f success.

 4.         The World Bank has supported UP'Sagriculture sector through financing for
 development and rehabilitation o f surface and groundwater irrigation capacity, watershed
management, agricultural services such as credit, extension, research, and forest sector
development. The Sodic Lands ReclamationProject was the first Bank support for land
reclamation.




1. Inrecent years the Himalayan Region o f UP has been made into a new state called Uttaranchal.

2. Though some o fthe alkaline lands inthe state have been known to occur from time immemorial, a large extension o f
these lands occurred after the spread o f canal irrigation. Sodic land formation results from inefficient water
management inareas where the soil has abundant salts and ineffective drainage. Salinity results from the accumulation
o f salts over time, through naturalprocesses, in the soil or groundwater. Sodicity is a secondary result o f salinity in clay
soils, where leaching through either natural or human-induced processes washes soluble salts into the subsoil, and
leaves sodium to form an electrochemical bond with clay particles in the soils. The highbuildupo f sodium carbonate in
the soil progressively raises the alkalinity, which limits and eventually stops plant growth (as water and air cannot
penetrate). The resultingsoil is white, appears powdery when dry and sticky when wet. Inthe dry summer months, the
wind blows the dry soil andairborne saline soil particles contribute to respiratory diseases. The weather inUP,which
alternates between heavy monsoon and prolonged dry periods, contributes to the problem.

                                              2


Project Designand Implementation

Project Design

5.       The Sodic LandsReclamationProject was part o f a long-termprogramto improve
agriculturalproductivity inareas with a highconcentration o f sodic lands andwas to be
implementedover a 7-year periodin 10districts o fthe state. Ithadthree objectives: (i)  to
develop models for environmental protection and improved agriculturalproduction
through large-scale reclamationo f sodic lands; (ii) to strengthenlocal institutions to
manage such schemes; and (iii)   to contribute to poverty alleviation o fthe families
concerned. The objectives were not revised.

6.       Theproject designbuilt onpast experience inthe statewith landreclamation.
Since 1945, UP has implementedseveral state and central government-sponsored
schemes to reclaim sodic lands. However, these past efforts had little farmer
participation, weak institutional support, and limitedcoordination. The Sodic Lands
ReclamationProject emphasized community participation along with an integrated
approach to land reclamation. Though the reclamation technology itselfwas not new, its
applicationprovided for land tenure security to increase the incentives for farmers to
undertake agriculturalproduction on reclaimedlands, and input support for agriculture
development. Launched as a pilot to allow it to develop effective arrangements for farmer
participation, the project monitoredthe environmental aspects o freclamationwork and
explored the opportunity for the diversification o f cropping systems.

7.       As designed,the project was expected to reclaim about 45,000 hectares o f landof
which 39,000 hectares were to be devoted to foodgrains and 3,000 hectares to salt-
tolerant horticultural crops. A further 3,000 hectareswas to be reclaimed on community
land and devoted to tree cultivation for fuel and fodder. The package for sodic lands
reclamationwas to be carried out inevery village for four years. The design emphasized
flexibility and the reclamationprogramwas intendedto proceed inphases, district by
district, allowing for changing the scope o f components and operational modalities in
responseto lessons learned during the early years.

8.       Theproject was designated aprogramoftargetedintervention (PTI), signaling a
poverty focus. A socio-economic study at the project preparation stage established that 95
percent o f the landowners inUP'Ssodic areas were small and marginal farmers with
holdings o f less than one hectare.

                                                           3


 Box 1: ParticipatoryAspects ofProjectDesign: A Brief

 The project designincluded eight measuresto promote community participation.
      Increasing the access o f the beneficiary communities to information. The strategy was to
      improve the understanding o f sodic issues among rural households and communities and
      convince them to come together and work for their own benefit.
      Creating village-level institutions through which villagers could share information, discuss,
      and make decisions on critical reclamation issues. Participation in these organizations was
      also expected to increase the ability o f the village beneficiaries to demand services from
      local-level government institutions inthe future.
      Distinguishingthose activities that canbe pursuedthrough a private approach from those that
      are public in nature, and putting in place an adequate system for privatization o f identified
      activities. Though a significant amount of sodic land was communal, the project took steps to
      privatize it before initiatingreclamation activities.
      Promoting a group approach for those activities that are public in nature. Water user groups
      were formed to not only share water but to also work as a reclamation team developing and
      maintaining a network o f field and link drains and irrigation channels. A shortcoming here
      was limited attention to the issues important for sustainability o f the user group in the post-
      project phase.
      Raising awareness o f the importance that guarantee o f financial returns plays in building
      farmer commitment. Unfortunately, the importance o f this link was not recognized for all
      project activities.
      Buildingthe capacity inthe farmers to participate effectively inreclamation activities. Field
      days were arranged to build farmers' confidence in reclamation programs and provide
      intensive technical support.
      Ensuringaccountability andtransparency of activities undertaken.
      Building flexibility in project design to allow for increase in farmer participation inproject
      activities where possible.
Source: Annex A.



9.         The UP Bhumi Sudhar Nigam (UPBSN)was the project implementingagen~yA~                                 .
Project Management Committee headedby the Agriculture Secretary with heads o f the
participating agencies as memberswas appointed to ensure inter-departmental
coordination. The Remote SensingApplication Center (RSAC) was responsible for site
identification and selection and for monitoring o f changes insoil and groundwater
 environment^.^ The Indian Institute o f Management Lucknow (IIML)provided support
for development o f the computerized project management information system. IIMLalso
worked as the external monitoring and evaluation (M&E) agency.




3. UPBSNi s a Governmento f UP undertakingregisteredunder the Companies Act. It i s under the Departmentof
Agriculture, andthe Agriculture Production Commissioneris its ex-officio chairman. It was set up in 1978 with the
mission ofpreservingthe healthand productivityof landresources.

4. The sodic landwas categorizedinto three classes: Class C, which was barren, uncroppedland(most severe case of
sodicity); Class B, whichwas single-crop (kharif) land; and ClassB+, which was double-crop (kharif andrabi) landbut
with low productivity.

                                                       4


 Table 1: ProjectComponents and Costs

 Component                                                                              costs
                                                                                     (US$ million)
                                                                                   Appraisal Actual
 Institutional developmentthrough strengthening of the UPBSNand the RSAC.            7.05      10.84
 Land reclamation through provision of an effective drainage network; application   64.80      66.91
 of gypsum, irrigation development, and support for the establishment of food and
 tree crops on privately owned land and forest tree species on community land.
 Agriculture development and technology dissemination comprising                    4.70       23.41
 demonstration of reclamation models for the production of crops, fruit trees, and
 forestry species on sodic lands, nursery development for fruit tree seedling
 production, extension support involving motivational campaigns, production of
 publicity material using mass communication techniques
 Reclamationtechnology development and special studies comprised                     3.60      2.55
 adaptive research to improve existing reclamation technology, diversification of
 cropping systems, and development of methods for preventing further expansion
 of sodicity.
 Total Project Cost                                                                  80.2      103.7


 10.       The IDA share o fthe total project cost at appraisal was US$54.70 million. Actual
total costs at US$103.7 millionwere 29 percent higher than appraisal estimates. This was
because the area o f landreclaimedwas 52 percent higher and the number o f beneficiaries
was nearly double the appraisal prediction. The beneficiary contributionto project
financing, thoughprincipally inkind, increased from 15 percent estimated at appraisal to
36 percent. The IDA credit was totally disbursed.


ImplementationExperience

 11.      The project was approved inJune 1993 and became effective inAugust o f the
same year. The midtermreview (MTR) took place inApril 1997 and the project closed
on schedule inMarch 2001. The project was implementedinitially (1992-93) inthree
easterndistricts-Raebareli,        Pratapgarh, and Sultanpur. Four more districts-Aligarh,
Etah, Etawah, andMainpuri-were              added in 1993-94. The project was at its peak in
1994-95 when three additional districts (Allahabad, Fatehpur, and Hardoi) were included.

12.       The project design was complex and implementation faced several challenges.
However, there was good progress inachievingproject physical targets, which were
revised at the M T R by over 50 percent from 45,000 to 68,800 hectares for land
reclamation, drainage, and cultivation. Flexibility inthe project design allowed for
adaptations on the basis o f lessonso f experience. For example, the initial design had
provided for a subsidyto farmers on C Class sodic land (see footnote 4) for diggingand
maintenance o f field drains and irrigation channels. However, duringimplementation it
was possible to get the farmers to do this work without the subsidy, so it was removed.
The off-loading o f this and other similar costs onto farmers was one o fthe main reasons
why theproject was able to reclaimmore landthan originallyplanned. Inanother
example, the afforestation program on community landwas abandoned when it was
found to be unsuccessful. Inthe horticulture sub-component, the highmortality o f fi-uit

                                                             5


 trees planted(because o fpoor plant quality and transportation losses) prompted
 rethinkingofthe source of supply o fthe plantingmaterial.5

 13.       Drainage was one o f the biggest challenges throughout the implementation
 period. Remodeling and maintenance o fmain drains by the government was slow, lagged
 behindother project activities, andwas not giventhe attention it deserved.
 Implementationo f drainage was also handicapped by the coordinationproblems between
 the project and the IrrigationDepartment.6

 14.       Farmer participationwas central to the reclamationeffort, but establishing it was
 not easy. Site Implementation Committees (SICS)~and Water User Groups (WUGs)                                    *
 were created invillages where reclamationactivities were carried out. However, lack o f
 experience with participatory procedures inthe early years ledto forcing formation o f
 these institutions too quickly inaccordance with land reclamationtargets rather than
 readiness o fbeneficiaries. Realizationthat these were not working effectively ledto
 arrangements for training o fUPBSNstaffby NGOs inWUG formation and development
processes. A participatory cell was also set up inUPBSN.Considerable emphasis was
 also givento creating awareness andmotivating villagers. The project effort in
 sequencing activities helpedharness farmer commitment for agricultural development on
reclaimedlandsqg




5. The original design provided for plantingmaterial fromDepartmentof Horticulture nurseries. However, the needto
provide good quality planting material led to identification of local nurseries for plant supply.
6. The experience of the ProjectManagementCommitteewas encouragingexcept in the case of the Irrigation
Department.Remodelingof the main drains was very often late andhad anegativeimpact on project activities. Parto f
the problemwas causedbythe reporting structure inUp.The Agriculture Secretaryreportsto the Agriculture
ProductionCommissioner,whereas the Secretary of Irrigation reports to the Chief Secretary.
7. The SIC was the village-level body for disseminationof project-relatedinformation, decisionmaking, and
implementationo f reclamationactivities. It was made up of beneficiariesfrom the village as well as village-level
officials of various governmentdepartments, Mitra Kisan, MahilaMitraKisan, NGO representatives, andproject staff.
The GramPradhanwas the presidentof the SIC. SIC activities included distribution of inputs (such as gypsum) for
land reclamation, allocation of work for construction of linkdrains, land classification,maintenance of the drainage
system, and conflict resolution.Planmaps that show WUG boundaries,land classification,boring sites, irrigation and
drainage networks, andproposedcrops were also approvedby SIC.
8. A WUG i s an informal group of farmers (approximately 10-15 farmers) that hold a four to five hectare piece of land
ingeographicaljuxtapose.The field staff ofUPBSNandtheNGOmotivatethe beneficiariesto form aWUG. Members
of each WUG select a chairmanand a co-chairman.A borewell is drilled (or an existing boring is used) on the landof
one of the farmers. The pump set could be ownedby an individual or agroup. These groupswere formed to allow for
sharingof water from one boring for irrigation purposes. Since individual farmers cannot develop the required network
of field drains and irrigation channels, WUG memberswere to work together as a team for their constructionand
maintenance. A WUG was, ineffect, an operationalunit o fthe village SIC and it was through the WUG that inputs for
reclamationof sodic landand agricultural activities were distributed. Payments for all on-farm developmentworks
were also madethroughWUG Bank accounts.
9. For example, the transparent land titling was done beforeundertakingof technical solutions to sodicity.

                                               6


Evaluation Findings

Relevance

 15.    Onbalance, project relevance is ratedsubstantial.The project objectives were
relevant to poverty reduction and fully consistent with Bank assistance strategy for India
and objectives inthe agriculture sector. The basic strategy for agricultural growth i s to
strengthen agricultural, irrigation and forestry programs at the state level. The
Government o f India and state governments have strongly supported innovative
community-based rural initiatives that directly attack rural poverty. The Government o f
UP placedahighpriority onreclamation of sodic areas due to increasingpopulation
pressure on available agricultural lands, the concern for the deteriorating naturalresource
base, and highpotential social benefits of the program. World Bank involvement was
expected to enable development anddissemination o f sustainable production
technologies and allow for strengthening o f local institutions involved inreclamation
work.

16.     Though the project was seen at appraisal as part o f a long term programto
improve agricultural productivity inareas with highconcentrations o f sodic lands and
deteriorating environment conditions, this assessmenti s concerned about its inattentionto
several systemic issues as these have some bearing on the project's relevance as apilot
program. The project focus was on developing participatory models for large-scale land
reclamation; however, there is an inconsistency here as a "long term programto improve
agricultural productivity" anddevelopment and dissemination o f sustainable production
technologies requires adequate attention to among others, economic incentives for use
andmanagement o fwater, resources for operation, andmaintenance ofdrainage, tackling
o fwhich calls for policy reformmeasures.As apilot, the project should have combined
relatively shorter-term "curative" measures for sodicity with longer-term "preventive"
policy measures that can mainlybe tackled at the state level perhaps with Government o f
India support. Box 2 notes some o f the systemic issues that need to be addressedto allow
for a holistic approach to the problem o f sodicity.

                                                              7


Box 2: Important SystemicIssues that have a Bearingon LandReclamation

 Seepage, as the majority of the large canal network in UP continues to be unlined. While
budgetary constraints have major implications for what can be done in the short run, a realistic
long-term strategy for seepage prevention or reduction over time i s at least as relevant to sodicity
 as short-term reclamation.
Adequate recognition of the importance of drainage and sufficient resources for the
operation and maintenance of the drainage network. The UP Water Sector Restructuring
Project (FY 2002) includes a pilot component for reform options inirrigation and drainage, but it
i s not clear how much the pilot will succeed in focusing adequate attention on this critical issue.
Drainage was inadequately addressed during the project under assessment and continues to be a
challenge during the implementation phase o f the follow-on Sodic Lands Reclamation I1project.
Drainage had never been a priority for the Irrigation Department or for the farmers. Moreover,
there are several aspects to the drainage issue that are not currently well appreciated by both
stakeho1dersaaPoliticians do not see immediate returns from drainage and several individual
farmers are not aware that they cannot "solve" the drainage problem on their own land unless a
coordinated effort i s undertaken by all stakeholders in an areaabOthers are aware, but see
community action as too difficult given the likelihood o f fi-ee-riders.
Government policiesthat encourage the right incentives for use and management of water.
Subsidies through the power sector for groundwater irrigation and through low tariffs for surface
irrigation continue to be a problem (Pitman 2002). The price o f canal water inIndia i s not fixed
on the basis of sound economic principles, and little attention i s given to calculation o f rates that
would allow for an adequate balance o f surface and groundwater use. Inmany areas where canal
water is easily available, groundwater exploitation has fallen because of the high cost associated
with exploitation o f this resource, particularly with use o f diesel pumps (as noted inJoshi and Jha
1992). Though these issues have begunreceiving attention, they are not easily addressed and a
much more systematic effort i s needed. The pricing o f canal water i s o f critical importance to the
development o f an approach that provides for conjunctive use o f surface and groundwater to
avoid problems o f salinity and waterlogging. The midtermreview o f the project under assessment
introduced a pilot subproject to develop appropriate water and soil management practices with
farmer participation. The pilot reported limitedprogress on efforts to promote conjunctive use o f
surface and groundwater primarily because "farmers would never prefer to take water from a
tubewell which i s 12 times costlier.. ." Borrower ICR, Volume 111,p. 119.
a. "Although investment in drainage i s recognized as an essential technical component of sustainable irrigation, it i s
sften deferred, for example, on grounds of political or financial expediency, until the deleterious effects of a raised
water table become severe, or, finally, because drainage is unpopular with the farmers, as it requires substantial extent
s f land (approximately 15 percent for open drains) and capital, whereas its rate of return i s not obvious, or may be low
h e to delays." (Dattaand Jong 1997).

`At the policy level, land drainage was neglectedbecause the effect of water logging and secondary salinisation is slow
o become apparent. So always the funds allocated for it are shifted to the extension of the irrigation network or spent
?ordrought and flood control. It happensbecauseinour policy documents drainage is always attached with irrigation or
vith flood control or with both. Secondly, due to financial and political constraints, the commitment of national policy
nakers to forestall ago-ecological deterioration is often diminished by short-run perspectives owing to their brief
enure as leaders. Thirdly, maintenance as well as management is always a big problem and it is true that when
Irainage is not managed properly it will create another environmental (health) hazard. Fourthly, the govemment has
ilready spent about Rs. 40,000 per hectare on surface irrigation, now for drainage additional funds are required; if
Irainageis treated as apublic issue, then it i s againabig financial burdenon the government." (Datta and Jong 1997)

1. This i s because the drainage "technology" can be successful only if it i s provided over a large and compactarea.

                                                               8


 Efficacy

  17.      Efficacy-the         extent to which the project objectives were achieved-is                  rated
  substantial.

 Objective1:To develop modelsfor environmentalprotectionand improved
 agriculturalproductionthrough large-scalereclamationof sodic lands(Partially
 Achieved)

  18.      Though the project exceeded expectations incarrying out large-scale reclamation
 of sodic soils with active farmer participation, it didnot succeed increating adequate
 awareness among communities andthe Irrigation Department about the technical aspects
 o fmanagingsodicity. Monitoring of environmental impact remains a concern and there i s
 also a needfor more attention to sustaining agricultural incomes throughbetter extension
 and better coordination among agencies (Box                    3).1



 Box 3: Lack of Coordination Between Various Government Departments and Its
 Implications

 Reclamation activities began in Pahremau village in the Amawan block o f Raebareli district in
 1993-94 and a total o f 46.27 hectares were reclaimed. Fifteen WUGs were formed, with 13 new
 borings and rehabilitation o f 2 old ones. The village has 102 beneficiaries, 85 o f them marginal
 farmers and 17 o f them small farmers. In 1997-98, the Minor Irrigation Department constructed a
 deep tube well in the village with a command area of 100 hectares. The deep well was powered
 by electricity, while the majority o f the shallow-bore wells were runon diesel fuel. The cost of
 operating a diesel pump i s nearly twice that of operating an electric pump. Hence, a number o f
 farmers in the village began obtaining water from the deep well and the diesel pump owners in
 the WUGs began finding it difficult to "sell" their water. Ultimately, several of them sold their
 pump sets. InNovember 2003, when the OED mission visited the village, about 5 of the WUG
 pumps were reportedto be functioning. However, the Minor IrrigationDepartment deep tubewell
 was also not functioning because o f some technical problems. As a result, the beneficiaries
 currently do not have an assured water supply. When asked what they would do, they said they
 would find a solution and that they would not allow their lands to go back to being sodic.
 However, it was not clear what options they had. When asked whether they would be able to buy
 new pumps for their shallow wells, those present acknowledged that they did not have the
 resources. The UPBSN staff, including the irrigation expert, who had accompanied the mission,
 were not even aware that the Minor IrrigationDepartment had constructed the deep tubewell and
 ieopardizedthe sustainability o f the reclamation investments.




10. The Borrower in its comments is concernedabout OED observationson lack of coordinationbetweengovemment
departments (see Annex F). Inresponseto Borrower comments, OED notes that even ifthe Minor Irrigation
Departmentwas constructingelectrified deep tubewells which could eventuallybenefit the project, the tubewell was set
upwithout consideringthe implications for the working ofWUGs which were to managethe shallow dieselrun
tubewells constructedunderthe project. OED drew onthe incident to illustrate the negative implications of lack of
interdepartmentalcoordination.UPBSN staff were not even aware that the Minor IrrigationDepartmenthad
constructedthe deep tubewell inthe village. Consequentlythey could not be expected to consider the implications for
theworking ofuser groups, maintenance of linkdrains etc. OED clearly notes inits report inpara45 that It isnot
                                                                                                         "
clear whether this was an isolatedoccurrenceor is amore generalizedproblem, but the implications for sustainability
are disturbing." Further, there is also the issue of coordination with the IrrigationDepartmenton drainagewhich has
implications for sustainabilitywhich has beenbrought up invarious partsofthis report.

                                                              9


 Agricultural Productivity Improved

  19.       Reclamationwas successful on 68,414 hectares of sodic lands (152 percent of the
 S A R target) in 1,003 villages inthe project districts. More than 50 percent o f the
 reclaimed areawas totally barren Class C land. The value o f all three classes o f reclaimed
 land has increased substantially. Most o f the reclaimedarea, 92 percent, was brought
 under rice andwheat cultivation; 7.6 percent was brought under horticulture.There was a
 significant increase incropping intensity: paddy and wheat yields are reported to have
 increased from 1.49 tons and 1.67 tons per hectare respectively inthe pre-intervention
 periodto 2.99 tons and 2.61 tons per hectare inthe post-intervention period. OED's
 quantitative and qualitative data collected from Raebareli district confirm this increase.
 Household data from the treatment and matched (control) villages shows that, though
 both report increase infoodgrainproduction, the treatment group indicated significantly
 higher improvement comparedto the matched"without project'' group. The data also
 reportedan increase inthe areaunder irrigation inthe treatment villages as compared to
 matched villages. Project impact interms o fincrease inagricultural productionappears
 positive. The qualitative data from focus group sessions confirms this finding.

 20.        These are impressive achievements, but there i s little room for complacency.
 Though a substantial amount o f landhas been reclaimed, the improvement inthe quality
 o f soil has beenmarginal inseveral areas." Inmost areas that have beenreclaimedthe
pHis reported to have decreasedby 1to 1.5 units at the surface, while the subsoil
remains highly alkaline. Inthese areas, the potential i s highfor reversionto sodic land, if
proper crop and water management practices are not followed. This leaves a high-risk
 situation, since drainage and soil fertility issues have not beengiven adequate attention
 duringtheproject andthe institutionalarrangements for both arenot inplace.

Agriculture Extension WasInadequate

21.         Extensionweakness inemphasizing the important role that greenmanuringplays
inmaintainingthe fertility ofthe reclaimedsoilwas amajor project shortcoming that
could leadto gradual reversiono f reclaimedland inthe coming years.I2 The actual


 11. "Most of the barrensodic soils have pHabove 10 andvery slow to slow hydraulic conductivity of surface and
subsurface.Reclamationdid improve the soil pH; on the whole reducedto 9.5.However, 60 percent of the surface soil
still has pH in the range of 9.5 to 10.0.'' OED madethis observationon the basis of a presentationby the RSAC
Lucknow to the assessmentmission inNovember 2003. Commentingon this footnote the Borrower clarifies that "the
pHreportedhasbeentaken from another studywhere sampleswere collectedafter 1-3 years ofreclamation. The
objective ofthe studywere to studythe physicalpropertieslike hydraulic conductivity, bulk density and infiltration
rate. The ASM (Annual Soil Monitoring) studywhich is basedon 5-6 years of soil datashow that 60 % plots (out of
216 monitored) show the reduction inpHby 1to 1.5 units while 25 % did not show any improvement.The remaining
15%showed improvementinitially but the quality starteddeterioratinginlateryears." Boththe studies however
illustrate the point that OED is making inthe text, that the improvementinthe quality of soil has beenmarginal in
some areas.
12. "The project functionaries laidundueemphasison the nitrogen-savingrole of green manuring.They did not focus
on soil-improvementrole of Dhaincha.Onthe nitrogen saving groundthe farmers are not readyto accept green
manuring as normal farming practice." Monitoring and Evaluation ReportPart 111Agricultural and Socio-economic
Impact Assessment 2001 IIMLLucknow. There is a differenceof perspectivebetweenwhat is observed above by the
extemalmonitoring agency (IIML)and the Borrower who in its commentsnotes that the project emphasized altemative
means of improvingsoil quality e.g. NADEP, vermin-compostingetc. insteadof green manuringwhich is
comparativelycostlier. On the basis of findings inthe field OED agrees with the evidenceprovided by IIML.

                                                             10


 cultivation o f the green manurecrop (Dhaincha) i s expensive, as it requires at least two
 irrigations for its growth. Inthe first year, the project provided seeds and irrigation
 charges to farmers. However, inthe second year only seeds were provided. Villagers
 understand the nitrogen-fixing role but not the soil-improvement role o f green manuring.
 Reports show that several o f themhave not undertaken greenman~ring.'~                            At Rs.50 per
 hour for irrigation, and with substantial plowing costs, few farmers (the majority o f
 whom own very small plots o f landand, hence, are poor) are convinced o f the financial
 returns from Dhaincha cultivation. This increases the risk o freversion combined with the
 drainage concems.


 Environmental Monitoring I s Not Management-Oriented

 22.       Monitoring o f environmental impact i s also a concem. A project environmental
 reconnaissance in 1991raised the possibility o f long-term negative effects on
 groundwater resources and quality. ThoughRSAC i s monitoringgroundwater quality,
 giventhe increasing numbero ftubewells andthe percolationo fwater from the irrigated
 and cultivated soils, the depth and quality o fthe groundwater resource may change inthe
 future. Onthe basis ofconversations with government officials andareview ofreports
 and files, the assessment missionwas not convinced that the RSAC will be able to
 exercise the continuous extreme vigilance required over such a large area o freclaimed
 land. Though a large amount o f data i s beinggenerated even duringthe follow-on project,
 supervision reports have voiced concern about its effective use. In its functioning, the
institution appears to be more supply-driventhan demand-driven. Further, evenifRSAC
was able to report changes inquality and quantity o f groundwater, the project didnot
help put inplace aplano faction to deal with potentialproblems, like decline inwater
quality and quantity. Drillingo f shallow wells was to provide a constant source o f
irrigation so that assured water supply was available to keep the groundunder crop cover
year-round. However, little thought was given to alternatives were the water table to fall
below a critical minimumle~e1.l~

Objective 2: To strengthen localinstitutions to manage such schemes (partially
achieved)

23.        Theproject helpedstrengthen UPBSN,RSAC, andNGOs. Issues related to
strengtheningo fthese organizations are dealt with inthe section on institutional


13. "Even during the postreclamationfirst and secondyears when farmers were provided project help, green manuring
coverage was only about 50 percent.After withdrawal ofproject support, it goes down dismally. Scientists treat green

towards its necessity....There is needfor change inthe entire extension strategy towards green manuring" Monitoring
manuring as prerequisitefor sustainability of reclamation.Inthis light, farmers will haveto be adequatelysensitized

and Evaluation, Part111, Agricultural and Socio-EconomicImpact Assessment, IIML,2001, Lucknow.
14. The Borrower in its comments notesthat RSAC has not reporteddecline o f water level below the critical level
anywhereinthe project so far. They further notethat wherever deteriorationinquality of water has beenreportedby
RSAC UPBSNhas responded immediatelyas for exampleinKanpur district. On the basis of the findings inthe field
OED is not convincedthat RSAC will be ableto exercisethe continuousvigilance requiredto report deteriorationin
quantity and quality over such a large area of reclaimedland. While UPBSNmay havebeen able to respondinthe case
o f Kanpur district, it does not imply that a long term plan has beenput inplaceto deal with problems as and when they
arise. Borrower comments do not mention the kind ofcorrective action taken and it is not clear what kind of measures
can be taken to immediately correct for deterioration inwater quality. Capacityto respondto emergencieswill be
particularly limitedafter the closure of the follow-on project.

                                                               11


  development. This section describes the project experience with village-level local
  institutions.


  TheNature of Community Participation WasManaged by the Implementing Agency

  24.       The project was designed to give substantial control over decisions and resources
 to the community by involving them inplanning, implementation, and monitoring. It i s
 unfortunate that the actual implementation o f the participatory process, instead o f putting
 the communities ina position o f decision makingand control and buildinginthem the
 capacity to handle the technical aspects o f sodicity inthe post-project phase, created in
 them a sense o f dependency. Inthis sense, UPBSNwas the "benefactor" and the villagers
 the "beneficiaries." The village-level institutions created under the project (SIC, WUGs)
 were also regarded by the beneficiaries as temporary bodies for project implementation
 and not permanent organizations that can promote empowerment and beneficiary control
 over resources and decision making.l5

 25.         This is not to say that the intention o fthe implementing agency was misdirected.
 To them, the project objective was to help reclaim a certain amount o f land with a certain
 amount o f money ina definite number o f years. According to this target approach, the
 implementing agency did very well, because the area o f land reclaimed was 52 percent
 higher and the number o f beneficiaries was nearly double the appraisal prediction. From
 the implementing agency perspective, the most important aspect o f community
 participation was ensuring farmer commitment to the reclamation process and sharing o f
 reclamation costs. Hence, for them, even ifthey "directed" and "controlled" the
 discussion inthe village-level implementing bodies (SIC, WUGs), it was not a concern,
 as long as farmers participated and contributed and the reclamation was undertaken as per
 thetechnical standards. As aresult, UPBSNofficials exercisedcontrol over the process.'6
 The ESSDreport (Alsop et al. 2002, p. 18) notes, "In Uttar Pradeshproject staff
 dominate group decision making." Participants inthe focus group sessions also reported


 15. The Borrower in its comments notes that the project had laid down suitable arrangementsunder its exit policy by
networkingthe SICSinto Farmer club/ school. Also accordingto themthe project made an effort to give SIC a legal
status by making it a sub-committeeo f the Gram Panchayat. Howeverthey acknowledgethat this was not formalized.
They further note that efforts madeto develop WUGs as permanent institutions like men's selfhelp group also met
with limited success. OED has alreadyacknowledgedthe substantialeffort madeby UPBSNinformulating an exit
strategy elsewhereinthe report (para 40 and 45). The concern is that the exit strategydoes not haveadequatebudgetary
and policy support to be able to institutionalize the linkagesbetweenthe various institutions andthe knowledgeand
information needs of the average kisan.

16. The Borrower in its commentsnotes that this point and the observationthat "the project was not community driven
but UPBSNdriven and community followed" shouldbe seen inthe context of project design. According to the
Borrower ""Project design" is structuredwith well laidprocedures& provisions right from selectiono fland,
classificationof land, entitlementsbasedon land typology insteadof farmerscategory etc. Although project at its later
stage introducedthe conceptofmicro planning i.e. formation of site specific implementation plan bythe farmers
themselves so as to incorporategroundrealities inthe planning processand ensuringfarmerscommitment,
accountability and ownershiptowardsthe plan, but due to structuredandtime boundproject designthe project has
limited scope to incorporatesome o fthe priorities & demands raisedby the community which do not commensurate
with project designsuch as demand for Electricity, installation of Hand pumps, openingof Primary Schools etc. As it
was expectedinthe project design, that the project will be implementedina set framework & ina time boundmanner;
at each stage, project staff facilitated the farmers by informing them about the actions requiredat each stage.This act of
facilitation by staff would havebeenmisunderstoodby the surveyorsas "controlling & dominance" but the role is
rather "facilitating and informing"." OED hasno disagreementwith this statement. It directly supportslesson4
emergingfrom this assessment.

                                                            12


 control o f the process by implementing agency staff. The household survey data also
 show how the villagers considered UPBSNas the key implementing authority for the
 project, and do not give themselves an important decision-making role.

 TheEmphasis Was on Short-Term Results, Not Long-Term Capacity Building

 26.       The household survey data show that when the project was initiated, a large
 percentage o f the villagers considered lack o f agricultural inputs, drinkingwater, and
 roads as biggerproblems for their village than ~odicity.'~However, when money was
 beingprovided to tackle the sodicity problem, the villagers were quick not to missthe
 opportunity. The farmers were willing to contribute andparticipate because they saw a
 potential economic gain andwere shrewdenough to realize that UPBSNwould not give
 themthe benefits without their contribution. As observed inone focus group session, the
 villagers mainly saw participation inthe development project as a requirement for them
 to meet a part o f the project cost. As a result, they contributedlabor, incurred the cost o f
 transporting gypsum from the storage center to the beneficiary plot, and contributed Rs. 2
 per bag for gypsumto the WUG. However, they continuedlookingto the UPBSNfor
 guidance and support throughout the implementationphase. They were simplynot aware
 that they were expected to take charge o f activities. Neither didthey see the village-level
 organizations created by the project as something permanent. Qualitative data reveal that
the SIC was mostly regardedby the beneficiaries as a forum for getting information on
project activities and formalizing arrangements."

27.       It canbe arguedthat itwould beunrealistic for villagers to take charge becauseo f
the technical nature ofthe process. Onthe other hand, had adequate time beenbudgeted
to implement the participatory process, it would perhaps have beenpossible for the
villagers to actually take charge o f the whole reclamation exercise. Eventually, the kind
o f community participationthat ultimately emergedwas "paternalistic participation,"
where the communitieswere dependent on outside support andhadnot acceptedthe
project as their own. The farmers continued to think o fthe reclamationactivity as an
"outside" effort brought to themby UPBSNrather thansomething that they hadto carry
out on their own. It i s understandable thenthat they would think that the drainage
problem too would be "taken care" o fby UPBSNand the Gram Pradhan. The fact that
farmers continue to be known as "beneficiaries" also created an unequal relationship in
the minds o f other government officials. Hence, inreality, the project was not
"community driven" but "UPBSN driven and community followed." The relationship
was that o f the implementingagency as the stronger and superior partner and the villagers
playing a role incompliance with government directions.




17.Here it is important to notethat, even though sodicity may not have beenregardedas the most important problem
by individual villagers, the governmenthad identified it as amajor problem and it was relevant for the Bankto support
the intervention.
18. The Borrower in its comments on the statement clarifies that SIC has been a forum for decisionmaking, for all the
crucial project activities right fromthe beginning (see commentsAnnex F). OED has already recognizedthe important
role playedby the SIC inpara 14and footnote 7. The statementwas only reporting the perspectiveof the beneficiaries
as reportedinthe focus group sessions.

                                                          13


  TheParticipatory Approach Endorsed the Status Quo

 28.        The implementationo f the participatory aspect also gave little thought to the
 social and economic context o f village society when attempting to establish community
 participation. Caste i s an important social institutioninthe villages o f rural India and
 determines one's position insociety. InUP,the higher castes generally are also
 economically stronger and are likely to hold decision-making positions invillage
 ~ociety.'~Hence, though all beneficiaries were expected to have equal opportunityto
 express their views andhave an equal say inall matters inthe SIC and WUGs, the reality
 was different. Since the pressure from the Bank was on disbursement and meeting
 targets, UPBSNstaff found it more efficient to deal predominantlywith getting villagers
 involved insharing the costs andhad little time to ensure that equitable participation
 actually was taking place.

 29.       Qualitative data from the 19 treatment villages inRaebareli confirm that most o f
 the WUG leaderswere those who could afford to pay for the cost o f the pump, that is,
 those who were economicallybetter off." The villagepradhan was the chairmano fthe
 SIC. Focus group reports and household survey data confirm the important role playedby
 the villagepradhan inall village matters. It is highlyunlikely that hisrole couldbe
 differentinthe context of aproject-created institution. Hence, thoughintheory the
 decisionmakinginthe WUGs and SICs was meant to be completelyparticipatory, in
 reality the WUGs and SICs were dominated by the elite. While this i s inevitable to some
 degree, it couldhave beenimproved by greater understanding o f the socio-political
 context o fvillage society. The marginal and small farmers, by virtue of also belonging to
 the lower caste, were also likely to be less vocal. The ESSDreport (Alsop et al. 2002, p.
 16) notes, "wealthier people more often attend user group and local governance
 meetings." Data from the household survey carriedout for the OED assessment indicate
 that the wealthier beneficiaries attend these meetings more frequently than the poorer
beneficiaries. The marginal farmers most often do not evenhave the time to attend
meetings as they are busytrying to make ends meet. The SIC was to act as the watchdog
 ensuringproper utilizationo f inputs andresources providedunder the project. However,
since official positions were heldby the elite there was little chance for it to be an
effective monitoring authority against appropriationbypowerful village members.The
project didtake specific measuresto ensure accountability andtransparency; however,
there i s evidence from some focus groups where participants claim that the benefits were
appropriated by the elite (Annex E). Though it i s inevitableto some extent, it i s
disconcerting to think that the project may have actually contributedto strengtheningthe
positiono fthe better-off sections o f village society because their social positionwas
reinforced ina Bank project context. Household survey data shows that socialpositioni s
significantly correlated with economic status.


19. "Most economicallymarginalhouseholds are also the ones who belongto lower castes and sub-castes."
Vijalalakshmi Das August 1993 UP Sodic LandsReclamationProjectA Study on Group Savings and Credit
Management.
20. The Borrowerinits commentsexplains that the comment "most ofWUG leaderswere those who couldaffordto
pay for the cost ofpump"needs to be seen inthe light of projectprovisionfor the functioningof the WUGs. According
to the projectdesign, the individualonwhose landthe boringis installedis responsible for arrangement ofthe pump set
(see Annex Ffor detailedcomments).

                                                14


 Objective 3: T o contribute to poverty alleviation of the families concerned
 (achieved);

 TheProject Contributed Significantly to Poverty Alleviation

 30.     Theproject contributed to povertyalleviation byhelpingincreasethe returns to
 manysmall andmarginalfarmers. Theproject is reportedto havebenefited 155,892
 farmers, o fwhich 94 percent were small andmarginal farmers. Landlessness i s an
 important cause o fpoverty inrural areas and a large number o fpoor families were given
 rights to landfor the first time. However, analysis above shows that the benefits to the poor
 could have beengreaterhadthe project givenmore attention to the process o fparticipation.

 31.     A total o f 2,166 women self-help groups were formed up to March2001 andhave
 helpeda large numbero fpoor families meet their immediate social andeconomic needs.

 Efficiency

 32.     Project efficiency i s rated modest, even thoughthe re-estimated economic rate o f
return(ERR)was 28 percent, against the appraisal estimate of 23 percent. The ERR
 analysis both at the appraisal and completion stages was done over a 20-year project life.
Thehigher ERR at completionrelativeto the appraisal stage was influencedbythe
 expanded area o freclaimed land. The assessmentwas not able to undertake an
independent economic analysis; however, completion report calculations appear to have
beenbasedon unrealistic assumptions. The calculations assumedthat weaknesses related
to maintenance o f drains andprovisiono f extension services will be overcome, that
farmers will continue to develop technical andmanagerial skills, and that yield levels will
remainstatic. The Bank's ICR did a sensitivitytest to measure the impact ifdrainage was
neglected and the institutional constraints with regard to addressing the soil fertility
issues were not sorted out. It found that the ERR i s very sensitive; a 12percent reduction
inoutput ofbothwheat andricewouldreducethereturnto zero. The ICRwas writtenin
September 2001, The assessment missionwas undertaken inNovember 2003. There i s
now enough evidence, notedunder the section on sustainability, to show that the fairly
strong assumptions (weaknesses related to maintenance o f drains and provision of
extension services) noted above are unlikelyto hold.

33.      Inassessingthe benefits andcosts itisworthnotingthat there were substantial
benefits interms o f increased agricultural productivity. Reclamationo f degraded landand
bringingit under crop cover also helpedremove some o fthe causes ofrespiratory
diseases inthe area (footnote 2). The impact o f these changes, while difficult to assess,
can be substantial. Onthe cost side, it i s important to note that the reclamation
technology that was usedby the project was expensive. Other lower-cost but slower
technologies without gypsum (such as usingsimple drainage, irrigation, and green
manuring) have yieldedpromisingresults. However, it i s not clear whether any o f these
cheaper technologies can be effectively appliedto carry out large-scale land reclamation
as i s possible with gypsum. It i s interestingto notethat project files reveal that a cheaper
technology was brought to the attention o fthe Bank (press mudand molasses) in 1993
butwas not pursued.The landreclamationandimprovedproductionpackage usedbythe

                                                  15


 project requiredthat apart from chemical inputs, seed and other inputswere needed. In
 addition, the project also provided support for diggingbore wells, link drains, and other
 physicalworks. The costs varied bykindo f sodic land (Class B+,Byor C) and the
 subsidy element was especially highinthe case of Class C land.The Borrower ICRnotes
 that the cost o freclamationwith gypsumwas highlargely becauseo f its high
 transportation costs. The project envisaged adaptive research to further develop the
 reclamationtechnology, especially with a view to reducingreclamation cost.



                                 Total Cost Class Wise Project Contribution Farmer's Contribution
 Class of Sodic Land             B*     B        C     B+     B       C     B+     B       C
 Cost of Land Reclamation        557    685     749    266    433     510   291    252     239
 Cost of Agriculture Cultivation 221    221     224    37     166     199   184    55      25
 Total                           779    906     973    303    599     709   475    307     264




 Outcome

34.      Based on the evidence o f substantial relevance, substantial efficacy, and modest
efficiency, OED guidelinesindicatethat the project's outcome should be rated as
moderatelysatisfactory.


InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact

The GovernmentAgency WasStrengthened

35.      Institutionaldevelopment impact i s rated as substantial.Project support allowed
UPBSNto mature as aninstitution andits operational capacity inareas oflandreclamation,
participatorymanagement, andtechnology dissemination has been strengthened.The
organization was restructured, key hnctions were separatedunder full-time managers, and
offices were established at the district level. Though UPBSNauthorities claim that the
projecthelpedrebuildthe faith o fthe commonmaninthe government, the household data
from the treatment andmatched communities indicate that there i s no significant difference
between the responseso frespondentsfrom matched andtreatment communities on
whether theytrusted localgovernment officials andUPBSNstaff. However, theresponse
rate was low for UPBSNstaff inthe matchedcommunity.

36.      Itis difficult to assess project impact on the IrrigationDepartment, as there was
no provisionunder the project to strengthenthe department itself. Though there have
beensome efforts bythe Government ofUP to allocate resources for drainage, as
indicatedinpara. 41,progress has beenlimited.Drainagedoes not seem to have begun
receivinghigher priority.

                                                               16


  NGOs Played a PositiveRole

  37.       Theproject helpedstrengthenthe capacity ofNGOsto provide services for
  community mobilization, motivation, and awareness campaigns. NGOswere to act as
  catalysts to mobilize farmers, disseminate technology, and help village-level institutions
  develop links with government agencies. Several village-level institutions (WUG, SIC,
  self-help groups) were created and helpedimplement project activities. Though
  communities "participated" inproject implementation, however, as seeninparagraphs
  24-27, the actual implementation o f the participatoryprocess, instead o fputtingthe
  communities inaposition o f control, created a sense o f dependency inthem. However,
  the reclamationactivities and the efforts o fthe UPBSNhave increasedthe awarenessand
  skill level o f the villagers, and increasedtheir confidence intheir own capacity. The
  results o f the household surveys indicate that the skill levels improved significantly
  among project participants compared to non-participants.

  38.      RSAC was strengthenedto enable it to carry out its function o f selecting
 reclamation sites and the planning, monitoring, and evaluation of environmental
 perimeters, includingimpact on soils, crops, and groundwater. Though it is important to
 note that such capacity was slow to develop andmaynot be adequately utilized (para. 22).

 TheProject Had a Positive Gender Impact

 39.       Village-level women's self-help groups were successfully formed to promote
 thrift, micro-enterprises, andother income-generating activities. The householdsurvey
 data show that about 23 percent o fthe respondents inthe treatment villages now see self-
 help groups as a source ofborrowing for small amounts ofmoney. Regressionanalysis
 confirms that fewer respondents in"without project" villages feel that self-help groups
 can be a source o f credit as compared to the treatment villages. The project also
 contributedto the overall development o fvillage women through literacy campaigns,
healthawareness programs, and similar activities.

 Sustainability

40.        Onbalance, sustainability-the                resilience to risk o f net benefits over time-is
rated unlikely even though farmer commitment to continue farming the reclaimed lands
i s high. 21Afollow-on operation i s continuing to provide support to UPBSNand NGOs;
and other projects inthe agriculture sector are ongoing. However, there are few resources
allocated under these projects for Sodic Iareas. 22Theassessment i s concerned that


21. The Borrower inits comments notesthat the issue of sustainabilityis being seriously looked at by UPBSN
managementand that they are inthe process of giving the local level institutions formedunder the project a formal
status and also establishingthe formal linkageswith the Departmentsof Agriculture and Irrigation, KVKs, Agriculture
Universities, Rural developmentetc. at the district level. The Borrower further note that the policy level interventions
are being pursuedwith the Government of Uttar Pradesh.OED notesthat ifthese issues are resolvedthey will have
implications for the sustainability of the follow on operation.Coming as they do so late inthe process,their impact on
the project areas under the first operationis likely to be limited.
22. The Borrower inits commentsdisagrees.It notes that the chances o freversalof sodicity is very low due to the
continuous addition of organicmatter on the topsoil (see comments Annex F for details). Basedon evidence fromthe
field and the problemswith drainage, OED is not convinced.

                                                             17


 inadequate attention to the operation and management o f drainage i s a critical
 shortcoming. The exit strategy formulated by the implementing agency, while an
 expression o f its commitment, does not address adequately the critical institutional
 constraints related to drainage, especially the problemwith the maintenance o f the main
 drains. Its major focus i s the institutionalaspects of soil fertility management on which it
 has had limitedsuccess so far. 23              24



 Inadequate Attention toDrainage

 41.        The most serious threat to sustainability i s inadequate attention to drainage issues.
 More than 45 percent o fthe household survey respondentsinthe treatment villages noted
 that O&M o fmain drains was bad. More than34 percent o frespondentsinthe treatment
 villages also noteddeterioration inmaintenance ofmaindrains. Focus group participants
 likewisenotedthat the maintenance o fmaindrains was poor. Themaindrains are not
 adequatelymaintained by the IrrigationDepartment.A 25/75 percent agreement for
 availability o f funds for drainmaintenance betweenthe IrrigationDepartment andthe
 RuralDevelopment Department for these activities was created. However, the Irrigation
 Departmentcontinues to have difficulty getting funds for drainmair~tenance.~~ concern                   This
 hasbeenvoiced by supervision reports ofthe follow-on project also. Currently, underthe
 follow-on project, evenwith a unit dedicatedto drainage under the IrrigationDepartment,
 availability o f funds for drain maintenance remains a challenge. Things are likely to be
 worse on closure o fthe secondproject. UPBSNstaffhadinformedthe assessmentmission
 that because o fthe increase inproduction, the political pressure from the farmers would be
 sufficient to ensure that the government provides adequate resources to the Irrigation
 Departmentto maintainthe maindrains. However, thehouseholdsurveyindicatesthat the
 majority ofthe farmers inthe treatment communities (96 percent) are unaware that the
 IrrigationDepartment has the major responsibility for maintainingthe maindrains. Further,
 the findings from the household survey indicate that most villagers are not evenaware o f
 the critical importance of drainage for containing sodicity. When askedwhat mainfactors


23. Initially it was thought that after project completion, post-reclamationmanagementwould be taken care of by the
Departmentof Agriculture (DOA) through their field functionaries, that is, Kisan Suhuyab (farmer supporters).
However, arestructuring inthe govemment led to the merging of theKisun Sukuyub with the PanchayatiRaj
department, making it impossiblefor DOA to fulfill the responsibility. UPBSNthenframedan exit strategy to deal
with the vacuumcreated. Duringthe closing years ofthe intervention, the agency contractedwith NGOs for the
services of experiencedmotivators (a skeleton staff of one in each sub-unit of the 10 districts) to continueworking for a
year and ahalf after project closureto address issues relevantto project sustainability. Despitethe agency's effort, the
limited progress on post reclamationmanagementthreatens sustainability.
24. The Borrower inits comments notes that the exit policy was formulated late during the project cycle ofthe Sodic I
intervention andthere was little time available with UPBSNfor its institutionalization. They further note that the issues
of drainage andtechnology support for the farmers are being well addressedinPhase-2.On the basis of evidence from
the field OED is not convincedthat UPBSN's exit strategyhas adequatebudgetaryandpolicy support. As regardsthe
issue of drainage, supervisionreports for the secondproject continueto report unsatisfactoryprogresson that front.
Conversationswith irrigation departmentofficials during the mission indicatedthe institutional constraintsinreaching
a solution to the problem.
25. The Borrower in its comments notes that "We have takenproper care to addressthe challenge of availability of
funds for drain maintenance anddue to these effortsthe funds for some ofthe districts haverecently beenreleasedand
the maintenancehasbeendone. For the other districts the matter has strongly beingpursuedwith the state
govemment." Basedon evidence inthe field, supervisionreports ofthe follow on project, OED is not convincedthat
the drainage problem has beenresolvedand notesthe need for the govemmentto take urgent steps to deal with the
institutional constraints.

                                                             18


 would helpprevent the land from going back to being sodic, only about 6 percent o fthe
 farmers inthe treatment villages considered regular andproper drainage to be the first or
 secondmost important factors. Most farmers consider application of gypsum, regular water
 supply, andapplication of fertilizers to bethe important factors to preventreturnof
 sodicity. These findingsmake significant political pressure seem unlikely.

 42.       Onproject closure, the qualitative data also show that there is limited incentive
 for the WUGs to continue working as a group and take responsibility for field and link
 drain maintenance. Household surveyrespondents reported that maintenance o f link and
 field drains was betweenfair andbad. Further,qualitativedata indicate that villagers do
 not consider it their responsibility to maintainlink drains. Focus group participants in
 some villages notedthat they had dugthe link drains becausethey were paid to do so.26

 43.       Maintenance o f the field drains i s a particular concern. The farmers had to dig
 them ontheir own land, reducingthe cultivable areaof an already small plot. Duringthe
 reclamationprocess these drains were essential to carry out the leachedwater, which
 contained substantial amounts o f salt. Insubsequent years, the drains were to help clear
 excess water from fields andprevent waterlogging. However, qualitative data indicate
 that many o f the farmers have begunplowing the land that hadbeenusedfor the field
 drains. Focus groups reported that inseveral areas excess water simply flows from one
 field to another. As a result, some landis constantly waterlogged.

 44.       The limitedcapacity o f the small and marginal farmers to invest inthe landis also
 a concern. Most o fthe benefited farmers are still marginal and are unable to pay for
 irrigation and other essential inputsneededto keep the landunder crop cover.2728

LimitedAttention to Soil Fertility Issues

45.        Soil fertility issues were not given adequateattention duringthe implementation o f
the project. Along with lack o f adequate water management, this factor has serious
implications for reversion o freclaimed land. A host o fdepartments andinstitutions are
currently active at the village level-the               krishi vigan kendras (KVKs), RegionalInstitute o f
RuralDevelopment, polytechnics, andDepartmento fAgriculture agents-and                                       together
have the potentialto provide adequateguidance to the farmer on fertility issues, but there i s
little coordination o ftheir activities. Fieldvisits to project sites and conversations with local
govemment officials show that UPBSN's exit strategy, while inthe right direction, may not

26. The Borrower inits comments notes that "On the issue o f limited incentive for the WUGs to continue working for
the maintenance o f linkdrains, it i s worth mentioning here that the SIC has the provision o f maintaining the link drain
maintenance accounts where all the farmers contribute their share for the corpus. This fund is used as incentive against
the labor for the linkdrain maintenance." However evidence from household surveys and focus group sessions
indicates that whatever the reason, the strategy does not seem to be working.
27. Most borewells runon diesel fuel, which is expensive when compared to electric tubewells. The Borrower's ICR,
Volume 111A notes: Rate o f canal irrigation is Rs. 320/- ha for unlimited number o f irrigations inpaddy or wheat crop
and the rate is half if a lift device is used. Whereas pumpset charges after rate o f diesel has escalated from Rs 30/- to
Rs.45-50/- per hour. A single irrigation o f one haland o fwheat crop takes 16 hours bypumpset with a 3-inch delivery
pipe.
28. The Borrower in its comments notes that alternative credit resources have been formed through self help groups to
develop the capacity o f small and marginal farmers to invest in the reclamation o f land.However elsewhere intheir
comments the Borrower also acknowledges that men's self help groups have not been successful.

                                               19


 have adequatebudgetary andpolicy support to be able to institutionalize the linkages
 between the various institutions and the knowledge and informationneeds o f the average
 kisan. Government officials are aware o fthe negative impact o fthe lack o f coordination.
 While the secondphaseproject is under implementation there are committees at the highest
 levelto review progress onreclamation (see para. 9), which can help sort out many
 interdepartmental coordination issues. However, inpractice achieving coordination hasnot
 been easy andwill bemuchmore difficult onproject closure. The negative implicationsof
 lack o finterdepartmental coordination are illustrated inBox 3. It i s not clear whether this
 was an isolated occurrence or i s amore generalized problem, but the implicationsfor
 sustainability are disturbing.


Benejkiaries See Little Needfor ContinuedInvolvement in Project Created
Institutions

46.      Beneficiaryorganizations created at the village level focused onproject
implementation andnot longer-term operation andmanagement o f sodic lands.There are
 few incentives to motivate the village-level organizations to continue onproject closure.
Memberso fuser groups formed underthe Sodic Iproject today do not demonstrate
ownership o f the groups, nor are these groups integratedwith other social, political, and
economic institutions inthe community. Most villagers saw them as necessitiesfor project
implementation. The study done byESSDinMarch-June 2000 (Alsop et al. 2002) clearly
noted inthe context o fthe projectunder assessmentthat group membersviewedthe
"community-level project-induced organizations as ameans o f accessingindividual, short-
term benefits rather than as mechanisms of cooperation for longterm sharedbenefits." (op.
cit.:14) The qualitative andquantitative data collected as a part o fthe fieldwork for the
current assessment confirms this. Thehousehold survey data indicates the limited
awarenesstoday o f WUGs among villagers. More than 62 percent o fthe respondentsinthe
treatment communities said there was no user group intheir village, while an average o f 6
to 8 WUGs were formed inevery treatment village. Further, availability o f alternate
sources o fwater supply(Box 3) or privatewells have reducedthe needto cooperate. Focus
group participants indicated that where water i s sharedfrom a singleborewell, the owner
sets the charges for the supply o fwater to the other group members, indicatingthat the
concept o f consultation that was the basis for formation ofthe WUGhas not become
popular. It is worth notingthat even duringproject implementation it was found that after
completion o f leaching and first year cropping, WUGs lost focus as there was no task for
the group as a whole to perform. Although attempts were made to start men's self help
groups to provide aperennial bindingforce for the group members.However, the men's
self-help groups have not been successful.

BankPerformance

47.     Bank performance i s ratedsatisfactory, though marginally so since lack o f
attention to preventivemeasures was an important quality at entry shortcoming. Another
shortcoming was lack o f attention at the design stage to several policy issues the Bank
should have handledat the state or central government level. One o fthese issues i s the

                                                           20


 frequent transfer o f government officials, particularly the managing director ofUPBSN
 (para. 49, below).       29

 48.        Other thanthese, the project was well supervisedlargely from the World Bank
 Country Office inNew Delhiwith support from Washington. Despite the technical nature
 o f the project, social andparticipatory issues were given significant importance.

Borrower Performance

49.         Borrowerperformance i s rated satisfactory, though frequent change inproject
management was an issue. Inaddition, lack o f adequate coordinationwith other
government departments (Box 3) was a concern. However, the performance o fthe
implementingagency, UPBSN,was strong. The government gavethe implementing
agency substantial flexibility and authority to undertakeits activities. It took steps to
adapt the project design as andwhen required.This was critical to achievement o fproject
physical outputs. The implementingagency also showed enormous commitment, as i s
evident from its attempt to formulate an exit strategy when a vacuum was created as a
result o f government restructuring. UPBSNstaff also played a critical role inhelping
create commitment to landreclamation among thousands o fpoor farmers by worked with
them to negotiate the complex process o f ensuringclear land titles. NGOs have been
effectively used to motivate beneficiaries to organize themselves to design, implement,
andmonitor theprogram.




29. "....the bureaucracy is becoming increasingly subject to political interference, a phenomenon most manifest inthe
shrinking average tenure attached to many govemment positions, especially at the state level." IndiaPoverty in India
The Challenge o f Uttar Pradesh M a y 08,2002.

                                            21


Lessons

50.  Four project-specific lessons are identified here.

     Lesson 1:A holistic approach to sodicity requires not only remedial
     measures but also adequate attention to critical systemic issues. Failure to do
     so can undermine project sustainability.

     The focus o f the Up Sodic Lands Reclamation Project was on developing
     participatory models for large-scale landreclamation, and it didnot give adequate
     attention to critical systemic issues such as economic incentives for use and
     management o f water, resources for operation and maintenance o f drainage,
     tackling o f which call for policy reformmeasures. Adequate attention to these
     issues is critical to ensuring that need for large resources for remedial measures
     do not arise inthe future. This was also a serious shortcoming because the
     sustainability o f the reclaimed landis dependent on effective handling o f these
     systemic constraints.

     Lesson2: It is important to plan and execute an evaluation of the pilot
     experience before a larger follow-on intervention is designed and approved.
     While this may lead to delays in the effectiveness of the larger project, it i s
     important to allow lessons of experience from the pilot to inform the design
     of larger interventions.

    Inthe caseofthe Sodic LandsReclamationProject, the pilot closed inMarch
    2001 andthe follow-on was approved inDecember 1998 andbecame effective in
    March 1999. There was no time for the project team to step back and look at the
    experience o f the pilot and learn from it effectively.

    Lesson 3: Ininnovative and complex operations like the Sodic Lands
    Reclamation project, where the long-run environment impact is not easy to
    forecast, its monitoring and evaluation should be given sufficiently high
    priority in project implementation. This requires not only identification of an
    appropriate systemas was done inthis intervention, but also a plan to ensure
    that observations are evaluated and feedback is effectively utilized.

    Though RSAC was strengthened, and a large amount o f data is being generated, it
    i s not being utilized effectively. Even ifRSAC was able to report changes in
    quality and quantity o f groundwater, the project didnot put inplace a plan o f
    action to deal with problems when they occur.

    Lesson 4: Ittakes time to build a constituency for community participation,
    and project design must plan for it. The Bank's time bound approach to
    project implementation made it difficult for the relevant implementing
    agency to do justice to the critical process issues. Further, the socio-economic
    community context needs adequate attention as participatory processes can
    bring about complex and irreversible changes inthe social, economic and
    political fabric of society. Adequate attention needs to be given to incentives

                                        22


and returnsto farmers as individualsand as a group, bothduring
implementationand inthe post-projectperiod.

Eventhough the success ofthe Sodic LandsReclamationProject depended on
adequate community participation, sufficient time andresources were not devoted
to these issues inthe project preparation and implementationphase. Neither was
M&Eofprocess issues giventhe attention it deserved. As aresult, community
participation as actually implementeddifferedfrom what was envisagedby the
project design. There are indicationsthat the approach to community participation
as implementedinUP has created a sense o f dependency inthe beneficiary
communities. Further,because the social conditions and the power relationsinthe
village society were not given adequate attention, the gains to the poor were less
thantheproject couldhavepromoted. The projectbenefitedthemeconomically,
but gains to the richer sections o f village society interms o freinforcing their
superior social position seem to have beensubstantial. Adequate attention to the
heterogeneous nature o f village society and village power relations while
promoting community participationwould have allowed the project to deal
adequately with this issue.

Only when farmers were assuredo f economic retums were they willing to devote
their time andresourcesto projectactivities. Itisto thecredit oftheprojectteam
that they recognizedthis early on and emphasizedsecuring landtitles for farmers
before the reclamation efforts started. This created strong incentives for
participationbyindividuals. However, the incentives for continued participationare
not so clear inthe case o fvillage-level institutions created for project
implementation. Memberso fWUGs and SICs had adequate incentives to function
as a group while the project was ongoing. Onproject closure it i s not clear that the
benefits o fcooperation are larger thanthe costs incurredinterms oftime spent in
gettingtogether inregular meetings. Today, eventhough WUGs couldbe important
to ensuringadequatemaintenance of linkand field drains, a large numbero f them
have become dormant. The SICs similarlydo not have a well-definedrole to play
onproject closure. Inthe case o fthe women's selfhelp groups, onthe other hand,
the economic returns to the group memberswere substantial andthe benefits o f
cooperation far outweigh the costs o f gettingtogether.

                                             23


References

Alsop Ruth,Disa Sjoblom, CeemaNamazie and RawanPatil2002. Community-Level
       User groups inThree World Bank-AidedProjects Do they Perform as Expected?
       Paper No. 40. Social Development Papers. Environmentally and Socially
       Sustainable Development (ESSD)Network. The World Bank.
DattaK.K.and P.K. Joshi 1993. Problems andProspects o f Co-Operatives inManaging
       Degraded Lands Case o f Saline And Water Logged Soils. Economic andPolitical
       Weekly March20-27. India.
DattaK.K.and Ir. C.de Jong 1997. Economic Consideration o f Agricultural Land
       Drainage for ManagingWater logged Saline Soils. Indian Journal o f Agricultural
       Economics Voulme 52, No. 2 April-June.
Dhawan B.D. 1994. Reclamation o f Degraded Lands Within Canal Commands.
       Economic andPoliticalWeekly October.
Kapoor Navin 1997. The Usar LandReclamation Project inUttar PradeshAn Evaluation.
       Society for Promotiono f Wastelands Development. New Delhi.
Joshi P.K. 1987. Effect o f Surface Irrigationon LandDegradation-Problems    and
       Strategies. IndianJournal o f Agricultural Economics Volume 42, No. 3 July-
       September.
Joshi P.K. and Dayanatha Jha. 1991. Farm Level Effects o f Soil Degradation inSharda
       Sahayak IrrigationProject. Working Papers on FutureGrowth inIndan
       Agriculture No. 1Central Soil Salinity Research Institute,IndianCouncil o f
       Agricultural Research and International FoodPolicy Research Institute.
       September.
Joshi P.K. andDayanatha Jha 1992. An Economic Enquiryinto the Impact of Soil
       Alkalinity and Water Logging Indian Joumal o f Agriculture Economic Vo1.47,
       No.2 April-June.
Pitman G.T. Keith.2002. India: World Bank Assistance for Water Resources
       Management. A Country Assistance Evaluation. The Operations Evaluation
       Department.
Rao K.V.G.K, M.C. Agarwal. 0.P Singh and R.J.Oosterbaan (eds). 1995. "Reclamation
       andManagement ofWaterlogged Saline Soils. National Seminar Proceedings
      April 5 to 8, 1994. Central Soil SalinityResearch Institute, Kamal andCCD
      Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar (Indo-Netherlands Collaborative Project).
Sen A. 1999. Development as Freedom, Oxford UniversityPress: New York.
ShahTushaar 2001. Wells andWelfare inthe GangaBasin: Public PolicyandPrivate
      InitiativeinEastern Uttar Pradesh, India Research Report No. 54. Intemational
      Water management Institute. Colombo, Sri Lanka.
SharmaVigia Paul, B.L.Gajja and Deepak Shah 1995. Managing Landand Water
      Resources for Sustainable Agriculture Development: Issues and Options. Artha
      Vijnana Volume 37, N146-65 March.

                                         24


SinghA.N. 2003. Problem o f LandDegradation inUttar Pradesh. 68thAnnual
      Convention ISSS, November 4-8, CSAUA&T, Kanpur.
Umali Dina L. 1993, Irrigation InducedSalinity A GrowingProblem for Development
      and the Environment. World Bank Technical PaperNumber 215.
World Bank 1998. India Water ResourcesManagement Sector Review Initiatingand
      Sustaining Water Sector Reforms. RuralDevelopment Unit South Asia Region.
World Bank 2001. Learning from the Past: India Uttar PradeshSodic Lands Reclamation
      Project Social Development Notes Note No. 56. March.
World Bank 2002. IndiaPovertyinIndia The Challenge o fUttar Pradesh. Poverty
      ReductionPovertyReductionand Economic Management Sector Unit.South
      Asia Region. Report No. 22323. May 2002.
World Bank 2002a. Using Indigenous Knowledge to Raise Agricultural ProductivityAn
      ExampleFrom India IKNotes
World Bank 2003. Water Resources andEnvironment Irrigation and Drainage:
      Development. Technical Note E. Series Editors RichardDavis and Rafik Hirji.

                                                             25                                               Annex A


 Annex A. ParticipatoryAspects of ProjectDesign

 The Bank has supported several projects that feature community participationinIndia-
 either community-based development (CBD) or community-driven development
 (CDD).30Communityparticipationwas an integralpart o fproject design and
 implementationinthe Sodic Lands Reclamation Project. Though not a typical CDD
 project as understoodtoday, inthe sense that it did not give communities choice inthe
 selection o f investmentsthat meet priority needs, nevertheless, the Sodic Lands
 Reclamationproject can beregarded as a CDD-type operation since there was
 considerable emphasis inproject design on giving control over decisions andresources to
 communities inthe selected activity. Landreclamation was to be carried out by the
 farmers andbeneficiary participation inproject activities was expected to promote
 empowerment o fthe communitie~.~'                   The project design included eight measuresto
 promote community participation.

 First,theproject emphasized increasing the access ofthe beneficiary communitiesto
 information. With the first visit itself, implementing agency staff sought to increase the
 awareness o f the villagers about the problems o f sodicity, the possibility o f reclaiming
 sodic lands, the project and its provisions, and the role that beneficiary farmers were
 expected to play inproject activities. In this respect the project was following the
 approach that hasbeentaken by several Bank-supported agricultural operations. As in
 several other operations, it also usedNGOs as facilitators. The strategy was to improve
 the understanding ofruralhouseholds andcommunities on sodic issues andconvince
them to come together andwork for their own benefit.Cultural troupes were organized in
villages and posters, pamphlets, and other printedmaterials inthe local language were
 freely distributedto facilitate better understanding o fproposed activities. Radio programs
helped broadcast information on the reclamation technologyto fanners. Exposure visits
were organized for farmers. Farmer-to-farmer extension was to bepromotedthrough a
Mitra Kisan (MK)and aMahila Mitra Kisan (MMK),who were identifiedfrom among
the villagers and trained to help create awareness and motivate communities.

Second, the project created village-level institutions like the WUGs and SICs provided
the forum for people to shareinformation, discuss andmakedecisions on critical
reclamation issues. Participation inWUGs and SICs was expected not only to provide the
missingelement to create stakeholder commitment and ownership o fproject activitiesbut
also to strengthen collective decision making.Participation inthese organizations was
also expected to increase the ability o f the village beneficiaries to demand services from
local-level government institutions.




30. There is no clear distinction between CBD and CDD approaches either in the literature or inthe Bank. However,
there i s increasing consensus within the Bankthat projects with higher levels o f participation-those that give control
over resources and decisions to communities (that is, those that collaborate and empower or are substantially "driven"
bythe community)-are      now understood to be C D D as distinct from those that are considered to be CBD, where less
control over decisions and resources are given (which inform and consult) but which are nevertheless participatory.
3 1. The World Development Report 200012001 defines empowerment as the strengthening o f the capacity o f poor
people to affect decisions that have a bearing on their lives and removing barriers that prevent them from engaging
effectively inpolitical, social, economic activities.

                                                         26                                               Annex A


 Third, the project design includedauniquestrategy that hasnot been commonly adopted
 byother CDD operations to buildfarmer commitment and support. It clearly separated
 those activities that can be pursuedthrough aprivate approach from those that are public
 innature. Where apublic goodcouldbeconverted into aprivate good, itwas. For
 example, experience had shownthe difficulty inensuringsustainability o f interventions
 inwhich individualreturns couldnotbeensured.32Hence, though a significant amount of
 sodic landwas communal, the project took steps to privatize it before initiating
 reclamation activities. Gramsabha landwas distributed to the landless. Landwas
 distributedthrough a landmanagement committee ofthe village after approval bythe
 sub-divisionalmagistrate. Efforts were also made under the project to give possessiono f
 land that hadbeenallotted inearlier years but hadnot been distributed.This was a path-
 breaking step, as numerous Bank interventions have failed inthe past because o f
 insufficient attention to landtenure issues.

 Fourth, for those activities that are public innature, the project stressed a group
 approach. WUGs were formed to not only sharewater but to also work as a reclamation
 team developing andmaintaining anetwork o f field and link drains and irrigation
 channels for the 4 hectares inthe command o f the WUG. A shortcoming here was limited
 attention to the issues important for sustainability of the user group inthe post-project
phase.

 Fifth,the project strategy showed awareness ofthe importance o f guaranteedeconomic
returns to buildingsustained farmer commitment. Unfortunately, the importance o f this
 linkwas not recognized for several other project activitiesthat beneficiaries were
expected to continue without any economic or social returns. Where land titling preceded
reclamation activities, economic returns were guaranteed. However, the MKs andthe
MMKswere expected to functionwithout economic remuneration. Duringproject
implementation, it can be argued, the social status that association with aBankproject
can provide to an individual villager and the training opportunities were a sufficient
incentive for the villager to play the role o f a local extension worker. However, it was
unrealistic to expect the MWMMKto continue to function as local-level extension
workers without any remuneration after the withdrawal o f the project.

Sixth,buildingthe capacity inthe farmers to participate effectively inreclamation
activities was givenconsiderable importance inthe project design. Fielddays were
arranged to build farmers' confidence inreclamationprograms and provide intensive
technical support.

Seventh,considerable emphasis was put on ensuringaccountability andtransparency of
activities undertaken. This was expected to be achieved byproviding for the delivery o f
inputandservices through a group approach. All payments for activitieswas to be
through the WUGbank account and its verification done inSIC meetings. Each
beneficiarywas to receive written communication about the selection o f hisplot andthe
level o f support that he would receive.



32. This was also a lesson that had been leamedfrompast Bank projects inIndia, for example the Social Forestry
projects, where community plantation hadfailed primarily because the element o f individual profit was missing.

                                           27                                    Annex A


Finally, the flexibility inproject designwas to allow for increase infarmer participation
inproject activities where possible.

Despite some weaknesses, the project designhad several features to ensure that
communities could actually get empowered.

                                              28                                         Annex B


  Annex B. BasicData Sheet

  INDIA UTTARPRATIESHSODIC LANDS                RECLAMATION PROJECT
  (CREDIT2510-IN)

  K e y Project Data (amounts in US$million)
                                           Appraisal          Actual or           Actual as % of
                                            estimate       current estimate     amraisal estimate
~~Total project cost                          80.2              103.7         29%
  Credit Amount                              54.70              54.67         99.95 %




  Project Dates
                                                   Original                       Actual
  Departureof Appraisal Mission                                                 12/29/1992
  Board approval                                                                0611011993
  Effectiveness                                  09/22/1993                     08/04/1993
  Closing date                                   03/31/2001                     03/31/2001


  Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
                                                    ActuaYLatest Estimate
                                   No Staff weeks                          us$us$rooo,
  IdentificationlPreparation            30                                    105
  AppraisalINegotiation                 70                                    245
  Supervision                           98                                    340
  ICR                                   18                                    80
  Total                                 216                                   770

                                                      29                                         Annex B


MissionData
                          Date     No. of      Specializationsrepresented            PerformanceRating
                     (month/year) persons                                        Implementation Development
                                                                                   Progress      Objective
identification/       11/89-8/91
Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation 9/91-6192   5       Agronomist (1); Irrigation/Drainage
                                          Engineer (2); Economist (1);
                                          Sociologist (1)
AppraisaVNegotiation 01-05/93     5       Agronomist (2); Irrigation/Drainage
                                          Engineer (1); Economist (1);
                                          Sociologist 1)
Supervision 1        09/93        4       Agronomist (2);Procurement                           S
                                          Specialist (1); FinancialAnalyst (1)
Supervision 2         12/93       1       Agronomist                                           S
Supervision 3         01/94       4       Agronomist (1); Procurement                          S
                                          Specialist (1); Irrigation/Drainage
                                          Engineer (1); Financial Analyst (1)
Supervision 4        08/94        5       Agronomist (1); Sociologist (1);       S             S
                                          Procurement Specialist (1);
                                          Irrigation/Drainage Engineer (1);
                                          Financial Analyst (1)
Supervision 5        04/95        3       Agronomist (1); Irrigation/Drainage
                                          Engineer (1); Financial Analyst (1)
Supervision 6         12/95       3       Agronomist (1); IrrigatiodDrainage
                                          Engineer (1); FinancialAnalyst (1)
Supervision 7        06/96        5       Agronomist (1); Sociologist (1);
                                          Procurement Specialist (1);
                                          Irrigation/Drainage Engineer (1);
                                          Financial Analyst (1)
Supervision 8        06/96       4       Agronomist (1); Procurement             S             S
                                          Specialist (1); Irrigation/Drainage
                                          Engineer (1); Financial Analyst (1)
Supervision 9        04/97       6       Agronomist (2); Procurement             S             S
                                          Specialist (1); Irrigation/Drainage
                                          Engineer (1); Financial Analyst (1);
                                          Environmental Specialist (1)
Supervision 10       10/97       4       Agronomist (1); Water Res. Specialist                 S
                                          (1); IrrigatiodDrainage Engineer (1);
                                          Financial Analyst (1)
Supervision 11       04/98       3       Agronomist (1); Irrigation/Drainage
                                          Engineer (1); Financial Analyst (1)
Supervision 12       09/98       4       Agronomist (1); Irrigation/Drainage
                                          Engineer (2); Sociologist (1)
Supervision 13       05/99       3       Agronomist (1); IrrigationlDrainage
                                         Engineer (1); Sociologist (1)
Supervision 14       11/99       7       Agronomist (1); irrigation/Drainage
                                         Engineer (1); Sociologist (1);
                                         Procurement Specialist (1); Financial
                                         Analyst (1); Environmental Specialist
                                         (1); Economist (1)
Supervision 15       05/00       5       Agronomist (1); Irrigation/Drainage     S             S
                                         Engineer (1); Sociologist (1);
                                         Procurement Specialist (1);
                                         Environmental Specialist (1)
Supervision 16       11/00       5       Agronomist (1); Irrigation/Drainage     S             S
                                         Engineer (1); Sociologist (1);
                                         Environmental Specialist (1);
                                         Economist (1)
ICR                  05/01       5       Agronomist (1); IrrigationlDrainage     S             S
                                         Engineer (1); Sociologist (1); Financial
                                         Analyst (1); Economist (1)

                                                  30                                    Annex B


Other ProjectData
Borrower/Executing Agency:
FOLLOW-ON  OPERATIONS
Operation                                           Credit no.     Amount           Board date
                                                                 (US$ million)
Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands Reclamation Project II   3152        194              1211511998

                                                  31                                     Annex C


  Annex C.Details on Fieldwork
  Fieldwork was carried out in30 villages inAmawan, Maharajganj and Harchandpur
  blocks o f Raebareli district inDecember 2003 bythe Center for Development
  Economics, Delhi School o f Economics. The village names andtheir distribution by
  block are noted inTable B1.

  Raebareli district was selected for the fieldwork for several reasons. First, it is one o f the
  earliest project districts (para 11).Second, the World Bank's Environmentally and Socially
  Sustainable Development (ESSD) Network hadcarried out a study (Alsop et a12002) o f
  the performance o f community level user groups inthe management o f a shared natural
  resource inthree India states inMarch-June 2000. One o fthe states was UttarPradesh
  where fieldwork was carried out inRaibareli district. Although it was not possible to draw
  comparisons between the earlier data set and OED's data because the questions inOED's
  study were framed to be relevant for the CDD evaluation, nevertheless, access to both
  made it possible for this assessmentto articulate a clear andconsistent story.

  Table B1. Villapes Where FieldworkWas CarriedOut
                          Amawa              Maharajganj    Harchandpur
            1 treatment   BaghaiAhalwar
            2 treatment   Bakhara
            3 treatment   Balla Bawan
           -4ltreatment  IBhadurNagar
I           5ltreatment  I                 II             IIHidain            II
I           6ltreatment  I                 IJanai         I                   I
            7 treatment   Jarella
            8 treatment                      Kair
            9 treatment   Khaira
           10 treatment   Kharana
           11 treatment   MohabbatNagar
I          12ltreatment  lOnei Jungle      I              I                   I
I          13ltreatment  love              I              I                   I
           14 treatment                      Pali
           15 treatment                                     Pedepur
           16 treatment                      Phokami
           17 treatment                                     Pyarepur
II         18ltreatment  I                                  Seri
           19ltreatment  (Sharipur         II             II                  II
          20 matched      Budhanpur
          21 matched      Chak Dadar
          22 matched                                       Dighora SomMau
          23 matched      Dusauti
I         24lmatched     IJamalpurKaraundi                I                  I
          25 matched     Muzaffarpur
          26 matched                       Othi
          27 matched     Rukunpur
          28 matched                                       Seonthi
          29 matched     Thulwasa
          30 matched                       Took

                                                32                                    Annex C


 SOURCESOFDATA
 The community level fieldwork involved household surveys (40 households in30
 communities for a total o f 1,200 households), key informant interviews (2 per community
 for a total o f 60 interviews) and community-level focus group sessions (2 per community
 for a total o f 60 focus groups).

 Datawas gathered inthree ways duringthe field component o f this assessment. The first
 data source was a structured household questionnaire. The majority o f the questions in
 the questionnaire were multiple choice. There were some open-ended questions that
 sought to bring out perceptions and explanations relating to different issues. The second
 data source was semi-structured focus group interviews. The questions and issues were
broadly decided before the interview, but the interview itself was free-flowing. The third
 data source was key-informant interviews o f local leaders and committee members.

Householdsurveys:Household surveys were conductedin30 villages. Nineteen o fthese
villages hadreceived World Bank support through the Sodic Lands Reclamation Project.
The treatment villages were matchedwith 11neighboring villages that exhibited similar
geographic, socioeconomic, and cultural characteristics and had sodicity as a problem.
Forty households were randomly selected from each o f the 30 communities. In each
community, approximately 20 females and 20 males were interviewed.

Focusgroups:Focus groups helpedaccessthe change inthe nature o f social interactions
and collective decision-making before and after the Bank intervention. One all-female
andone all-male focus group o f 10-15 self-selected participants was conducted ineach
village.

Key informantinterviews:Two types o fkey informant interviews were undertaken per
village. First, an interview o f a village leader was conducted ineach o f the 30 villages.
This interview consisted o f questions about community facilities, ethnic mix, and other
matters o f fact. Second, an interview o f a village committee member was conductedwith
questions similar to the ones inthe focus group survey, where issues were pre-specified
butperception andexplanations on different issues were sought.


SELECTION AND SAMPLINGPROCEDURES
Treatmentvillage selection:The choice o ftreatment villages was basedon availability
o f some baseline data. A previous Bank study, (Alsop et a12002), had covered 15 o f the
19villages finally selected for survey. The other 4 were selected with the help o fUPBSN
staff from the 1994-95 phase o f the project since the former study hadnot covered any
villages from this phase.

Matchedcommunityselection:A comparison group methodology was adoptedto select
matched communities. All o f these villages have the sodicity problem as well. Insome
cases the government has intervened to take care o f the problem and inothers no effort
has beenmade to resolve the problem.

Householdselection:The last step involvedthe selectionof 40 households ineach
village. Invillages where households were numbered, the total number o f households in

                                                33                                  Annex C


 the "community" was dividedbynumber o finterviewsto be conducted (40) to get an
 interval V. The households were then arranged ina concentric manner on the drawing
 board and a random starting householdwas selected. EveryVthhousehold was selected
 untilthe requirednumberofinterviewswas complete. Inruralcommunities where
 households were not numbered, indispersedsettings and arrangement o fhouses, the
 strategy was modified slightly. A central household was selectedbased on the input o f
 the local leaders. Subsequent households were selectedby a selection interval,
 progressing ina widening concentric fashion untilthe desirednumber o f interviewswas
 achieved. The intervali s based on a rough estimate o f number o fhouseholds inthe
 village providedby local leaders.

 Selection of focus groups: Participants o f the focus group interviewsinthe village were
 self-selected. However, the nature and composition o f focus groups was based on inputs
 from local leaders and staff o f UPBSN.

 Selection of key informants: The local contractor selected "local key informants" based
 on availability o f the same on the day o f the field visit.

 DATA   COLLECTION
 Ineachcommunity, roughly20womenand20menwere interviewed,eachfrom a
 different household. The survey was a structured interviewwith common set o fmultiple-
 choice questions. The survey had five sections. Section one gatheredinformationon the
 informant- age, sex, education, gender, occupation, marital status, etc. Section two
 gathered informationon the informant's economic status -number and age o fvarious
 producer and consumer goods andassets. Section three gathered informationon individual
 awareness o fvillage problems andparticipationinvillage-levelproject institutions. Section
 four gathered informationrelevant to assessingsustainability ofproject activities. Section
 five focused on capacity building, social capital, andempowerment.

The focus group interviews withinthe village covered the following: major problems
now and before project implementation; addressing priority needs; process o fproject
selection, implementation, and operation; access to information; community leadership,
accountability, andresponsiveness; and community empowerment.

The localkey informant interviewaimed at elicitinginformationabout the various
facilities inthe community, number o f donors, local committees and groups, and on
community trust, cohesion, and solidarity.

FRAMEWORK METHODOLOGY
                AND

Different stakeholders can have different(even opposing) perspectives onthe various
aspects and impacts o f a project. Hence, it i s important to collect informationfrom
differentstakeholders to get a complete picture o f alternative perspectives. The
quantitative and qualitative data collectedfor this evaluation are two different ways o f
revealing the processes and dynamics that influence alternative perspectives relatingto
the CDD approach. The qualitative data were usedto confirm the quantitative testing and
illuminatereasonswhy there may be differences or similarities between different
stakeholders. The analysis proceeded infive steps and is depicted inthe diagram below:

                                               34                                   Annex C


                              Preliminaryqualit check analysis
                                               d
                                    Responserate analysis
                                               n
                                     Descriptive analysis
                                               a              a         Qualitative
                                        Comparative analysis          analysis
                                             3c
                         Difference o fmeans           Regression analysis


PreliminaryQuality Check Analysis

A preliminarystep inthe analysis was a quality check on the data gathered. Basic
demographic and economic information collected on all participants gave a profile o fthe
respondents and showed the potential biases that may arise. The data gathered was
assessed for biases that may have resultedduringthe fieldwork or transcriptionprocesses,
as well as for areas inwhich the informationcan be deepenedby referringback to the
original material.

A programinSPSS or STATA was created to check for consistency within each
household questionnaire. For example, a respondents that answers "No" to a question like
"DOyouhave a SIC?" cannot respond "Yes" to asubsequentquestion"How was the SIC
formed?" Cross-checks with original material indicated whether the respondent was
tryingto give inconsistent responsesor whether the flaw occurred due to incorrect
coding, or incorrectreporting on the result. A questionnaire was discarded ifmany errors
o f the first type were found. All other questionnaires were retained and the responseto a
particular question may have been dropped or corrected based on original material.


ResponseRateAnalysis
The next step inthe analysis was an overall responseanalysis for each question. This
helpeddetermine thenumber o fresponsesfor eachoptionwithin eachquestion. The
numberof"not applicable" and "no comment" responseswere tabulated. Questions with
very high"no comment" or blanks (low responserates) were dropped from analysis since
they couldnot beusedto generalize for the village. The responses were sorted by gender
for some questions.

DescriptiveAnalysis
The descriptive analysis o fthe quantitative data refers to calculating and tabulating: (i)
meanandproportionfor eachofthe questions; and (ii)        correlationbetweenquestions
within each sub-theme.

The mean andproportion for each o fthe questions were tabulated by community based
on the treatment-matched and on gender. These cross-tabulations revealed any systematic
differences that exist inthe responsesto the various questions. For example, was the
proportion o f women attending the self-help group meeting more than the proportiono f
menattending themeeting?

                                               35                                     Annex C


 The questions from the household questionnaire that are proxies for each o f the sub-
 themewere tabulated. A correlationmatrix was createdfor each sub-theme.Onlyone of
 each set o f two questions that hadhigh correlation coefficient was retained for further
 analysis. This resulted ina more specific and reduced set o frelevant questions for each of
 the sub-themes.

 ComparativeAnalysis
 The analysis aimed at measuring the impact o f a World Bank-fundedprojectusingthe
 CDD approach by comparingthe responsesof the beneficiaries from these communities
 to the matched community with similar problems. The differences inresponseso f
 beneficiaries o f CDD communities and their counterparts innon-CDD communities
 indicatedwhether differences existed inlevel o fparticipation, awareness, social capital,
 and empowerment.

 DifferenceofMeans(Proportion)Analysis
 Data from the questionnaires enabledperforming both "before and after" and "with and
 without" comparisons. Difference-in-differenceand difference-in-means/proportions
 approacheswere usedto analyze impacts due to the adoption of CDD approach.

 The difference-in-difference approach exploits both"with andwithout" and"before and
 after" information simultaneously. The difference in"before and after" situations was
 calculated for each relevant question for each project and the project inthe respective
matched pair community. Then, the difference in"with andwithout" the World Bank-
 hndedCDD projectwas calculated for each"already differenced" question. The
advantage o fthis technique i s that it largely eliminates the impact o f all possible factors
other than the one under consideration.

The difference-in-means or difference-in-proportions approach (Students' t-test) draws
inferences on the difference-in-meandproportions o ftwo populations with similar
variance. For example, the technique will be used to answer the question, "Is the
proportion o fpeople attending the meetingsmore inCDD communities as compared to
its matched community?" Inmakingthis comparison, the study assumedthat the data
from the CDD community and its matched pair community had equal variance before the
intervention. The nullhypothesis was that no difference exists between the
meardproportions o fresponses.Hence, Ho:ml -         m2= where
                                                          0       ml refers to the
populationmeadproportioninthe World Bank-funded CDD community and m2refer to
populationmeadproportioninthe matchedpair community. The alternative hypothesis
was that the meadproportiono f the former community i s greater than the
meadproportion o f the latter community,    H A : ml m2
                                                     -    >0. Ifthe calculated t-statistics
lies inthe rejection region, then we rejected the nullhypothesis. The advantage o f this
technique i s that it helps to make comparisons between two matchedpopulations at any
point intime.

The counterfactual test was conducted to determine how the CDD communityhas
improvedas a result o f the intervention. For example, the test o f differences-in-means o f
the responses to question-change inthe circle of friends and acquaintances since the

                                                36                                   Annex C


start o f the project-would   capture the extent o f expansion inthe relationships within
community members inthe CDD community compared to its matchedpair. Some
assumptions were analyzed usingcounterfactual analysis, for some other assumptions it
was irrelevant. For example, for the question "Have you heard about the Sodic Lands
Reclamationproject?" there i s no appropriate counterfactual, but the comparison with the
matched community was still usefulfor determining the extent to which the matched
community hadheard about the CDD project compared with the matched community.

Regression Analysis
Regression analysis was performedto identify conditions influencingperformance o f
each dependent variable. The dependentvariables for the regressions are the index
created for each o fthe sub-themes andthemes were (i)      participation, (ii) o f
                                                                              level
satisfaction, (iii)sustainability, (iv) local organizingpower, (v) accountability, (vi)
awareness, (vii) social capital, (viii) access to information, and (ix) institutional
development impact.

The group of independent variables included dummy variables to isolate the effects o f
project, community, household, respondent type, and social and economic status. The
project dummy variable helpedto distinguishthe impact o f the interventionbetweenthe
CDD community and the matched pair community. For example, aproject dummy took a
value 1ifit was project-fundedusingCDD approach and value 0 ifnot. The community
dummies for Amawa and Maharajganj were introducedto capture block impact. To
capture village level impact an index o f access to basic facilities (school, healthcenter,
village market and rural bank) was created for each village.

ProbWorderedprobit have been performed for the regression analysis to identify
conditions influencing performance o fthe dependent variable. This was selected since
most o f the dependent variables are either binary variables or variables with ranking.
Certain questions were not administered to respondents who had answered "No" to a
preceding questions. For example, the respondent's perceptiono fthe role o f WUGwas
not asked ifthe respondent indicatedthat there was no WUG inthe village. A
probit/ordered probit on role o f WUG would yield biased results. To correct for this bias,
the Heckmantwo-step procedure was adopted.

                                                          37                                   Annex D


Annex D. StatisticalAnnex


Question                                                                      Treatment Control  t-Statistics

Over the past 10 years has your household's production increased/
remained same or decreased for foodgrains                                          2.74  2.39       -8.77 **

How would you rate the maintenance of the link drains (4 = Very good, 3 =
Good: 2 = Fair; 1 = Bad)                                                           1.90   1.67      -3.63 **

=How  would you rate the maintenance of the field drains (4 = Very good, 3
   Good: 2 = Fair: 1 = Bad)                                                        1.93   1.69      -4.26 **

Do you trust [ENTITY] a 3 = lot; 2 = somewhat: 1 = very little? (Local
Elected Officials)                                                                 2.18  2.20           0.36

Do you trust [ENTITY] a 3 = lot; 2 = somewhat: 1 = very little? (UPBSN)            2.64  2.36         -1.47
Over the past 8 years, has your ability to do boring, construct field drains,
link drains and/or construct irrigation channels 3 = improved; 2 = remained
same: 1 = deteriorated?                                                            2.63  2.42       -6.40 **


Over the past 8 years, has your ability to organize in self-help groups and
raise resourcesfrom within the village to take care of village needs 3 =
improved; 2 = remained same; 1 = deteriorated?                                     2.66  2.37       -9.11 **


Over the past 8 years, has your ability to raise resources from outside the
village (tap donors, NGOs, govt. officials) to take care of village needs 3 =
improved: 2 = remained same; 1 = deteriorated?                                     2.43  2.15       -7.85 **


What is the primary source of credit in your village? (Self-help group)            0.23  0.03       -2.56 **

                                                             38                                     Annex D



 Set B
IQuestion                                                                    Treatment1 No. of respondents1
 Who is primarily responsible for the maintenanceof the main
 drains?
                                               Irrigation Department              3.83%                757
                                                      Gram Pradhan              19.95%                 757
                                                             UPBSN              11.IO%                 757
 In your opinion, what are the two most important aspects that
 will prevent the land from becoming sodic again? (Drainage)                    12.42%                 757

 Do you or did you have this Organization? (WUG)                                38.18%                 757
 Who had the most important role in the following aspects
 related to selection and decisions for various activities under
 sodic land reclamation?

         Selection of village for sodic land reclamation (UPBSN)                48.82%                 508
    Selection of village for sodic land reclamation (Beneficiaries)                                    508
                                                                      I           2.76%I
         Selection of site for construction of link drains (UPBSN)I             42.33%1                437
    Selection of site for construction of link drains (Beneficiaries)             8.70%                437
      Contributions towards the Sodic Land Reclamation Project
                                                           (UPBSN)              43.05%                 374
      Contributions towards the Sodic Land Reclamation Project
                                                       (Beneficiaries)          16.04%                 374
What were the three biggest problems facing your village 8
years ago?
                           Lack of inputs: production & crop yield              42.93%                 757
                                                        Lack of roads           38.31%                 757
                                Lack of water supply; handpumps                 37.12%                 757
                                               Lack of health facility          26.95%                 757
                                             Lack of drinking water             26.82%                 757

                                                   Lack of electricity          25.76%                 757

                                                             Sodicity             0.79%                757

Set C

Question                                                Economically    Economically Not so
                                                           Better off            better off     t-Statistics

How often do you attend? (1 = Almost every
time: 2 = Often; 3 = Seldom; 4 = Once/ never)

                                                SIC              3.09                 3.34          1.93 *
                                     Gram Sabha                  3.54                 3.72          2.27 *
                                             WUG                 2.86                 2.95             0.60

Social Network (Number of leader known)                          3.201                2.65)        -4.83  **I
**95% confidence level

                                                 39                             Annex E


 Annex E.Statementsfrom Reportson FocusGroup Sessions
 that Support the Findingson EliteDomination

 "There was apparently only one water user group (WUG) inthe village headed once
 again by the mitra kisanMr..,, When questioned about his omnipresence inall village
 activities specially those related to usar sudhar the group repliedthat he hadthe
 largest land holding inthe village andwas also instrumental ingetting the project to
 the village." Hidain men's focus group

 "There were 7 WUGs inthe village. There were some disputes. People are not
 satisfied with the way the project was run. Those who already hadtubewells took
 money for getting boring done and showed old tube wells as new ones. They claim
 that, as a result, no new borings were done duringthe project." Kair men's focus
 group

 "The boring for the tubewell was done on the field o f the farmer who hadthe larger
 landholding andwho had the capacity to pay for the pump set, fan, labor, and fuel.
The farmers were supposed to pay Rs. 20,000 for the pump set. The rent charged for
water rights is determined by the owner o f the pump set based on the ongoing rates o f
electricity and diesel." Khaira men's focus group.

"Very few people knew about SIC or went to any meeting. They say only the bigger
farmers knew." Mohabbat Nagar men's focus group

"One o f the group participants was an SIC member. However, he said that the
maintenance account was handled only by the treasurer and secretary o f the SIC. All
members of the SIC contributed some money but didnot know what was one with the
collected amount. The treasurer was a thakur and the remaining members were thus
scared inspeaking out against him." Pyarepur men's focus group

"According to the focus group there are no WUGs inthe village. The poor farmers
cannot afford the water at the prevalent rates and the canal i s usually dry, making
irrigation a bigproblem. It appears as ifthe WUGs were dominated by the rich
farmers and the poor were completely excluded. The opinions o f the group mainly
representedthe poorer section as this interview was conducted inone o f the less well
o f fpoorvas." Bhadur Nagar women's focus group.

"The group, however, did say that there were several problems inthe distribution o f
inputs, i.e., seeds, fertilizers, gypsum, etc. Two women from the group said that they
didnot get their share o f inputs as most o fit was taken bythe richfarmers. They said
that information regarding the distribution o f these inputs was never made and they
didnot know what was the amount that they were supposed to receive either. Inthe
absence o f this basic informationthey always felt that they were being cheated." Kair
women's focus group.

"The village's participation inthe Usar Yojna was the village's first experience with
an extemal donor-supported development project. The group participants, however,
feel that the project was dominated by the richer classes while the poor remained

                                               40                             Annex E


excluded.. ..Thewomen said that some families didwork as wage labourers for the
construction o f drains under the Usar Yojna. However, this was restricted to families
and households that was close to the pradhan. They said that there were several times
that the pradhanwould refuse to hirecertainpeople as daily wage labourers."
Bahaduranwomen's focus group

"The group also said that before our visit the pradhan had giventhem instructions as
to what to say and what not to say. Strong-arm tactics are often usedto frighten and
subjugate the villagers especially the poorer members o fthe village." Bhakara
women's focus group.

                                               41                             Annex F




Annex F.Borrower Comments: UPBSN

                                                      Letter No. 7H/147/04-05/2JM98
                                                       Date: -    06 June, 2004.
To,
        Mr. Alain Barbu,
        Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group,
        Operation Evaluation Department, The World Bank,
        1818 H Street N.W., Washington, D.C. 20433. (U.S.A)
        e-mial Abarbu@worldbank.org.

     Subject: Uttar Pradesh Sodic Lands Reclamation Project (Credit 2510-IN) Draft
     Project Performance Assessment Report.


Respected Sir,
        Kindlytake the reference of your letter dated 26 April, 2004
regardingthe above-mentioned subject.
It is highlyappreciated for the hardwork & sincere effort made to do the evaluation
study & preparing this report and critical issues raised. UPBSN agrees with most o f
the pointdissues raised inthis report except on few points where it felt that more
explanations would have been and on some points more facts would have been
gathered. On all these issues we are hereby submitting our comments on the draft.
        It will be highly appreciated if these comments are considered before
finalizing the Draft Project Performance Report (PPAR).

        Thanking you.                                              Yours faithfully,



                                                                             Sd/-
                                                                   (Dr. B.B. Rai)
                                                              Joint Managing Director
Ref. No. 7H/147/04-05/2JM 98                              Date:  -    06 June, 2004.
Copy forwardedfor informationto:       -
    I,OSDtoAPCforkindperusalofAPC,GovernmentofUttarPradesh,Lucknow.
    2. Mr. Dharmendra Sharma, Director (FB), Department of EconomicAffairs,
        North Block, New Delhi, India-110001-
    3. Mr. A.K. Agarwal, Joint Sec. Ministry of Agriculture, 2201, Krishi Bhawan,
        New Delhi-110001.
    4. Ms. Nalini B. Kumar, 1818 H Street N.W., Washington, D.C. 20433.
        (U.S.A) e-mail NKumar@worldbank.org.


                                                                     Sd/-
                                                              Joint Managing Director

                                          42                          Annex F




      Point No 01to 13 Agreed.

14-   to be redone.

15-      Agreed.

16-      On the issue of "the lack of co-ordination between various
   Government departments" on the basis of one incidence of Pahremau
   village where the Minior Irrigation Department had constructed
   electrified tubewell, it is to mention that it was for the sustainability only
   that the project is emphasizing the electrification of tube well, which has
   more command area and provide cheaper water than the diesel pump
   sets. Because of this only Minior Irrigation Department had constructed
   the tube well. The incidence at the time of mission where tubewell was
   not functioning, is a rare incidence and out of 96 villages reclaimed this
   happened only in one village of district Raebareli.Therefore, on the basis
   of this scarce incidence the generalization of the lack of co-ordination
   betweenvarious departments needs to be revisited.


17-      Agreed.

18-      pH reduced by 1to 1.5 units is based on ASM results where soil
   quality was monitored for 5-6 years. we agree that the sub-soil is still
   sodic/alkaline as it takes longer time to bring the soil conditions to
   normal, as the gypsum treatment is given to only upper 15 cms.
     There are chances of reversion if reclaimed areas are not cultivated or
   left uncultivatedfor longer duration. This needs proper drainage also.
     To judge the success of reclamation, only pH EC and SAR/ESP are
   monitored. Improvement in these indicators indicate the improvement
   of soil health improving physical properties of soil by virtue of which
   uptake of nutrients by the plant become smooth.

     Comment on footnote 10-
   The pH reported has been taken from another study where samples
   were collected after 1-3 years of reclamation.         The objective of the
   study were to study the physical properties like hydraulic conductivity,
   bulk density and infiltration rate.
     The ASM study which is based on 5-6 years of soil data show that 60%
   plots (out of 216 monitored) show the reduction in pH by 1to 1.5 units

                                             43                             Annex F


    while 25% did not show any improvement. The remaining 15O/0 showed
    improvement initially but the quality started deterioratingin later years.

19- The project has emphasized on alternative means of improving soil
   quality e.g. NADEP, vermi-composting etc. instead of green manuring
   which is comparatively costlier.
20- RSAC has not reported the decline of water level below the critical level
   anywhere in the project. Wherever the bad quality of water has been
   reported by RSAC Uttar Pradesh Bhumi Sudhar Nigam has immediately
   put up the proper plan in place; for instance the quality of water in district
   of Kanpur was reported brackish recently and BSN took corrective
   measures immediately.

21, No comments needed.

Box 1-indicating "A shortcoming here was limited attention to the issues
important for sustainability of the user group in the post project phase".
              The project emphasized on sustainability of reclaimed land &
      the role of WUG was envisaged that during the project period, WUG
      will take important decisions pertaining to OFD ,water management,
      reclamation and cropping etc. to ensure transparency and ownership
      among the group members and during the post project period WUG
      will take care of assured irrigation through water sharing to all the
      group members, & SIC will take care of post project management
      through its apex level institutions like farmers schools /clubs.

      Point 22 highlighting that "The village level institutions created under the
      project (SIC, WUGs) were also regarded as temporary bodies for project
      implementation & not permanent organization that can promote
      empowerment & beneficiary control over resources & decision making" needs
      to be revisited as project had laid down suitable arrangements under its exit
      policy by networking the SICs into Farmer club/ school, a network of 3-8
      SICs where progressive farmers undertake the responsibility of technology
      dissemination and post reclamation management. Also project made effort
     towards giving SIC a legal status in form of sub-committee of Gram
      Panchayat needs a mention, which due to certain reasons was not formalized
     although project put its best effort for the same.
             Efforts have also been made to develop WUGs as a permanent
     institution like MSHGs but due to lack of homogeneityamong the members
     (as group is based on land proximity) very limited success has been achieved
     in this area.
             Point number 23 highlighting "UPBSN officials exercised control over
     the process" as well as point number 25 indicating "the project was not
     community driven but UPBSN driven & community followed" should be seen
     in context of "Project design" & not only "delivery mechanism".
             "Project design" is structured with well laid procedures & provisions
     right from selection of land, classification of land, entitlements based on land

                                             44                             Annex F


      typology instead of farmers category etc. Although project at its later stage
      introduced the concept of micro planning i.e. formation of site specific
      Implementation plan by the farmers themselves so as to incorporate ground
      realities in the planning process and ensuring farmers commitment,
      accountability and ownership towards the plan, but due to structured and
      time bound project design the project has limited scope to incorporate some
      of the priorities & demands raised by the community which do not
      commensurate with project design such as demand for Electricity, installation
      of Hand pumps, opening of Primary Schools etc.
              As it was expected in the project design, that the project will be
      implemented in a set framework & in a time bound manner; at each stage,
      project staff facilitated the farmers by informing them about the actions
      required at each stage. This act of facilitation by staff would have been
      misunderstood by the surveyors as "controlling & dominance" but the role is
      rather "facilitating and informing".
              Point number 24 reflecting Role of SIC "mostly regarded as forum for
      getting information on project activities & formalizing arrangement    I' also
      needs to be revisited as SIC has been a forum for decision making, for all the
+     crucial project activities right from.
  Verification & approval of Land classification.
+
+ Formation of WUGs.
  Selection of MK/MMKs, Animators.
  Approval of planning i.e. approval of technical plan map.
++
++Endorsementof decision of boring site selection done by the respective WUGs.
  Input distribution at SIC.
  Review of progress of OFD works of WUGs & take decision for dropout of WUGs
  & beneficiaries in case of non-performance or misappropriation of benefits
  provided under the project.
  Selection of WUGs, for construction of LD
+
++Monitoring of payments made to WUGs.
+ Resolve inter & intra WUG conflicts as well as monitor the functioning of WSHGs.
  Contribution in SIC maintenance account after each crop harvesting for Drainage
  maintenance.

     These crucial decisions have been taken by SIC which can be verified
  through the SIC registers.

  Point 27 indicating that "most of WUG leaders were those who could afford to
  pay for the cost of pump" needs to be seen in the light of functioning of WUGs.
  According to project design, individual on whose land group boring is installed is
  responsible for arrangement of pump sets with a commitment of water sharing
  to all the group members. The project staff also emphasized to sensitize the
  group member to select boring owner on basis of following criteria to adhere
  timeliness & effective management:

+
+ Highest plot so that water can be easily made available to all the plots &
  Capacity of the farmer to arrange the pumpset.

                                             45                               Annex F


       Project advised this, since WUG has no corpus of its own for
   arrangement of pumpset & concept of savings in WUGs also was not
   successful due to lack of homogeneity among members in respect of
   socio-economic status.          The project however also emphasized on
   management of pumpset by poor farmers through facilitating them in
   availing loans from NABARD & other government schemes.
       On "Sustainability" the Researcher should also have taken into account the
   institutional arrangements drawn under the project in terms of Farmer
   clubs/schools & SHGs for post reclamation management. In sodic IProject, Exit
   Policy was formulated at the later stage of Project hence very little time was
   available with UPBSN for institutionalization of Exit Policy as well as
   strengthening of institutional arrangements drawn under Exit Policy. But this
   component has been well addressed in Phase-2, where right from the 3rdyear of
   the project, SIC'S have been networked into Farmer schools/ Clubs & efforts of
   strengthening the schools & establishing their forward linkages are also been
   addressed within the project period and Farmers Clubs/Schools have been
   evolved as an institution addressing key issues affecting sustainability like credit,
+  input, management, Drainage & technology dissemination etc.
   Remodelingof drains is being taken care of at the apex level of GOUP.
      WUG were formed to ensure transparent & participatory implementation of
   the project besides sharing of water. In the post reclamations phase these WUGs
   take care of assured irrigation through sharing the water to all the group
   members & also getting water from alternative sources where ever developed at
   the later stages of the project.

30-31-The OED reports suggests the assumptions made for the qualitative
      report for ERR is not realistic, the BSN would highlight that the ERR
      was calculated by independent agency during the ICR Mission hence
      BSN is not in a positionto comment.
               Drainage, Irrigation and green manuring activities are not low
      cost and slow technology in land reclamation.              Uses of chemical
      amendments like gypsum, press-mud and pyrite etc. are essential in
      reclamation of sodic land (Specially alkali land). However, UPBSN is
      following low cost sodic land reclamation technology as recommended
      by Uttar Pradesh council of Agriculture Research (UPCAR).                One of
      that is 25% GR value + I O MT composted press mud.

Para 32 to 37 do not need comment.

38-   Chances of reversal of sodicity is very low due to the continuous
      addition of organic matter on the topsoil.          Organic matter, in turn,
      does not allow sodium to come up.           Hence, the top layer remains
      capable of continuous cropping. The reversal of sodicity can also be
      minimized if the continuous cropping ensured this is possible because
      of the better returns due to the easy market accessibilities, and
      construction of farm-to-market           roads constructed by various
      schemes/projects. These factors alongwith thorough awareness &

                                           46                           Annex F


        sensitization ensure continuous cropping & thereby decreasing the
        chances of reversal of sodicity.
               Continuous efforts are also being made to improve the fertility
        of soils by promoting NADEP, vermi composting and other organic
        manuresto improve the soil health.

 39-    We have taken proper care to address the challenge of availability of
        funds for drain maintenance and due to these efforts the funds for
        some of the districts have recently been released and the maintenance
        has been done.     For the other districts the matter has strongly being
        pursuedwith the state government.

 40-    On the issue of limited incentive for the WUGs to continue working for
        the maintenance of link drains, it is worth mentioning here that the
        SIC has the provision of maintaining the link drain maintenance
        accounts where all the farmers contribute their share for the corpus.
        This fund is used as incentive against the labor for the link drain
        maintenance.


41-     The observations are agreed upon. The Project is taking due care on
        educating farmers on maintainingthe field drains.

42-     Alternative credit resources have been formed through SHGs to
        develop the capacity of small and marginal also farmers to invest in
        the reclamation of land.


    43-During the implementation of project to improve the soil fertility of the
        reclaimed area dhaincha seeds were provided for green manuring for
       two consecutiveyears in each village by the project.

    Since, several shallow tube wells have been installed in the project area
    and farmers taking water from these tube wells for various purposes as
    resulting vertical drainage eventually which lowers down ground water
    level to a safer level.   Gradual water level decline is a positive sign for
    sustainability of reclamation & for the improvement of soil fertility UPBSN
    has introduced NADEP, vermi compost and other organic matter.
    The Para 48 can be looked upon once the report is finalized in the light of
    comments being sent with this letter.

    On the issue of payment made without boring, as the statement recorded
in Annexure-E. Para 11during focus group discussion, UPBSN revisited the
village & the records & found that there was no such incidence occurred and

                                           47                            Annex F


the records show that 7 out of 8 borings were existing and no payments were
made by the project for these borings.

      The issue of sustainability is being seriously looked upon by the
management of UPBSN and we are in the process of formalizing the local
level institutions so formed during the project and establish the formal
linkages with Department of Agriculture, Irrigation Department, KVKs,
Agriculture Universities, Rural development etc. at district level and also the
policy level intervention by the Government of Uttar Pradesh is being pursued
with.


