Report No. PID5757
Project Name                     Morocco-Lakhdar Watershed Management (+)
Region                           Middle East North Africa
Sector                           Rural Development, Water and Environment
Project ID                       MAPA5519
Borrower                         Kingdom of Morocco
Implementing Agency              Administration des eaux et forets et de la
conservation des sols (AEFCS).
Ministore de l'agriculture et de la mise en
valeur agricole (MAMVA).
Cite Administrative
Rabat, Morocco
Tel: 212.7.76.31.66
Fax: 212.7.76.44.46
Contact: Mr. A. Hanan
Director General, AEFCS
Date PID prepared                November 1997
Project Board date               March 1999
Background
1.      In Morocco, the mountainous areas are home to some 2.4 M people
who are among the poorest in the country and who benefit from little
social or other government services and infrastructure. In order
to meet their subsistence needs, the growing populations put
increasing pressure on the land with poorly adapted cultural
practices, leading to overexploitation, soil erosion and a general
degeneration in their natural resource base in the mountains and to
damaging siltation of dams and hydraulic infrastructures down-
streams. Past efforts in watershed management have only scratched
the surface of the problem and it has become evident that a new
approach was needed. To define this new approach, the Bank, with a
PHRD grant, helped the Government to carry out a study and to
prepare a National Watershed Management Plan. The study concluded
that to improve the success rate of watershed management projects,
it is necessary to integrate the populations in the projects using
participatory methods. The central government will provide some
strategic planning but detailed planning and implementation must be
small-scale and done locally with the participation of the concerned
populations, taking into account their specific priorities and
concerns as well as the specific, on-site, natural resource
situation. The project will draw the lessons from the study and
pilot a participatory approach to natural resource management
following the recommendations of the study.
Project Objectives
2.      The principal objective is to test in the form of a pilot
project a participatory approach to improve land use and natural
resources management in mountainous areas. To achieve these



objectives the project would provide a package which would lead to
improved living conditions and incomes of the local populations.
Project Description
3.      Following the recommendations of the study to prepare the
National Watershed Management Plan the pilot project would test an
integrated package approach to natural resource management, where
the local populations would participate in the preparation of
village development plans as a basis for the investments. The
preparation of these plans is an integral part of the project and
the exact nature of the investments in each village can therefore
not be determined in advance. Sociological surveys in the project
area, however, have helped to draw up a menu of activities
considered priority in the project area and from which the villagers
can choose. The project would have the following main components:
(a) natural resource management and erosion control, (b) community
investments (such as access roads, water points, small irrigation
works etc) and (c) supporting institutional strengthening.
Project Financing
4.      Total costs for the pilot project are estimated at US$6.1
million, with the Bank loan tentatively placed at 5.lmillion.
Project Implementation
5.      The project would be implemented under the overall coordination
by the Forest Department (AEFCS) in the Ministry of Agriculture
(MAMVA). AEFCS would coordinate, at the central level with other
concerned ministries, notably the Ministries of Public Works (which
presently has a joint Minister with MAMVA), Interior and Finance.
Actual Project execution would be delegated by AEFCS to the
Provincial Department of Agriculture (DPA) which would itself
execute activities for which it is normally responsible. Activities
or works which normally fall under some other agency (e.g. drinking
water with the Provincial Public Works Department) would be
contracted out to these agencies. Institutional arrangements will
be given particular attention during project preparation.
Project Sustainability
6.      The project sustainability will depend on the concerned
populations "ownership" of project investments. The community
based approach taken by the project, involving those concerned
throughout the entire process, (i.e. in the selection of the
actions, in their implementation and in their operation and
maintenance), is seeking to ensure this ownership and thus the
sustainability of project investments.    Since this is a pilot
project, sustainability would also refer to the potential for
continued use of the approach being piloted. This would require
that the approach tested in the pilot project not only is successful
but also replaceable. This will be taken into account in the
project design.
-2-



Lessons Learned From Past Operations
7.      Important lessons learned from the Bank's rural development and
natural resource management activities include: (a) prospects for
sustainable improvements in natural resource management are reduced
where field activities have been carried out by contractors and
beneficiary participation is low; (b) full ownership from the outset
by all stakeholders is essential; (c) new approaches require clear
objectives and simple project design; and (d) pilot projects require
modest but dependable funding and should be given sufficient time to
succeed. 8.      In addition to the above lessons from Bank
operations, a PHRD grant financed preparatory study made specific
recommendations based on past watershed management experience in
Morocco. Finding that a top down approach that failed to involve
the local populations was one main cause for past failures, the
study proposes a new role sharing between the Government and the
local populations where both parties participate fully in the
decision making process so as to guarantee common ownership and,
therefore, implementation and, later, maintenance of project works.
On the technical side, the study concludes that past failures and
high costs were often due to incorrect diagnosis of the erosion
process and, therefore, sub-optimal treatments. Another reason for
failure was the "standardization of watershed management
techniques", which was practically inevitable with small-scale
centralized planning, leaving little room for taking local
specificity into account. A more flexible approach, combining
strategic project level planning with "micro planning" at the field
level, with the local populations concerned, was recommended. The
proposed pilot project seeks to apply these lessons.
Environmental Aspects
9.      The project is rated in category B.   The environmental impact
of this project is expected to be strongly positive. The project
would improve land use and natural resource management in
mountainous areas through better soil conservation, water
management, erosion control, reforestation and range management.
Project works are small and carried out by manual labour and are not
expected to have any major negative environmental impact. Moreover,
construction of access roads, water points and irrigation
facilities, or any other constructions, would follow guidelines
acceptable to the Bank. An environmental management plan will be
prepared for the project. Please see attached annex.
Program Objective Categories
10.     The primary project objective is environmental, i.e. to pilot a
new, participatory, approach to improved and sustainable management
of natural resources. The package tested under the pilot project
would also lead to improved living conditions and incomes of the
local populations.
Contact Point: Public Information Center
- 3-



The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458 5454
Fax: (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank InfoShop week ending November 21, 1997.
- 4 -



ANNEX
Environmental Aspects
The project would improve land use and natural resource
management in mountainous areas through better soil conservation,
water management, erosion control, reforestation and range
management. The environmental impact of this project is expected to
be strongly positive and is categorized as "B". It would lead to
clear improvement in the sylvo-pastoral management systems in
mountain areas. It would reduce and, it is hoped, help reverse the
degradation of forest and other vegetation which in turn would lead
to less soil erosion and improve the natural habitat of wildlife.
Project works are small and carried out by manual labour and are not
expected to have any major negative environmental impact. Moreover,
construction of access roads, water points and irrigation
facilities, or any other constructions, would follow guidelines
acceptable to the Bank. An environmental management plan will be
prepared for the project.



