Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18370-MOR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF USD 4.0 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FORA
LAKHDAR WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
December 3, 1998
Rural Development, Water and Environment Group
Middle East & North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 1998)
Currency Unit = MAD
MAD1 =USD0.107
USD 1   MAD 9.3
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
M]EF         Ministry of Water and Forests (within MADRPM)
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
MAD          Dirham, the Moroccan currency unit
DPA          Provincial Department of Agriculture
GOM          Government of Morocco
MADRPM       Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development and Marine Fisheries
PDD          Village Development Plans (to be prepared under the project)
PIP           Project Implementation Plan
PMU          Planning and Monitoring Unit (in DPA of Azilal Province)
Vice President: Kemal Dervi,
Country Director: Christian Delvoie
Sector Director: Doris Koehn
Task Leader: Harald Stier/Douglas W. Lister



MOROCCO
LAKHDAR WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT
CONTENTS
PROJECT DATA SHEET
A. Project Development Objective ............................................................3
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ...............................................3
B. Strategic Context ............................................................3
1. Sector-related CAS  goal supported by the project ............................................................                          3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ...........................                                 ................................3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ...........................................4
C. Project Description  Summary ............................................................4
1. Project components ............................................................4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .................................................5
3. Benefits and target population ............................................................5
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ............................................................5
D. Project Rationale ............................................................5
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .........................................................5
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ....................6
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .........................................................7
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ............................................................ 8
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ............................................................8
E. Summary  Project Analyses ............................................................9
1. Economic ............................................................9
2. Financial ............................................................9
3. Technical ............................................................9
4. Institutional ........................................................... 10
5. Social ..... :                                                                                                                         10
6. Environmental assessment ......................                                                                                        10
7. Participatory approach ....................... 
F. Sustainability and Risks ...................... I l
1 . Sustainability ...................... I 1
2. Critical risks ......................1  1
3. Possible controversial aspects ...2................... 12



G. Main Loan Conditions ........................                                          12
1. Effectiveness conditions ........................                                     12
2. Other ........................                                                         12
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                                  13
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                                 13
Annexes
Annex 1.       Project Design Summnary
Annex 2.       Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.       Estimated Project Costs
Anniex 4.      Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.       Financial Summary
Annex 6.       Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.       Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.       Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.       Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.       Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.       Documents in Project File
Annlex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits and IFC Investments
Annex 10.      Country at a Glance
Malp           Morocco - Lakhdar Watershed Management Pilot Project (IBRD 29700)



Morocco
Lakhdar Watershed Management Pilot Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East & North Africa Region
Rural Development, Water and Environment Group
Date: December 3, 1998                             Task Leader: Harald Stier/Douglas W. Lister
Country Director: Christian Delvoie                Sector Director: Doris Koehn
Proj ect ID: MA-PE-55 19   Sector: Natural Resources    Program Objective Category: Enviromnentally Sustainable
Management                 Development
Lending Instrument:     Specific Investment Loan   Program of Targeted Intervention:   [] Yes [X ] No
Project Financing Data              [x] Loan       [  Credit      [  Guarantee      [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): USD 4.0 million
Proposed terms:                       []  Multicurrency      [x] Single currency, specify
Grace period (years):   5 years   [    Standard Variable  [   Fixed         [x]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:   20 years
Commitment fee      0.75 %
Front-end Fee:    1.0%
Service charge: N/A
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local             Foreign           Total
Government                                                  1.4                                 1.4
Cofinanciers
IBRD                                                        3.0                1.0              4.0
Other (specify)Beneficiaries                                0.4                                 0.4
Total          4.8                 1.0             5.8
Borrower:     Kingdom of Morocco
Guarantor:    n/a
Responsible agency(ies):  Ministry of Water and Forests (MEF), within the Ministry of Agriculture, Rural
Development and Maritime Fisheries (MADRPM)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/USD M):    99       00         01        02      03
Annual      0.30.      0.35      0.70     1.20     1.45
Cumulative      0.30       0.65      1.35    2.55     4.00
For Guarantees:                               [    Partial credit   [  Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of financing:
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Page 2
Principal amount (USD)
Final maturity
Amortization
profile
Financing available without guarantee?:               [    Yes               []   No
If yes, estimaLted cost or maturity:
Estimated firnancing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 4 years Expected effectiveness date: 03/99  Expected closing date: 12/31/03



Page 3
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
*  The objective is to test on a pilot basis participatory approaches to improve land use and natural
resource management in mountainous areas. To achieve this objective, the project would provide a
package which would lead to improved living conditions and incomes for the local population. As
such, the project would be the first attempt to test the conclusions of the National Watershed
Management Study carried out to take stock of past experiences in watershed management and apply
the lessons learned to develop a new, more sustainable approach to land use and natural resource
management in mountainous areas.
* Indicators of project performance would be the active participation of the local population, higher
incomes in the project area from crops and livestock and increased vc -tative cover and anti-erosion
structures. Key performance indicators are given in Annex 1.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Countra Assistance Strateg (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1).
CAS document number: 16219 -MOR; Date of latest CAS discussion: January 30, 1997
* The proposed project is explicitly included in the CAS and supports its improved environmental and
natural resource management agenda. It also supports the key CAS objective of reducing poverty
and the rural-urban gap through improved access to basic infrastructure and job creation with
ir.creased community participation. In addition, it promotes the CAS objective of encouraging
greater decentralization by providing a vehicle for practical experimentation at the local level.
Finally, the project is supportive of, and an outgrowth of, the "Kingdom of Morocco - Rural
Development Strategy (1997-2010)," prepared jointly by the Bank and GOM (Report No. 16303-
MOR, dated March 28, 1997).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
* The mountainous areas of Morocco are home to some 2.4 million people who are among the poorest
in the country and who benefit from little social or other governmental services and infrastructure.
In order to meet their subsistence needs, these growing populations put increasing pressure on the
land with poorly adapted cultural practices, leading to overexploitation, soil erosion, a general
degeneration in their natural resource base and to damaging siltation of dams and hydraulic
infrastructure downstream. The main sector issue is how best to approach improved management of
natural resources under these circumstances. Past efforts in watershed management have only
scratched the surface of the problem and it has become evident that a new approach is needed. To
help define this new approach, the Bank, with financing from a PHRD grant, assisted the
Government to carry out a study of past experiences (successes, failures, reasons, lessons, etc.) and to
prepare a National Watershed Management Plan.
*  The Government strategy, defined through this study, is based on the premise that in order to
improve the success rate of watershed management projects, it is necessary to involve the local
populations in the planning of the projects, using participatory methods. The central government will
provide some strategic planning, but detailed planning and implementation must be smallscale and
done locally with the active participation of the concerned populations, taking into account their
specific priorities and concerns as well as the specific, on-site, natural resource situation.
Decentralization and flexible financial management are indispensable requirements for  the
participatory approach to succeed. Although this is accepted at certain levels of the central
Government, decentralization remains an issue in that entrenched bureaucracies are difficult to



Page 4
change and particularly since there is no agreement in Morocco on what exactly decentralization
should mean in practice. The Government strategy of development through participation and
decentralization, therefore, will need to be translated into practice and adapted through experience in
the field. The proposed pilot project will be an important part of this effort.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
*   To help the Government implement its new strategy, the proposed project would test the provision
of infrastructure and technical support on improved agricultural and natural resource management
practices with the active participation of the concerned populations in the Lakhdar watershed
(Hassan ler on Map). In this watershed, priority areas located in four communes were selected for
the project.  Within these priority areas, it is expected that forty villages with about 13,000
inhabitants and covering an area of about 30,000 ha would participate in the project. Specific
programs would be defined in Village Development Plans (PDDs), with the active participation of
concerned populations. The PDD would be an all-in-one package with a clear designation of the
responsibilities of the various stakeholders. The beneficiaries would bear a part, albeit modest, of the
investment cost (mostly in natura) to show their commitment. Since Morocco's centralized
administrative system takes time to change, the pilot project cannot hope to achieve a full
decentralization, but it should be seen as a first step in the effort to move the administration in that
direction progressively. In this respect, the pilot project would establish new precedents in the
devolution of decision making and the empowerment of local populations. A successful pilot would
provide the basis for replication on a larger scale.
C: Project Description Summary
I. PrgoLet components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 and Borrower's Project
Ipletnentation Plan for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                Categorv      Cost Incl.   (%) of    Bank-       % of
Contingencies   Total  financing    Bank-
(USD M)              (USD M)  financing
*  Imp:roved Natural Resource     Physical             3.3      (57)        2.55      (77)
Management (erosion control,
participatory forest
management, smallscale
irrigation rehabilitation and
agricultural development)
*  Socio-Economic Infrastructure   Physical            1.3      (22)        0.90     (69)
(access roads and potable water
supply facilities)
*  Institution Building           Institution          1.2     (21)         0.55     (46)
(strengthening of DPA Azilal    building
and local branch of the
Ministry of Water and Forests)
Total         5.8    (100)         4.00     (69)



Page 5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project.
* Participatory natural resource management (as opposed to the previous top-down approach).
* Decentralized project planning and implementation (instead of traditional centralized programs).
3. Benefits and target population:
* The target population consists of the approximately 13,000 inhabitants of 40 villages in the Lakhdar
watershed. They would benefit from improved employment and incomes, as well as from better rural
services, notably access roads and potable water supply facilities, all within an improved natural
environment. Successful results would allow a more general replication of this pilot approach to the
country's other watersheds which would benefit a majority of Morocco's poor who live in these
isolated areas.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
* Project Oversight and Coordination: At the central Government level, the Ministry of Water and
Forests (MEF), within the Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development and Maritime Fisheries
(MADRPM), would be responsible for oversight and coordination of the project with other ministries
(Finance, Interior, etc.) and the Bank. At the provincial level, coordination between the various
programs affecting the project would be carried out by a Provincial Coordinating Committee
presided over by the Govemor, composed of the local representatives of concerned Government
departments . The committee would meet at least once a year or more often as required to coordinate
among the various rural development activities in the province to ensure maximum efficiency and
impact.
-  Proiect Execution:  The project would be executed in accordance with the detailed Project
Implementation Schedule contained in the Borrower's Project Implementation Plan (PIP). Detailed
day-to-day project planning and execution would be delegated to the Provincial Department of
Agriculture (DPA) in Azilal Province. A Planning and Monitoring Unit (PMU) would be established
in the DPA for the project. Procurement of project works, goods and services would be carried out
by the DPA in accordance with Bank guidelines. The DPA, through the PMU, would monitor and
evaluate the implementation of the project on an ongoing basis in accordance with the indicators
given in Annex 1, submit half yearly progress reports to the Bank, prepare and submit to the Bank by
March 31, 2000 an implementation review report on progress to date and the measures required to
successfully complete the project, review this report with the Bank by June 30, 2000, and
subsequently take all necessary measures to ensure the efficient achievement of the project objectives
based on the report and the Bank's views.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
* There is no blueprint solution for increasing rural well-being. The Bank's most recent sector report
entitled "The Kingdom of Morocco - Rural Development Strategy (1997-2010)" recommends a series
of pilot projects to try out various approaches. The proposed project focuses on the mountainous
areas of Morocco where the people are among the poorest in the country. Previous top-down sectoral
development approaches have failed to have much impact on their living standards and have failed to
stop the over-exploitation and degeneration of their natural resource base. They were therefore
rejected in preparing the proposed project.  The study to prepare the National Watershed
Management Plan (see Section A. 1 above) specifically examined different project designs and the
proposed pilot project reflects the study's final conclusions and recommendations. The Lakhdar



Page 6
watershed was selected as a pilot project area because it was given top priority in the National
Watershed Management Plan, was small enough for a pilot project to have some meaningful impact
and was requested by the Government.
2. Major related proiects financed by the Bank and/or other developmnent agencies (cotipleted. ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue               Project        Latest Supervision (Form   590 ratings)
Implementation Progress   Development
(IP)             Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed
(a) Completed
Poverty reduction through income  Fes-Karia-Tissa                                 S
generation, provision of       (Loan 1602-MOR),
infrastructure and natural resource  FY79
conservation.
Poverty reduction through better    Loukkos (Loan                                 S
natural resource management.    1848-MOR), FY80
Poverty reduction through better    Middle Atlas (Loan                            U
natural resource management.   2082-MOR), FY82
Income generation through      Oulmes Rommani                                     S
increase d productivity due to  (Loan 2217-MOR),
integrated production, better  FY83
agricultural and social services and
soil conservation
Improved natural resource      Second Forestry                S                   S
management through better      Project (Loan 3156-
planning and techniques for forest  MOR)
regeneration, watershed
management and forest range
management
Improving living conditions in  Second Rural                  S                   S
rural areas through electrification.  Electrification
Project (Loan 3262-
MOR), FY91



Page 7
(b) Under Implementation
Address core needs of rural poor   Secondary, Tertiary         U                   S
by improving access to social   and Rural Roads
services and markets by road    Project (Loan 3901-
construction.                   MOR), FY95
Addresses CAS social, rural     Rural Water and                 S                  S
development and poverty         Sanitation Project
alleviation objectives.        (Loan 42540-1 -
MOR), FY98
(c) Planned
Reduction in the rural-urban gap    Rural Infrastructure
and increasing rural well-being  Project
through infrastructure
construction.
Protected areas management      Protected Areas
and participatory conservation    Management (GEF)
of ecosystems
European Union
Natural Resource Management
Planned
Rural Poverty and Natural
Resource Management
Rural Infrastructure
Rural Development
Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (Germany)
Participatory Natural Resource
Management
UNDP
Integrated and Participatory Rural
Development
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the proiect design:
The main lessons from the Bank's worldwide rural development and natural resource management
experience are as follows:



Page 8
*  Prospects for sustainable improvements in natural resource management are reduced where field
activities have been carried out by contractors and beneficiary participation is low; full ownership from
the outset by all stakeholders is essential;
*  New approaches require clear objectives and simple project design;
*  Pilot projects require modest amounts of dependable funding and should be given sufficient time to
succeed;
*  Rural development projects require extra effort and longer gestation of project preparation to improve
the chances of effective implementation; and
*  Sustainability of project infrastructure requires a continual commitment to fund and carry out
maintenance.
In addition to the above global lessons, the PHRD grant-financed preparatory study (Section B.2)
made specific recommendations based on past experience in Morocco. Finding that the top-down approach
which did not involve the local populations was one main cause for past failures, the study proposed a new
role sharing between the Government and the local populations where both parties participate fully in the
decision making process so as to guarantee commnon ownership and, therefore, effective implementation
and, subsequently, maintenance of project works. The study emphasized the need for a concentration of
efforts, avoiding multiple objectives;  more flexible and sustained donor and Government funding
commitmrrents (accepting that soil conservation is a long term effort); and effective M&E of project works
and results. On the technical side, the study concluded that past failures and high costs were often due to
incorrect diagnosis of the erosion process and, therefore, sub-optimal treatments. Another reason for failure
was the "standardization of watershed management techniques", which was practically inevitable with
detailed, centralized planning, leaving little room for taking local specificity into account. A more flexible
approach, combining strategic project level planning with "micro planning" at the field level, together with
the local populations concerned, was recommended. The design of the proposed pilot project reflects these
lessons.
4. Indications of borrower comm)littmlent and ownership.
*  Borrower commitment to rural development has been demonstrated by MADRPM's preparation of
an integrated Rural Development Strategy and, more recently, by GOM's participation with the Bank
in the preparation of "The Kingdom of Morocco - Rural Development Strategy (1997-2010)."
"Rural Development" has also been added to the name of the Ministry of Agriculture. GOM's policy
is to narrow the gap between urban and rural areas. MARDPM has prepared the project (with
FAO/CP help) and the Government (Ministry of General Government Affairs) requested the Bank to
appraise the project and allocate funds for its financing. MADRP has already recruited key staff for
the p:roject and has arranged for their training prior to project start-up, as agreed with the Bank pre-
appraisal team. The project has been included in the MEF's 1998-99 budget.
5. Value added of Bank suipport in this proiect:
* The Bank's worldwide experience with rural development and knowledge of the enabling policy and
institutional environment required for success, together with the recent Morocco rural development
strategy study, gives it credibility and much greater influence on policy decisions than any other
donor. This permits the Bank to apply more effectively the lessons from pilots and agree with GOM
on policy changes, if required, to replicate successes. Bank involvement has already had a catalytic
effect in stimulating other donors interest in participatory watershed management projects.



Page 9
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4): Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=MAD 18.5 million; US$ 2.0 million;
ERR= 17%.
*  The proposed project has an ERR which is well above the opportunity cost of capital (10%) and a
positive net present value (NPV), at 10% discount, which is satisfactory. All project investment and
recurrent costs, but only quantifiable benefits have been included in the calculation of the ERR and
NPV. The main benefits would arise from increased production of cereals, fodder, olives, fruits,
vegetables and fuelwood. Additional benefits would accrue from access roads and reduced siltation
of the reservoir of the Hassan I dam. No benefits have been calculated for erosion control measures,
since they cannot be quantified (see "Cost Effectiveness Analysis" below). The project would also
benefit other projects that are related to it (e.g. through training of trainers).
*  Cost Effectiveness Analysis: Even though no benefits have been included for erosion control
measures (protection of gullies and ravines and biological treatment), these will be more cost
effective and produce more benefits than in the past, due to their longer expected life span, which is
in tum due to the involvement of the local population in their selection and management.
*  Sensitivity Analysis:  The rate of return is relatively insensitive to reductions in benefits and
increases in cost. While still maintaining a 10% ERR, benefits can be reduced by 28%, investment
costs increased by 87% or incremental production costs by 97%. Sensitivity tests based on a 10%
reduction in benefits, a 10% increase in investment costs or a one-year lag in implementation indicate
that the ERR would decline to 14%, 16% and 15% respectively. These risks are considered
acceptable, given that unit costs are on the safe side, the phasing is reasonable, and the expected
yield increases are conservative.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
D  Farm models show that the project's agricultural investments would be attractive to the farmers,
particularly intensification of production on irrigated land with IRRs above 50%, but also fruit tree
plantations and other productive anti-erosion works which have IRRs ranging from 11-30%. As
might be expected from a project with an environmental emphasis and public sector infrastructure
investments which do not generate any financial income streams, the financial net present value is
negative. However, as indicated above, the cost effectiveness of many of these investments would be
increased as a result of greater longevity arising from local participation in their planning and
maintenance.
*  Fiscal impact: After allowing for the contribution of the beneficiary populations, the project
budgetary impact would be about MAD 10.0 million per year during implementation. This
represents about one-half per cent of MADRPM's budget and five percent of MEF's budget. Since
maintenance of project works would essentially be carried out by the beneficiaries, the budgetary
impact after project completion would be negligible. It should be kept in mind, however, that this
project, if successful, is meant to be a long term effort and continued in the project area, as well as
replicated in other watersheds in the country.
3. Technical:
* The socio-economic infrastructure and anti-erosion works in the project have been selected from
among the types presently being carried out in the project area and which are familiar to the
executing agencies and represent no particular technical difficulties. Where possible, improvements
have been suggested by the preparation team and the technical packages have been reviewed and
vetted by the pre-appraisal team.



Page 10
* Proposed agricultural technologies are a combination of best practices from within the project area
and from other areas with similar agro-climatic conditions; and of improvements suggested by the
preparation and pre-appraisal teams. With support from the extension service they would represent
no particular technical problem to the farmers.
4. Institutional.
* Executing agencies: The Ministry of Water and Forests (MEF) within MADRPM is the central
government agency responsible for watershed management; as such, it would receive the budget for
the project. It would therefore carry out strategic project planning and monitoring, ensure the
necessary budget allocations and provide liaison with the Bank. The Provincial Department of
Agriculture (DPA) in Azilal is charged with agricultural development in the project area and would
bear the main responsibility for project execution, either directly or through contracted parties. The
DPA has the main managerial skills and technical capacity, but would be strengthened through
training and the addition of some key staff who have already been appointed and given initial
training.
* Accounting. Financial Reporting and Auditing: Morocco's compliance with audit covenants has
impiroved considerably in recent years with compliance rates increasing from 15% in FY96-97, to
24%/o in FY97 and to 53% in FY98. Timeliness also improved with 80% of the reports submitted on
time in FY98. The quality of Government audit of project accounts is generally satisfactory. MEF
has experience in implementing and accounting for Bank-financed projects, including the recently
completed Forestry II Project, where it satisfactorily complied with Bank auditing and reporting
requirements. Nevertheless, the adequacy of its financial management system, as well as that of the
DPA in Azilal, was reviewed in order to comply with OP/BP 10.02. As a result, an Administrative
and Accounting Unit was established in the DPA Azilal especially for the project prior to Board
presentation. Separate project accounts would be set up in accordance with Bank requirements and
audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. Audit reports, including a
separate opinion on the Special Account and SOE, would be submitted to the Bank within 6 months
of the end of the FY.
5. Social:
The project would test participatory methods for sustainable natural resource management and would
in the process strengthen the capacity of the local conmmunities to help themselves. The participatory
process, supported by male and female facilitators, would have four phases:
a) Selection of the participating villages after a public information campaign and a rapid technical and
social feasibility study, including confirnation of community interest and willingness to contribute to
project activities;
b) Participatory preparation of and agreement on the Village Development Plans (PDD) and Program-
Contracts;
c) Implementation of the Program-Contracts; and
d) Monitoring and evaluation of the results.
6. Environmental Assessment: Environmental Category   []A   [x] B   [] C
* The project, which has been rated as a B category project, aims to improve land use and natural
resources management in mountainous areas through better practices in soil conservation, water
management, erosion control, reforestation and range management. Project works are small and
labor intensive. They are not expected to have any major negative environmental impacts.
Construction of access roads, water points and irrigation facilities or any construction will follow
guidelines acceptable to the Bank and will be monitored closely during supervision. For water points
construction, it has been decided that they will be financed and supervised under the Rural Water



Page I 1
Supply and Sanitation Project (PAGER, LOAN 42540-MOR). However, water quality monitoring
arrangements will be put in place for periodic testing by ONEP under this project. For rural roads
guidelines will be developed and implementation would be monitored closely with special focus on
maintenance If pesticides and chemicals are to be procured through the project, procurement will be
in accordance with World Bank's Operational Policy 4.09 on Pest management's requirements.
A mitigation plan has been developed during project preparation for all the activities to be financed
under the project. An environmental management plan has also been prepared (see Annex II of the
Project Implementation Report). It will be implemented and monitored under the supervision of the
implementing agency.  Training of the staff from  the agency will be provided on the key
environmental issues, on environmental guidelines and on the techniques of environmental analysis.
Workshops will also be held to sensitize local communities on environmental issues before the
starting of the activities.
7. Participa1o0r approach.
* Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: The local people directly concerned by the project
number about 13,000.  They will agree on their priorities and together with government
representatives will participate in every step of the preparation of their Village Development Plan
(PDD). They will choose the infrastructure and agricultural improvements for their village, including
natural resource management and erosion control measures, and agree on an investment package with
the government representatives, including their own contribution. They will also agree to maintain
the investments made. One criteria for inclusion of investments in the project will be the willingness
of the villagers to participate.
-  Other key stakeholders: Local elected representatives to the Communes would be given training in
participatory methods and, where appropriate, consulted.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainabilitv:
* Project sustainability will depend on the concerned populations sense of "ownership" of the project
investments. The conmmunity based approach taken by the project, involving all those concerned
throughout the entire process, i.e. in the selection of the investments, in their implementation and in
their operation & maintenance, seeks to ensure this sense of ownership and thus project
sustainability.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex J):
Risk                      Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
1. Lack of social cohesion among project  M               Selection of villages ready to participate in
village communities                                    project and work of facilitators
2. Lack of interest by villagers in anti-erosion  S       Packaging with socio-economic infrastructure
measures and forest management                         as an incentive and motivation work by
animators
3. Lack of attractive returns to technical  variable       Selection of packages on basis of returns,
agricultural packages                  M-S             extension and adaptive research efforts and
preparation of technical reference framework
4. Lack of acceptance of participatory forest   S         Making it part of the incentives package and
management by MEF and users                            close coaching of MEF staff by Bank
.. _^_ _ _ _ __ _ _ _._.                   supervis.ion missions



Page 12
5. Road and water infrastructure is not built as M      Close monitoring and supervision by PMU and
scheduled                                            Bank
6. Lack of participation of population and lack M-S     Work of facilitators and inclusion of the
of funding from the budget                           project in the annual Finance Law
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
1. Investment program not meeting        M              Participatory preparation of PDD
populations priorities
2. Non-availability of budget (adequacy,  M             Adjustment of project to budget, close
timing)                                              monitoring of timing
3. Slow budget procedures causing delays  M-S           Close monitoring to find early remedies
Overall Risk Rating M-S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
* None
G: Mainm Loan Conditions
Action on key conditions has been taken up front, to the extent possible, to ensure smooth project
implementation.
1. ffectilveness Conditions:
None other than standard.
2. Other:
*  For the improved natural resource management component and socio-economic infrastructure
component, PDDs will include the beneficiaries' contribution to capital costs and responsibility for
operation and maintenance in amounts and following procedures acceptable to the Bank (Revenue
Generation from Beneficiaries).
*  DPA to monitor and evaluate implementation of the project on an ongoing basis in accordance with
the indicators given in Annex 1, submit half yearly progress reports to the Bank, prepare and submit
to the Bank by March 31, 2000 an implementation review report on progress to date and the
measures required to successfully complete the project, review this report with the Bank by June 30,
2000., and subsequently take all necessary measures to ensure the efficient achievement of the project
objectives based on the report and the Bank's views (Monitoring and Review).
* DPA to submit audited annual accounts, including a separate opinion on expenditures financed under
SOEs, with six months of the end of the fiscal year (Accounts/Audits).



Page 13
H. Readiness for Implementation
Staff recruitment for the project has been done and pre-project training has been completed. A budget,
satisfactory to the Bank, has been prepared for the first year's operation, and included in the 1998-99
Finance Law.
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [ x] Not applicable (these can only be prepared after the first PDDs have been
established).
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [x] Not applicable (these can only be prepared after the first PDDs have been
established).
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task LeadeHarald  ierDouglas W. Lister
Sector Director: Doris Koehn
Countryl  ctor: Christn Delvoie



Page 14
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Morocco: Lakhdar Watershed Management Pilot Project
Narrative Summary     Key Performance Indicators  Monitoring and Evaluation  Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                    (Goal to Bank Mission)
1. Sustainable natural   1 . Regulatory frameworks  1. Government regulations  1. Achievements are sus-
resource management      in place and achieve-     and reports on programs   tainable and replicable
ments in natural
resource management.
2. Reduction of poverty    2. Speed of implementa-   2. Reports on programs  2. Gaps reduced by im-
and rural-urban gaps     tion of social develop-                             proving rural situation,
ment and rural infra-                              not by worsening
structure programs                                 urban incomes
3. Support movements     3. Initiation of public   3. Official documents on   3. Decentralization
towards decentralization  administration reform    reform                    leading to participation
and increased
efficiency
Project Development      1. Improved land use,     1. surveys (baseline, ex    (Objective to Goal)
Objective:                  including increased       post)
To test in the form of a pilot    incomes from crop and
project a participatory     livestock production
approach to improve land    2. Improved natural    2. surveys (baseline, ex  Successful project is
use and natural resources   resource management,      post)                 replicable in order to have
management in               including increase in                            wider impact
mountainous areas           vegetative cover, erosion  3. project progress reports
treatment and
community participation
as reflected in the
number of active village
committees and extent of
participation in
investments
Outputs:                                                                     (Outputs to Objective)
1. Population is organized  1. Village committees                            1. Social cohesion among
for sustainable natural   meet and take decisions                            project village
resource management                                                          communities
2. Erosion control       2. Establishment of 1,600                           2. Villagers give
measures are             m3 of gabions and 900                               sufficient importance
implemented              ha of fruit tree                                    to anti-erosion
plantations                                        measures
3. Improved land use     3. Intensification of 750 ha Project progress reports  3. Technology packages
of irrigated crops and                             give good returns
200 ha of rainfed lands
4. Improvement of forest   4. At least 600 ha of   Progress reports, evaluation  4. MEF and users accept
management               forested areas brought   surveys and successful     participatory forest
under participatory   replications of project      management
management plans      elsewhere



Page 15
5. Additional            5. 80 km of village access                          5. Road infrastructure is
infrastructure           roads                                               built as scheduled
6. MADRPM has acquired  6. Above indicators show                             6. Participation of
replicable skills in     successful                                          populations and budget
participatory natural    implementation and                                  funding
resource management      maintenance
Project Components/Sub-  Inputs: (budgetfor each                            (Components to Outputs)
components: (see Annex 2   component)
for project dlescription)
1. Natural resource      1. USD 3.3 million        GOM annual budget         1. Investment program
management                                      document.                    corresponds to
populations priorities
2. Socio-economic        2. USD 1.3 million        Project progress reports  2. Budget funds timely
infrastructure                                                               and available
3. Institution building  3. USD 1.2 million        Project audit             3. Existing budget
procedures not causing
undue delays in
implementation of
agreed actions



Page 16
Annex 2
Lakhdar Watershed Management Pilot Project
Detailed Project Description
The project would be a pilot phase in a longer term program to improve land use and natural
resources management through a participatory approach. It would finance Village Development Plans
(PDD) prepared jointly by local communities and the project technicians. The design of the project,
which gives a proactive role to resource users in the decision making process, does not allow a detailed
advance definition of project components. However, participatory rural surveys carTied out in a sample of
villages during preparation have identified priorities as perceived by local population. These priorities
are reflected in the following components that the project will finance in the four selected communes of
the Azilal province.
Project Component 1 - Natural Resources Management (USD 3.3 milion)
This component will contribute to the achievement of the project objective through sustainable soil
and water conservation and erosion control measures carried out with the active participation of the
populations concerned on public, collective and private lands. The measures proposed under the project
include:
* erosion control through (i) protection of gullies and ravines on all lands, both mechanically and
vegetatively to stabilize the soils, (ii) range lands improvement in degraded sylvopastoral lands
through destoning, harrowing, seeding, fertilization, plantation of forage shrubs and deferred
grazing and (iii) progressive re-vegetalization with suitable local species of badlands; it is
estimated that treatment of 35 km of ravines, 500 ha of improvements to sylvopastoral lands, 100
ha of vegetalization, I 100 in3 of gabions and 500 in3 of rock fill will be necessary;
* participative management of forests and forest ranges through preparation, with the participation
of the users, of simplified sylvopastoral management plans and after their adoption, progressive
implementation of these plans which could include demarcation of forest estates, pilot operations
to regularize illicit settlements, reforestation, rangelands improvement and socio-economic
infrastructure.
* rehabilitation of 500 ha of small-scale irrigation systems through renovation and improvement of
diversion weirs and intake structures, systematic lining of earth canals to the on-farm distribution
systems, gated distribution installations on the canals, construction of main canal siphons,
suspensions, chutes and culverts, bank and flood protection structures, etc.; feasibility studies
including reconnaissance investigations, detailed designs and bid documents and maintenance
programs, would be carried out by consulting engineers wherever possible and with the direct
involvement of the beneficiaries.
* agricultural development through: (i) intensification of irrigated crop production in line with the
availability of additional and reliable supplies of water; (ii) intensification of rainfed crops on
gentle slopes (less than 10 %) and on steeper slopes (between 10 and 30 %); and (iii) plantation
of fruit trees accompanied by water collectors and small walls and rehabilitation of old
plantations; it is expected that the farmers themselves, with the help of the technicians, would
draw up the list of technical priorities; these can be of three kinds: (i) questions concerning
practices that have been tested under simnilar farming conditions and can be introduced
immediately through field demonstrations and farmer's days; (ii) those that have answers which



Page 17
have not yet been tested and are therefore subject to adaptive research under the project; and
(iii) questions for which no technical solution appears to be readily available and which will have
to be referred to the research institutions (not supported by the project) and take several years to
find an answer; in support of this agricultural development program, the project would provide
equipment, tools, materials and farm inputs for demonstrations and adaptive research; it would
also finance 3.5 and 5 months respectively of international and national technical assistance to
prepare technical reference norms, the training of the staff (5 months of study tours and 900 days
of training per year) and the participatory monitoring of the impact of anti-erosion measures (1.5
and 7 months of international and national technical assistance respectively and 260 days of
training).
Project Component 2 - Socio-economic Infrastructure (USD 1.3 million)
Among the top priorities of the rural communities are the construction of access roads and potable
water supply schemes. This infrastructure, which can be expected to be amply represented in the Village
Development Plans, acts as a motivating factor for the communities to participate in more efficient
natural resource management and anti-erosion measures which they might not otherwise accept initially.
Investments would be co-ordinated with those of other infrastructure projects in order to take maximum
advantage of the synergism of such investments and also to ensure consistency in the participatory
approach. Based on estimates, the project would include:
. the financing of 80 km of access roads; these roads are of the forest road type already being
executed by the MEF under the Forestry II Project (Loan 3156-MOR); feasibility studies
including reconnaissance investigations, detailed designs and maintenance programs would be
carried out by technicians of the Provincial Forestry Department or of the Provincial Department
of Agriculture; before starting the works, local communities would commit themselves to
maintain the road;
* the implementation of 40 water supply schemes; once the Village Development Plan is approved
by the local community and the technicians, the request made for the water supply scheme, if
any, would be transmitted to the Provincial Department of Public Works which is in charge of
implementing the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project in the Province of Azilal (PAGER,
Loan 42540-1-MOR). The technical studies as well as the financing of the works would be done
under that project.
Project Component 3 - Institution Building (USD 1.2 million)
The project would be implemented by the Provincial Department of Agriculture (DPA) of Azilal.
The DPA Director would be the Project Manager. He would be seconded by a Planning and Monitoring
Unit (PMU) headed by a technical staff, an Administrative and Accounting Unit in charge of keeping
separate accounts for the project, a team of technical staff (forestry and soil conservation, agronomy,
rural engineering and sociology/ communication), a team of 4 male and 2 female animators, one male for
each commune and one female covering two communes, plus 2 drivers. At the central level, the project
would be located in the Ministry of Water and Forests (MEF) of the Ministry of Agriculture, Rural
Development and Maritime Fisheries (MARDPM) which would be in charge of piloting it; a technical
staff attached to MEF would serve as liaison officer between the project and the Ministry. In order to
allow for a smooth implementation, the project would finance:
. four 4wd vehicles, one per animator that he would share with the female animator and the
technical staff supporting him;
* three PCs with printer and soft-ware, photocopier, other office equipment and set of office
furniture;



Page 1 8
* a sizeable training program for project staff; in addition to tteir basic training in participatory
techniques which would be organized before the project start, the animators and the technical
staff would receive 20 and 5 days of training per year, respectively; the program would benefit
from 6 months of foreign training consultants; in addition, 650 days would be allocated for visits
to other projects, and 8 months to study tours;
* the training of elected representatives and local administration officials; 160 days are included in
order to allow 4 days of training for 10 elected members and administrative staff per commune;
in addition 625 days would be allocated for visits to other projects.
* the training of two representatives per village and per year during 4 days;
* the incremental recurrent costs: salaries of the staff that the MADRP would not be able to place
at the project disposal (head of the PMU, sociologist, female animators and drivers), travel
allowances, operation and maintenance for vehicles and office operating costs which would cease
at the end of the project.
The project would be executed in accordance with the detailed Project Implementation Schedule
contained in the Borrower's Project Implementation Plan (PIP).



Page 19
Annex 3
Lakhdar Watershed Management Pilot Project
Estimated Project Costs
(USD '000)
1999     2000       2001       2002       2003        Total
Project Component
Improved Natural Resource   103.4     175.6      463.4      782.0    1,186.1    2,710.56
Management
Socio-economic Infrastructure  4.3     96.8      197.9      307.6      404.4       1011.0
Institution Building        350.2     174.4      187.1      183.1      152.8       1047.6
Sub-total     457.9    446.8       848.4    1272.7    1,743.3    4,769.16
Physical Contingencies    45.8      44.7        84.8      127.3      174.3       476.9
Price Contingencies        12.7      25.0       71.5     144.5       252.2       505.9
Total _roject Cost  516.4   516.5    1,004.8    1,544.5    2,169.9     5,752.0
N.B. For further details, see COSTAB tables in the Borrower's Project bIplementation Plan (PIP)



Page 20
Annex 4
Lakhdar Watershed Management Pilot Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
(Base Year 1997-98)
Present Value of Flows'           Fiscal Impact
(000 MAD),
Economic       Financial
Analysis      Analysis       Taxes           Subsidies
Benefits              66,583          77,921                        From 80 to
100% of
Costs                 48,097         69,731         6,800           works' costs.
Almost nil for
O&M.
Net Benefits:          18,486         8,190
IRR:                    17.0           12.0
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The main benefits would arise from increased production of cereals, fodder, olives, fruits,
vegetables and fuelwood. Additional benefits would accrue from access roads and reduced siltation of the
Hassan I dam. No benefits have been calculated for participatory forest management and environmental
protection. Furthermore, the "Without Project" benefits have been estimated conservatively. Indeed, they
have been maintained constant at their present level during the entire project life, because it would have
been too hazardous to estimate the progressive decline of the present yields due to land degradation.
All project costs have been included in the costs when calculating the rates of return. Investment
Costs cover components for which benefits have been estimated as well as participatory forest
management and access roads. Recurrent costs comprise works (gabion and wire mesh) and road
maintenance during the project life and limited institutional support after the investment period.
Production costs include the incremental costs of inputs, labor and works maintenance (vegetative
protection of ravines, rangelands improvement, water collectors, rehabilitated small-scale irrigation
systems, etc.) which result from the introduction of new technical packages.
Main Assumptions:
* Exchange rate: USD 1.0 = MAD 9.3;
* Project life: 30 years, Investment period: 4 years;
* A $tandard Conversion Factor of 0.9 reflects the premium on Foreign Exchange;
* Border prices have been used for traded goods and services and local prices adjusted by the SCF
for the other ones;
* The labor market rate has been adjusted by a factor of 0.8 to reflect the prevailing unemployment
and underemployment in Morocco;
* A comprehensive economic analysis is presented in Annex 10 of the Project Implementation
Report.
'At an estimated opportunity cost of capital of 10%.



Page 21
Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
Even though no benefits have been included in the economic analysis for erosion control
measures (protection of gullies and ravines and biological treatment), these will be more cost effective
than in the past, due to their longer expected life span. This, in turn, is due to the involvement of the
local population in their initial selection and subsequent management.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
The main benefits of the project would be the improvement of the land use and natural resources
management in mountainous areas through a participatory process which would allow the rural
comamunities to address their priorities. The overall rate of return of the project is 17%, well above the
opportunity cost of capital of 10%. At that rate, the Net Present Value of the net benefit flow is almost
MAD 18.5 million. This, however, does not include benefits which are substantial from participatory
forest management and improved environment. Also, it does not take into account the long-term benefits
thal: would accrue from investments under the project for institution building; local communities are
organized for sustainable natural resources management and the staff of MADRP has acquired skills to
implement participatory natural resources management projects.
Switching values show that the rate of return is not very sensitive to reductions in benefits and to
increases in costs. To maintain a 10% rate of return, benefits can be reduced by 28 %, investment costs
increased by 87% or incremental production costs by 97%. Also, sensitivity tests based on a 10%
reduction in benefits, 10% increase in investments costs or a one year lag in implementation indicate that
the economic rate of return would decline to 14%, 16% and 15%, respectively. In spite of the fact that
the rate of Ieturn is not very sensitive to reductions in benefits and increases in costs, investments and
recurrent costs will have to be monitored closely during implementation in order to avoid cost overruns.
Likewise, the planning process and technical assistance to farmers will have to be looked at carefully in
order to avoid delays in implementation and to reach the targeted yields. On the other hand, under a close
supervision, the risk to have reduced benefits or costs overruns is still acceptable because unit costs are
on the safe side, the phasing is reasonably gradual and the expected yields are conservative.
Furthermore, if other non-quantified benefits such as improved living conditions in the project
area and reduced rural-urban migration, the overall positive environmental impact, better local
conmmunity organizations and MARDPM staff acquiring skills in participatory planning would have been
tak- into account, no doubt that the risk of the ERR being below the opportunity cost of capital would
be very low.
The implementation of the project works, which would be mainly executed by the beneficiaries,
would give rise to 180,000 work-days of employment for a total value of DH 12.2 million. This would
give each family an incremental income of DH 6,800. In addition to that, the increased crop production
from the project's agricultural program, would require, at full development, an additional 27,000 work-
days of employment per year. That increase will help reducing the present unemployment and
underemployment.
The economic profitability of the 14 production models which fall into five categories (rangeland
management, irrigated land intensification, fruit tree planting, hillside agriculture and rainfed land
intensification) is also quite satisfactory. Their rates of return vary from 10% to more than 50% and their
Net Present Values from DH 300 to 148,000 per ha. Irrigated crops bear the better returns (from 23% to
more than 50%) but rainfed farming, although less profitable, also increases greatly the present net
benefits (from DH 800 for barley to 17 000 for pulses, per ha). The viability of rangelands improvement
and contour farming is also acceptable, their rate of return varying from 10 to 24%. The calculation has



Page 22
not been done for the last two models: protection of gullies and ravines and biological treatment, the
principal objective of which is to control erosion. Indeed, their main benefits have not been estimated;
reduced siltation of the Hassan I dam has been estimated at the project level and not component by
component, and the progressive decline of present yields due to land degradation, as already explained,
would have been too hazardous to estimate. Furthermore, costs of these activities amount to only 5% of
total project costs, Nevertheless, it is expected that their implementation will be done more efficiently
than it used to be by the previous projects and that their benefits will be increased due to their extended
lifetime resulting from their appropriation by the concerned rural population. Their number, category
and location will indeed be decided jointly be the local population and the project technicians, and the
beneficiaries will be responsible for maintaining them. Their life has therefore been estimated to be
about 30 years, i.e. at least double that of past similar investments. A case study presented in Annex 10
of the Implementation Report estimates the increase in the NPV for project anti-erosion works compared
to non-project works to be about 25%.



Page 23
Annex 5
Lakhdar Watershed Management Pilot Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending
(Indicate currency, units and base year)
Implementation Period (1998-99/2002-03)     Operational Period (2003-04/2027-28)
Total                                     Total'
Project Costs (in USD 000)
Investment Costs                           5,070                                        45
Recurrent Costs                              682'                                      1575
Total                                    5,752                                     1,620
Financing Sources (% of total
project costd.
IBRD/IDA                                      70
Government                                    23                                        20
Central
Local
User Fees/Beneficiaries                        7                                        80
Total                                     100                                        100
Main assumptions:
* Cost sharing estimates between the public sector and the beneficiaries will vary according to the type of
investment. It has been assumed that local communities will contribute the following percentages:
* rehabilitation of small-scale irrigation systems: 20%;
* water collectors for fruit trees: 10%;
* biological treatment on private land: 5%;
* access roads: 10%.
The cost of the agricultural packages will be bom 100% by the beneficiaries except for extension and
demonstrations. During the implementation period, the beneficiaries are expected to contribute about 7% to the
project total costs. In addition, the beneficiaries will be responsible of maintaining the access roads, small-scale
irrigation systems and soil and water conservation works with the exception of gabion and wire mesh which
would be maintained by the public sector.
* Incremental recurrent expenditures resulting from the project activities after completion of implementation
would average USD 145,000 per annum. This includes the maintenance of:
* gabion and wire mesh;
* access roads; and
o development works (vegetative protection of ravines, rangelands improvement, water collectors,
rehabilitated small-scale irrigation systems, etc.);
* In addition to that, the project will recommend to the Govemment to pursue a light institutional support until
the expected production objectives are attained (assumed to be ten years in the above estimate):
* provision to replace vehicles and office equipment;
* recurrent costs: salaries, travel allowances, 0 & M for vehicles and office operating costs.
Net present values of recurrent costs discounted at 10% to the first year of operation.
2 Project costs do not include maintenance costs of small-scale irrigation systems and main soil and water conservation works, the
mnaintenance of which is included in the production costs.



Page 24
Annex 6
Lakhdar Watershed Management Pilot Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
As a pilot project in decentralized watershed management, the emphasis is on motivating the
local populations through participation in the decision making. Procurement methods, therefore, need to
be kept flexible to permit local involvement, quick implementation and maximum benefits (such as
employment) to those concerned. Since the detailed selection of project investments will be done under
the project together with the concemed populations, the amounts in the various categories can only be
indicative. They have been estimated on the basis of investment priorities expressed by the populations in
the socio-economic survey done during project preparation. The change from the traditional top-down to
a bottoms-up approach helps explain the relatively large share of consultants services and training in the
total works, goods and services to be procured for the project.
Under the Ministry of Water and Forests (MEF), the Provincial Department of Agriculture
(DPA) in Azilal, through the Project Planning and Monitoring Unit (PMU) to be established for the
project, would be responsible for procurement of project works, goods and services in accordance with
Bank guidelines. The DPA in Azilal has most of the capacity required to handle this responsibility, but
would be strengthened by the addition of key staff, including one for the rural infrastructure component
and a Head of the PMU, as well as training.
Works: The type of works under the project (USD 3.31 million) are described in Annex 2,
Components I and 2 (e.g. local erosion control, rehabilitation of around 500 ha of small scale irrigation
systems and around 80 km of village access roads). These works are small and in remote locations, and
would be carried out in accordance with NCB procedures. Works not exceeding USD 20,000 and
estimated to amount to USD 1.7 million may be procured through community participation to permit the
employment of local labor. The Govemment's provincial technical department have the required
experience to see that such small works are carried out efficiently, in a manner which is satisfactory to
the Bank. The technical departments will purchase the required materials and hire the local labor needed.
Goods: Goods comprise essentially four vehicles and office equipment (personal computers,
printers, photocopiers, etc.) and fumiture for a total estimated amount of USD 300,000. Goods may be
procured through national shopping. For certain items (seeds), for which there is only one supplier in
Morocco, direct contracting may be used.
Consultant Services and Training: The type of consultant services and training (USD 1.42
million) are described in Annex 2 and would be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997 and revised
in September 1997.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
There would be no large Works or Goods contracts. NCB contracts for Works valued at more
than USD 200,000 would be subject to prior review. There would be no prior review for Goods



Page 25
contracts. For Consultant Services and Training, in the case of consulting firms, for contracts valued at
more than USD 100,000, terms of reference, shortlists, letters of invitation and contracts would be
subject to prior review, while for contracts valued at less than USD 1 00,000, only the terms of reference
would be subject to prior review. In the case of irlividual consultants, for contracts valued at more than
USD 50,000, terms of reference, shortlists, letters of invitation and contracts would be subject to prior
review, while for contracts valued at less than USD 50,000, only terms of reftrence would be subject to
prior review.
Disbursement
AIllocation of loan proceeds (Table C).
Allocation of the proceeds by disbursement categories and percentages financed by the loan are
presented in Table C.
Ulse of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Full documentation for expenditures under contracts requiring the Bank's prior review will be
submitted with the corresponding application. Disbursements for contracts valued at less than USD
200,000 for works, USD 100,000 for the services of consulting firms and USD 50,000 for the services of
individual consultants, and training, as well as disbursements for all goods contracts, will be made on the
basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOE). Documentation to support these expenditures would be
maintained by the DPA in Azilal and made available for review by visiting Bank missions and for project
auditing.
Special account (SA):
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Borrower will establish a Special
Account (SA) in MAD with the Treasury. The Bank would, upon request, make an Authorized
Allocation of USD 300,000 equivalent. Initially, the allocation would be limited to USD 150,000
equivalent until disbursements reached USD 1,500,000 at which time the full Authorized Allocation
could be claimed. Applications for the replenishment of the SA would be submitted monthly or when
one-third of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs earlier. The replenishment application
would be supported by the necessary documentation, including the bank and reconciliation statement of
the SA. The SA would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Retroactive Financing:
Retroactive financing in the amount of USD 400,000 would be provided to help cover project
expenditures between July 1, 1998 and the anticipated date of loan signing in January 1999.



Page 26
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(in USD million equivalent)
Expenditure Category           Procurement Method                        Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB     NCB        Other     N.B.F
1. Works                          -      1.61       1.7A/       -            3.31
(1.21)    (1.27)                 (2.48)
2. Goods                          -        -         0.30 B/     -          0.30
(0.21)                 (0.21)
3. Consultants Services and       -        -          1.42 C/   -           1.42
Training                                           (1.31)                (1.31)
4. Recurrent Costs                -        -           -        0.72        0.72
(0.00)      (0.00)
Total                           -       1.61        3.42     0.72         5.75
(1.21)     (2.79)    (0.00)      (4.00)
Note NBF = Not Bank Financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
A/ Works contracts of less than the equivalent of USD 20,000 and estimated to amount to USD 1.7
million may be procured through community participation to permit the employment of local labor. The
Government's provincial technical departments have the required experience to see that such small
works are carried out efficiently, in a manner which is satisfactory to the Bank. The technical
departments will purchase the required materials and hire the local labor needed.
B/ USD 200,000 National Shopping; USD 100,000 Direct Contracting for small quantities of seeds
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of USD 50,000 per contract.
C/ USD 900,000 Quality and Cost Based Selection; USD 200,000 Single Source Selection;
USD 200,000 Individual Consultants.
For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to ODI 1.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment Operations."
Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A, where applicable).



Page 27
Annex 6
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Expenditure          Contract Value         Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)             Method              Prior Review
USD                                         USD
1. Works                 200,000 and above           NCB                =>200,000
2. Goods                         None          National Shopping             None
3. Consultants Services
and Training
Firms                  => 100,000      Consultants Guidelines  TORs, shortlist, LOI
& contracts
<100,000       Consultants Guidelines    TORs only
Individuals             =>50,000       Consultants Guidelines  TORs, shortlist, LOI
& contracts
<50,000       Consultants Guidelines     TORs only
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and
contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Page 28
Annex 6
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category             Amount in USD    Financing Percentage
1. Civil Works                                 2,200,000              80%
2. Goods                                        200,000       100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
local expenditures
(ex-factory cost), and
80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
3. Training and Consultants Services           1,300,000             100%
4. Front-end Fee                                 39,604              100%
5. Unallocated                                  260,396
Total                                          4,000,000



Page 29
Annex 7
Lakhdar Watershed Management Pilot Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (USD '000)                    Planned               Actual
FY97                            157.1                129.9
FY98                             72.0                133.6
FY99                             36.1                 44.1
TOTAL:                265.2                307.6
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         10                   12
First Blank mission (identification)              4/97                 4/97
Appraisal mission departure                    1 st qt 1998            04/98
Negotiations                                      08/98                09/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    02/99                 03/99
Prepared by: Ministry of Water and Forests (MEF), within the Ministry of Agriculture,
Rural Development and Maritime Fisheries (MADRPM)
Preparation assistance:  FAO/CP (Bank funded)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialtv
Harald Stier                         Economist, Task Leader
Arbi Ben-Achour                              Sociologist
Aline Cabal                              Environment
Fran9ois Wencelius                             Forester
Ousa Sananikone                             Micro Credit
Douglas W. Lister                      Economist, Task Leader



Page 30
Annex 8
Lakhdar Watershed Management Pilot Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
In Project Implementation Report, Volume I
B. Bank Staff Assessments
In Project Implementation Report, Volumes I and II
C. Other
Etude de Factibilite d'un programme de Micro-Credit dans la zone du projet d'amenagement du Bassin
versant de l'Oued Lakhdar, by CIDR, Nov 1997
Rapport de pre-identification du programme MEDA 1996/98 par AHT International
MEDA - Cadre Institutionnel des projets MAMVA, proposition Marocaine sur l'Agence d'Execution,
perimetres de mise en valeur- 10/09/96
Rapport sur les R6sultats de l'Atelier de Planification ZOPP, GTZ. 02/28/97
Identification d'un Appui aux Micro-Entreprises, Rapport Final, CEPT, 08/97
Programme MicroStart au Maroc, UNDP, 06/13/97
Programme Experimental de Mesure de 1'Erosion dans le Bassin Versant de l'Oued Lakhdar
Evaluation des Actions Financees par la CE en Faveur de l'Emploi au Maroc, Rapport Final, FGU, 12/21/95
Fiche de projet sur la Protection et Gestion Participative des Ecosystemes Forestiers du Rif, Projet
B7/5040/1/94/02
Participation des Populations et Developpement Rural au Maroc, Iraki, 06/93
Projet MOR92/010 de Developpement Communautaire dans le Haut Atlas Central
Reunion Tripartite du Projet, Ministere de l'Interieur 1995
Rapport d'Activite Annuel pour 1995, 02/96
Document de Projet Protection des Infrastructures agricoles contre l'Envasement par Amenagement des
bassins Versants, UNDP, 02/98
Note de Service Primetres de Mise en Valeur en bour
Cadre Institutionnel d'Ex&ution des Projets 10/09/96
Methodologie d'Analyse Economique et Financiere des Projets 02/96
Systeme de Suivi-Evaluation 03/96
Decrets sur le MARA,CGDA, MAMVA
Projets de Mise en Valeur en Bour, Cahier de Prescriptions Speciales, MoA
Instruction #6 Relative aux Attrib"';ons et a l'Organisation des Directions Provinciales de l'Agriculture,
MoA,01/95
Instruction #7 Relative aux Attributions et a l'Organisation des Directions Regionales des Eaux et Forets,
MoA, 01/95
ODESYPANO - Approche Participative, 05/96, GTZ
*Including electronic files.



Page 31
MOP Schedule D
Generated: 11/30/98
Annex 9
Lakhdar Watershed Management Pilot Project
Status of Bank Group Operations in Morocco
Operations Portfolio
As of 23-Nov-98
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                     and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                    disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                 Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD         IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed          Orig     Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 102
Active Projcts
MA-PE-5524       1999   GOVERNMENT                         FES-MEDINA REHAB.                        14.00         0.00        0.00               14.78        0.00         0.00
MA-PE-40566      1998   GOVT OF MOROCCO                    RURAL W.S.& SANITATN                     10.00         0.00        0.00               10.33        2.34          .17
MA-PE-5521       1998   GOVT OF MOROCCO                    WATER RESOURCE MGMT.                     20.00         0.00        0.00              20.66         1.34         0.00
MA-PE-5523       1998   FEC                                MUNICIPAL FINANCE II                     70.00         0.00        0.00              62.52        18.83         0.00
MA-PE-38978      1997   GOVERNMENT OF MOROCCO              PSD III-VOC TRG.                         23.00         0.00        0.00              20.97         8.79          .96
MA--PE-43725     1997   ONCF                               RAILWAY RESTR & PRIV                     85.00         0.00        0.00              70.01         1.95         0.00
MA-PE-42414      19 9    GOVT OF MOROCCO                   COOR/MON SOCIAL PRO                      28.00         0.00        0.00              28.38         2.92         0.00
MA-PE-42415      1996   GOVT OF MOROCCO                    SPI - HEALTH                             68.00         0.00        0.00              60.33          -.09        0.00
MA-PE-5501       1996   GOV. OF MOROCCO                    SPI - EDUCATION                          54.000        0.00        0.00              36.20         3.60         0.00
MA-PE-5503       1996   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                 SEW.& WATER REUSE II                     40.00         0.00        0.00              39.21         5.33         0.00
MA-PE-5489       1995   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                 SECONDARY ROADS                          57.60         0.00        0.00              58.79        40.40         0.00
MA-PE-5435       1994   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO/ONEP            WATER SUPPLY V                          160.00         0.00       40.00              82.33        66.40         6.57
MA-PE-5499       1994   GOV. OF MOROCCO                    IRR. AREAS AGR. SERV                     25.00         0.00        7.99               13.25       16.45         6.87
MA-PE-5504       1994   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                 ENVIRONMENT MANAGEME                       6.00        0.00        1.02                3.29        3.50         0.00
MA-PE-5462       1993   GOVERNMENT                         SECOND LSI IMPROVEME                    215.00         0.00       71.12              67.71        46.15         8.36
MA-PE-5514       1993   GOV. OF MOROCCO                    LAND DEVELOPMENT                        130.00         0.00       24.00              42.76        61.12        37.72
MA-PE-5517       1993   GOV.OF MOROCCO/FEC                 MUNICIPAL FINANCE I                     104.00         0.00        4.00                3.96        7.97         1.47
MA-PE-5495       1991   MOROCCAN BANKS                     FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV                    235.00         0.00       16.80              16.49        33.30        16.47
MA-PE-5440       1990   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                 HEALTH SECTOR INVEST                    104.00         0.00        5.00                8.36       13.35         0.00
Total                                                                                            1,448.60         0.00      169.93             660.33       333.65        78.59
Active Projects       Closed Projects            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   635.76            5,716.48             6,352.24
of which has been repaid:                   40.60            2,972.30             3,012.90
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 1,238.07            2,775.21             4,013.30
Amount sold                                         0.00               20.11                20.11
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                20.11                20.11
Total Undisbursed                 :               660.33                18.91              679.24
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-Oct-98.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



Page 32
MOP Schedule D
Annex 9
Lakhdar Watershed Management Pilot Project
Morocco
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
A, if 31 -Oct-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1987/90                CIH                    22.24    0.00    0.00    1.15   22.24    0.00    0.00    1.15
1987/93                SETAFIL                 3.21     1.20    0.00    0.00    3.21     1.20    0.00    0.00
1990                   ENNASR                   .94    0.00    0.00    0.00       .94    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/96                Mediafinance            0.00    1.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.16    0.00    0.00
1995                   Attijari                0.00      .50    0.00    0.00    0.00      .26    0.00    0.00
1999                   Settavex                5.42    9.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                   31.81    11.86    0.00    1.15   26.39    2.62    0.00    1.15
Approvals Pending Conmmitment
Loan   Equity  Ouasi  Partic
Total Pending Conmmitment:           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 11/30/98



Morocco at a glance                                                             10/1/98
M. East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        & North   middle-
Morocco    Africa  income       Development diamond
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                    27.5      283    2,285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                1,250     2,060    1,230
GNP (AfIas method, US$ billions)                   34.4      583    2,818
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population I%)                                      1.9       2.3      1.2                                    G
Labor force (%)                                     2.5       3.2      1.3     GNP                            Gross
per                          primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                          capita                     enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  13
Urban population (% of total population)            53        57        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                    67        67        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)            51        48        36
Chrid malnutrition (% of children under 5)          10         .                        Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)              52        71        84
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                56        39        19
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  83      97       111             Morocco
Male                                              94       102       116             Lower-middle-income group
Female                                            71        91       113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                         9.3    17.0       36.7     33.5
Gross dcmestic investment/GDP             28.1    22.8       19.8     20.6                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP         18.5    22.1       25.7     30.4
Gross domestic savings/GDP                 8.7    16.7       15.9     16.8
Gross naitional savings/GDP               14.6    17.4       19.0     20.0
Current account balance/GDP               -14.9    -1.0      -1.1     -0.4     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                      1.2      3.8       3.6      3.8     Savings                    Investment
Total debt/GDP                            33.2   103.6       59.2     57.0                        ,
Total debt service/exports                  ..       ..      27.7     24.4
Present value of debtlGDP                    ..      ..      53.8
Present value of debt/exports               ..       ..    169.7
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996      1997  199842
(average annual growth)
GDP                               4.3      2.6    12.6       -2.0      4.6              Morocco
GNP per capita                     1.6     0.7    10.9       -4.4      2.9              Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services     4.3      6.9      8.4       6.3      7.3   1
STRUCTIURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1996      1997     Growth rates of output and investment (Y.)
(% of GDP)                                                                     2
Agriculture                               19.2    19.1       19.3     15.3    20
Industry                                  32.5    32.3       30.3     33.2    ,0
Manufacturing                            16.5    17.2      17.0      17.6
Services                                  48.3    48.6       50.4     51.5      0
Prvate consumption                        68.9    68.0       68.0     65.3    -lo -
General govemment consumption             22.5    15.4       16.7     17.9              _    GDI       e-GDP
Imports of goods and services             37.9    28.2       30.0     33.9
1976-86  1987-97     1996     1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%h)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                3.6    -0.2       78.0    -25.6        -
Industry                                   2.5      3.0       3.4      8.4   1C
Manufacturing                             4.3     3.3       3.0       3.1
Services                                   5.6      3.2       4.9      0.0     5
Private consumption                        3.1      3.3      19.3    -10.1     0
General govemment consumption              5.0      1.1    -15.2       5.2           92         74 95           07
Gross domestic investment                  0.6      2.1      12.1      2.2   -s 
Imports of goods and services             -1.1      5.9      -4.0      1.6                 Exports     e  Imports
Gross national product                     3.9      2.7      13.2     -2.0
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incornplete.



Morocco
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1996      1997      Infation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                           10 T
Consumer prices                                                    3.0       10      8 01
Implicit GOP deflator                          1.5     10.3        0 8       2       4
4~~~~
Government rinance                                                                   2 _
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                . o                                ,
Current revenue                               20.3     18.8       24.3      26.2             92   93    94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                         0.8     -1.7        0.9       1 6                   GOPdefator    'CPl
Overall surplus/deficit                      -18.1      -8.6      -3.4      -3.7
TRADE
(UJSS millions)                              1976     1986       1996      1997      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                   2,608      6,893     7,039     12.500
Other agriculture                                     792      1,646     1,374
Phosphorus                                            412        348      435   I1o.wW T
Manufactures                                          654      1,531     1,469      7s500
TFeal imports (ci)                                    3.925      9,728     9,521    |5
Food                                                  476      1,287     1.065
Fuel and energy                                .      596      1,294     1:296      2.50
Capital goods                                         906      1,781     1,660         o
Export price index (1995=100)                            67        80        84   1         91  92  93  94  95  96  97
Import price index (1995=100)                            76        95        89                0 Exports     *Irrmpons
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        .       89        85        95     _
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UJS$ millions)                              1976     1986       1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                1,696    3,757      9,433    9,483   I 0
Imports of goods ancl services               3,450    4.796     10 991    10 632
Resource balance                            -1.754   -1,039     -1.559    -1,148
Net income                                    -127     -688     -1,211    -1,179      T
Net current transfers                         499    1,549       2,352    2,205    .3
Current account balance                     -1,382     -178      -418      -123     T4
Financing items (net)                        1,365      545       465       679
Changes in net reserves                        18    -367         -47      -556      -6
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                           3,968    4,154
Conversion rate (DEC, locai/US$)               4 4      9.1        8.7       9.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         3.084   17.601     21.710    19.096
IBRD                                        289    1.859      3,732     3,271
IDA                                          35       42         32        31                G: 2,053        A: 3,271
Total debt service                                               3,219     2,817     Compositia          _r9jlions)
IBRD                                         34      233        599       532
IDA                                           0         1         2         2
Composition of net resource flows                                                     F: 5,074
Official grants                              47       57        356       100
Official creditors                                      -       124      -490
Private creditors                                              -190      -140
Foreign direct investment                    38       89        397     1.210
Portfolio equity                                        0       134         0                                  :8,667
World Bank program
Commitments                                 150      366        213       155     A- IBRD                        E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                64      363        380       141     B-IDA      0- Other multitateral   F - Prvate
Principal repayments                         15      109        342       295     C- IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                    49      254         38      -154
Interest payments                            20      125        258       238
Net transfers                                29      128       -221      -392
Development Economics                                                                                                  10/1198



\VAP~ SFCT ION
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~i\):E(ll)
l



LAKHDAR5,.Hasa WAESE  MAAEMN                                                                                      Al. He Abelkimo Khtu    9 akhl
vf 4. MoPILOTaROJECT sefCh   19.                                                                                   S.alTkero 0 bdelmuen
07 ~ t        < 0                                      500  OuedEIMakh0zine         13.  S.Med.B.Abdellah          21. elH ache
mILOME1~RS Theboundaries cao
<  frone
I,A,
A   T  L A   N   T  I C  EIJ~~dida *  rrechido
0   C  E  A   N    Jerfim  ~~~0 eSttat
320~~~~~~~~~~~2e3-
~~ssaouirg *     Ckicliaoua                                                                      r.d L
0 12                                                          r,    o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ew~wmao  WATERSHED BOUNDARIES
11  =       LAKHDAR RIVER BASIN
0     SELECTED CITIES
0D    PROVINCE CAPITALS
A~~~~~~gdir  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~      ~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
MOUNTAINOUS AREAS
(DTata  ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~ ~       - - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
WAERSHEDS (in order of priority in National Watershed Management Plan):
I.Mokammed V                  9. Bin el Ouidane             17. Hassan EdclakHll
uelmi                               2. El Wahda                 ~~~~~~~~~~~10. Mansour Eddha6i  18. Ibn Battouta
4. Moulay Youssef            12. S. Lalla Takarkoust       20. Abdelmoumen
n                                                       6. ldriss ler                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14. Youssef Ben Tachfine  22. Mellak h
~ Te hun&ris, o!u-s deoronaign, on id oa  Th. Wfrmtd, Ban                     7. Allai El Fassi             s.Auoz
skoon s tis napdo olisnp6-- eprdyt o  her Wrmtorl BakS. El Kansera                                        16. Al Massira
:Z Gr-u, o j.dgmeo on the legal statu of any  ioy, or any   8                                                                     00
'0 edorsmentor aceptnceof -uh oun'darse niI~                                                                                                                                     01C:



