                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32292

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (SCL-44260 TF-29346)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$4 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                       KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                                                 FOR A

                     LAKHDAR WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT




                                              June 17, 2005




Water, Environment, Social and Rural Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective April 25, 2005)

                               Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham (MAD)
                                  MAD 1.00 = US$ 0.12
                                    US$ 1.00 = MAD 8.6

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1    December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AADEC           Association d' Azilal pour le développement, l'environnement et la
                communication locale (Local NGO)
ADS             Agence de développement social (Non-profit Government organization)
AMSED           Association marocaine de développement et de solidarité (National NGO)
DC/CD           Development Committee/Comité de développement
DDP/PDD         Douar Development Plan/Plan de développement de douar
HCWF/HCEFLCD    High Commission for Water, Forests and for Fighting Desertification/
                Haut commissariat aux eaux et forêts et à la lutte contre la désertification
IPA/API         Integrated Participatory Approach/Approche participative intégrée
LDA/ADL         Local Development Association/Association de développement local
MARDF/MADRM     Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development and Fisheries/Ministère de
                l'agriculture, du développement rural et des pêches maritimes
M&E             Monitoring and Evaluation
MFP/MFP         Ministry of Finance and Privatization/Ministère des finances et de la
                privatisation
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
NRM             Natural Resource Management
PC/CP           Program Contract/Contrat Programme
PAD             Project Appraisal Document
PAGER           Programme d'approvisionnement en eau en milieu rural / Rural Water Supply
                Project
PDA/DPA         Provincial Department of Agriculture/Direction provinciale de l'agriculture
PHRD            Population and Human Resources Development (Japanese Grant)
PMU             Planning and Monitoring Unit
PSWF/SPEF       Provincial Department for Water and Forests/Service provincial des eaux et
                forêts



                              Vice President:    Christiaan J. Poortman
                           Country Director      Inger Andersen
                            Sector Manager       Luis F. Constantino
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Abdelkrim Oka

                                KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
             LAKHDAR WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            27
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                            28

Project ID: P005519                                                  Project Name: LAKHDAR WATERSHED MG
Team Leader: Abdelkrim Oka                                           TL Unit: MNSRE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 27, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: LAKHDAR WATERSHED MG                                     L/C/TF Number: SCL-44260; TF-29346
   Country/Department: MOROCCO                                                            Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (64%); Sub-national
                            government administration (12%); Water supply (11%); Roads and
                            highways (11%); Central government administration (2%)
                  Theme: Participation and civic engagement (P); Water resource management
                            (P); Land administration and management (P); Other rural
                            development (P); Decentralization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/09/1997                                     Effective: 01/03/1999                11/29/1999
     Appraisal: 06/15/1998                                         MTR: 06/30/2000                  09/30/2002
      Approval: 12/22/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Morocco/Haut Commissariat aux eaux et forêts et à la lutte contre
                                           la désertification
                      Other Partners:      The local rural communities

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Theodore O. Ahlers                             Christian Delvoie
Sector Director:                Inger Andersen                                 M. Salah Darghouth
Team Leader at ICR:             Abdelkrim Oka
ICR Primary Author:             Abdelkrim Oka; Jean Marc
                                Bisson


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project development objective (PDO) of the project was "to test on a pilot basis participatory
approaches to improve land use and natural resource management (NRM) in mountainous areas". This
objective supports the National Watershed Management Strategy and was explicitly included in the CAS
and advanced the Environmental and Natural Resources Management agenda of the CAS.

This pilot project was developed to help find sustainable solutions to a deteriorating natural resource and
land use situation in the mountains of Morocco. These mountains are the catchment's areas for rainwater
that is subsequently stored in the ground or reservoirs, then made available to downstream rural and urban
centers for human, agricultural and industrial consumption. More than two million people, among the
poorest in Morocco, live here and are barely meeting their subsistence needs by practicing meager
agriculture on marginal land with fragile soils and using ill-adapted cultural practices. With the current
population growth, increased pressure on the land has led to over exploitation, soil erosion, water run-off,
land slides, degradation and depletion of the natural resource base and irreversible decline in agricultural
production. Downstream effects including the silting of water reservoirs, floods and depletion of water
tables affect in turn human settlements and their economies.

Past measures taken by governments to protect these watersheds were more cognizant of the interest of the
communities living downstream (urban and large rural centers and richer agriculture of the plains) and did
not fully take into account the needs and concerns of the mountain communities. As a result, all attempts to
protect these watersheds failed. The National Watershed Management Study carried-out in 1995 insisted
that successful watershed management must adopt a participatory approach involving communities living
in the watersheds. This project is the pilot attempt to implement the recommendations of the 1995 study
and the government's National Watershed Management Strategy that followed.

Project Performance Indicators. The key performance indicators set against the project Development
Objectives in Annex 1 of the PAD were: (i) community participation as reflected in the number of active
village committees and the extent of community participation in the investments; (ii) improved land use,
including increased incomes from crop and livestock production; and (iii) improved natural resources
management, including increase in vegetative cover and erosion treatment.


3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no revision of the original objective.


3.3 Original Components:
The project had three components: (A) Natural Resource Management; (B) Socioeconomic Infrastructure;
and (C) Institution Building.

A. Natural Resource Management (US$ 3.29 million at appraisal). This component included: (a) erosion
control; (b) sylvopastoral land improvement; (c) forestry management; (d) fruit-tree plantations; (e)
rehabilitation of small-scale irrigation schemes; (f) technical support to farmers; (g) training of technicians;
and (h) participatory monitoring of the impact of erosion control works.

B. Socioeconomic Infrastructure (US$ 1.23 million at appraisal). This component included: (a) the
construction of 80 km of access roads; and (b) the creation of water supply schemes.

C. Institution Building (US$ 1.23 million at appraisal). This component included: (a) the provision of
vehicles for field staff and computer and other equipment; (b) continuing staff training in integrated
participatory approach (IPA); (c) training of elected local representatives and committee members; and (d)



                                                      - 2 -

technical assistance. It also involved the staffing of a new Project Planning and Monitoring Unit (PMU) in
the Provincial Department of Agriculture (PDA/DPA) of Azilal.

3.4 Revised Components:
There was no revision of the project's components.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
As explained below, the quality at entry was satisfactory.

Project Development Objective (PDO). The PDO (to test on a pilot basis participatory approaches to
improve land use and natural resource management in mountainous areas) was well defined. It should
have explicitly included the testing of the appropriate administrative deconcentration and institutional setup
required to better deal with the communities and successfully implement this participatory approach.

Project Design, Components and Description.

The project design was sound. This is one of the first pilot integrated rural development (IRD) projects in
Morocco where local community participation plays a central role. As a result, the PAD leave some
flexibility and is not too elaborate in defining participation, partnership mechanisms, and promotion and
financing of off-farm income-generating activities. The three components were adequately selected in order
to achieve the PDO. The Institutional Building component includes most of the actions required to help
local communities, implementing agencies and their partners develop the capacity necessary to carry-out
their responsibility in a participatory manner. The Natural Resource Management and the Socioeconomic
Infrastructure components provide the projects with the investments required to improve land use and
natural resource management.

The choice of a pilot project was fully justified because the project was complex and involved an integrated
multi-sector approach to rural development to be executed by a single sector ministry. It was also risky
because the approach was to involve local community participation, whereas "top-down" approaches were
then the rule. The implementation of a participatory and demand-driven project was a big challenge,
requiring coordination and cooperation, mutual trust and confidence, quick response to communities'
demands, and flexibility in decision making and investment financing.

Project Outcome Indicators. These were well defined. Indicator #1 (achieving an active participation of
the local communities) is a direct measure of project outcome. The other two indicators (increased income
from agriculture and protecting the natural resource base) constitute the ultimate outcomes as community
participation is expected to lead to better sustainable resource management and to higher income
generation. However, the PAD did not specify measurable targets or baseline/benchmark for these outcome
indicators.

Project Output Indicators. Well identified in Annex 2 of the PAD, they were, however, not all quantified
and baseline data were not provided.

Project Duration.       Initially proposed for six years, project duration was reduced to four years on
Government's request. Though mitigated in part by a one-year extension, this shorter time-frame proved
insufficient to fully strengthen local institutional capacities, significantly measure project impact in terms of
improved vegetative cover and reduced soil erosion and land degradation.

Environmental Category. The project was classified as Category "B" at environmental screening, which
was appropriate, given Morocco's and the Bank's the Environmental guidelines.

Risks. The appraisal team correctly rated as "substantial" two major risks. The first was that there would
be initial lack of demand from the targeted communities for investments in erosion control measures and



                                                       - 3 -

forest management.      Lack of local demand in the first two years of the project resulted in slow
disbursements for this component. Fortunately, this late start-up was compensated in the last two-three
years of the project, once the project's information/community awareness program succeeded in increasing
communities' demand for erosion-protection measures. The mitigation measures suggested in the PAD
were to package these actions with socioeconomic infrastructure as an incentive and to call on the project
animators to increase raise community awareness with regard to the benefits of these actions.

The second risk was that slow budgetary procedures could cause substantial implementation delays. Close
project monitoring and efforts at better coordination between the Controller and Treasurer of the Ministry
of Finance and Privatization at the provincial level reduced but did not prevent budget delays. The
mitigation measure suggested in the PAD was to have a close project monitoring in order to find early
remedies. This, however, did not prevent the project from facing delays in implementation.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of the objective and outputs in terms of the three key performance indicators (see para 3.1
above) was satisfactory, considering the experimental community participation approach employed; the
attempts to coordinate the efforts of several institutions not used to working together; and the cumbersome
administrative (financial and procurement) procedures the project had to follow. Output targets were
substantially met, although over a somewhat longer time frame (five years) than the four years originally
planned. Full assessment of outcomes is hindered by the lack of benchmarks for comparison.

(i) Active Community Participation. The project helped to substantially improve the previous strongly
antagonistic relationship between the rural communities and Forestry Department staff in particular.
Forestry staff generally perceived the communities' grazing, land clearing and forest product-collection as
wanton acts that destroyed forest land and therefore needed to be stopped with punishment. Communities
perceived Forestry staff as repressive and an obstruction to their efforts to make a living on the land. Other
staff from the agricultural and rural development services were better tolerated but still appeared
bureaucratic and paternalistic.

The project succeeded in substantially improving these relationships. It did this by selecting and training
project staff (selected from the forestry and agriculture services) to employ a participatory approach in
working with the communities which created a totally new relationship between local communities and
these agents. Local communities in 41 villages/hamlets (douars) or subsections of the bigger douars (
sous-douars) were briefed about the project objectives and consulted about implementation mechanisms.
They then helped to form 26 local Development Committees (DC) to formulate Douar Development Plans
(DDP) and implement them through annual Program-Contracts (PCs). In total, 26 DDPs were formulated
and 104 PCs signed. Of these, 101 PCs were completely implemented by project closing date. It is
estimated that the PCs benefited more than 14,700 people (compared to 13,000 targeted at appraisal).

Local support of the communities was evident from the 8% on average they contributed (mainly in kind) to
total project and maintenance costs, compared to the 7% envisaged at appraisal. These contributions
ranged from 6% in the case of the rehabilitation/planting of fruit trees to 14% for the rehabilitation of
small-scale irrigation systems. Local and regional authorities noticed the remarkable changes that occurred
in the relationship between local communities and the public administrations, particularly the forestry and
agricultural services and have expressed full support to the IPA approach. Bank supervision missions also
came to the same conclusions.

(ii) Improved Land Use and Increased Community Incomes. Improved land use management, irrigation,
more efficient technical packages introduced under the project have contributed to noticeably higher



                                                      - 4 -

agricultural production and yields in the project area. PMU's field surveys indicate significant increases in
the incomes of the more than 2,000 farmers that the project worked directly with. Rehabilitation of
small-scale irrigation schemes helped increase annual net returns of cereals, fodder and horticultural
products by at least US$ 500 per ha. Although not included in the PAD, many other activities were
organized; for example, distribution of fruit tree seedlings and income-generating activities for women
leading to the creation of 201 vegetable gardens. On rainfed land, farmers adopting improved technical
packages for cereal, fodder and vegetable crops recorded increased annual returns of over US$ 160 per ha.
At full maturity, the olive and almond tree plantations on rainfed land and the apple and walnut trees on
irrigated lands are expected to generate yearly net returns from about US$600 to US$ 2,900 per ha.
Livestock improvement activities (including some 490 cross-breeding operations) under the project have
helped to improve livestock fertility rates and birth weights. The access roads constructed under the project
are expected to facilitate the future supply of agricultural inputs and marketing of produce, thereby
improving the users' incomes.

The project's PMU promoted formal partnerships between the Agriculture Ministry and Departments, other
public services (Health, Education, Handicrafts), a public agency or social fund (Agence de développement
social -ADS) and NGOs (Association marocaine de solidarité et de développement - AMSED, Association
d'Azilal pour le développement, l'environnement et la communication - AADEC). These partnerships
enabled new initiatives and financed income-generating activities (such as the rehabilitation of small-scale
irrigation schemes), with a total investment value of US$ 209,000.

(iii) Improved NRM, Reduced Erosion and Increased Vegetative Cover. Despite the low priority given
to erosion control measures by the communities in the first two project years, the project successfully
created awareness such that in the last 2-3 project years, demand increased and the PAD targets for
investments in erosion control were exceeded. While still too early to assess the full impact of erosion
control, early estimates of vegetative cover on sylvopastoral land in the project area indicate an increase by
4% in the upper part of the watershed, by 16% in the middle part where gullies and ravines are located and
by 11% in the lower part. A more comprehensive erosion management and monitoring system is needed to
monitor actual effects of these activities on erosion and siltation rates particularly in the 16,000 ha of the
Lakhdar watershed covered by the project, and lessons for effective erosion management in the remaining
144,000 ha of the watershed (90% of the total area) that lie outside the project area.


4.2 Outputs by components:
Despite differences in performance of individual components, the overall output rating for the project is
satisfactory and its achievements to be commended, considering the difficulties encountered due to
procurement and financial management procedures.

A.       Natural Resource Management (US$ 2.40 at completion. Rated Satisfactory).

(a) Erosion control (Rated Highly Satisfactory). Despite the initial lack of interest by the communities and
other start up problems such as administrative delays over feasibility studies, land tenure problems,
conflicts with the agricultural calendar, and scarcity of competent private contractors to undertake the
works, activity picked up rapidly after the first two years. By the end of the project, only half of the DDPs'
cumulative demand for terracing walls could be met by project allocations. The project achieved 4,844 m³
of terracing walls in 18 douars, compared to 1,600 m³ estimated at appraisal.                 This work was
supplemented in 2004 by parallel funding by the High Commission for Water, Forests and for Fighting
Desertification (HCWF) for the construction of 6,800 m³ of terracing walls within the project area.

(b) Sylvopastoral Land Improvement (Rated Unsatisfactory). Despite the visible degradation of the forests
and pastures, the local communities needed firewood for cooking and feed for their livestock and were
reluctant to carry out seeding and planting activities and defer grazing. Other deterrents were: (i) lack of



                                                      - 5 -

clarity about land tenure and their fear that any improved forest and pasture areas will revert to the
Government; (ii) lack of project outreach to a number of users of the forests and pastures who live outside
the project area and do not benefit from project activities and awareness campaigns; and (iii) fear among
the present users that improvements could attract additional users and result in conflicts. Only 120 ha were
seeded out of 600 ha planned in the PAD. In addition, the HCWF planted 200 ha of trees in 2003 out of its
regular annual budget. Deferred grazing, however, could not be enforced.

(c) Forest Management. (Rated Unsatisfactory). As planned, two simplified Forestry Management Plans
were prepared using a participatory approach with the villagers of Aït Mhamed and Ouaoula. Preparation
was delayed due to (i) a lack of community interest; (ii) problems with the procurement procedures
(finalizing the contract with a consulting firm for the preparation of the Management Plans); and (iii) the
cumbersome validation process (official validation of the documents in four phases with progress reports to
be produced at each phase). The plans were completed in late 2004, too late to use the project funds
allocated. However, assurance was given that the implementation of these plans will be funded through
other resources mainly through the National Program for Fighting Desertification and the regular budget of
the HCWF.

(d) Fruit Tree Plantation/Rehabilitation. (Rated Satisfactory). Trees planted on water collectors and
behind the small terracing walls help stop water run-off and soil erosion and enable fruit production which
fetches higher value than traditional cereal crops. The work was carried out by contractors while the
beneficiaries contributed labor and guarded and maintained the sites.      A total of 1,095 ha were treated
(122% of PAD targets), of which 300 ha were rehabilitated. Beneficiary contributions totaled 6%,
compared to 10% expected at appraisal. The survival rate ranged from over 95% for olive trees but about
25% for almond and carob trees. Lessons learnt included the need for better handling of the seedlings
(quality, conditioning and planting time) and the need to rectify lengthy procurement procedures for
seedling acquisition, which contributed to late planting.

(e) Rehabilitation of Small-Scale Irrigation Schemes (Rated Satisfactory). In total, 554 ha of irrigation
schemes were rehabilitated, 111% of the appraisal target of 500 ha. Demand for this program was high
though the work was hampered by delayed and inadequate feasibility studies, weak operational capacity of
several local contractors and the harsh winters. Beneficiary participation averaged 14%, somewhat lower
than the 20% estimated at appraisal, mainly because the contractors, in trying to meet their obligations, did
not always wait for beneficiaries to undertake the land preparation, while the beneficiaries disputed the
project's arrangements to pay the contractors for days which the communities regarded they had already
contributed.

(f)      Technical Support to Local Communities (Rated Satisfactory).             The project organized a
demonstration program, including information field days with audio-visual presentations and farmer visits
to other projects. Despite delays in preparation of the Agriculture Reference Manual and the Applied
Research Program, the lack of training for the technicians and the difficulty of accessing remote douars,
project targets were exceeded in terms of demonstrations carried out on some 103 ha (compared to the
targeted 44 ha). The program showed farmers how average yields on existing crops can be increased
substantially and introduced new varieties of wheat, lentils, potatoes and forage. The livestock
improvement program effectively demonstrated that cross-bred animals maintained on improved feeding
through forage diversification and supplementation with concentrates achieved noticeable gains in fertility
rates and birth weights.
Although not included in the PAD, many other activities were organized. They included demonstration of
improved fertilization and pruning techniques for fruit trees; demonstrations of income-generating activities
for women such as vegetable gardening, sewing, weaving and knitting. A sewing instructor was recruited
by one LDA. Six literacy courses were organized for 305 villagers (265 of whom were women) and the




                                                     - 6 -

Ministry of Health provided 21 days of health education courses attended by 1,200 women.

Members of the DCs, LDAs and elected representatives of the rural communes were trained in the
formulation of the DDPs and PCs. The PMU also arranged for training of DC members by an NGO
(AMSED) and of 63 young farmers by a technical institute.

B.       Socioeconomic Infrastructure (US$ 0.84 million at completion. Rated Satisfactory).

(a) Construction of Access Roads (Rated Satisfactory). The target for access roads was satisfactorily
achieved (84 km compared to 80 km planned) despite initial problems with the feasibility studies, delayed
budgets provision and lack of experience in contracting, conflicts between beneficiaries alignment of roads
and the difficult topography and climate. The beneficiaries provided land for the roads and made in-kind
contributions to construction costs of 11%, in excess of the 10% expected at appraisal. On their own, they
also constructed 1.5 km of tracks linking the roads to douars and souks (market places).

(b) Creation of Water Supply Schemes (Rated Unsatisfactory). Only 3 wells were constructed out of the
40 water supply schemes planned to be financed under the Programme d'approvisionnement en eau
potable des populations rurales (PAGER). This was due to lack of a formal working agreement with
PAGER and lack of agreement on the criteria for selecting priority schemes. This activity was not to be
financed under the project and was not subject to the implementing agency control but rather to government
control.

C.       Institution Building (US$ 0.78 million at completion. Rated Satisfactory).

(a)      Provision of vehicles and equipment (Satisfactory). Vehicles and office and computer equipment
were procured and allocated as planned.

(b)      Provision of Training and Technical Assistance (Rated Unsatisfactory). Training activities started
at pre-project, sponsored by a PHRD grant and included training in the preparation of two DDPs,
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) as well as study tours in Tunisia. Unfortunately, part of the trained staff
left the project in the first years. Only five of the twelve training modules provided for under the project
were achieved. The remaining seven training modules and four months of technical assistance provided for
were not achieved as clearance could not be obtained on time from the provincial services of the Ministry of
Finance for the contract with the training firm due to a problem over their staff's insurance coverage. The
project compensated for these shortfalls in part by resorting to the regular training program of MARDF
and HCWF.

Project Oversight and Coordination

The project Planning and Monitoring unit (PMU) was set up with a unit head, four subject-matter
specialists and six animators. The PMU head changed three times during project implementation; the four
animators left and had to be replaced. An administrative and accounting unit was also set up but was
staffed with only one accounting officer. A Provincial Coordinating Committee was established to ensure
coordination between the various rural development activities in the province and in the project area;
though expected to meet at least once a year, it met far less frequently than planned. Although the
implementing agencies and the project staff were able to successfully implement this project, the project
would have certainly benefited from a stronger PMU and a better coordination by the Provincial
Coordinating Committee.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The PAD's Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was estimated at 17% over 30 years, with a Net Present
Value (NPV) of US$ 2 million equivalent at an opportunity cost of capital of 10%. Using the same
working assumptions, the ERR at project completion was estimated at 21% with a NPV of US$ 3.3



                                                      - 7 -

million. The main reason for the higher ERR is that the cancellation of U$ 1.0 million of the loan (mostly
for training) plus the under-disbursement of 20% of the loan did not adversely impact the agricultural
development activities carried out under the project and the resulting agricultural production. The returns
from activities such as tree planting and irrigation rehabilitation were higher than the appraisal targets. The
recalculated ERR would be still higher if the calculations had included (i) expected increases in livestock
revenues due to cross-breeding and improved nutrition, (ii) returns from off-farm income-generating
activities promoted under the project, and (iii) increased productivity and economic benefits expected from
the access roads, water supply schemes and terracing walls. On the whole, the project demonstrated that
significant economic and environmental impact can be achieved through appropriate natural resource
management in the mountain regions of Morocco.


4.4 Financial rate of return:
No overall financial rate of return was estimated for the project since investments aimed at
improving natural resource management do not generate direct revenues to the Moroccan
Government.


4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project demonstrated that: (i) watershed management can be effective when coordination and good
working relationships exist between the local communities, public service agencies and the
nongovernmental organizations and (ii) a multi-disciplinary PMU can be effective in mobilizing
collaboration between government and nongovernmental organizations operating in the province (PDA,
PSWF, ADS, AMSED, AADEC, etc.) to finance and implement field activities agreed on within the Douar
Development Plans (DDPs) which were agreed with the local communities.                     The institutional
development impact is substantial, as stated earlier in the PAD. However, as the pilot was undertaken on
a modest scale, it remains to be seen how these public organizations (which are organized along sector lines
with relatively rigid operating and funding mechanisms) would be able to engage in an up-scaling of such a
project approach. For the duration of the pilot project, the subject-matter specialists and animators in the
PMU were temporarily seconded from their original parent agencies (PDA and PSFW). Whether or not
these parent agencies (DPA, PSFW) can be effectively mobilized to work efficiently together in the future
to implement the IPA approach, say, in the entire Lakhdar Watershed, remains to be seen.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The remoteness and virtual impossibility of winter access to several douars in the project area were real
impediments to project implementation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
At appraisal, the Ministry of Agriculture oversaw the General Directorate of Water and Forestry at the
center, while the Provincial Department of Agriculture (PDA) oversaw the Provincial Service for Water
and Forest (PSWF) at the provincial level, which logically housed the project's PMU. The water and
forestry services were the primary responsible for project implementation. With the creation of the High
Commission for Water and Forests and for Fighting Desertification (HCWF), which reports directly to the
Prime Minister, the Provincial Services of Water and Forestry (PSWF) became separate from the PDA, but
the PMU remained under the authority of the PDA. This helped maintain coordination but complicated the
lines of reporting and the working arrangements for the project.

The project did not succeed in softening Government's relatively rigid budgetary and procurement
procedures in order to effectively implement the integrated participatory approach (IPA) promoted under



                                                      - 8 -

this pilot initiative. The lack of flexibility of the budget allocation process was aggravated in 2000 by the
changeover of Government's fiscal year (from July 1 - June 30, to a calendar year basis, January 1 -
December 31); the latter meant that budget allocations were more prone to delays at the times that were
critical for the agricultural calendar. The resultant delays in implementation of the DDPs and their PCs
challenged the PMU's credibility vis-à-vis the communities.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Numerous staff changes occurred during project implementation, among them, the PDA Director, the heads
of the PSWF and the PMU, and the project's first four animators who left after being trained. New project
staff had to be posted and familiarized with the project and in some cases (animators) trained. This
obviously affected project implementation.

The project did not fully succeed in setting up an effective Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system. This
prevented the PMU from efficiently managing time, resources and project data and from taking appropriate
and timely action. This shortcoming was partly compensated by staff commitment and hard work; and by
field observations, feedback and technical advice provided by Bank supervision missions.


5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal, total project cost was estimated at US$ 5.8 million. The Bank loan represented US$ 4.0
million; the government and beneficiaries contribution US$ 1.4 million and US$ 0.4 million respectively. In
2003, the borrower requested a cancellation of US$1.0 million of the loan and a one year extension of the
closing date up to December 31, 2004. At completion, total project disbursement was US$ 4.02 million of
which US$ 2.57 million were paid out of the Bank loan and US$ 1.45 million of the government's
contribution. Beneficiaries' contribution was in kind. Actual loan disbursement (US$ 2.57 million)
represented 63.9% of actual project total disbursement (US$ 4.02 million); 64.3% of the initial loan (US$
4.0 million) and 85.7% of the revised loan (US$ 3 million). The low disbursement is due to several factors:
(i) the slow project implementation process inherent to most pilot operations and operations involving a
participatory approach; (ii) the government lengthy financial and procurement procedures; a significant
staff turnover; and (iv) harsh natural climatic and site access conditions.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the overall project in the usual sense is not relevant as this was a pilot project, not
expected to last, in its present form. Sustainability was therefore defined at three different levels: (i)
sustainability of the integrated participatory approach; (ii) institutional sustainability; and (iii)
sustainability of the specific investments created under the project.

(i) Sustainability of the Participatory Approach (Rated as Likely).           This pilot project convincingly
demonstrated the importance of employing the participatory approach to engage local communities in local
development. This has a far-reaching impact on ownership, responsiveness and continuity of participation,
far beyond the unilateral efforts of public agencies trying to implement their mandates and `top-down'
plans. Active local participation has spawned further local initiatives. For example, 16 of the 26 Douar
Committees (DC) created under the project have evolved into 13 Local Development Associations (LDA)
with legal status. Nine of the LDAs have established bank accounts and seven have women as members,
which is a new feature in the rural areas of Morocco. Some DCs and LDAs have initiated additional
activities not financed under the project. Local communities have unequivocally expressed to Bank
supervision missions their full satisfaction with ­and support for- the participatory approach adopted under
the project.



                                                       - 9 -

(ii) Institutional Sustainability (Rated as Likely). The sustainability of institutional arrangements set up
during project implementation remains an important question.

At local and provincial levels, the project main institutional assets are the PMU (its multidisciplinary team,
including the male/female animators, and the team's practical knowledge of the IPA) as well as the
methodological tools that have been developed (principally the reference and training manuals for technical
and IPA-related matters). Local communities expressed great satisfaction with the good relationship
established between them and the project support teams and other public partners. Project staff has been
able to appreciate the added value of the approach and is willing to continue to operate in the same way.
Local and regional authorities (governors and local delegates) and representatives of technical ministries
also noticed the very positive changes that occurred and are very supportive of this participatory,
integrated, multidisciplinary approach. However, this approach requires flexibility and a level of decision
close to the communities that implies a high level of decentralization and local integration. There is a risk
that, once the project is closed, the implementing agencies -mainly the HCEFLCD and the MADRF at
provincial level- won't see the need to maintain the PMU. There is also the danger that PMU team
members, not seeing any prospects for project continuation or for career advancement, ask to reintegrate
their service of origin and that the support provided, directly and/or indirectly, by the project to the still
fragile DCs and LDAs is discontinued.

At the central level, because institutions are built along vertical sector lines, top management may not
appreciate all the benefits of this approach. Horizontal cross-sector cooperation and decentralization reduce
the power of (vertical) sector ministries whose leadership may resist. The HCWF and MARDF are well
aware of the above. A high-level meeting between both departments has already been agreed with a view to
set an action plan for maintaining the PMU in place over the coming years and continue the funding of the
DDPs/PCs. The HCWF requested the PMU to prepare a multi-year work program for this purpose.
Sufficient funds for financing such DDPs/PCs are likely to be available within the budget of governmental
institutions and other public agencies and nongovernmental organizations operating in the region.
Collaboration among all the organizations and services involved can be maintained and reinforced and
partnerships sought with NGOs. On the basis of the above facts and if there is a strong leadership at local
level, institutional sustainability is likely.

(iii) Sustainability of the Investments (Rated as Likely). The relevance, quality and likely sustainability of
the investments funded under this project have been demonstrated. For public investments, however, there
is a real risk that Government and/or rural communes will not be able to continue funding their major
maintenance and repairs after the project life as their budgets may not allow it. At present, communities are
not ready to take charge of these investments because of technical, managerial and financial constraints. In
addition, the responsibility for the maintenance of some investments remains unclear. For instance, rural
roads constructed under the project are not paved hence not `classified' and their maintenance is not the
responsibility of the Ministry of Equipment and Transport; are not either the responsibility of the
communes; and cannot be supported by the douars alone. Issues like this pose a big risk for sustainability
unless they are resolved.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
While the HCWF intends to maintain the PMU over the coming years and to continue funding the DDPs
and PCs, its efforts may be limited unless the government makes a concerted effort to formalize the
inter-agency collaboration that has enabled the pilot project to succeed. Scaling up this pilot project to new
areas will not be possible unless these arrangements are secured.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance



                                                     - 10 -

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during preparation is considered satisfactory. The Bank was responsive to the
Borrower's need for assistance and fielded two major multidisciplinary missions between identification and
appraisal. It mobilized a PHRD grant to finance project preparation and consultancies and simultaneously
jump-start staff training, DDP planning and basic research to help identify target communities and feasible
project activities.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision is considered satisfactory despite the succession of three team leaders during the project's
implementation period. Nine Bank supervision missions were fielded, including one which undertook a
comprehensive mid-term review in 2002. The skills mix and expertise of the teams were appropriate and
regularly included an IPA specialist. Mission Aide-memoirs and Project Status Reports were of good
quality.   The missions correctly identified the major implementation issues and risks, including
organizational issues faced by the PMU, technical issues related to formulating sound Douar Development
Plans (DDPs), the need to address slow initial uptake of erosion control activities by intensifying public
awareness campaigns, and the need to use proper outcome and performance indicators. One mission helped
the PMU to design templates for DDPs (see section 7.6). The mid-term review mission recommended
discontinuing the preparation of new DDPs and PCs in light of the long delays already incurred in their
implementation. Proposals to address the weakness of the M&E system were regularly raised from the
third mission in 2000.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is considered satisfactory in the light of the above.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The implementing agency and the Borrower's performance at preparation was satisfactory. Government's
strong support for the intensive planning and pre-Project training activities was evident throughout the
project preparation period.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Borrower's performance at implementation was satisfactory. Despite a number of organizational
changes as well as transfers of key Project staff, the HCWF and MARDF supported the project well at
critical moments; HCWF made available to the Project their scarce staff to replace those who left the
Project.

Most of the factors that adversely affected project implementation are common to almost all the integrated
rural   development     projects  in  Morocco.    For    example,    the    procurement    procedures   favor
clustering/grouping work contracts as much as possible, are often incompatible with the need to match the
different timing and execution of different PCs in remote douars. Another example is the budgetary
procedures which require preparing budget plans many months in advance but, which does not allow
leeway for the full exercise of participatory and consultative exercises with the local communities. The
transition in 2000 to a new budget year required the PMU to prepare two plans in rapid succession,
preempting a lot of other needed work.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
At the central level, the project's implementing agency was initially the then Ministry of Agriculture,
working through its central Forestry Department. In year-3 of the project, HCWF was created, the
Forestry Department was placed under HCWF, which became the project implementing agency. However,



                                                    - 11 -

at the provincial level, the PMU remained under the umbrella of the PDA in Azilal. Fortunately, though
not in charge at the provincial level, the Forestry Department continued to take part in all Bank missions
(right up to project completion), carrying project activities with enthusiasm and professionalism and even
undertaking several initiatives beyond those outlined in the PAD, including the promotion of
income-generating activities for women and the establishment of partnerships with various provincial
public administrations and NGOs. Although the PMU was not able to set up a comprehensive M&E
system (as the Project had omitted to provide specific budget for this), it diligently monitored, collected and
managed the project data as best as it could. It systematically recorded and computerized all project
activities, carried out three participatory evaluations of PCs and surveys in preparation for the ICR mission
and prepared a detailed final progress report.

The PMU could have tried to develop a closer collaboration with the representatives of the MFP (mainly
the controller and treasurer) at the provincial level to resolve budgetary and procurement issues. While
some of the delays were beyond their control, they could have improved on their procedures for submitting
completed expenses, to avoid additional delays or rejections.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the performance of the implementing agency is satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


l Participatory projects are slow to take-off because the approach requires attitude changes from
    communities and public services; trust and consensus building; and knowledge on new ways of working
    together.
l Local community organizations must emerge and, to be viable, must evolve into legal entities with
    some level of financial autonomy. Their promotion should therefore be part of the project thrusts.
l Participation requires implementing agencies staff to be trained, organized and able to explain the
    project's objective and implementation mechanisms to all the stakeholders, gain their confidence and
    establish partnerships. They must collaborate with other partners to help communities design local
    development plans which respond to communities needs. Frequent staff turnover should be avoided as
    the momentum of this work needs to be maintained.
l Partnerships with specialized NGOs and micro-credit agencies afford good chances for providing the
    necessary technical and financial support for project activities.
l The early involvement and support of regional and local authorities is a key to success. They are best
    placed to mobilize governmental and nongovernmental organizations within their jurisdiction and
    financial resources for implementing DDPs and PCs. Project design should try to ensure that key
    persons are brought on board from the planning stage.
l Communities are willing to participate when they see tangible benefits and the possibility of generating
    added income from project activities. They place higher priorities on investments that generate faster
    economic returns -such as basic infrastructure- over longer-term impact erosion control measures.
    Project staff should therefore put emphasis on the need for natural resource conservation and
    management as a condition for sustainable development and growth.
l Participatory projects experience slow disbursements during the first year or two because of their slow
    take-off. They subsequently have low levels of disbursements because of the small size of most
    community investments; the limited implementation capacity of emerging community organizations;
    and the scarcity of consulting firms and enterprises to work on small projects in remote rural areas.
l Land tenure issues affect participant's incentives and can seriously hamper the implementation of any
    rural development project. This has been the case for sylvopastoral activities and, to a lesser extent,



                                                     - 12 -

    forestry activities in this project. Morocco's 1995 National Watershed Management Study highlighted
    this as a potential problem which should be understood in depth and addressed with mitigating
    measures during project preparation itself.
l Overhead and supervision costs tend to be high in IRD projects adopting an integrated participatory
    approach (IPA) because activities/investments require a high level of technical assistance both from the
    Borrower and the Bank.
l Government's budget and procurement procedures are generally not conducive to effectively promote
    IPA practices. As a mitigation measure, the Government has introduced innovations such as allowing
    more flexibility between budget items/lines and a posteriori rather than a priori controls, multi-year
    contracts and budgets, and collaborative partnerships with other agencies and NGOs. Unfortunately,
    these measures often take more time than normally available within the project period. At project
    preparation, all efforts should be made to clarify the budget and procurement procedures relevant to the
    project and inter-agency arrangements at all local levels.
l The way institutions are structured from the center to the local level is often not conducive to the
    implementation of IRD projects using the IPA approach. There is a need to rethink the organization of
    public services dealing with IRD at central, regional and local level.
l A good Monitoring and Evaluation system is a must. Projects with complex institutional setups ­ such
    as those in integrated rural development ­ require a comprehensive and effective M&E system with
    timely, meaningful and easily quantifiable outcome and performance indicators to guide efficient
    implementation and deployment of resources. M&E measurements and findings should be transparent
    and made available for use to all the parties involved, including the communities which are affected by
    project decisions and actions.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
No comments received at the time of printing the ICR. The borrower has submitted its own project
evaluation (see Annex 8) in which the borrower reaches most of the same conclusions as those of the Bank.

(b) Cofinanciers:
NA

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NA

10. Additional Information




                                                     - 13 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
                  Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
1. COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION                        X                                  X

  1a. To Investments:
      - for SSI schemes (% of costs)              20%                                14%
      - for access roads (% of costs)             10%                                11%
      - for fruit tree rehabilitation/planting (% 10%                                6%
       of costs)

  1b. To maintenance:                             non-defined                        10
      - for SSI schemes (work day/km)             non-defined                        35
      - for access roads (work day/km)            non-defined                        7
      - for fruit tree rehabilitation/planting
      (work day/ha).

  1c. To Investment plus maintenance              7%                                 8%
       during project implementation
       (% of costs)
 2. HIGHER COMMUNITY INCOMES                      X                                  X

2a. for SSI (incremental net revenue/ha)          -                                  US$ 523 - 1,233
2b. in rainfed areas (incremental net             -                                  US$ 166
       revenue per ha)
3. INCREASED VEGETATIVE COVER                     X                                  X
      (% of previous situation)

  3a. in sylvopastoral areas                      non-defined                        4%
  3b. on hillsides                                non-defined                        16%
  3c. in rainfed areas                            non-defined                        11%


Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
                  Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
A. NATURAL RESOURCE                               X                                  X
     MANAGEMENT


A1. Construction of terracing walls (m3)          1,600                              4,844
A2. Sylvopastoral land improvement (ha)            600                                120
A3. Rehabilitation/planting of fruit trees (ha)    900                               1,095
A4. Rehabilitation of small-scale irrigation       500                                554
    (ha)
B. SOCIO ECONOMIC                                 X                                  X
     INFRASTRUCTURE


B1. Construction of Access Roads (km)             80
B2. Creation of Water Supply Schemes (unit)       40                                 84
                                                                                     15
C. INSTITUTIONS BUILDING                          X                                  X


C1. Vehicles Provided (unit)                      4                                  5
C2. Training of personnel (PMU, PDA.              1,050                              377 (+1061) (Note1)
     PSWF) (person/day)
C3. Training of DC members and elected            1,168                              274 (+780) (Note2)
     local representatives (person/day)
C4. Technical Assistance Provided                 6                                  1.8 (+4.2) (Note3)
     (person/ month)

1End of project




                                                                  - 14 -

Note1: In addition 377 person-days of training during project implementation, 1,061 person-days
were realized in the context of the initial training with the Japanese funds during preparation.
 Note2: In addition to the 274 person-days off-site training, there were 780 person-days of On-site
training given (in compensation) by the PMU to the DC members and elected local representatives.
Note3: Consultancy for training in participatory approach provided with the Japanese funds(1.8
person-month). The rest (4.2) was provided by Bank missions.




                                                   - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
A. Natural Resources Management                              2.71             2.40           88.56
B. Socio-Economic Infrastructure                             1.01             0.84           83.17
C. Institutional Building                                    1.05             0.78           74.29

Total Baseline Cost                                          4.77             4.02
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.48
 Price Contingencies                                         0.50
                         Total Project Costs                 5.75             4.02
                  Total Financing Required                   5.75             4.02


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             1.61         1.70          0.00         3.31
                                  (0.00)           (1.21)      (1.27)          (0.00)       (2.48)
2. Goods                           0.00             0.00         0.30          0.00         0.30
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.21)          (0.00)       (0.21)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         1.42          0.00         1.42
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.31)          (0.00)       (1.31)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.72         0.72
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           0.00             1.61         3.42          0.72         5.75
                                  (0.00)           (1.21)      (2.79)          (0.00)       (4.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.01            2.65         0.02           0.40        3.08
                                  (0.01)          (2.17)       (0.02)         (0.00)       (2.20)
2. Goods                           0.00            0.02         0.16           0.00        0.18
                                  (0.00)          (0.01)       (0.13)         (0.00)       (0.14)
3. Services                        0.07            0.15         0.01           0.00        0.23
                                  (0.07)          (0.15)       (0.01)         (0.00)       (0.23)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00         0.00           0.53        0.53


                                                - 16 -

                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               0.08               2.82              0.19             0.93              4.02
                                          (0.08)             (2.33)            (0.16)            (0.00)           (2.57)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
A. Natural Resources           2.53         0.58         0.19        1.85         0.39       0.16       73.1      67.2     84.2
Management


B. Socio-Economic              0.91         0.18         0.21        0.57         0.14       0.12       62.6      77.8     57.1
Infrastructure
C. Institution Building        0.56         0.64         0.00        0.15         0.63       0.00       26.8      98.4      0.0
      Grand Total              4.00         1.40         0.40        2.57         1.17       0.28       64.3      83.6     70.0




                                                          - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

In the SAR of 1998, the project's quantified economic benefits were in terms of increased production of
cereals, fodder, olives, fruits and vegetables. Additional benefits from more access roads and reduced
siltation were indicated but not quantified. Furthermore, the "without project" situation did not assume
declines in yields due to degradation. All project costs were included in the (internal) Economic Rate of
Return (ERR) which was estimated at 17% over 30 years. The Net Present Value (NPV) was calculated at
MAD 18.5 million (US$ 2 million) with an opportunity cost of capital of 10%. The same approach was
repeated for the recalculation of the ERR at completion. Two remarks must be made at the outset
concerning the base data used. First, since the project's M&E system did not focus adequately on the
impacts, the data about planted areas, yields and prices come essentially from the field surveys carried out
just before the completion mission. These data are indicative in most cases but nevertheless sufficiently
accurate for the purpose of the present exercise. Second, the gestation period for tree crops is very long ­
for example: 5 years before production for olive trees, 10 years for walnut trees. Consequently, most of the
production figures are still projections rather than factual. They are nonetheless based on information from
comparable situations in Morocco and therefore reliable.

Table 1 shows the number of hectares realized under the project by field activity as well as the
corresponding additional net benefits per hectare as estimated at full development. Agricultural produces
are marketed with very few trade and non-trade barriers; farmgate prices are therefore considered as
satisfactory proxies of economic values. It must be kept in mind that very few farmers would own one
hectare or more, so that the additional benefits indicated must be shared among a number of families,
sometimes more than three. The benefits per hectare are, in fact, weighted averages of profit margins for
various crops found in typical cropping patterns ­ for example: cereal, fodder, horticultural and tree crops
are grown on irrigation schemes. The largest benefits are obviously with irrigated tree crops but the first
several years of non-production imply substantial opportunity costs which must be borne by the farmers.
Until a suitable/efficient rural credit system is in place, such benefits are accessible to relatively well-off
irrigators only.

                                             Table 1
                         Economic Benefits at Full Development

                                                             Additional Net Benefits per ha
                                           Nb. of ha           In MAD                In US$
Small-scale irrigation schemes
  Rehabilitation                             554                 4,500                523
  New irrigated land                          45                10,600                1,233
Rainfed crops
  Improvements on bour land                  150                 1,430                166
Tree planting
  On bour land                               300                 5,800                674
  On irrigated land                          150                25,200                2,930
Fruit trees for soil conservation
  New plantations                            640                 5,800                674
  Rehabilitation                             300                 2,340                272
  N.B.: Figures take into account survival rates for plants.




For the recalculation of the ERR, all project costs have been included (without shadow-pricing) and no



                                                       - 18 -

production decline is assumed without project. Similarly to appraisal, the recurrent costs include a light
institutional support after the investment period; replacement of vehicles and equipment with
operation/maintenance, and the salaries of some of the PMU members. All taxes have been removed and all
costs are in constant terms (MAD of 2005). The national currency does not require shadow-pricing since
there is no parallel market. However, it is important to know that the currency has appreciated over time;
US$ 1 for MAD 9.3 in September 1998 to MAD 8.6 in April 2005. At completion, the ERR is estimated at
21% over 30 years and the NPV at MAD 29.1 million (US$ 3.3 million) with an opportunity cost of capital
of 10% - see Table 2. This rate is fairly robust; benefits shortfalls or cost overruns of 30% still yield 15%
and 17% respectively. The main reason for the higher ERR than at appraisal is that the loan cancellation of
U$ one million, plus the underdisbursement by about 20% of the remaining part of the loan, did not result
in a decline of comparable magnitude in the agricultural development activities (and therefore production)
with the project. In fact, some activities under the project, such as tree planting and irrigation rehabilitation,
were more successful than anticipated at appraisal (see Annex 1). Moreover, additional irrigable lands ­
modest extensions to rehabilitated small-scale schemes ­ became available.



                                       Table 2
                                 Economic Returns
                                  (Over 1998 - 2027)

                                               At appraisal         At completion

Net Present Value (10% OCC)                            In millions of US$
Incremental Benefits                                7.2                   6.3
Incremental Costs                                   5.2                   3.0
Net Cashflow                                        2.0                   3.3


ERR                                                      In percentage
Base                                               17%                   21%
10% Shortfall in benefits                          14%                   19%
10% Overrun in costs                               16%                   19%


The 21% ERR does not include the livestock revenues from improved fertility rates and birth weights due
to cross-breeding (close to 490 crossbreds at closing date), nor the net incomes from the off-farm
income-generating activities promoted under the project (see section 4.4). Equally not quantified, because
of the lack of relevant/reliable data, are the benefits to be derived from more access roads (improved supply
of agricultural inputs and easier marketing of produces), more water supply schemes (improved supply for
human/animal consumption) and ­ perhaps more importantly ­ the construction of terracing walls (less soil
degradation and siltation downstream). These benefits are extremely difficult to quantify but, nonetheless,
they are perhaps larger than agricultural production. Some 4,844 m³ of walls were constructed, compared
to 1,600 m³ at appraisal (see Annex 1). Most of this was in response to a strong demand (although late in
coming) from persons who had seen the beneficial effects in neighboring areas. As indicated in section 4.2,
the combined efforts of the project and the HCWF (6,800 m³ more) resulted in ravines being "corrected" in
their entirety, which certainly has considerable positive impacts on natural resource management.




                                                      - 19 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              04/15/1997                5     ECONOMIST (2), FINANCIAL        S               S
                                             MANAGEMENT (1),
                                             NATURAL RESOURCE
                                             SPECIALIST (1),
                                             INSTITUTIONAL SPEC. (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/07/1998                5    ECONOMIST (2),                   S               S
                                             NATURAL RESOURCE
                                             SPECIALIST (1),
                                             INSTITUTIONAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1),
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Supervision

              05/27/1999                2    TEAM LEADER (1); AGRIC.          S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1).
              03/02/2000                4    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             AGRONOMIST (1);
                                             PARTICIPATION SPEC. (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1)
              11/23/2000                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            U               S
                                             AGRIC. SERVICES SPEC. (1);
                                             AGRONOMIST (1);
                                             PARTICIPATION SPEC. (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1)
              06/22/2001                2    PARTICIPATION SPEC. (1);         S               S
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1)
              11/15/2001                2    TEAM LEADER (1); NEW             S               S
                                             TEAM LEADER (1).
              03/07/2002                6    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (2); PARTICIPATION SPEC.
                                             (1); NATURAL RESOURCE
                                             SPEC. (1).
              10/11/2002                5    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1); PARTICIPATION SPEC.
                                             (1); NATURAL RESOURCE
                                             SPEC. (1); CIVIL



                                              - 20 -

                                            SOCIETY/GENDER (1)
               04/30/2003              1    TEAM LEADER (1).                  S    S
               12/18/2003              5    TEAM LEADER (1);                  S    S
                                            NATURAL RESOURCE SPEC.
                                            (1); FORMER TTL (1);
                                            PARTICIPATION SPEC. (1);
                                            FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                            (1).
               12/12/2004              6    TEAM LEADER (1);                  S    S
                                            OUTGOING TEAM LEADER
                                            (1); AGRONOMIST (1);
                                            NATURAL RESOURCE SPEC.
                                            (1); PARTICIPATION SPEC.
                                            (1); AGRIC. ECONOMIST (1).

 ICR
               03/02/2005             1     AGRONOMIST (1).                   S    S
               04/02/2005             4     TEAM LEADER (1); AGRIC.           S    S
                                            ECONOMIST (1);
                                            AGRONOMIST (1);
                                            INSTITUTIONAL SPEC. (1).



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               60                          200
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    20                           62
  Supervision                              50                          206
  ICR                                      16                           58
  Total                                  146                           526




                                            - 21 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.  Appraisal Report, December 1998.
 2. Loan Agreement, September 1999.
 3. Correspondence relating to loan cancellation and extension of closing date, August 2003.
 4. Aide-mémoires of concertation missions and project status reports.
 5. Auto-evaluation report at mid-term (July 2002) and final report (February 2005) as well as other
    relevant documentation prepared by the PIU.
 6. Document de travail no. 1: Démarche participative et aspects institutionnels.
 7. Document de travail no. 2: Réalisations physiques.
 8. Document de travail no. 3: Développement agricole.
 9. Document de travail no. 4: Aspects environnementaux.




                                                  - 24 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report




             PROJET PILOTE D'AMENAGEMENT DU BASSIN VERSANT
                               DE L'OUED LAKHDAR




                             RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT

                                    (SYNTHESE)




                                        - 25 -

                                                                                                AVRIL 2005




  Quartier administratif   Rabat-Chellah           Tél : 037 76 25 65 / 037 76 46 22    Fax : 037 76 84 96
                                         WWW.eauxetforets.gov.ma
   Direction de la Lutte Contre La Désertification et de la Protection de la Nature Rue Haroun Arrachid
                                                  Rabat-Agdal
                      Tel : 037 67 02 90 /037- 67- 02- 89         Fax : 037 -67 -10 ­31


1. Evaluation de l'objectif de développement et de la conception du projet :
1.1.     Objectif initial
        1.1.1. Evaluation de l'objectif initial
L'objectif du Projet d'Aménagement du Bassin Versant de l'Oued Lakhdar (PABVOL) « est de tester
sous forme d'un projet pilote une approche participative pour améliorer l'utilisation de la terre et la
gestion des ressources naturelles dans les zones de montagnes ».

1.2.     Objectif révisé : Néant

1.3. Présentation et évaluation des composantes:

1.3.1. Présentation des composantes
Selon l'accord du prêt et documents du PABVOL, trois composantes principales regroupent les activités
permettant d'atteindre l'objectif du projet :

Composante1 : Gestion des ressources naturelles Elle regroupe les sous- composantes suivantes               a-
Lutte contre l'érosion concentrée, b- Réhabilitation du domaine sylvo-pastoral c- Gestion participative des
forêts, d- DRS fruitière e- Réhabilitation de petits périmètres irrigués f. Appui technique aux communautés
villageoises.

Composante 2 : Infrastructures socio-économiques Construction des pistes de type forestières et
Aménagement de système d'approvisionnement en eau.

Composante 3 :Renforcement institutionnel Elle comporte les aspects suivants : a-Installation des
équipes chargées de l'exécution du projet,        b-Equipement ,c- Formation permanente du personnel à
l'approche participative, d-Formation des Elus et représentants de la population e ­ Assistance Technique.

1.3. 2.Evaluation de la conception des composantes

1.3.2.1. Composante 1:Gestion des ressources naturelles

Cinq aspects sont proposés dans cette composante :

a- Lutte contre l'érosion concentrée.
Par rapport à la conception initiale, cette activité est fortement demandée par les populations, et a pris une
part importante dans les plans de développement douars (PDD).
b- Réhabilitation du domaine sylvo - pastoral.



                                                      - 26 -

Il semble que l'appréciation des difficultés qui peuvent être rencontrées n'a pas été avancée à l'instar de
toutes les activités d'amélioration des parcours.
 c- Gestion concertée des forêts. C'est une activité « bien anticipée », en effet durant la 2éme année du
projet, une fois que les activités de CES ont trouvé leur place dans les doléances des populations, il s'est
posé le problème de statut juridique des terres pour entreprendre les travaux de défense et restauration des
sols (DRS).
d- DRS fruitière
Les travaux entrepris par le PABVOL pour les travaux de DRS fruitière ne sont pas trop éloignés de la
conception initiale.
e- Réhabilitation de petits périmètres irrigués :
Les travaux menés dans les périmètres, à l'entreprise, ont concerné la plupart des axes techniques
mentionnés dans le document de pré- évaluation et l'Accord de Prêt (PAD).
f. Appui technique aux communautés villageoises :
Par rapport à la conception, toutes les activités de ces sous composantes sont entreprises par le projet et
sont d'une grande pertinence par leur effet inducteur sur toutes les autres actions. L'appui technique est
l'un des aspects les plus appréciés par les populations.

1.3.2.2 .Composante 2 : infrastructures socio-économiques
La présentation de cette composante est simple et claire, mais au niveau de la pratique, on trouve un
chevauchement avec la PMH (surtout pour la réhabilitation des sources).

1.3.2. 3 Composante 3: Renforcement institutionnel

La dénomination des composantes au niveau des rapports d'exécution et de pré -évaluation ne correspond
pas pour certaines sous- composantes, à celle adoptée dans le tableau des coûts (costab) ; ce qui a entraîné
des confusions lorsqu'il a fallu faire le lien entre les réalisations physiques et financières.

1.4. Composantes révisées : Néant

2. Réalisation des objectifs et obtention des résultats :

2.1. Réalisation des objectifs et obtention des résultats

L'examen des indicateurs au vu des résultats obtenus, a permis de conclure que le PABVOL a atteint son
objectif.

2.2. Approche participative et Planification à la base (Plan de Développement Douars (PDD)-Contrat
Programme (CP))

Suite aux recommandations de l'évaluation à mi-parcours en 2002, approuvées par la 7éme mission de
concertation de la banque, les objectifs quantitatifs ont été revus à la baisse.
Le PABVOL a collaboré avec 26 douars (65% de l'objectif initial), recouvrant en réalité 41 sous douars et
il a assuré une couverture optimale et une présence signifiante en tant que projet pilote dans la zone.

2.3. Résultats par composante :

2.3.1. Gestion des Ressources naturelles

a. Lutte contre l'érosion concentrée


                                                       - 27 -

La totalité des interventions de corrections mécanique des ravins (10 044 m3) dans l'aire du projet a
dépassé largement la quantité cible de l'Accord de Prêt (PAD).
b. Réhabilitation du domaine sylvo-pastoral
Le projet a réalisé seulement une surface de 120 ha, soit 20% de la quantité cible dans le PAD. Il faut
signaler cependant, que malgré qu'il n'y ait pas eu une demande par la population à travers les PDD pour
des actions de reboisement, un budget complémentaire des Eaux et Forêts dégagé en 2003 a permis
d'effectuer 200 ha de reboisement utilisant l'approche participative initiée par le projet.
c. Gestion concertée des forêts
Le projet a réalisé une consultation qui vise l'élaboration de deux plans simplifiés de gestion concertée sur
une durée d'application de 10 ans, de deux massifs forestiers limitrophes des douars touchés par le projet et
sur une superficie de 3 370 ha.
d. DRS fruitière
Un total de 1 095 ha de DRS fruitière a été réalisé dépassant le taux cible de 22%. Le pourcentage de
contribution de la population est estimé à 6 % sous forme d'arrosage et de travaux d'entretien et de
gardiennage.
e. Réhabilitation de petits périmètres irrigués
Le projet a pu aménager 554 ha avec un coût unitaire à l'hectare de 15254 dh .La participation des
bénéficiaires est estimée à 14%. Cette action était considérée prioritaire pour les populations.
f. Appui aux communautés villageoises
f.1. Référentiel technique agricole (RTA)

Ce référentiel technique était d'une grande utilité pour l'équipe pour l'élaboration des fiches techniques de
vulgarisation adaptées et actualisées.
f.2. Programme de recherche - développement
  Cette composante a permis d'apporter plusieurs améliorations dans le domaine agricole dans la zone du
  projet, notamment en matière de développement du secteur arboricole et de la production ovine.
f.3. Information des agriculteurs
Les activités menées sous cette composante sont :
§         Matériel de démonstration.
§         Démonstrations et journées de sensibilisations
   Ont permis d'intensifier et de diversifier les cultures en irrigué et dans les zones pluviales, et d'améliorer
   la conduite de l'élevage.
§         L'arboriculture fruitière : Le projet a permis (i) l'extension des superficies de l'olivier et des
rosacées, (ii) l'amélioration des techniques d'entretien des vergers (iii) l'augmentation des rendements et
des prix à la production, (iv) la demande, sans cesse croissante, de plants fruitiers par la population et v)
l'émergence au niveau local des personnes qui ont appris la taille des arbres fruitiers.
§         Les cultures annuelles : Les principaux résultats sont : (i) l'amélioration des itinéraires
techniques, (ii) la diversification des systèmes de cultures, grâce au développement des cultures
maraîchères, fourragères et des légumineuses et (iii) l'amélioration des rendements.
§         L'élevage : Les principaux résultats sont l'obtention de produits croisés et un gain du poids à la
naissance de 400 à 500 g, une amélioration de la fertilité et de la prolificité et une réduction du taux de
mortalité et d'avortement.

Par ailleurs, il est à signaler que le projet a réalisé une formation diplômante, par apprentissage, de 63 fils
et filles d'agriculteurs, à l'ITA de Fquih Ben Salah, dans le cadre du programme de la DERD.

f.4. Formation des techniciens
Les équipes du PABVOL (Unité de Planification et de Suivi- Service Provincial des Eaux et Forêts-
Direction Régional des Eaux et Forêts) ont bénéficie de 415 personne/jours de formation dont la majorité a
été assurée par le Ministère de l'Agriculture, du Développement Rural et des Pêches Maritimes


                                                       - 28 -

(MADRPM) et le Haut Commissariat aux Eaux et Forêts et à la Lutte Contre la Désertification
(HCEFLCD), vu que la consultation supportant la formation technique n'a pas pris le rythme souhaité .En
plus 1061 personnes /jours ont été réalisés dans le cadre de la formation initiale sur fond PHRD (Fonds
Japonais).
Activités ciblant les femmes rurales :
Les principales réalisations sont :

1-Organisation de 45 journées de sensibilisation sur l'alphabétisation et identification de 596 bénéficiaires
­ réparties sur 14 douars pour participer au module d'alphabétisation avec l'appui d'une association local
(AADEC) qui a accepté de prendre ce volet en charge ;
2- Instauration de 6 classes d'alphabétisation avec instituteurs bénévoles pour 305 bénéficiaires dont 40
hommes;
3-Appui à l'installation de 201 jardins potagers au profit de 201 femmes, avec distribution de semences.
 4-La réalisation de 21 journées de sensibilisation sur l'éducation sanitaire, pour 1 200 femmes et la
vaccination de 215 enfants et 27 écoliers;
5- Organisation de 238 journées de sensibilisations portant sur l'alphabétisation, formation des
associations, les pratiques de jardinage et d'irrigation.
6-La distribution au niveau de 6 ADL, de 12 machines à coudre, 10 métiers à tisser et 8 machines à
tricoter. Ces différentes activités ont touché 50% des femmes de la zone du projet.
7- Réalisation de contacts pour établir des partenariats pour promouvoir les activités génératrices de
revenus.

2.3.2. Infrastructures socio-économiques

a. Construction des pistes
Le projet a pu réaliser un linéaire de 83,6 km sur une quantité prévue dans le PAD de 80 km soit un taux
de 105%. En ce qui concerne la participation des populations, elle s'est traduite par l'ouverture de tronçons
supplémentaires, la cession de bandes de terrains irrigués et en bour, a atteint 11% en moyenne.
b. Système d'approvisionnement en eau
Le PABVOL, a permis de faire bénéficier 4 de douars d'eau potable à travers le programme PAGER ; 8
douars ont pu contractualisé avec l'Agence du Développement Social (ADS) un projet d'adduction en eau
potable (AEP). En outre, dans le cadre du projet 12 sources ont pu être aménagées.

2.3.3. Renforcement institutionnel

 a. Mise en place des équipes du projet :
- Le coordinateur de l'UPS a été nommé parmi les ingénieurs de la Direction Provinciale de l'Agriculture
(DPA).
-Trois spécialistes Matière nouvellement recrutés ont été affectés au projet (Sociologue, Agronome,
Forestier et GR).
-Concernant l'équipe d'animation, deux animatrices relevant du HCEFLCD ont été affectées à l'équipe
d'animation, dans l'optique de redynamiser les CT, l'équipe des animateurs a été désignée parmi les
vulgarisateurs du CT d'Azilal. Il semble que cette formule n'a fonctionné que durant les deux premières
années (1999-2000) .Ces quatre animateurs ont été remplacés par une équipe redéployée des services de la
DPA.
- L'Unité Administrative et Comptable (UAC) a été constituée parmi le personnel du service administratif
de la DPA et composée de cinq personnes dont une était chargée du suivi financier.
- Pour une meilleure coordination entre le SPEF et la DPA, une personne a été désignée en 2000 pour
assurer la mise en exécution des actions relatives à la CES dans de bonnes conditions.


                                                      - 29 -

b. Equipements :
Par rapport à ce qui a été prévu, la première année (1998/1999) du projet a été consacrée à l'acquisition
du matériel nécessaire (Informatique et Bureautique, Matériel cartographique et audiovisuel et les
véhicules). Par ailleurs, la DPA a procédé à la rénovation d'un local pour domicilier les unités des
spécialistes matières et des animateurs.
c. formation permanente du personnel à l'approche participative
Les équipes du PABVOL ont bénéficié de 377 personne/jours de formation en matière d'approche
participative dans le cade de cette consultation .Un voyage de 5.3 homme/mois a été réalisé en Turquie et
des stages et visites de 40 personne /jours ont été organisés à l'intérieur du Maroc. En plus ceci ,1061
personne/ jours ont été réalisé dans le cadre de la formation initiale sur fond Japonais.
d. formation des élus et représentants de la population
Les comités de Douars et élus ont pu bénéficier de 274 personnes/ jours de formation et 780 Comités
Douars (CD) /séance pour la sensibilisation et l'encadrement. Une part de cette formation a été assurée par
l'UPS.
e. assistance technique
L'équipe du projet a pu bénéficier de 1,8 homme /mois pour l'assistance technique .En plus, les missions de
la Banque ont assuré une grande partie de cette assistance par rapport à ce qui était prévu à l'évaluation.

3. Principaux facteurs ayant influé sur l'exécution du projet :


3.1. Facteurs indépendants des pouvoirs publics ou de l'organisme d'exécution

Les principaux facteurs structurels ayant des incidences sur le bon déroulement du processus du PABVOL
sont :

-L'enclavement constitue un facteur limitant qui a nécessité plus de mobilisation des équipes de terrains
et a demandé plus de temps pour assurer l'encadrement rapproché pour les douars isolés.
- La situation foncière non claire des terres n'était pas favorable aux actions de conservation des eaux et
des sols.
-La réticence marquée au début du projet au niveau de certains douars relevant d'Ait Abbes, suite à leur
convoitise sur le domaine forestier.
-Les périodes de neige, de pluie rendent les pistes et les accès aux douars impraticables, ce qui a affecté la
communication à temps avec les douars et a entraîné l'arrêt ou le report de certaines activités à la
campagne suivante.
-Les périodes de froid n'étaient pas favorables à l'exécution des actions de PMH
-L'exode rural (surtout temporaire) a crée des difficultés pour la prise de décision et pour les personnes qui
vont s'approprier le paquet technique.


3.2. Facteurs relevant généralement des pouvoirs publics.

Les sources de difficultés qui n'ont pas manqué d'affecter sensiblement les performances du projet peuvent
se résumer comme suit :

-L'intégration des programmes sectoriels des autres départements envisagée à travers la planification à la
base dans les PDD, n'a pas pris la dimension souhaitée.
-La délégation des crédit au cours du 2éme semestre 2000, à la suite du retour à l'exercice budgétaire 2001
(janvier ­décembre) a entraîné une accélération de la planification des PDD.


3.3. Facteurs relevant généralement de l'agence d'exécution



                                                     - 30 -

- La nomenclature budgétaire n'était pas favorable à la dynamique de la planification participative.
-La morasse budgétaire préétablie ne laisse pas la place à l'innovation
3.4. Coûts et financement

À l'évaluation, le coût total du projet a été estimé à 5,8 millions de $EU ; la Banque financent 70%, le
Gouvernement 23 % et les bénéficiaires 7 %. À l'achèvement du projet, les crédits ouverts au 31/12/2004
sont de 52 149 560 Dhs. Le coût total engagé s'élève à la somme de 38 511 309,57 Dhs et le montant émis
au 30/04/2005 remonte à 34076127,97 Dhs.

4. Durabilité :
La durabilité des actions réalisées par le projet est subordonnée aux décisions prises par les communautés
villageoises et les communes rurales. A court terme, la plupart des activités financées dans le cadre du
projet sont appropriées par les bénéficiaires (DRS fruitières, PMH, développement agricole et pistes) et
seront poursuivies.

a. Actions de conservation des eaux et des sols
La population a montré un intérêt croissant pour ces activités, surtout après que les premières réalisations
de DRS et de correction mécanique des ravins ont montré leurs impacts. Par ailleurs, la disponibilité des
résultats de la recherche-développement pour le choix des espèces fruitières adaptées à la région, la
réalisation par le HCEHLCD de programmes complémentaires de correction mécanique des ravins et
d'amélioration sylvo-pastorale dans la zone du projet, le développement de partenariats et la mise en oeuvre
des plans simplifiés de gestion concertée des deux massifs forestiers de Aït M'hamed et de Ouaoula,
permettront d'assurer la durabilité des réalisations du projet.

b. Action de petit périmètre irrigué
La durabilité des réalisations est assurée, du fait que la prise en charge de l'entretien courant ne pose pas de
problème particulier aux bénéficiaires, qui sont habitués à effectuer de tels travaux sur le réseau
traditionnel, et que ces réalisations ont un impact immédiat sur les productions et les revenus des
bénéficiaires. Ces entretiens sont de l'ordre de 10 jours par km de seguia.

c. Ouverture de pistes
Pour les pistes, la question de leur entretien reste posée, étant donné que celles-ci concernent aussi des
douars en dehors du projet. Les comités douars se sont déclarés prêts à prendre en charge les travaux
d'entretien léger, mais comptent beaucoup sur les communes pour remédier aux dégradations consistantes.

d. Développement agricole
Les résultats obtenus des actions de développement agricole ont été très satisfaisants en comparaison avec
la situation initiale. Les activités réalisées ont permis d'intensifier, de diversifier et d'améliorer les
productions en terme de quantités et de qualité.

Dans une perspective de capitaliser ces résultats, il est nécessaire de déployer tous les efforts, par tous les
partenaires, afin de sauvegarder les acquis du PABVOL.

e. Formalisation des comités de Douars (CD) :
Les structures formées, préparées et rodées ont été transformées en Associations de développement local
(ADL) pouvant par la suite accéder au partenariat avec d'autres institutions tels que les ONG, les bailleurs
de fond, les Communes Rurales et les services publics.

5. Rôle et fonctionnement des institutions impliquées :
    5-1    Performance de la Banque
    5-1- 1- Durant la phase préparatoire :


                                                      - 31 -

    Quatre missions d'évaluation du centre d'investissements de la FAO et de la Banque Mondiale ont eu
    lieu pour la préparation du PABVOL. Les missions de plusieurs spécialistes ont permis d'effectuer des
    entretiens focus groupes en vue d'une analyse sociale et de groupe.

    5-1-2 Durant la phase d'exécution :
Le PABVOL a connu un suivi régulier et rapproché de la Banque Mondiale : 9 missions de concertation ;
une mission intérimaire et une mission consacrée à la revue à mi-parcours en plus des réunions de
concertation sur les aspects comptables et financiers.
Les contacts et recommandations des experts des missions de concertation ont beaucoup amélioré l'apport
de l'équipe du PABVOL.
La contribution de la banque était fructueuse par ses différentes recommandations, de plus elle a accordé à
la revue à mi-parcours une importance capitale et ce par la prise en charge d'un consultant national qui a
appuyé l'équipe du projet et l'organisation d'une table ronde à AFOURAR en 2002 consacrée au
développement rural à la marge des résultats tirés de l'évaluation du PABVOL.

5-2 -Performances de l'emprunteur :
5-2-1 Durant la phase de préparation :
Le Gouvernement Marocain a participé activement aux missions de pré-évaluation du projet et ce par (i)
l'accompagnement des missions et la mise à leur disposition de l'information nécessaire (ii) L'organisation
des différentes réunions de concertation avec l'implication des différents partenaires et (iii) La création
d'un climat favorable à un feed-back positif sur les documents et les recommandations des missions de pré-
évaluation.
De même, le Gouvernement Marocain a pris toutes les dispositions nécessaires pour le bon démarrage du
projet notamment en ce qui concerne :
-l'installation des équipes chargées de l'exécution du projet avant son lancement.
-l'exécution d'un programme consistant de formation à la planification participative qui a été dispensée
aux équipes dans le cadre du Don PHRD et consolidée par un voyage en Tunisie pour s'acquérir de
l'expérience des programmes similaires.
-L'anticipation du financement des actions inscrites dans les CP des premiers PDD avant la signature de
l'accord de prêt.

       5-2-2 Durant la phase d'exécution :
Le Gouvernement Marocain a réservé une attention particulière au projet et a pris un certain nombre de
mesures qui ont contribué au bon déroulement du projet et parmi lesquelles on peut citer :
-        La réduction du nombre de PDD de 40 à 26, suite aux recommandations de la mission de la revue
à mi-parcours.
-        La demande du report de la date de clôture du projet et ce pour permettre d'honorer les
engagements pris dans le cadre des PDD et permettre l'amélioration de l'exécution financière (taux de
décaissement) et de l'exécution physique des composantes du projet.
-        L'intervention de certaines directions du Ministère de l'Agriculture, du Développement Rural et
des Pêches Maritimes (MADRPM) pour pallier aux difficultés de mobilisation de financement pour
certaines activités, notamment la formation par apprentissage et la fourniture de matériel didactique pour
l'alphabétisation via la Direction de l'Enseignement, de la Recherche et du Développement.
-        L'amélioration de l'environnement du projet par l'intégration d'autres partenaires au projet (ADS,
ONG,......)
-        Le suivi et la mise au point sur les aspects financiers à travers des réunions de concertation et de
sensibilisation avec les cadres du Ministère des Finances.
-        L'adaptation de la morasse budgétaire aux exigences de la planification participative qui a mis en
relief certaines activités non prévues par les premières morasses.


                                                      - 32 -

6. Enseignements tirés du PABVOL :
6-1-Points forts :
·        Les Comités de Douars sont formés et préparés pour approprier les principes d'une dynamique de
développement local adapté à la population.
·         Le travail d'animation structuré et continu, depuis le début du PABVOL, avec des structures
sociales à fort potentiel de mobilisation de l'action collective (les CD) a permis d'évoluer progressivement
vers une organisation plus structurée et formelle de la population (les ADLs).
·       L'esprit d'assistanat a diminué relativement et a laissé place à l'émergence d'une dynamique
locale.
·       Le champ d'action du projet dans le domaine de la GRN s'est peu à peu élargi pour toucher les
ressources forestières et pastorales.
·       Le projet a été souvent sollicité par d'autres acteurs de développement (ONG, Projets de
développement) dans le cadre des missions d'appui et d'échange de savoir et d'expériences.
·       Le système de suivi- évaluation du PABVOL, actuellement opérationnel, a fait l'objet d'un
programme d'informatisation sur le logiciel « ACCESS ».
·       L'apparition d'une forte demande pour les activités du PABVOL de la part d'autres douars
existant dans le bassin versant.
·       L'appropriation de l'approche participative par l'Administration est possible.
·       Le travail de concertation et de collaboration avec les communes rurales a permis de susciter une
adhésion à l'approche participative et partenariale. La charte communale en vigueur, constitue une solide
base pour passer à un processus réel de partenariat avec les communes.
6-2-Points faibles :
·       La complexité et la rigidité du montage institutionnel et financier n `a pas facilité la mise en oeuvre
de l'approche participative.
·       Le manque de souplesse dans le système financier adopté, ne permet ni de mettre en oeuvre
efficacement l'approche participative ni de répondre rapidement aux besoins exprimés par la population.
·       La non instauration d'un système de suivi évaluation dès le départ du projet.
·       La gestion d'un projet basé sur la demande communautaire nécessite de contracter des marchés de
faibles montants. Cette démarche rend la tâche fastidieuse et très difficile d'autant plus que les procédures
sont lourdes et les intervenants (CED, Trésorier) peu flexibles.

6-3-Leçons pour l'avenir :
Démarche participative et organisationnelle :
·       Processus lent innovent nécessitant dès le départ des conditions cadres réunies (Equipe d'animation
et formation à différents niveaux).
·       Un dispositif de suivi- évaluation à asseoir dès le départ.
·       Ne pas sous-estimer le savoir ­faire et les capacités des populations.
·       Négocier les différentes formes de participation.
·       Favoriser une organisation à la base adaptée aux objectifs.
·       Travailler dans une perspective de long terme dépassant la durée du projet (5ans).
·       L'intégration de l'approche genre dans les méthodes de travail de l'équipe.

Aspects techniques et intégration :
·       Respecter les priorités retenues avec les populations en commençant par des actions en aval sans
perdre de vue les objectifs visés.
·       Identifier et valoriser le savoir-faire local.



                                                      - 33 -

·       Tenir compte des capacités technico-socio-économiques des populations lors des différentes phases
de la mise en oeuvre du projet;
·       Les aspects de gestion des ressources naturelles doivent prévoir des budgets pour faire face aux
besoins prioritaires d'infrastructures de base.
·       Prévoir les investissements en GRN de façon progressive.
·       Etre vigilent sur la qualité des réalisations (Etudes préalables et suivi rapproché).
·       Tenir compte des aspects fonciers
·       Gestion concertée des forêts à intégrer dans l'espace du PDD.

Aspects institutionnels :
·       La responsabilisation de la population par le processus des contrats programmes.
·       Mettre en place dès le départ un budget pour l'intégration de l'approche genre.
·       Assouplissement des procédures budgétaires pour les adapter aux exigences de l'approche
participative.
·       Montage institutionnel devrait favoriser le travail d'équipe et de concertation.
·       Favoriser l'émergence de petites entreprises locales et recours à la main-d'oeuvre locale.
·       Favoriser l'émergence de partenariats entre l'administration et les structures d'organisation de la
population à la base.
·       Prévoir des fonds facilement mobilisable pour pallier aux difficultés liées au budget général
(ONG,...)




                                                      - 34 -

- 35 -

