bu  46 - /Z
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY                                             Reort No. 10288-IN
Report No. 10288-IND Type: (SAR)
NOTLEY,D. / X82505 / A-9017/ EA3AG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
TREE CROP SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARCH 27, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a resrcted distbdion snd may be wad by ricPents only in the perforanoce of
their offiel duties. Its contents may not otberwIse be discosed witbout World Bank authoration.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(January 1992)
Currency Unit:   Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
Rp 1,000 - US$ 0.50
US$1 - Rp 1,992
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
Government: April 1 - March 31
Bank: July 1 - June 30
WEIGHI : AND MEASURES
Metric System
PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
DGE      - Directorate General of Estates
BRPT     - Directorate of Estat' Crops Rehabilitation and Expansion
HQ       -  Project headquarters in Jakarta
MOA      - Ministry of Agriculture
PO       -  Project provincial office
PMU      -  Project management unit in province, serving one or more
sites
Site     -  Individual village site
ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS AND INDONESIAN TERMINOLOGY
Alang alang       - A coarse noxious weed (Imperats cylindrica)
BAPPENAS          - National Development Planning Agency
BPKP              -  Financial and Development Supervisory Board
(Government Audit Agency)
BPN               - National Land Agency
Eastern Indonesia -  Sulawesi, Nusa Tenggara, Maluku, Irian Jaya and
Timor Timur
GOI               -  Government of Indonesia
ICB               -  International competitive bidding
NESIPIR program   -  The Nucleus Estates and Smallholders program using
estate companies to develop nucleus estates and
small plots for settlers
Outer islands     -  The islands outside Java, Bali and Madura
PCR               -  Project Completion Report
PIL               -  Environmental Scoping Report
PMU program       -  The Project Management Unit program under which the
Directorate General of Estates assists farmers to
plant tree crops on their own land
PPAR              -  Project Performance Audit Report
Repelita V        -  Fifth National Development Plan (1989/90-1993/94)
RKL               -  Environmental Management Plan
RPL               -  Environmental Monitoring Plan
TCSDP             -  Tree Crop Smallholder Development Project



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
TREE CROP SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:              Republic of Indonesia
Loan Amount:           $87.6 million equivalent
Terms:                 Twenty years, including five years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate
Proiect Descri2tion:  The project would promote income growth and employment
opportunities in the outer islands. It would:
(a) through provision of inputs, access tracks, and
extension and training, assist 161,000 poor farm
families establish or maintain 130,500 ha of rubber and
51,000 ha of coconuts in 12 provinces; (b) strengthen
project management to undertake the project, including
implementing its environmental management plan and cost
recovery scheme; (c) strengthen sector institutions in
land titling, auditing, monitoring, and inspection of
smallholder project activities; and (d) provide for
studies related to cost recovery, to a future project,
and to poverty related agricultural development.
Benefits and Risks:   The project would improve incomes of some 161,000 farm
families in the outer islands to about four times thL
absolute poverty level of $82/head/year, promote ncri-
petroleum exports, and contribute to domestic food
supplies. It would further strengthen the Governmetit's
capacity to implement smallholder tree crop projects3 in
an efficient and environmentally sound manner, and
assist in developing a sustainable financing and cost
recovery system foe tree crop development. The
project's economic rate of return is estimated at 14
percent. No major technical risks exist, as the project
would use well proven technology. The project would
remain viable even if output prices were 20 percent
lower than projected. Past experience indicates that
Indonesian tree crop production has maintained its
competitiveness in the face of falling commodity prices
more effectively than most other agricultural producers.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs: /a                               Local     Foreign      Total
--- US$ million -------
Farm Level Activities
Tree crop development                           61.2        37.7        98.9
Farm access track*                               4.2         0.5         4.7
Farmers training and demonstrations              0.6         0.3         0.9
Subtotal                                     66.0        38.5       104.5
Extension Services, Project Management
& Staff Development                             14.3         5.5        19.8
Trea Crop Program Support                          141 .40                 5.1
Base Costa                                     81.4        48.0       129.4
Physical Contingencies                             1.8         2.2         4.0
Price Contingencies                               10.4         10.7       21.1
Project Costs                                  93.6        60.9       154.5
Financina Plan
Farm families                                     23.6                    23.6
Government                                        39.2                    39.2
Japanese Grant                                     1.5         2.6         4.1
IBRD                                              29.3        58.3        87.6
Total                                           93.6        60.9       154.5
Estimated IBRD Disbursements          FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99
Annual                                11.0  14.5  16.5  16.5  14.5  10.0   4.6
Cumulative                            11.0  25.5  42.0  58.5  73.0  83.0  87.6
Economic Rate of return: 14Z
/-    Inclusive of taxes and duties estimated at US$10.8 million equivalent.



- iii -
INDONESIA
TREE CROP SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I*   BACKGROUND   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  I .  .  .  1
The Role of Agriculture   ..................                   1
The Tree Crop Subsector  ...o..        .............           1
Government's Tree Crop Subsector Strategy  . . . . . . . . .   2
Institutional Arrngemnts            . .  .. ........           4
Bank Strategy and Rationale for Involvement  . . . . . . . .   5
II. LESSONS OF PAST EWERIENC13. ....                                7
Global Experience   99999 9999.9......                         7
Indonesian Experience   a......                                8
Design of the Proposed Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
1II.    THE  PROJECT    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  12
A.  Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
B.  Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
C.  Project Areas and Target Group   . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
D. Detailed Project Features  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
Farm Level Activities  .      o .    .............     .  14
Project Management and Staff Development . . . . . . .    16
Tree Crop Program Support  .o. . . . . . . .  . .  . . .    17
E. Technical and Environmental Preparation  . . o . . . . .    18
P. Role of Women  . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .    18
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND_PINANCING  ..............  .                 19
Project  Costs    .  .  .  . * o   9  *  9 9  9 .9  9.  .9  9  9  9  9     9  19
Financing Plan . . .... . . .....      . o.   .      .  .  .  20
Procurement  9 *  * *  * . . - *.9.9.9.. 9    9 ....    20
Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    .    22
Accounts and Audits  ....................                      24
V.  ORGANIZATION. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . . . .    25
Project Organization .... . . . . . . . . . .       .         25
Cost Recovery  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .    26
Environmental Maag     g ent  ................. .             28
Prograeming, Monitoring end Inspection . . . . . . . . . . .    29
This report is based on the findings of a re-appraisal mission to Indonesia in
August/September 1991. The mission consisted of Messrs. D. Notley (task
manager), D. Meadows, A. Sidhu and K.H. Yeow. Peer rviewers weres: Ms. J.
Aden (environment), D. Dasgupta (policy), S. Husain (institutions and
economics), end K. Templeton (agriculture). Mrs. M. Haug, Director, EA3, and
Mr. A. Cole, Division Chief, EA3AG, have endorsed the project.



iv -
Page No.
VI. PROJECT RESULTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    31
Yields and Production                                         31
Processing and Marketing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    31
Price  Prospects    .  .  .  .  .  .   .   .  .  . .  .   .   . .  .  .  .   . .   31
Crop Budgets and Cost Recovery  . . . . . . .  . . . . . .    32
Economic Analysis  . . . . . . .  .  . . . . . . . . . . .    33
Benefits, Risks and Uncertainties  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . .    35
TABLES IN TEXT
2.1 Previous Indonesian Projects and Reports       ..              9
3.1 Planting and Maintenance Program . . . . . . a    . . . . .    13
4.1 Project Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
4.2 Procurement Methods  . . .     . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .    21
4.3 Disbursement Categories  . . . . . . . . . . . .       .  . .    23
6.1 Crop Model Results ....................                        32
6.2 Sensitivity Analysis . . .  . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .    34
CHARTS
Project Organization  .      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    37
Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .           38
ANNEXES
Annex 1    Key Indicators  ....................                      40
Annex 2    Criteria for Participant Selection  . . . . . . . . . .    42
Annex 3    Clones to be used d........ .....                         43
Annex 4    Project Costs; Vehicle Requirements; and Disbursements    44
Annex S    Cost Recovery Arrangements  . . . . . . . .  .  . . .    57
Annex 6    Prices, Yields and Production . . . . . .   . .           59
Annex 7    Crop Models and Cost Recovery . . . . . . . . . .         63
Annex 8    Economic Analysis.     .................                  65
Annex 9    Terms of Reference
Study of Financing and Cost Recovery Options . . . .    66
Technical Assistance...............                   69
Annex 10   Project Supervision Requirements; Key Indicators  . . .    79
Annex 11   Selected Documents and Data Available in Files  . . . .    80
MAP        IBRD 23392



INWNEIA
TREE CROP SMALaHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I.   BACKGROUND
The Role of Agriculture
1.1       Agriculture is a major sector of the Indonesian economy, accounting
for 55 percent of total employment, and 20 percent of GDP. It is the
principal source of income and employment for Indonesia's predominantly rural
population. It is also the largest source of traded goods in the economy, and
contributas 25 percent of non-oil exports. During the period when the economy
was buoyed by high oil revenues, Government followed policies and strategies,
including input ane -;utput price measures, that helped to maintain the terms
of trade for agricultural products. These policies have maintained long-term
agricultural growth at about 4 percent per annum, a rate that has outpaced
population growth, enabled self-sufficiency in food production, and increased
exports by about 5 percent per annum. To continue to be successful, the
sector will need to moet the challenges of continued poverty reduction, more
balanood regional development, and environmentally sustainable farming
systems.
1.2       Government's agricultural policieb and strategies have resulted in a
continued and dramatic reduction of rural poverty incidence in Indonesia--from
44 million, or 40 percent of the rural population, in 1976 to 20 million, or
16 percent of the rural population, in 1987. Much of this decline in rural
poverty has been made possible by sustained increases in yields, production
and incomes from irrigated rice cultivation, mainly on Java, and increased
tree crops cultivation, mainly in the outer islands. However, important
challenges remain. The number of people in poverty continues to be large and
families with agriculture as their primary source of income constitute three-
quarters of the total households below the absolute poverty line of
US$82/head/year. Poverty is widespread in the eastern part of the outer
islands. Overall, given the general distribution of incomes, 70 percent of
farm families rema'n quite poor, with incomes less than US$164/head/year.
Further growth in the agricultural sector therefore remains central to
Government's poverty alleviation strategy.
The Tree CroD Subsector
1.3       Indonesia is a competitive producer of a wide range of tree crops,
which account for 17 percent of agricultural GDP and 80 percent of
agricultural non-timber exports, with coconut, coffee, rubber and oil palm
being the principal crops. Tree crops are especially important for small
farmers in the outer islands, where the crops are ideally suited to the
climate and soil conditions and are essential to stem depletion of the forests
end degradation of the widespread fragile soils. They provide about 12
percent of total employment, and a significantly larger proportion of rural
employment. Government policies and strategy have supported ai expansion of
tree crops, through extension, research and financing. These policies have



- 2 -
resulteed in growth of the subsector et about 3.4 percent per annum in tho past
decade, less than agriculture as a whole, but there is considerabl, potential
for further growth. Indeed with rice self-eufficiency achieved, and
increasing pressure on land and water resources, the agriculture sector's
future growth porformanco will increasingly depend on diversifying to higher
value products including an expanded use of the country's natural advantage in
tree crop production to increase the rate of growth of tree crop output.
1.4       Rubber, of which 90 percent is exported, contributes US$1 billion or
about 40 percent of non-timber agricultural exports. However, the stand of
trees is aging, and production and exports will decline from a projected 1.7
million tons/year after 2000 unless yields and the current rate of planting is
increased. A reversal of this possible decline would involve the combined
efforts of the commercial sector, Government support services, and
smallholders. The project's "self-help" component aimed at encouraging tree
crop farmers to replant with improved varieties, using their own resources, is
intended to establish an approach capable of widespread replication. It would
build upon the demonstration effect of previous projects, and of the main
component of the proposed project, which would contribute 0.1 million tons of
output in its peak years, or 6 percent of the projected national figure
mentioned above.
1.5       Coconuts are grown essentially for the domestic market by
smallholder farmers, particularly in poor coastal areas not suitable for other
cash crops. Of the total production of 800 million tons, 5 percent is
currently exported. Current and planned plantings are expected to increase
exports to 15 percent of the total crop by 2000. This would represent only a
minor share of world trade in coconut products, and a negligible share of
trade in total vegetable oils. Coconut oil has special uses in detergent and
confectionery industries, and growth in this market in industrial countries is
expected to be steady, in line with population increases.
Government's Tree Cro, Subsector Strateav
1.6       Government strategy recognizes tree crops:
(a) as the most environmentally and economically sound means to
alleviate poverty for the outer islands rural population by raising
their incomes and promoting renional development; and
(b) as a vehicle for continuing agriculture's role as an engine of
environmentally sustainable arowth for incomes, exports, domestic
food supplies and agro-industry development, through economically
efficient and ecologically adapted farming systems.
1.7       Poverty alleviation and regional development.  Growth in tree crops
represents a major plank of Government's poverty alleviation strategy for the
outer islands. Eleven million households participate in tree crop production
and smallholders dominate the subsector, accounting for about 84 percent cf
total area and 62 percent of production of the principal tree crops. Tree
crop farming and related down stream activities are particularly important in
these islands as the labor force is increosing and significant poverty exists,
non-agricultural activities are limited, and there are no other cash crop



-3-
alternatives that can be developed on a large scale to generate rural income
growth.
1.8       Surveys of potential participants in the proposed project *rea have
established that as the typical farm size is lses than 2 ha, most farm
families are either poor, or near poor, having incomes not much above the
absolute poverty line of $S2/head/year. This reflects the situation that
while absolute poverty is most prevalent in the eastern islands, rural poverty
elsewhere is severe, as indicated for example by surveys of protein-energy
deficiency levels in children aged 6-36 months.
1.9       Much of the production of rubber and virtually all coconut
production is undertaken by smallholders. In the period 1979-88, the area of
smallholder rubber and coconuts is estimated to have increased by 1.3 million
ha to 5.6 million ha, but a large part of this area remains low-yielding.
Previous projects have demonstrated that smallholder yields can be raised
considerably with improved planting materials and extension advice. Only 10
percent of tree crop farmers have so far directly benefitted from such
programs to upgrade or expand their crops, with possibly the same number
adopting improv-4 practices due to the demonstration effects of the projects.
By participatl   in such programs, poor and near-poor farm families are able
to achieve a substantial increase in their incomes.
1.10      Environmentally sustainable growth.  A further reason for
Government's emphasis on tree crop development is that much of the outer
islands has fragile soils vulnerable to depletion, and those soils near
forests, in upper watersheds, or other steeply sloping areas are at particular
risk to environmental stress. Properly established tree crops can provide
effective environmental protection, directly by stabilizing soils, and
indirectly by providing incomes to populations which might otherwise encroach
into vulnerable areas.
1.11      Policy Reforms.  To achieve its main goals in the tree crop
subsector, of poverty alleviation and sustainable growth, Government has
adopted several major policy reforms over the last few years concentrated on
four main areas: (a) deregulation of trade in edible oils to improve the
pricing and distribution of edible oils, especially prices to smallholders;
(b) encouragement of greater private sector participation and investment in
the entire tree crop sector through streamlined investment approval
procedures; (c) improvements in the efficiency of public sector estatea, by
placing them on a market-financed basis; and (d) financing arrangements for
smallholders, consistent with the long gestation period for investments, and
the associated inherent risks for farmers and lenders, to permit them to
participate in Government assisted programs, with cost-recovery at an improved
level.
1.12      The need for new financing and cost recovery arrangements for
smallholder development became particularly urgent after the January 1990
banking system reforms which eliminated most targeted bank credit for
smallholders. The past programs using the banking system had failed. As a
consequence of very low credit recovery rates, cost recovery has been
negligible (in the order of 10-20 percent), or possibly negative if collection
costs are taken into account. Government has therefore decided to finance its



-4-
smallholder tree crop program through its development budget, rather than
through the banking system. This involves a grant for the *stabliehment of
the crop, and credit managed by the Directorate General of Estates for
maintenance costs, with repayment obligations consistent with ability to pay.
The grant is required and justified to enable poor and near-poor farmer. to
participate in the program. Government is continuing to review the
possibilities for direct and indirect cost recovery mechanisms and alternative
credit schemes, which might further enhance the longer-term sustainability of
the program.
1.13      Government's proposed new arrangements have four major advantagess
(a) subsidies will be explicit and financed through the budget;
(b) distortionary effects on the operation of the financial sector and rural
commercial credit mechanisms will be minimized; (c' roverty reduction is one
of the major purposes underlying the arrangements; and (d) Government will
achieve a significant improvement in the level of cost recovery. Tilnder
current Indonesian tree crop projects, credit repayments are in the order of
10-20 percent, although the implicit expectations in the small intermediation
margins allowed at appraisals were for repayment rates near 100 percent. We
expect the proposed project to achieve a significant improvement in credit
repayment over the current situation, possibly to the level of 50-60 percent
reported in a project impact evaluation report for a comparable situation in
another country where similar arrangements were adopted. In short, the
proposed arrangements have the prospect of raising cost recovery rates above
the current levels, and would enable Indonesia to make continued progress in
poverty reduction and regional development in a cost effective manner.
Institutional Arrangements
1.14      Government's primary technical support for tree crops comes from the
Directorate General of Estates (DGE) in the Ministry of Agriculture. DGE has
six directorates: Program Development, Estates Rehabilitation and Expansion
(BRPT), Agribusiness and Processing, Production Development, Plant Protection,
and Extension.   The Directorate for Program Development has increasingly been
active in project preparation and programming, including implementation of
Government's environmental planning regulations. Seven research institutes
for estate crops receive significant funding from estate companies. General
support for tree crops at the provincial and district levels is provided by
the provincial estate offices (Dinas Perkebunan), which are agencies of the
provincial governments, although under the technical supervisiot of DGE.
1.15      Two national tree crop development programs are handled by DGE.
BRPT is responsible for the Project Management Unit (PMU) program,  under
which the Directorate General of Estates has used PMUs to enable existing
farmers to plant high yielding tree crops on their own land, by providing
extension and inputs, with credit from a state commercial bank. DGE has built
up expertise within the PMU structure established under BRPT, which has been
used to implement three Bank-assisted smallholder rubber and coconut projects
(para. 2.9).   BRPT and the PMU structure are well managed, and the PMUs have
progressively increased their ability to effectively execute large projects to
a satisfactory standard.



- 5 -
1.16      Under the second approach, a non-structural Special Team within DGE
oversees the Nucleus Estates and Smallholdors (NES) program. Und.r this
program, the Government haa used estate companies to develop small plot* for
farmers to be sottled around a nuwleus estate which would provide inputs,
credit, and markets. The NES approach has tapped the expertise of the 17
government owned tree crop estate companies (PTPs), which as a wholo have
higher turnover and levels of profitabilit?' than the next largest state-owned
corporations, in the power and telecommunie one sectors. The Government now
intends to return the PTP. to their conme        role, dependent upon market
finance, and to use PMUs to support smallholder development. This change of
emphasis is consistent with the recommendations of the Bank's 1989 report (No.
7967-IND) entitled "Indonesia: Strategies for Sustained Development of Tree
Crops".
1.17      Fertilizers represent a major portion of the capital investment
needed for tree crops to mature as high yielding crops. As part of its
overall agricult, .al policy, recoon-'zing the objectives of rice self-
sufficiency and poverty alleviation, the Government has subsidized the
farmgate and *x-factory prices of the principal fertilizers, nearly all of
which are used on rice and other annual crops. A relatively complex
procurement distribution system is implemented by various governaent agencies,
cooperatives and state-owned enterprises, which ensures that sufficient
fertilizers are readily available throughout the country, including the remote
areas in which tree crops are grown.  This system is however characterized by
monopolies at the wholesale level (P.T. Pupuk Sriwijaya) and at the retail
level for annual crops (cooperatives). The Bank has supported development of
the local fertilizer industry throughout five production and two distribution
projects. Indonetia is an efficient producer and exporter of urea.
1.18      With rice self-sufficiency achieved, and rural poverty markedly
reduced, the Government has decided to phase out the fertilizer subsidy by the
end of the Fifth National Development Plan (Repelita V) period (1993/94). In
accordance with the October 1990 Policy Statement, issued in conjunction with
the Fertilizer Restructuring Project (Loan 3282-IND), the Government is in the
procese of bringing fertilizer farmgate and ex-factory prices to economic
levels. A study being undertaken under the same Project, due for completion
in mid-1992 would help develop a strategy to open up the marketing and
distributic' system to wholesalers and retailers to foster competition,
improve efficiency, and provide better service to farmers. In this
connection, the Government has indicated its intention to adopt, during 1992,
after review with the Bank, a plan to implement agreed recommendations of the
study. This plan would include specific steps to implement the strategy
within a time-bound schedule. These matters are being handled in the context
of the Fertilizer Restructuring Project.
Bank Strateav and Rationale for Involvement
1.19      The Bank supports Government's goals of developing tree crops as a
very effective tool to raise rural incomes and thereby reduce poverty, promote
regional development, and foster sustainable agricultural growth. Since 1985,
when the last tree crop production project loan was approved for new planting,
the Bank has concentrated its efforts on Government's implementation of the



- 6 -
past Bank-assisted tree crop projects, pending adequate progress in iit.ostment
financing and cost recovery as described in para. 1.12 above. Its only new
lending in the subsector has boon for human resource development (Loan 2992-
IND) and for processing facilities for oil palm and rubber (Loan 3000-IND),
aismd a* capturing the beneits of past investments. During this period, the
Bank has also pursued an active policy dialogue on all four areas of recent
policy reform. highlighted above--in trade deregulation, private sector entry,
parastatal managemant, and in sustainable financing of smallholder assistance
programs. 'arough these efforts agreement has been reached with Government
and with the Asian Development Bank, the other major external lender, on the
overall policy framework for the subsector, and major reforms have been
achieved. The Government policy framework (para. 1.11) and implementation
capacity is now considered conducive to renewed Bank support for a smallholder
planting program.
1.20      The current Bank stratogy is to supports (a) a policy environment
for the subsector that continues to be attractive to c¢omercial private sector
investment in planting, processing and servicas in a market open to
competition; (b) continued improvements in the central and provincial
institutional framworks for the subsector, including research and extension,
a stronger rural financial infrastructure, and the improved oversight of the
existing Government investments in *states; and (c) investments in smillholder
development, including adequate upkeep of immature plantings.   A principal
objective is to assist Government to further develop the system for
*ustainabl4 financing for the smallholder program. This would involve
implementation of the currently proposed scheme, and an examination of
additional financing and cost recovery options to determine what further
improvements should be made to provide a sustained flow of financing for
smallholder tree crop development.



- 7 -
II. LESSOES 0 PAST aXPsERnCs
Global Experience
2.1       The Bank has financed 114 projects, mainly in Asia and Africa, that
have directly or indirectly contributed to the development of rubber,
coconuts, and oil palm. Of the 114 projects, 63 involved smallholders, 35
financed nucleus states together with smallholder outgrowers, and 16 financed
large farmers and estates. Project completion reports (PCRs) or Project
Performance Aucit Reports (PPARs) &re available for 42 projects, of which 30
have been reviewed for findings which might be applicable in the design of the
proposed project.
2.2       The thirty project* introduced high-yielding varieties, and
developed infrastructure and processing facilities. Twenty-six of the
projects were successfully completed, although initial implementation delays
were encountered, and in some instances projects extended beyond their
originally anticipated closing dates. Yields expected at the time of the
completion reports wre in line or within 80 percent of the yields anticipated
at appraisal. Infrastructure development, though lses effectivety completed
than planting, was also substantially achieved. Most projects had revised
economic rates of return above 10 percent. This generally favorable outcome
is in line with OED's review of PCR. for 1990. 1990 PCRs for seven of eight
perennial crop projects judged them satisfactory and sustainable. The 88
percent satisfactory rate compares with an average of 74 percent for 66
perennial crop projects between 1974 and 1989. Major common lessons drawn
from the past projects which were reviewed relate to institutional
arrangements, financing and cost recovery, and smallholder response.
2.3       Institutional Arranaemants and MHanaement.  The PCRs/PPARs indicate
that projects with few objectives and those managed by a single institution
have performed best. Smallholder programs have generally not performed as
well as estate projects. For many smallholder programs a number of
specialized agencies have been involved to supply inputs, extension, credit,
and marketing services, with a resulting demand for coordination. PCRs have
noted that where dependence on other agencies becomes necessary, the ability
of all agencies to deliver items critical to project success, should be
evaluated carefully at appraisal. The PCRs/PPARs also emphasize that quality
of management has been a critical element in ensuring success.
2.4       Financin  and Cost RecoverY.  Three local sources of financing
smallholder tree crop development have been tapped: (a) Government budgets;
(b) cesses for tree crop replanting grants; and (c) credit from financial
institutions. Generally, the practice has been to finance new planting
through credit from Government or banks, or a combination of grant and credit;
and replanting through a cess. In Malaysia, India, Kenya, Panama and
elsewhere, new planting costs have been financed on credit. In the case of
Malaysia, credit has been made available from Government through specialized
tree crop development agencies to encourage land development and
rehabilitation. Participants In the projects have also contributed to a
replanting ceso. A caes to finance a grant for rubber replanting has been
applied in Thailand, Malaysia, and Sri Lanka. The funds have flowed to



- 8 -
specialized agencies that have been generally successful in implementing
substantial programs. In the Philippines, similar arrangements have not
functioned as well.
2.5       In general the PCR9/PPARs are unable to assess credit repayment
performanco, as at the time of PCR preparation, the credit life is at an early
stage. However, an impact evaluation report by the Operations Evaluation
Department shows differences in recovery performance between oil palm, where
central mills are the only purchaser of the highly perishable smallholder
output, and rubber, where private traders compete as purchasers of output. At
the time of the impact evaluation report, some 10 years after the PCR,
recovery of oil palm loans was 99 percent of amounts due, but the recovery
rate for rubber was much lower. The impact evaluation report attributed this
to the fact that large areas of rubber remained immature and to the
possibility of diversion of rubber sales. The general conclusion to be drawn
is that credit schemes for crops such as rubber end coconuts, where there is
not an automatic link to marketing, are unlikely to result in high recovery
rates,
2.6       An impact evaluation report for a project in another country drew
attention to the danger of increasing smallholder debt burden for non-
production purposes. Loan repayment, which had been very good, fell
dramatically when borrowers were encouraged to take out short-term student and
fortilizer loans, whose repayment was given priority over the longer term tree
crop development loans.
2.7       Smallholder Particination.  Given the long-term nature of tree crop
inv',stments, and the likelihood that smallholders forgo income when they
replant their existing tree crop area or extend it, most projects have
included measures to maintain incomes. Other problems have affected
smallholder participation. For example, in one project, land was abandoned as
tree ownership was not established under traditional law, because the project
rather than the farmers cleared the land. Land disputes have occurred in
several countries. Overtapping of rubber has occurred to increase early cash
returns, but with a cost in lower production in later years. Inter-cropping
food crops has been prohibited in some projects. Others have had food crop
components during the development phase. Solutions to improve prospects for
more effective farmer participation can be found through consultation with
prospective beneficiaries during project design.
Indonesian Exwerience
2.8       Prior to 1974, the Indonesian Government assisted smallholders by
distributing free planting materials. This proved to be inadequate, as
extension servicoe were not strong, transport and fertilizer were unavailable
in remote areas, and farmers found it difficult to replant old trees or
maintain new ones without alternative incomes in the four to seven years while
trees are immature. To respond to this experience, Government developed two
approaches to foster smallholder production, the PHU program, and the NES
program (para. 1.14).
2.9       PHU Protram.  While the first Indonesian smallholder project (North
Sumatra Smallholder Development Project (Credit 358-IND; FY 1973) was



Table 2.1:  PREVIOUS INDONESIAN PROJECTS AND REPORTS
m~~~
ZRR
at               Sas1-
Original      Loan/Credit            PCR             PPAR       PCI   No. of    holder
Project                                Loan          1o./Date          No./Date         1o./Date      I    families   area (ha)
Prolect esnatement Unit Prolecta
North Satra Smallholder Dev.           5.0     Cr. 358   (2/73)       3958  (6182)   3958  (6182)   13       5,850       9,900
Smallholder Rubber Dev.                45.0     Cr. 984   (2/80)       9135 (10189)   --             11      28,300      36,200
Smallholder Coconut Dev.               46.0    Ln.1898   (8/80)        7072 (12/87)   9666  (8/91)   13      48,575      42,300
Smallholder Rubber Dev. II La         131.0     Ln.2494   (3/85)       --             --              -      75,000      72,300
Subtotal                        227.0                                                                  157,7l5    J60,700
Nucleus Estates and Smallholder Prolects
Nucleus ENt. & Smallholder I           65.0    Ln.1494  (11t77)        7794  (5189)   7955  (6/89)   14       5,700      11,460
N3leua Eat. & Smal8holder II           65.0    Ln.1604   (6/78)        7794  (5/89)   7955  (6/89)   13       9,500      19,100
Nuclemu Est. & Smallholder III         99.0     Ln.1751   (8/79)      8186 (11/89)   7955  (6/89)   15        12,000     23,725
Nuclmu Eat. & Smallholder IV           42.0    Ln.1835   (5/80)       8511  (4/90)   --              22       4,000       8,000
Nucleus Eat. & Smllholder V           161.0     Ln.2007   (6181)      10163 :12/91)   --             11       15,100     24,350
Nucls Eat. & Smallholder VI           68.1     Ln.2126   (4/82)       v368  (2/91)   --             12        6,200     10,750
Nlucl   Eat. & SmalUholder VII /b    154.6      Ln.2232   (2183)       --             --              -       14,000     32,000
Subtotal                        654.7                                                                   66,500    129,385
Total                           881.7                                                                  224,225    29.085
Other Reports     Indonesia: Poverty Assessment and Strategy Report, May 1990 (Report 8034-lD);
Indonesia: Strategies for Sustained Development of Tree Crops, December 1989 (Report 7697-lID);
Indonesia: The Major Tree Crops:  A Sector Review, April 1985 (Report 5318-IND).
la  Closing date:  June 30, 1992.
lb  Closing date:  December 31, 1991.



- 10 -
successfully implemented, it was not considered replicable by Government
because of its high management costs. A modified PHU approach was devised for
subsequent projects, with intarnational technical assistance in Jakarta
supporting a large number of project managment units in the provinces. The
revised approach was successful, and the PPAR for the Smallholder Coconut
Development Project (Loan 1898-IND; FY 1981) found that substantial results
were achieved, projected new plantings of hybrid coconuts were exceeded, and
the extension service had good rapport with farmers. The revised ERR was 13
percent, compared to 19 percent at appraisal, due mainly to lower than
forecast yields and prices. The PCR for the Smallholder Rubber Development
Project (Credit 984-IND; FY 1980) found that agricultural standards were
generally satisfactory, due in large port to able and strong leadership and
staff morale of the implementing team. The farmers' associations under farmer
management were instrumental in strengthening the market position of the
farmers. The PCR saw the PMU system as an effective means of developing and
implementing a planting program, and considered that the project demonstrated
that the intensive supervision and management under the PMU system was
successful. The revised ERR was 15 percent, compared to 14 percent at
appraisal. A follow-up project is nearing completion, and has been well
executed, and appears to be achieving a demonstration effect for farmers in
the vicinity of the project areas, who are adopting the use of improved
planting material. A major design flaw of the projects was the expectation
that Bank Rakyat Indonesia would find its assigned role in credit attractive.
2.10      NES I-VI Prolects.  In general, implementation problems affected the
institutionally more complex NES program to a greater extent than the PMU
program. The PPAR for the NES I-III projects (1977-79) noted difficulties in
inter-agency coordination, procurement, and delayed budgets and release of
funds. Seventy-five percent of smallholder plantings were of fully acceptable
standards. The revised ERRU, taking account of lower yield expectations and
leos favorable price forecasts, were satisfactory at 14, 13 and 15 percent
respectively, compared to appraisal estimates of 30, 15, and 29 percent. The
report comments that the problems encountered call for approaches that invite
smallholders to take more of the development initiative. The PCRs for the NES
IV-VI projects (1980-83) also indicate satisfactory ERRs, of 22, 11 and 12
percent respectively, compared to appraisal estimates of 19, 16, and 13
percent. Failure of smallholder hybrid coconuts in NES V was attributed to
site problems.
2.11      Overall, the Bank committed some US$880 million to four PHU and
seven WES projects from 1973 to 1985. The project completion, audit and
progress reports indicate that the Bank-assisted projects have achieved
plantings of high-yielding varieties on some 290,000 ha for 224,000 families.
Economic rates of return have been satisfactory, despite lower commodity
prices and more severe manpower, budget, and institutional constraints than
expected at appraisal (Table 2.1). Credit recovery has not functioned as
intended. Government has addressed these problems by deferring expansion
programs, granting full authority over the program to the Director General of
Estates, simplifying the budget procedures, and with the Bank's assistance,
initiating a human resource development program and establishing inspection
services to provide for technical quality control. It has also begun to
introduce major changes for financing smallholder development programs, which
are also intended to improve cost recovery performance. The main lessons from



- 11 -
exporience in Indonesis aret (a) impleomntation through PMUo has been more
successful; and (b) the issue of project financing and cost recovery must be
pursued more vigorously. The proposed project followe the PHU approach and
includes measures for more effective cost recovery as summarized below.
2.12      Financiny and Cost Recovery.  In Indonesia, between 1969 and 1977,
export ceoses were used to finance tree crop development, but there was little
recycling of funds for the tree crop program. Rather the funds wer-
channelled for goneral development in the province concerned. The WES program
which commenced in 1977 was in principle to rocoive counterpart finance from
the Export Crops Fund, sourced in part from the coos on rubber exports. In
contrast, counterpart financing for the PHU tree crop projecto came from Bank
Indonosia (the central bank), and Bank Rakyat Indonesia (a state comercial
bank), with only a minor portion from the Export Crops Fund or Government
budget. By 1988 Government strategy evolved to move the financing of the
subsector off budget, by involving banking resources on a more comercial
basis, and by addressing weaknessoo of the ongoing system, including its low
level of cost recovery. Despite refinoments to the complicated arrangements
under which Government and the Central Bank were to bear moat of the risks,
the system was unacceptable to the commercial banking system. Bank Rakyat
Indonesia considered the high risks associated with lending long-term to small
farmers for coumodities subject to natural and price risks, as incompatible
with its banking strategy. Moreover, January 1990 banking sector reform
discontinued most subsidized directed credit which necessitated a fundamental
review of the role of the banking sector in smallholder tree crop finance. In
January 1991 Government decided that smallholder programs should procoed
without banking sector participation, that is, the Government budget would
provido the funds for investment and recover only part of the costs from the
farmers, as detailed in paras. 1.12 and 1.13 above.
Design of the Pronosed Pro1-ct
2.13      In designing its future smallholder development program, Government
has simplified institutional arrangements, especially those related to
budgeting and cost recovery administration, and has continued to recognize the
importance of high quality human resources and management and the benefits of
consultation with project beneficiaries. The proposed project, and a similar
project in other provinces to be assisted by the Asian Development Bank, would
be managed under the now well proven PHI system.
2.14      The design of the on-farm activities has been based on surveys of
potential participants, and the project would continue to foster the
development of farmers' groups managed by the farmers. During the final
preparation phase of the project, particular attention was given to the
selection process for participants, and Government decided to place this at
the level closest to the beneficiaries, where village and sub-village heads,
in conjunction with village councils, would *creen applicants to ensure that
preference would be given to the poorer farm families. The project would
also develop further a self help approach for farmers with existing tree crops
or other income sources, to reduce Government assistance costs and facilitate
a more rapid expansion of the program.



- 12 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives
3.1       The project would promote income growth and employment opportunities
in the outer islands. It would seek to: (a) assist poor farm families
increase their incomes; (b) test ways of lowering support costs to facilitate
a more rapid and spontaneous expansion of planting with improved varieties;
(c) further strengthen the Director General of Estates' supervision of
smallholder program activities; and (d) help the Government to further develop
sustainable financing procedures for the smallholder tree crop program.
B. Proiect Description
3.2       The project would:
(a) assist 93,000 farm families establish 65,000 ha of rubber and 35,000
ha of hybrid coconuts;
(b) assist 7,000 farmers develop 4,000 ha of rubber and 3,000 ha of
coconuts using a self-help approach;
(c) assist 61,000 farm families maintain 61,500 ha of rubber and 13,000
ha of coconuts established under earlier projects;
(d) construct farm access roads;
(e) provide for training and extension to new farm families joining the
project, and to farmers assisted under earlier projects; staff
training; and project management;
(f) implement the project's environmental management plan;
(g)  improve monitoring and inspection of project and program activities;
and
(h) provide for administration and recovery of credit granted under the
project, for a study of sustainable financing and cost recovery
options, for a feasibility study and start-up of a future
smallholder tree crop project, and for other agreed studies.
Indicative planting targets would be subject to review during implementation
in line with the goals of maintaining quality, and reducing costs where
possible.
C. Proiect Areas and Target Groups
3.3       The project is to be implemented using the PHU approach in twelve
provinces (Table 3.1) on farmer's own land. The land is currently open or
covered by alang alang (a noxious weed) or small shrubs (80 percent), or
consists of old rubber plantings or secondary forest (20 percent).
Prospective participants for the full assistance package (para. 3.4) would be



- 13 -
screened to ensure they have suitable land available, are physically fit,
permanently reside in the area, and are willing to comply with project
requirements. Surveys during preparation have confirmed that potential
applicants are poor. Screening would be done with the assistance of village
and sub-village chiofs who, based on their knowledge of local families and in
consultation with the village development comiittees (LKHD), would ensure that
preference is given to the poorer of eligible participants. Vormal land
titles would not be required as a condition of entry. Detailed screening
criteria are in Annex 2. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
agreed criteria (Annex 2) for screening participants would be followed, and a
record kept of the screening and acceptance of participants.
Table 3.1: PLANTING AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
(ha)
Rubber                 Coconuts
New                     New
Plantings Maintenance Plantings Maintenance
Sumatra
Aceh                                         -           -               400
West Sumatra                       3,400       1,000          -            -
Riau                              12,000      18,000      5,200        1,500
Jambi                             17,500       5,000          -            -
South Sumatra                     14,700      18,000          -            -
Lampung                            6,400       2,500      5,400        2,100
54,000      44.500    10.600         4.000
West Ksl1mantan                     8,000      17,000      2,600          700
Eastern Indonesia
North Sulawesi                         -           -          -        1,900
Central Sulawesi                       -           -      7,350        2,600
South Sulawesi                         -           -      8,100        2,600
South-East Sulawesi                    -           -      2,100          650
Maluku                             3,000           -      4,250          550
3.000           -    21.800         8.300
65.000      61 500    35 000        13 000
In the case of the 2,000 ha site at Sitiung, West Sumatra, the selection of
participants, and the technical and environmental screening had not been
completed at the time of appraisal. These would be undertaken, and a related
report forwarded to the Bank for its approval, before activity at the site
commnce-.



- 14 -
D. Detail2d Proiect Fegaturos
Farm Level ActivitLes
3.4       New Plantinas.  Rubber:  About 65,000 ha, in seven provinces
involving 62,000 farm families would be planted over a three-year period.
The project would assist farmer' to clear unused land for planting. Steeper
aroas would be terraced and leguminous or other covers established. Cover
crop seed, quality rubber planting material, fertilizer, other inputs, and
labor incentive payments would be provided as a grant in the planting year,
but all requirements for maintenance in subsoquent years would be on credit.
The project would use a variety of clones to reduce vulnerability to disease,
and would establish and maintain 46 ha of budwood gardens of the recommended
clones (AnnEx 3). Provision would be made for establishment, over a three-
year period, of a total of about 540 ha of rootstock nurseries to supply
budded stumps for the planting program. In addition, about 175 ha of
rootstock nurseries would be established in 1995/96 in preparation for the
next phase of the planting program. Coconuts: Assistance similar to that
indicated for the rubber participants, would be provided to help 31,000 farm
families plant 35,000 ha of coconut in seven provinces. Based on past
experience and farmer response, polybagged seedlings of a number of hybrids
would be used. The project would establish a total of 350 ha of nurseries
over a three-year period to provide seven to nine month-old planting material
to participating farm families. Provision would also be made for
establishment of about 85 ha of nurseries in 1995/96 in preparation for a next
phase of the program. For both rubber and coconuts, inter-cropping with food
crops would be allowed for the first two years after planting. Because fully
assisted participants would include a substantial number of families where the
extra labor roquirements during the immture phase would constitute an undue
burden on their low incomes, the project would provide optional credit for
50 percent of the labor requirements.
3.5       Self-Helg Plantine Scheme.  This scheme, to help 7,000 families
plant 4,000 ha of rubber and 3,000 ha of coconuts, would build upon an
initiative commenced under the Second Smallholder Rubber Development Project
(Loan 2494-IND), aimed at interested groups of farm families with suitable
land, who would be assisted in establishing group nurseries for the production
of quality planting material for their individual holdings. These families,
although poor, would have higher incomes than most farmers under the full
assistance scheme (para. 3.4). The scheme would be implemented with
assistance of specially assigned and trained project staff, in South Sumatra,
Jambi, Riau, and West Kalimantan (for rubber), and Riau, North Sulawesi,
Central Sulawesi and Maluku (for coconuts) in areas where new plantings under
the full assistance approach were not being carried out. To ensure quality,
the project would provide free of charge, rubber seed for rootstock and
budwood of the recommended clones. For coconuts, seednuts of the recommended
hybrids would be provided free of charge. In North Sulawesi and Central
Sulawesi, in response to farmer demand, good quality tall coconuts might be
included. All other inputs would be paid for by the farmers, both for the
nurseries and subsequent planting on their own land. In contrast to the
pro-1974 initiatives (para. 2.8), the project would advise and provide
training on establishment and maintenance of nurseries, and on field
development, and help organize input supplies. Implementation would be



- 15 -
monitored with particular attention to income status, technical ability of
participants, nursery output, and agronomic practices after field planting,
including fertilizer use. The planting targets would be reviewed annually
and, if necessary, changes made.
3.6       Maintenanc, of Existing Plantings.  Rubber:  Inputs (mainly
fertilizers) and small processing equipment would be provided on credit to
assist 48,000 farm families maintain, until commencement of tapping, 61,500 ha
of rubber planted under the Second Smallholder Rubber Development Project
(Loan 2494-IND) or financed by the Government in 1989-91 in the TCSDP
provinces. Thereafter, these farmers and other farmers whose trees planted
under earlier projects are already mature would continue to receive extension
advice on appropriate agronomic practices and on tapping, processing and
marketing. Coconuto: About 13,000 farm families with about 13,000 ha of
hybrid plantingi established and financed by the Government in 1989-91 in the
TCSDP provinces would be assisted through the supply of inputs (mainly
fertilizers) on credit, extension advice and training, until their plantings
reach maturity, in a similar way to rubber farmers.
3.7       Farm Access Roads.  Project management would let contracts in order
to have constructed about 1,250 km of light farm roads or tracks (on average
12.5 meters/ha) 250 meters of small concrete bridges, 250 meters of small
wooden bridges, and 2,000 meters of culvorts to facilitate improved access to
end within project sites. Actual construction would depend upon needs of
particular areas. Environmental considerations are discussed at para. 5.12.
3.8       Extension Services. Farmer Trainina and Demonstrations.  Extension
would be provided to new farm families joining the project, and to families
assisted by the earlier Smallholder Coconut and Rubber Development projects,
and by the Government in TCSDP areas from 1988 to 1990. Extension
responsibility in some PHU areas would later pass to the provincial estate
offices, as discussed in para. 5.5. The project would provide extension staff
with motor-cycles, extension aids including audio-visual equipment, operating
expenditures, and training. Technical support would be provided by specialist
staff from the project headquarters and provincial offices, and the immediate
supervisors at the PMU level.
3.9       Training on farmers' fields for 10,000 group leaders would cover
field practices, harvesting/tapping, and processing and marketing of rubber
and coconuts (paras. 6.3 and 6.4), and be based on needs analyzed by the
project in consultation with farmers' groups and the staff of the Tree Crops
Human Resource Development Project (Loan 2992-IND). If necessary, separate
courses would be conducted for women family members, although this does not
presently appear to be warranted nor cost-effective. Project management would
each year prepare detailed training programs for consideration as part of the
annual work programs.
3.10      The extension staff with the advice of technical staff would
establish demonstration plots on farmers' fields showing the effects of
improved practices including fertilizer applications, pest and disease
prevention and control measures, correct rubber tapping and improved
processing of coconut and rubber. The project would also provide for
establishment of observation plots on farmers' fields, project nursery areas



- 16 -
and land under the control of the provincial estate offices (Dina.
P-rkebunan), to monitor the performaace of clones and the effect of different
fertilizer regimes for specific locations.
Prolect Management and Staff Development
3.11      Cost Recovery.  The PMUs would be responsible for administering the
cost recovery agreaments with farmers (para. 5.8), and, as in the earlier PMU
projects, for maintaining records of items delivered to and accepted by
farmers. In addition, as the Government has decided that Bank Rakyat
Indonesia will no longer be involved, the project would undertake a new
function-the recovery of credit granted under the earlier projects, and in due
course, recovery of the credit granted under TCSDP. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that GOI would through the PMUs; (a) provide credit to
farm families and administer 3mallholder cost recovery agreements in
accordance with agreed proceedures; and (b) not later than December 31, 1992,
establish standardized amortization schedules for Smallholder Cost Recovery
Agreements; procedures for a simpli.fied system of accounting for interest on
such credits; recorde of amounts outstanding and due under Smallholder Cost
Recovery Agreements; and modified procedures for cost recovery under Prior
Loans and Credits, acceptable to the Bank.
3.12      Staff Training.  The PMU organization has built up a strong training
function under previous projects, and good course material is available from
several sourceos. The main new courses to be developed under TCSDP, by the
headquarters technical staff, and technical assistance provided to DGE (para.
3.16), would relate to credit administration, development of farmers' groups
and cooperatives, farm budgeting, and environmental matters. Approximately
21,000 staff-days of training would be provided for the project's 950
extension workers; and 13,600 staff-days for the 2,800 managerial and
administrative staff, at all levels of the project organization. These
courses and on-the-job training would cover technical, extension, financial
and administrative topics. Ylgher-level staff would receive management and
financial training through on-going government courses organized by the
Ministry of Finance and other related agencies. Other training courses would
be carried out in cooperation with appropriate DGE units, including the Tree
Crops Human Resource Development Project, and the Agency for Agricultural
Training and Extension (AATE), particularly for those who are expected to act
as on-the-job trainers. Project management would each year prepare detailed
training programs, in coordination with the Tree Crops Human Resource
Development Project, for consideration as part of the project annual work
programs.
3.13      Buildings. Land. Vehicles and Eauilment.  Under the project, 16 PMU
subunits would be upgraded to full PMUs with the provision of small offices,
warehouses, and staff housing. Necessary vehicles, radio communication
equipment, micro-computers, generators and office and training and extension
equipment for project requirements would be supplied.
3.14      Overatint Expenditures.  Incremental operating expenditures
including vehicle repairs, maintenance, travel expenses, prcject allowances,
office supplies, and other sundry office costs, would be financed under the
project, with Bank loan support on a declining basis. Salaries and wages, and



- 17 -
rehabilitation, rep4ire and maintenance of buildings, are regarded as non-
incremental expenditures, to be financed by the Government, and are not
included in project costs.
Tree Crog Proaram Support
3.15      Training in Land Titling and Auditina.  The project training unit
would organize and run 750 staff-days c_ training, with the assistance of the
National Land Agency (BPN). This would involve two courses, one aimed at
familiarizing BPN staff with the technical and procedural aspects of the
project relevant to their land titling activities; the other aimed at
familiarizing project staff with the requirements of BPN. The Financial and
Development Supervisory Board (BPKP) would organize and run 340 staff-days of
training, with the assistance of project management. This would also involve
two courses, one aimed at familiarizing BPKP staff with the tochnical aspects
of the project relevant to their audit duties; and one aimed at familiarizing
projact staff with the requirements for preparing accounts for audit.
3.16      Techmical Assistance.  To assist the management of the Government's
smallholder tree crop program as a whole, the project would provide to the
Directorate General of Estates 240 person-months of long-term international
technical assistance in the fields of rubber agronomy, coconut agronomy,
extension and training, finance/credit administration, and management
information systems. In addition, provision would be made for 24 person-
months of short term consultancies, including supervision of civil works and
coconut processing. Terms of reference of selected consultancies are at
Annex 9. The Government is in the process of employing an environmental
consultant, with Asian Development Bank financing, to be available for
assisting implementation of environmental monitoring by the Directorate
General of Estates. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that GOI
would cause DGE to employ, not later than September 30, 1992, an environmental
specialist to assist in the implementation of the environmental management and
monitoring of tree crop projects.
3.17      InsAection Services.  To assist DGE in improving implementation of
tree crop programs, an inspection of the activities of TCSDP and of other
major tree crop program activities would be carried out once each year by an
independent team or teams. Competent organizations including thos judged most
competent in carrying out the 1991 inspections, would be invited to undertake
the work. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that GOI would not
later than September 30, 1992, invite proposals from consultants to carry out
the annual inspection.
3.18      Studies.  The project provides for:  (a) a study of sustainable
financing and cost recovery for smallholder tree crop development. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the Government would, after
consultation with the Bank and not lator than March 31, 1993, reuise, if
necessary, its system for sustainable financing and cost recovery for future
smallholder tree crop development, taking into account the recommendations of
the study. If changes were proposed for the cost recovery arrangements for
the proposed project (para. 5.8) these would require the agreement of
Government and the Bank; (b) preparation and start-up of a future smallholder
project; (c) a study of coconut seed gardens which would make recommendations



- 16 -
to DGE on how best to ensuro continued availability of hybrid seed nuts for
future programs from the public or private sector.; and (d) other studio.
relatod to troe crop agriculture, poverty-related agriculture, the role of
women in rural areas, and environmentel protection, as may be agreed.
E. Technical and Environmental Pre2aration
3.19      The project proposal was prepared by the Directorate General of
Estates, with assistance on environmontal, poverty, rural sociology, and
financial aspects provided under Tranche A of the Japanese Grant for the
project. During preparation, discussions took place with potential
participants and provincial administrations The project constitutes a time
sliac of ongoing programs, and thus preparatory activities such as nursery
development are currently in hand, and planting is intended to commence in
1992/93 (para. 4.8). Environmental management aspects are discussed in
para. 5.12.
F. Rol of Women
3.20      Indonesian women are active participants in all sectors of the
economy. To maximize income, households allocate their labor flexibly for
tree crop cultivation without regard to gender. Similarly, consumption and
investment expenditure dcisions are typically taken at a family level. The
extension service, which employs mainly men but also some women for identical
duties, would direct its extension and training activities to all concerned
family members, whecher men, women, or youths. Spouses would co-sign project
participation and credit agroements. Where women are heads of households,
they would be fully eligible to participate in their own names and their
number would be monitored. The project would help ensure that women and
poorer families are not excluded by providing partial wage payments during the
imature life of the trees before revenuos commence, and by not requiring
formal land title (hak milik) as a condition of project entry. The mid-term
review of the project would determine whether project activities had given
rise to specific constraints relating to women's participation.



- 19 -
IV. PRWJE.T COSTS AND FINANCING
Prolect Costs
4.1         Total project costs are estimated at US$154.5 million (Rp
307.8 billion) of which US$60.9 million (Rp 121.3 billion) is foreign exchange
and US$10.8 million (Rp 21.5 billion) are duties and taxes. Bass costs are at
January 1992 levels and were derived from data in the preparation report and
reviewed and adjusted at re-appraisal. No physical contingencies have boen
added to labor, technical assistance, studiesp and inspection services; 5
percent physical contingencies have been added to other costs. Price
contingencies are calculated on total costs (local plus foreign) &t the
estimated inflation rates for foreign costs, of 3.7 percent, together with an
additional price contingency to cover expected increases in the farmgate price
of fertilizers. The project cost estimates are ummarized in Tablo 4.1 and
are detailed in Annex 3.
Table 4.1s  PROJECT COSTS AND FINNCING /e
(USS million)
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total  Z Base
=---- (Rp billion) ----- ---- (US$ million) ----   costs
PROJECT COSTS
Farm Level Actlvlties
new plantings                    102.0     54.3     156.3    51.2      27.2     78.4    60.6
Self-help scheme                   0.8      0.1       0.9     0.4      0.1       0.5      0.4
Existing plantings                19.2     20.6      39.8      9.6     10.4     20.0     15.5
Farm acces track                   8.4      1.0       9.4     4.2      0.5       4.7      3.6
Farmer training and                1.1      0.7       1.8     0.6      0.3       0.9      0.7
demonstrations
Subtotal                      131.5     76.7     208.2    66.0    38.5    104.5    80.8
Proiect Nana    t
vehicles & equipt.                4.4       5.2       9.6     2.2      2.6       4.8     3.7
Staff trainaig                     2.4      0.8       3.2      1.2     0.4       1.6      1.2
Incremental operating
expenditures                     21.8       4.9      26.7    10.9      2.5      13.4    10.4
Subtotal                       28.6     10.9      39.5    14.3      5.5      19.8    15.3
Tree Croc Proaram 8UDDort
Techntcel asslstTnce               0.6      5.9       6.5     0.4      3.0       3.4      2.5
Inspection                         0.6      1.8       2.4     0.3      0.9       1.2      0.9
Studies                            0.9      0.2       1.1     0.4      0.1       0.5      0.4
Subtotal                        2.1      7.9      1.0l      ;I      4.0       5.1      3.9
Base Costs                    162.2     95.5     ,5.7   81.4        48.0    129.4   100.0
Physical contingencies               3.6       4.5       8.1     1.8      2.2      4.0      3.1
Price contingencies                 20.7      21.3      42.0    10.4     10.7     21.1     16.3
Prolect Coste /a              186.5    121.3     307.8    93.6    60.9    155    119.4
FINANCING PLAN
Farm famille                                                  23.6              23.6
Govsrn nt                                                     39.2               39.2
Japanese Grant                                                 1.5      2.6      4.1
IBRD                                                          29.3    58.3      87.6
Total FinancinR                                              93.6    60.9    154.5
/a  Inclusive of taxes and duties amounting to US$10.8 million; exclusive of non-Incremental
operating expenditures to be financed by the Government.



- 20 -
P1ia pi      Plan
4.2       The proposed Bank loan of US$87.6 million would finance 96 percent
of the foreign exchange coats and 31 percent of the local currency costs of
the project. In addition, Tranche B of a Japanese Grant Agreement signed on
December 18, 1990, between Indonesia and the Bank, as Administrator, for
V537.5 million (about US$4.1 million) would finance part of the technical
assistance and related goods and services under the project. The Loan and the
Grant represent 65 percent (respectively about 62 and 3 percent) of project
costs exclusive of taxes and duties (US$10.8 million) and reserved procurement
of vehicles and land (US$2.6 million). Farm families would contribute sweat
equity amounting to US$23.6 million, and the Government would contribute
US$39.2 million. The proportion financed by the Government may decrease, and
the share financed by farm families may increase, if all families do not avail
themselves of the facility to take loans for partial labor payments during the
mainterance period. In addition to contributing on an increasing basis to
project incremental operating coats, the Government would also finance non-
incremental staffing and operating costs. The financing plan is in Table 4.1.
Procurement
4.3       Procurement arrangements are shown in Table 4.2.  Except as noted
below, procurement would be by international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Group guidelines. For goods, a preference limited to 15 percent of
the CIF price of imported goods or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would
be extended to domestic manufacturers in the evaluation of bids.
(a) ICB 2rocedures for aarochemicals approved under the Government's
regulations for potentially environmentally sensitive chemicals,
would be implemented in the manner adopted under previous projects.
The Government would issue an annual notice in the United Nations'
"Development Business" giving brief details of the procurement needs
in the year ahead, and of the Indonesian licensing procedures.
Under the regulations, new products and distributors may be
licensed, after in-country product testing. Invitations to bid
would be sent to all registered distributors for duly licensed
agrochemicals which meet the purpose of intended use.
(b) Local comoetitive biddina procedures acceptable to the Bank and open
to international firms would be used for noods (excent vehicles) and
transport services estimated to cost le  than USS200,000.  The
items concerned, estimated to cost an aggregate US$33.9 million, are
mainly small agricultural tools and equipment, which would be
required at the level of the 120 individual PMUs over four years
level in small lots (average value less than US$70,000) consistent
with the project schedule. Farmers' groups would be encouraged to
participate in the procurement procedures so they may continue to
handle these purchases in the mature phase.
(c)  Local competitive bidding would also be used for civil works,
estimated to cost in aggregate US$6.4 million. The contracts for
small offices, housing, garages, roads and tracks would be small and
widely scattered and thus unlikely to attract international bidders.



- 21 -
Table 4.2: PROCUREMENT METHODS /a
(US$ million)
Procurement Method                Total
Project Element                        ICB    LCB      Other/b   N.B.F./c  Cost
Civil works                                     6.4                          6.4
(5.7)                        (5.7)
Fertilizers                                              31.2               31.2
(27.4)            (27.4)
Agricultural inputs and equipment
and related transport services       8.8    33.8                          42.6
(7.8)  (30.5)                       (38.3)
Land titling services                                     2.5                2.5
(2.2)             (2.2)
Land acquisition                                                     0.2/d   0.2
Vehicles                                                             2.4/d   2.4
Office equipment                                1.2       0.3                1.5
(1.1)     (0.3)              (1.4)
Family and nursery labor                                            44.8/e  44.8
Training:  (a) Farm Families                              0.4        0.31f   0.7
(0.4)             (0.4)
(b) Project Staff                             0.3        1.4/f   1.7
(0.3)             (0-3)
Consultant services and studies                           3.1        2.41f   5.5
(3.1)             (3.1)
Incremental operating expenditures                       15.0               15.0
(8.8)             (8.8)
Totals                              8.8    41.4       52.8      51.5   154.5
(7.8)  (37.3)    (42.5)       -     (87.6)
L  Figures in parentheses are estimated amounts to be financed by Bank loan,
including contingencies.
/b Includes force account, prudent shopping, and consultant selection.
/c Not Bank-financed.
/d Financed by Government.
Ie Financed by Beneficiaries (sweat equity) and Government.
/f Financed by Japanese Grant.
(d)  Fertilizers, estimated to cost US$31.2 million, required at the
level of 120 individual PMUs over the life of the project (estimated
average annual value per site US$70,000) would be procured from
authorized distributors of P.T. Pupuk Sriwijaya, as in earlier tree
crop projects. Farmers' groups would be encouraged to participate
in the procurement procedures so they may continue to handle those
purchases in the mature phase. The distribution system (para. 1.17)



- 22 -
functions smoothly as demonstrated in previous projects, to provide
these fertilizers throughout the country, including the remote areas
included in the proposed project. The peak annual project
requiresents represent less than 2 percent of annual material
demand.
(a) Purchases of goods (except vehicles) and transport services
estimated to cost less than USS50.000 could be through local
phoMp4gn with three price quotations. The estimated aggregate value
of such small contracts is US$0.6 million.
(f) Planting material would either be produced in PMU nurseries, with
procurement of nursery inputs and services as provided above, or
after consultation with the Bank, by inviting quotations from
qualified public or private sector suppliers. Training, land
surveying and titling, would be undertaken by Government, with the
Bank disbursing against incremental expenditures for travel,
accommodation, surveying and titling costs, and preparation of
training courses or material.
(g) Contracts for consulting services, including inspection services and
studies, would be warded on the basis of Bank Guidelines on the Use
of Consultants.
(h) Contracts for land acquieition and vehicles (Annex 4, Table 7) would
be by Government procedures and treated as reserved procurement.
Assurances wre obtained during negotiations that GOI would ensure
that appropriate and adequate numbers of vehicles would be made
available in a timely manner for the Project.
4.4       Procurement Rview.  Standard documents are in use for building
construction, road construction, and agrochemicals, and would be reviewed and
revised if necessary, in agreement with the Bank. Prior review of procurement
documents by the Bank would take place for agrochemicals procured through ICB
(para. 4.3(a)) and other procurement estimated to cost US$200,000 or more, and
for technical assistance. Prior review would also take place for the first
two occurrences of use of each standard procurement document, even if the
estimated cost were less than US$200,000. On this basis, it is expected that
prior review would occur in the case of all ICB procurement (the agrochemical
procurement) valued at US$8.8 million, all of about 12 consulting services and
studies contracts, valued at US$5.5 million, 4 out of 50 civil works (total
value US$6.4 million); and 20 out of the numerous, generally small contracts,
for general agricultural and office equipment and supplies (total value
US$34.8 million). Other contracts would be exmined on a sample basis during
reviews of statements of xpanditures.
Disbursements
4.5       Disburements of the Bank Loan would be as indicated in Table 4.3.
The unallocated amount includes provision for anticipated higher-than-
inflation increases in the farmgate price of fartilizar Applications for
disbursements for consultancy services and related equipment would draw down
the Japanese Grant first, and subsequently the Bank Loan.



- 23 -
T ble 4.3s DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES AND PHASING
(US$ million)
Category                                   Amount    Percent to be financed
1. Civil works                              5.4    912
2.  Fertilizers                            17.8    912
3. Agricultural equipment (excluding
vehicles), agricultural inputs
(excluding fertilizer.), and           34.1    1002 of foreign expenditures
related transport services                     or 912 of local expenditures
4.  Services for Land Titling               2.2    912
5.  Office Equipment                        1.2    912
5.  Training for: (a) Farm families        0.35    1002
(b) Staff               0.25    1002
6.  Technical assistance and studies        2.8    1002
7.  Incremental operating expenditures      7.5    702 of expenditures incurred
for PMCs                                      under the budget for GOI FY8
1992/93 and 1993t94, 502 for
1994/95 and 1995/96, 202 for
1996/97, and zero thereafter
Unallocated                         16 0
Total
Phasinft           Bank FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98   FY99
Annual                   11.0    14.5    16.5    16.5    14.5    10.0    4.6
Cumulative               11.0    25.5    42.0    58.5    73.0    83.0   87.6
4.6       Disbureements under the project would be made against Statements of
Expenditure (SOE*) for contracts valued at le  than US$200,000, including
contracts for fertilizers acquired by the PMU. Documentation for SOE
expenditures would not be submitted for review but would be retained by
project implementing agencies and the Directorate General of Budget (Ministry
of Finance), and made available for inspection by the auditors (para. 4.9) and
by the Bank during the course of project supervision.
4.7       All funds would be budgeted under the standard national development
budget procedures. To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account in dollars



- 24 -
would be opened in Bank Indonesia by the Directorate General of Budget, to be
used for both foreign and lecal currency expenditures, with an initial depoait
of US$5.0 million (equivalent to the expected average eligible disbursements
during a four month period). The Government would request replenishment of
the Special Account monthly or if its balance were to fall below 50 percent of
the initial deposit. All local curroncy payments would be processed through
the special account, together with most foreign currency payments. However
disbursements for fnreign currency payments could be processed under IBRD
direct payment or special commitment procedures, for amounts of US$100,000
equivalent or more. A Special Account has also been provided under the
Japanese Grant, of V50 million, which would be operated in a similar manner.
4.8       At negotiations, two possible implementation schedules for the
project were discussed. The "fast" schedule (Annex 1, Table 1) provides for
three years' planting from 1992/93 to 1994/95, and an additional year'.
maintenance in 1995/96. This schedule, which the Government will attempt to
meet, is considered achievable as the project constitutes a time-slice of a
program being undertaken by a functioning organization. However, project
costs and the loan amount are b&.ed on some slippage. Annex 1, Table 2
presents a slower schedule agreed during negotiations, with plantings and
maintenance spread over five years, 1992/93 and 1996/97, which forms the basis
for project cost estimates, th;e loan amount, and the project economic
analysis. Such slower implementation would have a negligible effect (less
than 1 percent) upon the economic rate of return. Bank disbursement profiles
of past investment projects in the Indonesian agriculture sector, and in tree
crop projects worldwide have covered 8.5 years, reflecting experience of
projects with longer implementation periods. In view of this, the project
completion date allows for implementation continuing into a further GOI fiscal
year to March 31, 1998, and the loan closing date has been set at September
30, 1998. The estimated disbursement schedule (Table 4.3) allows for some
final disbursements in the first half of calendar year 1999.
Accounts and Audits
4.9       Project accounting arrangements are already effectively in place, as
detailed project accounts have been kept for the predecessor projects
(Smallholder Coconut Development Project; Loan 1898-IND, and Second
Smallholder Rubber Development Project; Loan 2494-IND), which would be
suitable for the proposed project. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the accounts would be audited by the Financial and
Development Superviaory Board (BPKP), with the audit report being submitted to
the Bank within nine months of the close of each Government fiscal year,
including separate opinions on Statement of Expenditure usage and on the
Special Account.



- 25 -
V. ORGANIZATION. KAAGDEENT AND IMULEENMTATION
Prolsct Organization
5.1       Th. Directorate for Estate Crops Rehabilitation and Expansion (BRPT)
within the Directorate General of Estates would be responsible for project
implementation. The timing of implementation of the main activities is
indicated in Annex 1. The effective management structures established within
BRPT to implement the earlier Bank-assisted smallholder tree crop projects
(Smallholder Coconut Development Project-Loan 1898-IND; and the First and
Second Smallholder Rubber Development Projects-Credit 984-IND and Loan
2494-IND) have been merged, resulting in a single project structure at both
head office and provincial levels. The project manager in the Jakarta head
office would be assisted by three deputies in charge of technical, finance and
administration divisions. Technical assistance would be provided by a team of
specialists attached to the Director General of Estates (para. 3.16). The two
predecessor PMU organizations have in recent years been responsible for
satisfactory plantings at an annual rate comparable to that proposed under the
project, and for efficiently delivering the in-kind credit for the program,
and the new combined organization is judged fully capable of implementing the
proposed project.
5.2       Project provincial offices would have extension, finance and credit,
administration, and treasury sub-departments, and would be responsible for
supervision and coordination of all project staff and activities in the
province. The treasury sub-department has been added in line with GOI policy
to delegate greater management responsibility to the project provincial
offices. In Central Sulawesi and West Sumatra, only a Liaison Office would be
maintained in the provincial capital. In North Sulawesi and Aceh where only
maintenance of existing plantings, or a small self-help component, would be
undertaken, the staffing of the provincial office, and PMUs, would be reduced
and one of the PMU managers would concurrently serve as the provincial liaison
officer. In all provinces the project's provincial managers would work in
close coordination and collaboration with the provincial government
authorities, particularly the Heads of Agriculture (Kekanwil) and Estate Crops
(Disbun).
5.3       Farm level activities in the 12 project provinces would be
implemented by 120 existing PMUs, including 16 upgraded from subunit status.
Additional staffing requirements at field PMU and provincial office level,
would be met by reassignment from within BRPT. Each PMU would have a manager
and assistant managers for nurseries, finance and credit, and administration,
together with a cashier. Each PMU would cover an area of up to 3,000 ha of
new planting, which would be managed through subunits each responsible for
1,000 ha. Although 3 out of the 12 provinces *ould have both rubber and
coconut programs, implementation would be in separate locations and there
would be no overlap of crop responsibility within a subunit. Fifty-six PMUs
would undertake activities related to maintenance of existing plantings only.
5.4       Within PMUs, each extension agent would be responsible for 6-8
groups of 15-25 families during the planting period, and more groups
thereafter, and would work mainly with the farmer-nominated group leader, but



- 26 -
would also maintain contact with individual families, especially to ensure
that specific needs of all family members, including women and youth, are
addressed. Each group's action plan would be reviewed by PHU managers each
six months and aftar consultation with the group revised as necessary. Mase
communications techniques would be increasingly employed. The project would
seek an increase in the number of female extension workers, who perform
identical duties to male agents. However, the limited number of girls who
choose to enter agricultural high schools is a primary constraint.
5.5       The Government has decided in principle that when all rubber and
coconuts in a PHU area reach maturity, extension responsibility would be
transferred to the concerned provincial estate offices (Dinas Porkebunan).
This decision is expected to bo further elaborated after an ongoing study of
national and provincial extension services is completed in late 1992,
following which appropriate actions would be discussed.
Cost Recovery
5.6       As in earlier projects, the PHU organization would be responsible
for delivery of in-kind and labor credit, and special administrative staff
would maintain records of farmers' accounts, and farmars' acknowledgement of
items received. This aspect of the present system is functioning
satisfactorily. The arrangements under ongoing projects whereby extension
staff encourage farmers' groups to make arrangements wth traders for purchase
of their output, and at the same time have 30 percent of the proceeds deducted
and placed in blocked savings accounts for repayment of credit, would be
modified under the proposed project. The PHU organization would be
responsible for transferring the repayments to the Ministry of Finance in
Jakarta, and for maintaining farmers' accounts showing the repayments. This
function would be handled by the same administrative staff who maintain the
present records of input deliveries to farmers; to the extent that any
additional staff are needed at some PHUs, existing DGE staff would be
reassigned to the function.
5.7       The rate of cost recovery under the previous projects has been low,
in part because complicated procedures for establishing farmers' accounts have
been an impediment to farmers who have wished to repay. The rate of recovery
is expected to improve with simpler arrangements and only one institution
involved. However, there would continue to be no direct sanctions against
default-rs, as the taking over of land or output for debt repayment is not
practical; nor is it presently feasible to link default on a tree crop debt
to access to new short-term credit. The main factors affecting an improvement
in the repayment rate would be: (a) the fact that most farm families wish to
repay their debts and thereby obtain the formal land title documents (hak
milik)s (b) the acknowledgement of indebtedness by both husband and wife
(para. 3.20); (c) the role of the farmer group organizations in instilling a
sense of group loyalty in meeting obligations; and (d) the interest of the PHU
organization in improving repayment performance, to facilitate approval of
their annual budget requests. Nevertheless, experience dictates a cautious
assessment of repayment rates to be achiaved. The cost recovery discussion at
para. 6.9 is based on an average credit recovery rst* of 60 percent, in line
with experience reported in a project impact evaluation report for another
country (para. 2.5).   While there is a risk this rate may not be achieved, a



- 27 -
significant improvement aver the current situation is considered achievable.
The study of options for sustainable financing and cost recovery would
specifically consider the role of credit in the tree crop financing (Annex 9).
5.8       The PHU* would be responsible for having smallholders sign
participation and cost recovery agroements upon acceptance into tho project
(para. 3.3). The smallholder assistance package for new particLpants*
together with TCSDP smallholders who have boen assisted by the Government from
1988 to 1990, would consist of a grant component to cover the establishment of
the tree crops, together with a coat recovery component, with highly positive
interest at 21 percent, for the maintenance costs during the i-ature period.
The first year costs, on a grant basis (para. 3.4) would include partial
family labor payments for land clearing and preparation, with a limit of 50
percent of prevailing farm labor rates. The absolute amount of the first year
grant for each crop would be fixed at the beginning of each planting year.
Maintenance costs during the period when trees have not started to produce,
would be made available as credit from the Government through PHUs, and would
consist of normal agro-inputs, partial family labor payments to those in need
(and willing to accept the payments on a credit basis) and on-farm processing
equipment. Cost recovery paymont schedules would be set to effectively
include interost compounded annually during the grace period, which covers the
immature period until substantial revenue commences (part. 3.11). Formal land
titles (hak milik) would not be required as a condition of project entry, but
participants would be asked to agree that the formal titles once issued would
be retained by the Government until the cost recovery obligation were fully
met. Details of smallholder income and the project's cost recovery index ara
at Table 6.1.  In view of the uncertainties surrounding various elements of
the mallholder cost recovery models, the level of cost recovery payments
needs to be reviewed from time to time. Such review would include, amongst
other factors, a review of the interest rate level. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that GOI would, in consultation with the Bank, review from
time to time the level of cost recovery payments to be made by smallholders
under the Project, taking into account the cash flows of such smallholders;
and, thereafter, make any adjustments to such payments as agreed with the
Bank.
5.9       The terms for credit to be granted to smallholders who have
established rubber under the Second Smallholder Rubber Development project
(Loan 2494-IND) would conform to the existin3 arrangemnts for that project.
This credit would cover the remaining needs for immature period maintenance of
participants in that project. As stipulated in the related Loan Agreement for
the project, Government has provided, and is to provide, the inputs to the
concerned farmers for both the initial year establishment, and for subsoquent
years' maintenance, on credit at an interest rate of 12 percent. In contrast,
the scheme for new entrants to the project (para. 5.8) provides the initial
year's inputs as a grant, but charges 21 percent interest in the subsequent
years. Under both schemes, farmers would be required to pay about 30 percent
of their gross revenues for cost recovery purposes.
5.10      The concerned farmers would not be made aware of the different
sources of finance for the credit. These farmers have already received some
credit under the Second Smallholder Rubber Development Project (SRDP II), but
have not yet signed credit agreements with Bank Rakyat Indonesia. GOI's



- 28 -
intention is to put in place arran8ements so that such farmers would sign a
single cost recovery agreement with the Government (via the PHU), whose terms
and conditions for the farmer would be as provided under SRDP II. It is
further intended that the PMUs would administer such agreements, keep
smallholder records, and collect and transmit to the Ministry of Finance cost
recovery payments, using the same administrative arrangements as is envisaged
for the new participants under TCSDP. Under these arrangements, Bank Rakyat
Indonesia would no longer have implementation responsibilities in relation to
the smallholders.
5.11      To implement these intencions, consequential amendments are required
to various agreements between the Government, Bank Indonesia, and Bank Rakyat
Indonesia, and to Loan Agreement 2494-IND between the Government and the Bank,
which were not complete at the time of negotiations. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that related disbursements would not be permitted until the
Government had established procedures, acceptable to the Bank, for the
recovery of credit from smallholders who had obtained credit under Loan
2494-IND and who would obtain additional credit under TCSDP.
Environmental Manaxement
5.12      In accordance with Indonesian environmental regulations, which are
satisfactory to the Bank, the Government has screened each project site and
the project as a whole, and has prepared an Environmental Management Plan
(RIL) and Monitoring Plan (RPL), which confirm that the environmental impact
of small farmers developing their own land under the project would be
positive. Possible negative impacts would be avoided by following the
Environmental Management Plan (RKL) in regard to land preparation techniques,
access track construction standards, and use of agrochemicals (para. 5.11).
Resettlement would not be involved, and negative impacts upon indigenous
peoples, primary forests, or bio-diversity are not expected. Project staff
would be asked to notify the provincial authorities should they observe
exploitation of primary forests nearby the project areas. Environmental
impacts would be monitored under the project's management and inspection
procedures, in accordance with the project's Environmental Monitoring Plan.
The capability of the Directorate General of Estates to oversee compliance
will be strengthened through technical assistance under a project financed by
the Asian Development Bank. The independent inspection services would
reinforce the monitoring of environmental matters.
5.13      The Environmental Management Plan provides a package of measures to
address potential impacts. These measures include a range of integrated
conservation and husbandry practices by farmers. To lessen degradation of the
soil the land would be cleared manually, during the dry period so as to reduce
soil erosion, and immediately sown to cover crops. Preference would be given
to non-chemical means (rolling in conjunction with establishment of leguminous
cover crops) to eradicate alang alang where possible. Leguminous cover crops,
v-tiver grass, and terracing would be established where required to prevent
erosion, increase soil fertility and conserve soil moisture. Use of approved
pesticides would be for serious outbreaks of pests and diseases only. Staff
&and farmers would be trained in the environmentally sound use of chemicals,
and other environmental procedures. No toxic chemicals would be used in the
small group processing units to be provided under the project to enable



- 29 -
farmers to produce air-dried rubber sheets. Map overlays of proposed roads or
tracks in each area would be prepared to ensure they avoid *nvironmentally
sensitive areas. Construction would follow any appropriate Department of
Public Works environmental standards.
Proaramina. Monitorint and Inspection
5.14      Proarammina.  In accordance with established practices, project
management would submit the annual work program and budget submission for the
coming year to Bappenas/Finance in October of each year, and forward a copy to
the Bank. After discussions, programs and budgets are approved by
Bappenas/Finance in February/March, and a copy of the approved program/budget
would also be forwarded to the Bank.
5.15      Monitorina.  The Management Services Unit at the projoct
headquarters would monitor implementation progress, including physical
progress, quality of implementation, environmental aspects, impact on
participating farm families, performance of rubber clones and coconut hybrids
under the different conditions prevailing in the project areas, and financial
performance. In tho field the Management Servicee subunit in the provincial
office would monitor implementation progress in PMUs in the province. The MIS
specialist, who would be recruited in 1992/93, would develop the format and
specific details of an enhanced monitoring system, taking into account the
overall system in place in DGE, the present systems in use by PMU projects
(which are satisfactory at field level but need strengthening to allow better
overview of the project as a whole), the requirements of the Environmental
Monitoring Plan, and the need to develop a simple, practical system which
would also keep the administrative workload of field staff to a minimum.
5.16      In general, PMUs would provide physical and financial data at
specified intervals; project provincial offices would review and confirm the
accuracy of this data on a sample basis; and the project head office would
review provincial office submissions and confirm the data on a sample basis.
Project management would submit its progress reports to BRPT which in turn
would report to DGE. Progress reports would be submitted to the Bank every
six months, and would at a minimum cover the key indicators given at Annex 1.
Supervision missions would be scheduled, as far as possible, to take place in
September/October and March/April. This timing would permit discussions in
September/October of the draft annual work program and budget submission for
the coming year, and in March/April, of the final programs after approval by
Bappenas/Finance. Bank supervision missions would aim to cover environmental
aspects at least once a year. A mid-term review of project progress would
take place, tentatively scheduled for September/October 1994. Project
management would prepare a project completion report in advance of the
supervision mission inmediately prior to the loan closing date.
5.17      Inspection Services.  Once a year, independent inspection teams
would inspect TCSDP and other important tree crop projects. They would verify
TCSDP data, and once the monitoring system described above is operational,
increasing use might be made of sampling techniques. The inspection teams
would also review implementation of the project's Environmental Management and
Monitoring Plans, and propose modifications to the plans or to project design
if necessary. The inspection reports would contain a section on detailed



- 30 -
findings in Indonesicn, for the use of project management, and an executive
uemary in English which would be made available to the Director General of
Rstates, the Director General of Monetary Affair., the Director General of
Budget, the Doputy Chairman (Agriculture) of the National Devolopment Planning
Agency (Bappenas), tho concerned Doputy Auditor General of the Bureau of
Financial and Development Control (BPKP), and the Inspector General and the
Read of Environmental Affairs of the Department of Agriculture. Both the
detailed findings (in English, if available, otherwise in Indonesian) and the
executive sumary would be forwarded to the Bank.



- 31 -
VI *   POCT RESULTS
Yields and Production
6.1       Rubber.  Fully-assisted participants are expected to start tapping
in the sixth year and attain average peak yields of 1,400 kg/ha (dry rubber
content) ten years later. This estimate is based on experience with farmers
practicing reasonable field management under earlier projects under similar
conditions. Within the average, fields surveys indicate that with varying
conditions among holdings and locations, about 70 percent of participants
would maintain their plantings in a very good to good manner, 15 percent in a
fair manner, and about 15 percent would be poor. Annual dry rubber production
from the 65,000 ha of new plantings is estimated to peak at 91,000 tons.
6.2       Coconuts.  Based on experience with farmers cultivating hybrids,
production is expected to comm nce in the fourth year and the palms would
reach full maturity eight years later, when average yields of 2,700 kg of
copra (15 percent moisture content) are expected to be attained. Experience
for coconuts also indicates that about 70 percent of the participating farm
families would maintain their plantings in a very good to good manner,
15 percent in a fair manner, and 15 percent poorly. Annual copra production
from the 35,000 ha new plantings is estimated to peak at 94,500 tons.
Processing and Marketing
6.3       Rubber.  Rubber is purchased by private traders in all project
areas. Although prevalent practice among smallholders is to produce slab and
cup lump which have relatively high dirt and water contents, farmers'
attention to quality is improving. Under the Second Smallholder Rubber
Development Project (Loan 2494-IND), groups whose plantings have reached
maturity have been assisted in producing and marketing clean air-dried sheots,
which command a higher price, and the program would be intensified under the
project (para. 3.9). Market information is disseminated to allow more
informed decisions to be made on the value of improving quality.
6.4       Coconuts.  Coconut products are purchased by private traders in all
project areas. The degree of processing done by smallholder farmers is highly
dependent on relative prices in the marketplace. A large part of the coconut
crop now being produced is processed into copra and sold to factories directly
or through intermediaries. There is also a market for fresh nuts, fresh meat
for oil extraction and a growing demand for coconut brown sugar. Farmers are
able to improve quality of products through improved harvesting of nuts, copra
making, extraction of fresh meat, home oil extraction and brown sugar making
procedures and techniques.
Price Prospects
6.5       Natural rubber prices, in terms of constant (1991) dollars, are
projected by the Bank's International Trade Division to rise from their
1991/92 range of US$0.95 - 1.05/kg to about US$1.26/kg by 1995, and remain
around that level until 2005. The prices of coconut oil and copra are
governed by complex interrelationships in the vegetable and edible oil



- 32 -
market. A salient feature of the market is its price volatility. Coconut
oil prices in 1991 terms averaged US$666/ton in 1982, US$1,781/ton in 1984,
US$877/ton in 1985, and US$375/ton in 1986, giving price risk for both
producers and consumer. The joint production of meals intended for animal
consumption and oils from annual oilseed crops and oila, and the fixed nature
of production of perennial vegetable oils, are a key causes of the gyrations
in vegetable oil pricea. The projections used to assess project viability
indicate that prices of coconut oil would rise to US$575/ton by 2000, and then
decline to US$466/ton by 2005 (1991 terms). Copra pricec would also rise, to
US$345/ton by 2000, but decline to US$329/ton by 2005. The farmgate price
projections are included in Annex 6.
Crop Budaets and Cost Recovery
6.6       During project preparation, budgets were established reflecting the
levels of costs in different regions, and taking into account varying
technical requirements according to ground cover, slopes, or disease problems.
Analysis of crop budgets is based upon a typical cost situation, and a high
cost situation. The typical rubber farmer needs to clear bushes or alang
alang, does not require terracing, does not have a requirement for sulfur dust
for root disease control, and lives in an area where the rural wage rate is
Rp 1,850/day. The typical coconut farmer has a similar cost structure and
does not need drainage works. In addition to the typical case analysis, a
high cost case is presented for both rubber and coconuts. In all cases, the
models are based on the farmer who undertakes plantings in 1994/95, when it is
assumed that all Government price subsidies on fertilizers have been
eliminated. To analyze the impact of differences iu quality of planting
achieved by various farmers, the average yields assumed for the project were
disaggregated into the four classes monitored under the ongoing projects
(paras. 6.1-6.2). Baced on the experience of these projects, 30 percent of
farmers are assumed to achieve yields 30 percent higher than the average;
40 percent are assumed to achieve 5-10 percent higher; 15 percent are assumed
to achieve 15 percent below; and the remaining 15 percent are assumed to
obtain yields 55-60 percent below the average.
Table 6.1: CROP MODELS RESULTS
Years to repay          Return after
FRR       (at 30Z of gross    debt service to day of
(Real terms)     revenues)        labor input (1991 terms)
Typical cost
rubber farmer       28Z          8 years                  Rp 5,300
coconut farmer      21Z          11 years                 Rp 4,500
High cost
rubber farmer       241          12 years                 Rp 5,300
coconut farmer      19Z          13 years                 Rp 4,500



- 33 -
6.7       Crop models ore presented in Annex 6 for both rubber *nd coconuta,
assuming the minimum yields achievable by the majority (70 percont) of
participant. Table 6.1 summarizes tho key results of tho models. For theoe
farmera, the real financial rate of return (FRR) of undertaking rubber or
coconut planting would be highly satisfactory, and the cost rocovery terms
proposed for the project, would be pitched at a reasonable level in terms of
incentives (the return to day of labor input indicated is for the second or
third year of the repayment period and compares to rural wage rates of
Rp 1,850-2,000/day) and length of repayment period.
6.8       A similar analysis for the farmers who achieve yields 15 percent
below tho average assumed for the project, indicates that financial rates of
return remain satisfactory, at 23 and 19 percent for the typical and high cost
rubber farmer, end 19 end 13 percent for the typical and high cost coconut
farmer. The returns per day also remain satisfactory at Rp 5,200 for rubber
end Rp 4,500 for coconuts and would give rise to annual family incomes four
times the absolute poverty level. These returns would also apply to the bulk
of the self-help farmers.
6.9       Tho cost recovery index measures the net present value (in this case
assuming an opportunity cost of capital of 10 percent) of forocast recoveries
in constant terms, as a percentage of the net present value of the on-farm
costs (full assistance package) provided to farm families as grants or credit.
No deductions have boen made from gross recoveries for the costs of
administering the cost recovery system, because there are negligible
incremental costs for the PMU system to undertako this administration, as no
additional staff would need to be employed by the Government. There is, of
course, no recovery of the grant. The key assumption in calculating the incex
is the repayment rate for the credit component of on-farm costs. Based on the
experience reported in an OED impact evaluation report of an analogous
situation in another country it would be prudent not to assume credit
repayment higher than 60 percent (para. 5.6). On this assumption the cost
recovery index for on-farm costs (both grent and credit) would be about
50 percent; and for the credit component only about 90 percent.
Economic Analysis
6.10      Calculations to derive economic costs are based on the following:
all economic costs are net of taxes and duties; fertilizer prices are based on
the Bank's international commodity price projections, February 1992; and a
standard conversion factor of 90 percent has been applied to the local
component of other project costs except for labor, which is valued at market
rates. The opportunity cost of land is based on market rental rates for
agricultural land. PHU costs in the proportion of the immature to the total
area, are projected to continue after project completion. The economic rate
of return is estimated at 14 percent. If the project's non-incremental costs
are taken into account, the ERR is 13 percent.
6.11      The ERR is relatively insensitive to changes in either costs or
benefits. The main element of uncertainty for the project relates to price
projections.  Projert benefits could fall by 20 percent, due to lower than
forecast prices or yields, without the ERR falling below the opportunity cost
of capital (10 percent). Other indications of the robustness of the ERR are
in Table 6.2.



- 34 -
Table 6A2t SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Assumptions                               ERR (2)
Basoe case                                        14
202 increase in costs                             11
202 decrease in benefits                          10
102 increase in costs and 102 decrease            10
in benefits
202 increase in costs and 202 decrease
in benefits                                      7
Benefits. Risks and Uncertaintieo
6.12      The project would improve incomes of 161,000 poor families in the
outer islands to over four times the poverty level, promote non-petroleum
exports, and contribute to domeostic food supplies. The project would also
further strengthen Government's capacity to implement smallholder tree crop
projects in an efficient and environmentally sound manner, and assist in
developing a oustainabj.e financing and cost recovery system for the program.
The project's economic rate of return is estimated at 14 percent.
6.13      No major technical risks exist, ao the project would use well proven
technology. There is a risk that credit recovery rates may continue to be
low however early experience of PHU administration of credit recovery of an
ongoing project would be available to the Government when studying the
financing and cost recovery options. The rate of return, and returns to
farmers may suffer if rubber and coconut prices are lower than currently
projected. However past experience indicates that Indonesia has maintained
the competitiveness of its tree crops despite falls in commodity prices.



- 35 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOtENDrTION
7.1       During negotiations the Government provided assurances thatt
(a) agreed criteria (Annex 2) for screening participants would be
followed, and a record kept of the screening and acceptance of
participants (para. 3.3);
(b) through the PMUs, it would: (i) provide credit to farm families and
administer smallholder cost recovery agreements in accordance with
agroed procedures; and (ii) not later than December 31, 1992,
establish standardized amortization schedules for Smallholder Cost
Recovery Agreements; procedures for a simplified system of
accounting for interest on such credits; records of amounts
outstanding and due under Smallholder Cost Recovery Agreements; and
modified procedures for cost recovery under Prior Loans and Credits,
acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.11);
(c) it would cause DGE to employ, not later than September 30, 1992, an
environmental specialist to assist in the implementation of the
environmontal management and monitoring of tree crop projects (para.
3.16);
(d) it would not later than September 30, 1992, invite proposals from
Consultants to carry out the annual inspection (para. 3.17);
(e) it would, after consultation with the Bank and not later than March
31, 1993, revise, if necessary, its system for sustainable financing
and cost recovery for future smallholder tree crop development,
taking into account the recommendations of an ongoing study
(para 3.18)
(f) it would ensure that appropriate and adequate numbers of vehicles
would be made available in a timely manner for the Project (para.
4.3);
(g) project accounts, and accounts covering special accounts and
statements of expenditure uAsage would be kept, and audited by the
Financial and Development Supervisory Board (BPKP), and the audit
opinions forwarded to the Bank not later than nine months after the
close of the fiscal year (para. 4.8); and
(h) it would in consultation with the Bank, review from time to time the
level of cost recovery payments to be made by smallholders under the
Project, taking into account the cash flows of such smallholders;
and, thereafter, make any adjustments to such payments as agre.d
with the Bank (para. 5.9).
7.2       Condition of Disbursement.  Credit for immatur- phase maintenance is
to be granted under the Project to about 40,000 smallholders who have
established about 52,500 hectares of rubber under the earlier Second
Smallholder Rubber Development Project (Loan 2494-IND). Related disburements
would not however be permitted until the Government has established



- 36 -
procedures, acceptable to the Bank, for coat recovery from such smallholders
(par-. 5.11).
7.3       With the above agreements end assurances, the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$87.6 million to the Republic of Indonesia at
the Bank's standard variable rate with a 20-year maturity including a grace
period for principal of five years.



- 37 -
Chart 1
INDONESIA
TREE CROP SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
Director General
of Estates
!!                     GoResident
X              a                      ~~~~~~~~~~Consultants
Inspection        Director  of Estates                   DGE
Sevices               Rehabilitation and                 Specialists
Expansion
TCSDP Manager
Project Head Office
(Jakarta)
F                      Provincial
Government
Project Provincial               Estate Crops
Managers                    Services
(DISBUN)
PHU                     Estate Crops
Managers                    services
(DISBUN)
Sub-Unit                      Sub-Unit                         Sub-Unit
Head                          Head           J                 Head
Individual                   Individual         1        l    Individual
Sites                         Sites           J         [      Sites
Direct responsibility relationship
Liaison or technical relationship



11992       1993         1994         1995         1996         1997         1998     1999
_________________~~ 23 4 1 2 34112 3 4 123 4 123 4 123 4 123 4 12
cm          -        -    -=-- 11-1ni
New Planting - fast schedule
Rubber
Coconuts
Loan funded it available         E
Votehclves yDsg/mpeetto
TBaindings                                                                                                                            -     
BPKP/BPN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iI
0 
PRojectan CompgetIn  Marh  1G99
Loan Closing: September 30, 1998~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
FeinaleDsbreetJaur31*99



- 39 -
ANN[EXE
Pogo No.
Annex 1 (a)  Key Indicators (Fast Schedule)  . . . . . . . . . . . .     40
Annex 1 (b)  KRy Indicators (Slaw Schedule)  . . . . . . . . . . . .     41
Annex 2      Criteria for Participant Selection  . . . . . . . . .       42
Annex 3      Clone to be used . . . ................                     43
Annex 4      Project Costs
Tablo l  Summary (Rp. & US$) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        44
Table 2 Base Costs by Year (Rp.)  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . .  46
Table 3 Total Cost by Year (Rp. & US$) . . ..  . . . . . ...        48
Table 4 Contingencies and Tsxes (RP.) . . . . . . . . . . . . .     50
Table 5 Contingencies and Taxes (US$) . . . . . . . . . . . . .     52
Table 6 PFiancng Plan  ....   ...........           ........        54
Table 7 Vehicles  . . . . .    9*..  * * * .    *  .....   . . * .  55
Table 8 Disburement Schdule .    ...............                    56
Anns x5      Cost Recovery Arrangements  ..... .... . ....               57
Annex 6      Price Projections Yields and Production . . . . . . . .     59
Annex 7      Crop Model and Cost Recovery. ............                  63
Annex 8      Economic Analyses . . .  . . .  .............               65
Annex 9      Term of Reference  . . .    . ...... ....                   66
Annex 10     Bank Supervision Mission Plan                               79
Annex 11     Selected Documents in Project File  . . . . . . . . . .     80



- 40 -                                     AnDL I (a)
INDONESIA
TREE CROP SMALLHOLDER DF'VILOPMENT PROJECT
KEY INDICATORS (FAST SCHEDULE)
UNIT       (92/93)  (93/94)  (94/95)  (95/96)
| UN1T                   YR. I    YR. 2    YR. 3   YR. 4  TOTAL
A. Planting Program - Fast Phaing
|Rubber                                       1          |     ha         10,750    21.500    32,750              65,000
ICoconut                                                        ha          5,850    14,550    14,600              35,000
B. Mint   Program - Naw PlantingU
_Rubber                                                         ha                   10,750    32,2S0    65,000
_Coconut                                                        ha                    5,850   20,400    35,000
C. Maintenance Progrm - Oping Plantings
_Rubber                                         I         I     ha      |  61,500 i 48,960 i 27,442             i
Coconut                                                        ha         13,000     4,854
D. Self Help Plantings
Rubber                                                         ha          1,000      1,000     1,S00     1,S00    4,000
Coconut                                                        ha            300       700      1,000     1,000    3,000
E. In_rastucr
Offices - P.O.                                                 No.             3  _                                    3
- PMU                                                    No.             16                                      16
Housws                                                         No.            80                                      S0
_  Tracks                                                         km             250       400       600               1,250
Wooden Bridges                                                 m              42        84       125                 250
Concrete Bridges                                               m              42        84       125                 250
_Culverts                                                      pc.            334       668       998 ______        2,000
F. Vehicles
4-Wheel Drive                                                  No.             8         19        936
Motorcycles                                                   No.            128      250        132                 S10
Motorboats                                                     No.             6 1
_Trucks                                                          No.              9        IS         9                  36
0. Training
I Staff                                         I         Istaff-days   IIII
IFarmer Leaders                                          |Person-days  I
H. New Farm Families (Full Asisaace)
Headed by Men                                    ____          No.
Headed by Women                                                No.
HakMlikCertificates                             T               No.
1. Sdf-Help Farm Fam Iie
|Headd by Men                                                  No.
Headed by Women                                                No.
J. Etesion Ages
|Men  ^                                        l         l    No.
IWomcn                                                         No.
K. Credit Under Each Group of Projects (Refer Annex S)_I
Participants                                   )              No.
Total Outstandin                                              Rp m
Amounts Due or Past Due in Curct You                          Rp m
Amounts Collected in Same Year                                Rp m
Hak Milik Certificate                                         No.
25-Mar-92



-41 -                             Annx 1 (bl
INDONESIA
TREE CROP SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KEY INDICATORS (SLOW SCHEDULE)
I    UNI       (92/93)  (93/94)  (94/95)  (95/96)  (96/97)
|   UNIT    | YR. 1 | YR. 2 | YR. 3  | YR 4  |YR. S  TOTAL
A. Planting Program - Slow PhaYing
_Rubber                                             ha         10,400    10,600    15.000    15,000    14.000   65,000
_Coconut                                            h.          5,850    9,150    10,000    10,000             35,000
B. Maintenance Program - New Plantings
Rubber                                              ha                  10,400   21,000    36,000   51,000
Coconut                                             ha                    5,850    15,000   25,000   35,000
C. Maintance Progrnm - Ongoing Plantings
fRubber                                             ha         61,500   48,960   27,442
iCoconut                                            ha         13,000    4,854
D. Sdf Hep Plantings
Rubber                                              ha          1,000    1,000     1,000     1,000              4,000
Coconuts                                            ha           300       700     1,000     1,000              3,000
E. Infrastructure
_  Offices - P.O.                                     No.             3                                                3
- PMU                                         No.            16                                               16
_ Houses                                              No.            80                                               80
_  Tracks                                              km           200       300       500      250               1,250
Wooden Bridges                                      m             42        84       125                         250
_  Concrete Bridges                                    m             42        84       125                          250
,Culverts                                           pcs           334      668       998                        2,000
F  Vehicles
4-Wheel Drive                                      No.             8        19 |       9                           36
Motorcycles                                        No.           128       250       132 |                       510
Motorboats                                         No.             61                                              6 6
Trucks                                             No.            201       18j        9                          36
0. Training
_Farmer Leaders                                Person-ys  I          I         I ______ 
H. New Farm Families (Full Asiac)
|Headed by Men                                      No
|Headed by Women                              |    No.      i
_Hak Milik Certificates                             No.
1. Self-Help Farm FafiebsI
|Headed by Men                                      No.
IHe ded by Womer        o                           No.
J. Emiaon Ageats
|Men                                                No.
|Women                                              No.    I
K.Credit Under Eah Group of Projects (Refer Aw=e 5)
Participants                                       No.
ITotalOutatanding                             |   Rpm       I         i        I         I         I
Amounts Due or Past Due in Current Year           Rpm m                                           I
lAmounts Collected in Same Year                    Rpm                         I
25-Mar-92



-42 -
Annex 2
INDONESIA
Tree Crop Smallholder Development Project
Criteria for Farmer Selection
Applicants A6proved would:
(a)   Have sincere interest in joining the Project, and willingness to sign the
Farm Family Participation and in case of the Full Assistance scheme, the
Cost Recovery Agreement;
(b)   Own the land to be developed, with clear ownership status;
(c)   Belong to the low-income group of farmers;
(d)   Be bonafide farmers; with available family labor of two members;
(e)   Be willing to abide by all  the Project  regulations  and guidelines
applicable to the Full Assistance and Self-Help schemes respectively, and
to maintain cultivation standards established by the Project;
(f)   Be physically fit and between 18 and 45 years of age at the time of
acceptance as participant, or with legal heir(s) if over 45 years of age;
and
(g)   Reside permanently within the Project area.
Responsibility for verifying all items other than (a) and (e), will rest
with the provincial government officials, in particular the village and sub-
village chiefs in consultation with the village development committee (LKMD).
These officials will also ensure that, in the case of the Full Assistance Scheme,
preference is given to the poorer of the eligible participants.
The Farm Family Participation and Cost Recovery Agreements are to be signed
by both spouses where available.
Women would be fully e1igible to participate.



- 43 -
Annex 3
INDONESIA
TREE CROP SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Clones to be used (subject to review during implementation)
Rubber:
AV2037
BPM1
BPM24 (Not for West Kalimantan)
GTI (Not for West Kalimantan)
PR255 (For West Kalimantan only)
PR261
PR300 (Not for West Kalimantan)
PR303 (Not for West Kalimantan)
Only one clone would be used at any one site.
Planting Density
Polybag budded stumps   : 500/ha
Bare-root budded stumps : 575/ha
Coconuts
NYD X WAT (PB 121) (Drier areas only)
MRD X WAT (PB131) (Drier areas only)
NYD X TENGA TALL
NYD X RENNEL TALL (PB123)
CRD X RENNEL TALL (PB113)
Planting Density
160 seedlings/ha



- 44 -
Annex 4
Table 1
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
IREE CROP SIIALilIOtDLR nEvflnpNfNi PROJECI
SUMMARY ACCOUNIS COSI SIIMIIAUY
IRP Million)                (US$ mhllionl                      llat
- -------------------  ----  -----------.--  * foreign   Base
tocal    Foreign   Tolal        local Foreign lotal  Exchange       Costs
1. INVESlIENII COSTS
A. tAND
OFFICE                                             145.6           -     145      0O          -   O.             -         0
STAFf HOUSE                                        211.1          -      213. 1    0 1            0. I           -         0
WAREHOUSE                                           99 6          -       99 6    0 0         -   0.0            -         0
Sub Total (AND                                        458 2           -     458 2    0 2          -   0.2                     0
B. CIVIL WORKS
OFFICE BUIltDINGS                                  518 0       57 6      57S.5    0 3       0.0   0 3           10         0
SIAIF HOUSES                                       878 8       97.6      976 4    0 4       0.0   0 5           10         0
WAREHOUSES                                         448.0       49.8      497. 8    0.2      0.0   0.2           10         0
Sub-total CIVIt WORKS                               1.844.8      205 0   2.049 7    0 9        0. I   1.0          10          1
C. VEHICtfS
FOUR lIiEfl DRIVE                                  392 0      914 6   1.306 6    0.2        0 5   0 7           70         1
IRUCK                                              392 0      914.6   1.306 6    0 2        0.5  .0.7           70         I
HOlORCYCIlS                                        476 0    1. 110 6   1.586 6    0 2       0 6   0.8           70         1
NOIORBOATS                                          18.7       43 6       62 2    0 0       0.0   0.0           70         0
Sub-lotal VEIlCIES                                 1,278.6   2,983. 4   4.262. 1    0 6       I 5   2.            70         2
0. INFRASIRUCIURE
. ....... ....
PLANIAI ION ROADS                               6.066.5       674 1   6. 740.5    3 0       O. 3   3 4          10         3
WOODEN BRIOGES                                     269 5       29 9      299 4    0 1       0.0   0 2           10         0
CONCREIE BRIDGES                                   770.0       85.6      855 5    0.4       0.0   0.4           10         0
CUtVERI                                          1, 284.2     142. 7   1.426 9    0. 6      0. I   0.7          10         I
Sub-lotal  INFRASTRUCIURE                           8.390.1      932.2   9.322.4    4.2        0.5   4.7            10        4
E. FURNIIURE AND EQUIPMENT
RADIO COMMUNIC EQP                                 331.0      772.4   1, 103.4    0 2       0.4   0.6           70         0
MICROCONPUTER                                       21.8       50.8       72.6    0.0       0.0   0.0           70         0
VIDEO CAMERA                                         1.2        2.9        4. 1    0. 0     0.0   0. 0          70         0
OVERIIEAD PROJECIOR                                  2.8        6. 5       9 3    0 0       0. 0   0.0          70         0
POWER SPRAYER                                       79.3      185. 1     264.4    0.0       0. I   0. 1         70         0
GENERATOR                                          160. 2     373.8      534. 1    0 1      0. 2   0. 3         70         0
OFFICE EQUIPMENT                                   246 4      574.9      821 3    0.1       0.3   0.4           70         0
Sub-lotl fURNItIIURE AND EQUIPIENI                    842.8   1,966.5   2,809.2    0.4         t.0   1.4           70          I
F. IECHNICAt ASSISIANCE
-- .-.-. . -.-------
RUBBER PRODUCIION ADVISOR                          119.0   1.070 9   1. 189.8    0. I       0.5   0.6           90         0
COCONUI PRODUCIION ADVISOR                         119.0   1,070.9   1, 189.8    0.1        0.5   0.6           90         0
TRAINING/EXIENSION SPEC.                           119.0   1,070.9   1. 189. 8    0 1       0.5   0. 6          90         0
FINANCIAt ADVISOR                                  119.0   1,070.9   1.189 8    0. I        0.S   0.6           90         0
MIS SPECIALIST                                     119.0   1.070 9   1. 189.8    0. I       O,5   0.6           90         0
SHORT-TERM CONSUtlANCY                              59. 5     535.4      594.9    0. 0      0. 3   0. 3         90         0
STUDY                                              873.6      218 4   1,092.0    0.4        0.1   0.5           20         0
Sub-Total IECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                      1,528 0   6,108.1   7,636.1    0.8         3.1   3 8           80         3
G. INSPECIION SERVICES                                596 3   1. 788.8   2. 385. 1    0  3     0. 9   1.2          75          1
H. SEtLF-EtP SCHEME
BUDNOOD                                             74.8       13 2       88.0    0  0      0. 0   0.0          15         0
SEEDINUIS                                          688.6      121.5      810.2    0  3      0.I   0.4           IS         0
Sub-total SEltF-HEP SCHEME                            763.4      134.7      898 1    0.4       0.1   0.5            ;5        0
1. IRAINING
IRAINING/GOVI. sA8FF                            2.363 9       821 5   3, 185 5    1.2       0.4   1.6           26         1
IRAINING/FARM  FAMILIES                            936.6      312 2   1,248.9    0  5       0.2   0  6          25         0
Sub-total TRAINING                                  3,300 6   1, 133. 7   4.434 3    1 7       O.6   2.2            26         2



- 45 -
Annex 4
I NOONE SI A                                              Table    I
IREE CROP SIIAttliOIDER DEVElOPMENI PROJECI                                  Page  2  of  2
SUNNARY ACCOUNTS COS  SUMMARY
IRP million)                  fUSS Nilinil                    S lotal
,,,, ,,,, ......       ......   ................ ..  -   - --.    I    foreign  Base
local    Foreign    total        tocal Foreign total  Exchenge    Costs
:::S:   ::::  : ::::5 5::  :::::: :            ::: :2: ::1:: ::::::::
J. TRIAtS AND DEMONSTRATION                             158.5      434.9       593.4    0.1        0.2   0.3           73          0
K. tERItLIZER
. .. . ...
ANNIIIUM SULFIAE                                   1. 072.7   2,503.0   3.575. 7    0.5         1.3   1.8           70          1
rsP                                               4. 3124  10, 062. 3  14. 374. 7    2.2       5.1   7.2            70         6
MOP/KCt                                           2,582. 4   6,025.5   8.607.9         1 3     3.0   4.3        .  70           3
UREA                                               1,718.7   4.010.2   5.728.9    0 9          2.0   2.9            70          2
DOLOI it                                           t.064.9   2.484.7   3.549 6    0.5           I 2 1 .8            70          t
ROCK PHOSPHAIE                                       655. 8    1. 530. 2   2. 186. I    0. 3   0 8    . I           70          I
Sb -ol.Il FERltitER                                  11.406.9  26,616.0  38.022.9        5 7      13.4  19.1            70        IS
t. tABOR
NURSERY tABOR                                     4.453.0                4.453 0    2.2           .   2.2            -          2
SH tlBOR CREDIT                                  38.157S             -  38. 157.5   19 2             19.2            -         IS
SH LABOR tQUITY                                  38. lS7 5              38 157.5   19. 2             t19.2                     IS
Sub-Total tABOR                                      80.768.0           -  80,768.0   40.5               40.5            -        31
N. PESIICIOES/HER0ICIOES
==... . .. ...    .  .  .   .
HERBICIDE                                            886.2   7,658.5  i.544 7    0 4          3 8   4 3            90          3
PESTICIDES                                           787.6   5.933 0   6.720.6    0.4          3.0   3.4            88          3
...- . .. .   ...  ..,........   ........... .....    ...... .......   -------- .   .-  . ... ... 
Sub-lotaI  PESTICIDES/HERBICIDES                      1,673.8  13,591.5  15.265.3    0.8           6.8   7.7        .  89          6
N. OlIER
SAL4Lt TOOtS                                      4, 046. 4   6, 069.6  10. 116. 0    2.0      3.0   S. 1           60          4
TRANSPORT                                         2,338.0   3,507.0   5.844 9         1.2      1.8 . 2.9            60         2
TREE POISON                                         226.5       339.7      566.2    0.1        0.2   0.3            60         0
BORAX                                                 67.7       101 S      169.2    0.0             0 1           60          0
SUttUR DUSI                                        1. 239. 2    1, 858.8   3. 098. 0    0 6    0.9    1.6           60          1
TAR/PARAFIN                                            1.0         1.5        2.5    0.0       0 0   0.0            60          0
DIESEtl                                               81. 6     122.4       204.0    0. 0      0.1   0.1            60          0
CHtAINSAM CONtRACT                                   433.9      650.9   1,084.9    0.2         0.3   0.5            60          0
WAFERING                                             693.8   1T 040.7   1. 734. 4    0.        05   0.9             60          1
FENCING                                            1.814.6   2,721.9   4.536.6    0.9          1.4   2.3            60          2
tCC SEEDS                                          1, 120.0    1, 679.9   2. 799.9    0.6      0. 8    1. 4         60          I
tAND RENTAL                                           44.9       67.4       112 3    0 0       0.0   0.1            60          0
PtLANTING MATER1t                                 7,778.0   11,667.0  19.445.0        3.9      5.9   9.8            60          8
PROCESSING EOUIPMENt                              3,059.8   4,589 7   7.649.4         1.5      2.3   3.8            60          3
SEEOBED SIIApL!S                                       5. 7       8. 5       14.2    0 0       00 0. 0              60          0
NISCELtANIEOUb                                        89. 7      134.6      224.3     0 0      0.1   0. 1           60          0
FORMIC ACID                                           61.8       92.7       154.5    0.0       0.0   0.1            60          0
GUARDOOUSE                                            31.6       47.4        78.9     0.0      0.0   0 0            60          0
..-  - -      - - - - -   - - - -  . ....      ..... ...     ... ..  -- - - -  ... . . . .
Sb -oteli OFHER                                      23, 134. 1  34. 701.2  57. 835.3    11.6    17.4  29.0             60        22
0. tLAND  IltlING                                     4.251. 7           -   4.251. 7    2. 1         * 2. 1             -         2
.... .. ...    .... .. ...    .. .... ...  .....    ..... ..    . ....  -- - - -  --- --
lotal INVESTMENT COSTS                                 140,395.7  90,596.1 230.991.8   70.5    45.5 116.0                  39        90
11. RECURRENt COStS
A. TRAVEt                                            7, 749. 5    1, 937.4   9.686.9    3.9       1.0   4.9            20         4
B. ALLOHANCES                                        7,633.9         1.5   7.605.4       3.8      0.0   3.8             0         3
C. OfFICE SUPPtlES                                     606.6      202.2       808.9    0.3        0.1   0.4            25         0
0. EQUIPMENt NAINTNtEHNCE                              945.6   2, 206.4   3. 152.0    0. 5        1. I   1.6           70         1
E. OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
FAR14ER CREDIT DOCS                              1,791.9       199. 1   1,991.0    0.9        0. 1   1.0           10          I
TENDER DOCS. TELEPHONE. ETC                      3. 135.9      348.4   3.484.3       1.6      0. 2   1.7           10          I
.   ....... .....    .... .......    ..........  -----    -------    -----.. ---------... -------
Sub-Total OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES              4,927.8      547.5   5,475.4    2.5          0.3   2.7            10         2
total RECURRENT COSTS                                   21,833.5   4,895.0  26.728.5   11.0           2 S13.4              18         10
total BASEtINE COSTS                                    162,229.2  95 491. 1 257. 720.3   81 4    47.9 129.4                37        100
Physical Cont ingoncios                                3. 617. 1   4. 469. 1   8, 086. 3   1.8      2. 2   4. 1          55          3
Price Contingencies                                   20,658.0  21,303.9  41.961 8    10.4         10.7  21.1            St         16
......... -----.... ....... ---------.....   ........  ....... .......... ..... ....... ......  ---------. -------
total PROJECI COSIS                                     186,504.3 121,264.1 307.768.4   93.6          60.9 154.5            39        119
March--------------------------------------                  --------------------:::::  ::::::::: :::9::::: I:::: 49,::::::::- :::::::::
Itaech  12.  1992   15: 49



- 46 -
Annex 4
Table 2
Page 1 of 2
I,IlOUE SI A 
TREE CROP S5AI11iol0ER OfVEIOPNENI PROJECI
Summry Accounts by Year
(lase Costs
IRP Htiliaonl                                 foreign Emcliange
................~~~~~~~~~............  . .. . .................  ................
92/93      93/94       94/95        95/96       96/97       total    I              Amunt
1.  INVESIIINT COS'S
.............
A. LAND
OFFICE                                                      145.6            -                                           145.6       0.0           0.0
SIAFF HOUSE                                                 213. 1                                               -       213. 1      0.0           0.0
WAREHOUSE                                                    99.6            -           -                       -        99.6       0.            0 O. 0
........    ........... ........    ........    ..........  ............... ....... ........... ............ ...... .....
S*b-Total tAND                                                 458.2             -           -           -           -       458.2       0.0           0.0
S. CIVIL   ORS
............
OFFICE BUItDINGS                                            55.S             -           -                       -       575.5      10.0          57.6
StAFF HOUSES                                               916.4             -           -           *           *        976.4     100           97.6
S4IREHOUSES                                                 497.8            -                       -           -       497. 8    10. 0          49.8
........    .......... ........    ........    ..........  .......... ..... ...... ........... ............. .....
Sub-lotal CIVIl  MRS                                         2.049 t             *           -           -           -    2.049.7    10.0            205.0
C. VENICtES
IOUR WHEEt DRIVE                                           290.4       689. 6      326. 7            -           -. 1 306.6    70.0              914. 6
TRlUCEt                                                    326. 7      653.3       326. 7                             1. 306. 6    70.0          914. 6
NOIIIRCYClES                                                398.2       717.8      410. 7                        -    1. 586. 6    70.0       1. 110.6
DI_ORO    IS                                                 62.2            -           -                                62.2    70.0            43. 6
............. .. . ...... ... ........   ........... ........   ........... .........   ..... ............ .....
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                           1. 077.4   2. 120. 7   1. 064.0                         -    4. 262. 1    70.0       2,983.4
S. INFRASIRUCIURE
PtLANTAT ION ROADS                                       1, 140.7  2.748. 1  2. 851.8                -           -    6,740.5       10.0         674. 1
UCOOLK BRIDGES                                               50.0       100 0       149.4            -           -       299.4    10. 0           29.9
CONCREIE BRIOGES                                            142.9   . 285. 7        426.9                                855.5      10.0          85. 6
CULVEII[                                                    238.3       476 6       712.0            -           -    1.426.9       10.0         142.7
..............    .........  . ........ ........... ........    ........... .....    ....... . ...     ....... . .         ....  
Ss*-lotal INFRASTRUCIURE                                     1 571.9   3.610.4   4, 140.1                -           -    9.322.4       10.0         932.2
E. FURNITURE ANDO EOUIPNENI
RADIO COll)IIIC EQP                                      1. 103.4            -           -           -           -    1. 103. 4    70.0          772.4
;ICRCOIPUIER                                                 72.6                                    -           -        72. 6    70.0           50.8
VIDEO CANIERA                                                 4. 1                             -                            4. 1    70.0 °. 9
OVERHEAD PROJECTOR                                            9.3                  -                 -           -          9.3    70.0             6.5
POllER SPRAYER                                             264.4                                     -           -       264.4    70.0           185. 1
GENERATOR                                                   534. 1                       -                       -       534. 1    70.0          373. 8
OFFICE EWUIP14ENT                                          821.3                  8-           -                 -        21.3    70.0           574.9
5*-lotal FURlITURE AND EQUIPNENI                             2.609.2                                                 -    2.809.2    70.0          1.966.5
F. IECHNICAl ASSISIANCE
....................
RU8ER PRODCI ION ADVISOR                                   297.5       297.5       297.5        297.5            -    1 189.8    90.0          1,070.9
COCOIIUI PRODUC IOIN ADVISOR                                297.5       297.5       297.5       297.5            -    1 189.8    90.0          1.070.9
TRAINING/EXIENSION  SPEC.                                  29. 5       297.5       291.S       297.5             -    1, 189.8    90.0         1.070.9
FINANCIAL ADVISOR                                          297.5       297.5       297.5       297.5             -    1,189.8    90.0          1,070.9
HIS SPECIALIST                                             297 5       297.5       297.5        297.5            -    1189.8    90.0           1, 070.9
SHORI-IERN CONSULIANCY                                     297.5       297.5             -                       -       594.9    90.0           535.4
STUDY                                                            -           -           -   1 092.0             -    1.092.0    20.0            218.4
........       .......... ........     ........... ........    ........... . .... .. --------.....--........... ........ ...... .....
Sub-lotal TIECNICAL ASSIS4 ANCE                              1, 784.8   1. 784.8   1. 487.3   2.579.3                     7. 636. 1    80.0       6 108. 1
0. INSPEC1ION  SERVICES                                        829.6        725.9      414.8       414.8                  2.385.t    75.0          1.768.8
H. SElf-HEtP SCttEME
BuoDIIO                                                      22.0        22.0        22.0        22.0            -        88.0      15.0           13.2
SEEONUIS                                                     93.5       190.4       263. 1      263.1            -       610.2      15.0         121.5
........ --------      .. --------    -------- ... --------   ---------.  ....... ............ ....................................
Sub-lotal SELF-HELP SCHEME                                      115.5       212.4       285.1       285.1            -       898.1    15.0           134.7
1. TRAINING
IRAINING/GOVI.  StAFF                                    2.816. 1       183.8        99. 3       86. 3           -    3. 185.5    25.8           821.5
IRAINING/FARM fAItlIES                                     275.5        435.9      531.5                         -    1,248.9    25.0            312.2
........ -------- .. --------           -------- ... --------     ---------.    ..... ..  ..    ...................................     ..... .....



- 47 -
Annex 4
Table 2
Page 2 of 2
INDOitESIA
Ittt  CROP SiNAlllOIOER OFVEIOP1fHI PROiECI
Sumary Accounts by Year
B1ee  Costs
IRP Nt I lon)                            loretin Exchange
............................ ..................................... .................. ................ .... ........
92/93     93/94      94/95      95/936     96/97      Total         7       xnm1
ZSSiS.S  tSS3    .3...          ...                            . .... SUSSStS   SS*3   3583   i3*USSaSI
Sublotel  TRAINING                                     3.J091. 6    819.6      636 8       86 3               4.434.3    25.6       1. 133. 7
J.  Itl4tS AND OENSTR*tION                                112.3     182.8       ITT 5      60.7                 593.4    73.3         434.9
R. FERIILIlER
.......... 
AIMOKIUN SUlFAtE                                      511.6      452.9     57'.2      906.7   1.127.4    3,575.7    70.0        2.503.0
ISP                                                2.697.2  3. 103.8  3. 124.2  2. 837.0  2. £12.4  14. 374. 7   70.0    10. 062.3
109P/OCt                                            1. 789. I  1. 447. 0   1. 282. 6   1. 652. 2  2. 436. 9   8. 607. 9   70. 0    6. 025. 5
UREA                                              1.409 2  1.331.8   1.098.4         784.7   1.104.7   5 .78.9    10.0         4.010.2
DOIOCIIlE                                             804 *    618.2       416.3      707.3   1.003. 3   3,549.6    70.0        2.464.7
NOCK PN0SPN*IE                                        349.0     359. 3    S03.0       502.2      472. 6   2. 186 I   10. 0       1.530. 2
Sub-lotal  IERItiItlER                                 7. 560.5  7,313 1  7.001.9   7.390. 1  8 757.3  38 022.9    70.0    25.616.0
t. L80
6011E61 tam80e                                        641 6    935.6       973.9      940.8      961. 1   4 453.        0.0          0.0
S" lAboR CREDI I                                   5.803 3  6 777.9  84.409 5  6 902. 8  8 264. 1  38. 157.5            0. 0         0.0
Sit LABOR EQUITY                                   5.803.3  6.777.9  8. 40q. 5  8.902.8  8.264. 1  38, 157.5            0. 0         0.0
...... ......    ........  .......... ..... ....    ............    .......... ....... ............... .. .....
Subelotel l4U11                                       12. 248. I 14. 491. 3 17. 792.8  18.746.4  17. 489. 4  80, 78.0      0.0           0.0
4. PESIICIOES/El8ICIDES
.....................
IIER8ICIOE                                         2 271.8   1, 872.8   1.898.8   1 493.0   1 006.4    8.544.7    69.6          7.658.5
PESIICIDES                                          1, 104.7  1, 048.7   1 018.5   1 579.8   1, 968.8    6 720.6    88.3        5.933.0
SubFoteal PESIICIDES/RER8ICIOES                        3, 36.5   2 921.4   2.917.3   3,072.8   2,977.2   15,265.3    69.0    13.591.5
K. OtIER
SAtL  TootlS                                        1 767. 7  2.892.8  3.667.7  1, 154.6         633.0  .10. 116.0    60.0      6.069.6
IRANSPORT                                             802.5  1.229. 9  1.327.7  1.316.8  1. 168. 1   5.844.9    60.0            3. 507.0
IREE POISON                                            90.6      92.3      130. 7     130. 1     122.0       566.2    60.0         339.7
6BORA1                                                            11.6       41 5      56.3       59.7       169.2    60.0         101.5
sUllUR OUSt                                           134.8     407.0      738.9      458. 1    959.2    3.098.0    60.0         1.858.8
AtRP4ARAFIN                                             0.6        0.6       0.6        0.6           -        2. 5   60.0           1.5
DIESEl                                                 32.9       37.5      49.3       49.3       34.9       204.0    60.0         122.4
CHIIAISAM COtIRACI                                    175.1      l9?.5     261.9      261.9      188.5    1.084.9    60.0          650.9
IAtERING                                              252.0     361.4    366. 1    345.3         409. 7    1 734.4    60.0       1.040. 7
FENtCING                                              731. 1    899.3  1. 125. I  1. 173. 1    658.0    4.536.6    60.0         2.721.9
tCC SEEOS                                             455.0     553.0      700 0      700.0      392.0   2. 799.9    60. 0       1 679. 9
L1ANO RENTALt                                          19.0       25.0      26.5       26.5       15.4       112.3    60.0          67.4
P1i*N111G  ATIERIAl                                2. 702.4  4 069.0  4,329.7  4. 239. 1  4. 104.9  19. 445. 0   60.0    11 667. 0
PROCESSING EQUIPMENT                                1, 362. 6  2. 762. 5  3.524.3                     -   7. 649. 4   60. 0     4. 589. 7
SEE08EO SN4OES                                          1.9        3.0        3. 3      3. 3       2. 8        14. 2   60. 0         8. 5
tISCEtL4EWOUS                                          33.0       46. 7      46.7      43.6       54.4       224.3    60.0         134.6
FORMIC 4CI                                            27.5       55.8      71.2                             154.5    60.0          92.7
GUAROMOUSE                                             10. 6      16. 6      18.1       18. 1      15.4       78. 9   60. 0         47. 4
........     ......... ........    .......... ........    ........... ....... ........................... ...... ...... .....
Sub-Total 0111ER                                       8 599.2  13.661.5 16. 429. 1 10.327.4  8.818.0   57.835.3    60.0    34 701.2
0. tANO TItLING                                          690.9      839.?   1,062.9   1 062.9        595.2    4.251.7       0.0          0.0
..... ........ .......... ........ .... ...... ........... ....... ....................... .. ............
lotel INVESITENT  COSIS                                  46. 435. 5 48. 43. 7 53. 409. 7 44.025.8 38,637.0 230. 991. 8   39. 2   90. 596. I
II. IEOURREENT COSTS
...............
A. TRAVEI                                             2. 421.7  2. 421. 7  2. 421.7  2. 421.7                9.686.9    20.0       1 937. 4
8. AtLONANCES                                         1.901.3   1.901.3   1.901.3   1 901.3                  7.605.4      0.0           *.S
C. OFFICE SUPPtlIES                                     202.2    202.2        202.2      202.2                  808.9    25.0         202. 2
0. EOUIPHENI MAINTENA.NCE                               482.9      682.6      784.9      764.9      416.8    3. 152.0   70.0       2.206.4
E. OINER ADNINISIARIIVE EXPENSES
.............................
FARINER CEOIT OOCS                                   497.8     497.8    497.8        497.8           -    1,991.0    10.° 0  1'. I
IEiNEt OOCS.  EtLEPONE. ETC                         87;.1      87t. I    87l.t    87 t.                   3.484,3    10.          348.4
S*-lotIl DINER A4tINtSIRAIIVE EXPENSES                1.368.8   1.368.8   1, 368.8   1 368.8            -   S.475.4    10.0          547.5
........    ......... ........    .......... ........    ......... . ....... ----------.. ............ ............... .....
total RECUtRRENt CoStS                                     6 377.0  6. 576.1  6.679.0  6 679.0          416.8  26. 728.5    18.3       4,895.0
Total BASELINE COStS                                      52. 812. S 55.060.5 60,088.7 50. 704.8 39,053.8 257. 720. 3   37. I   925 491. 1
PhysICal Cont i Vs too                                   1. 844. I  16. 84. 3  1 945.    1. 374. 1  1.078. 2   8. 086.3   55.3       4,469. I
Ppice Ctntingeecs                                        1, 775. 7  5.838. I  9918. 1   1 615. 9 12814.1   41. 961 8    50. 8   21, 303.9
toe I PROJECI COSTS                                       56, 432.3 62. 742. 9 71 9S2.3 63.694.8 52. 946. I 307,768.4    39.4   121. 264. I
ssgstss iass^zzs x.i ................................ . . .. ....i ....8 . ... 8 .. ..  ".
Tates                                                   3,950.3  4,394.7   5,083.0  4 227.6  3.U89. 1  21,544.7              0.0          0.0
Foreign Exchange                                       22 607.0 25,512.2 27,730.3 23.712.6 21,702.0  121.264.1               0.0          0.0
............................................... .........................................................................



- 48 -
Annex 3
Table 3
Page 1 of 2
INCONtS IA
IREE CROP Slat4tlOlIOR DEVEtOPNENI PROJECI
SuuMa'y Accounis by ?oar
lotals Including Conlrngessclts                              lotals Including Contingencies
IP Hlilionl                                                  IUSS  000)
92/93    93/94    94;95    9S/96    96/97    total           92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96    96/9;    Total
lS             t S       S tlS.a.S t *... Stan. SW.                .  S t St *        l titt t t................I......I  . . . . . . t.........  .......t.S
1. INVESIttENI COSIS
................
A. LAND
OlfICE                                           155.7                   -         -                t1S.1      78.2          -                                    78.2
S5AfF HOUSE                                      227.9               .        -                    227.9       114.4                       -                     114.4
NitREttSE                                        106. S                            -         *      106. S     53. 4              -             -         -       3 4
Sub-total IAMN                                      490.0                        -              -      490.0      246.0         -                                  246.0
. CIVIL "MS
............
OFFICE SUILOINGS                                 615.5                                             SIS.S      309.0                                             309.0
SttAf HtOUSES                                  1, 044. 2                                         1. 044.2     324.2                   -         -               524.2
HARtEOUSES                                       532. 3                                            532. 3     267. 2                                            267. 2
SLt-lolal CIVIl tORtS                             2,192 0          -        .                       2. 192.0   1, 100. 4                                          1.- 100.4
C. VEttlCtS
FOUR MNLtE ORIVE                                 310 S    764. 8    375.7                        . 1450. 9     1IS  9    383.9    I8N6          -         -     728.4
ItRUCK                                           349.3    724 5    375. 7                        1,449.5      t75 4    363.7    l88S            -         -     72' 7
.o:IOCYCtES                                      425 9    862. 3    472.3                        1 760. 6     213. 8    433.0    23?. I                   -     883. 9
ROIOAis66S                                         6 5         -         -                          66. 5      33.4                                               3 3 4
Sub-lot.l VfHllCtS                                t. 132.2  2.351 8  1. 223 6         -             4.727.6       578.4  t. 160. 6    614. 2       -             2. 373. 3
e. INRAASIRUCIURE
PltAIAITIO  ROADS                              1,219 9  3.047.6  3.279 6                     -   7.547 1      612.4   1 S29.9  t. 646.4                       3.786.7
WEN000   BRIDGES                                  S3. S    Io. 9     171 a                         336.2        26.8     3S. 7     8I. 3                         tS8. 8
COtCREIE BRIDGES                                 tS2.8    316.9    491.0                     *     960.6        76.7    159. t    246.5         -               482.2
CULVERI                                          254.8    528.3    818 9           -             1. 602.2      127.9    265. 3    411.               -          804. 3
Sub-lal INIRASIRUCIURE                            1.681.0  4.003.9  4 761.2                     -  10 446. 1      843.9  2.010.0  2.390.2           -            S.244. 0
E. IUR1tIIURE AND EOUtIPHCNt
RADIO COt4IUIIIC (OP                           1. 180 0        -                                 1. 180.0     592.4                                             392 4
NICROCOIIPUIER                                    77.6         -         -                           77. 6      39.0         -                  -                 39.0
VIDEO CAMERA                                       4.                    .                            4.4        2.2                            -         -        2. 2
OVERHEAD PROzJECIOR                                10.0                  -                             . 0       5. 0                                              '. 0
POttER SPRAYER                                   282 8         -         -         -               -32.8       142.0         *                                   14*2.0
GENERAIOR                                        571.1                                       .     571 1      286.7          -                            -       :S.7
OFFICE EQUIPENtI                                 878.3                                             878.3      440.9          -                                  440.9
Sub-lotal FURNIIURE AND EOUIPtENI                 3, 004.3         *                                3 004.3   1. 508.2                                            1 508.2
F. IECHNICA4 ASSISIANCE
....................
RUt3BER PRODUCtION ADVISOR                       303.0    314.2    325.8    337.9                1.280.8       152.1    157.7    163.6    169.6           -     643.0
COCoIUI PROUCIIt O  ADVISOR                      303.0    314.2    325.8    337.9                1,280.8       152.1    157.7    163.6    169.6                 643.0
TRAIHNING/IIHNSION SPEC.                         303.0    314.2    325.8    33?.g                1.280.8      152.1    157.7    '63.6    169.6                  643.0
flNANC1A4  ADVISOR                               303.0    314.2    325.8    337 9                1.280.8 a     t5. 1    157.7    163.6    169.6                 643.0
HiS SPECIAtISI                                   303 0    314 2    325.8    337.9            *   1.280.8    S12.1    137.7    t63.6    169.6                    643.0
SHORI-IERtt CONSUtIANCY                          303.0    314.2                              .     617. I      152. 1    157.7        -         -         -     309. 8
StUDy                                                          -            1. 240.2             1 240.2           .         -              622.6         -     622. 6
Sub-tolal TtCttNICA1 ASSISIANCE                   1.817 8  1.885 0  1.629 0  2.929.5                8.261. 3      912.5    946.3    817.8  1.470.6                4 147.3
G. INSPECIION SEtRVICES                             887.2    803.0    417.0    494.1                2.663.9       445.4    404. 1    239 S    248.3          -   1 317. 3
H. SELF -lEtP SChIEME
................
WON6OOO                                           23.5      24 4      25.3      26.2         -      99.4        11.8      12.2     12.1      13.2         -       49.9
SEEONUIS                                          99.9    211 2    302 6    3t3 8                  927.6       50.2    106. 0    1t1.9    15175                  4636
Sub-lola1 SEtFHLEtP SCtEME                           123.5    235.6    37.5     340.0                1.,027.0      62.0    118 3    164.6    170.7                  S15.6
1. IRAINI4 G
in I NMG/GoVI. SIAFf                           3.011 6    203.6    114.2    102.9                3 432.5    1,311.8    102.3       57.4      31.7              1 ,723. 1
RAININGI/FARM FAMIILIES                          294. 7    483.4    618.1 -I                     1. 396. 1     147.9    242.6    310.3          -         -      700. 9
........  ......... ........  .......... ........  .......... ........  .........  .. ..........  .......... . .. ... ..  . ..... .....  . .. .... . ..  



- 49 -
Annex 4
Table 3
Page 2 of 2
INDONItIA       ROJ
1911 CROP SHAL;HOLDL fit   LIOPI(    R   Ct
Sumieery k.couenIs by Year
lotals Incltudihng Ccnl irgeitcio;                            Ttal% In~cluding Conllrqnneas
IRP Mlillion)                                                  fussI 0001
92/93    93/94    94/98    98/96    96/9?         ltotl       92/93    93/94    94/11       95/95    96/97      total
.....tt. flt...      333?s;ft    1 :..             Sg.......  h......2S  :;a:t ..  ...;? a..  ........ .........
Sub-oist IRAINING                                  3,306 2    687. I    732 4    102.9                4.828 6   1. 659.8I    345.0    367.7        81. 7             2. 424.0
J  19181S AND IIENOIISIRAI ION                        184 3    202.7    204.2        72. 3663.6                      92.5    lOt a    102.85       36. 3         -     333.1I
R. IIRII(IIER
AIWIWIUN SULFAtE                                  588  4    Fit? 3    869 7  1. 416 I  1.8726 8 5.31? 8          294 9    309 9    436. 6    711. 2    917.1 2.689.6
ISP                                             3, 347.85  52540. 36.286 46.048 05.8348  26.771 0    1.680.8S  2, 63?.?  3. 15.8  3.O03t.l  2 .929.1 113439 2
mOP/KCL                                         2.068 3  2.0109   1.98189  2.647 34.0491  12. ?5:. 3           1. 0383  I. 009. 4    994.9  I. 329. 0  2.03?.?7   6.404.2
URIA                                            1.601 7  1.763 61.834 6  1.761f5  2,9276   9.889 0               804. 1    68553    921 0    884.3  1. 469.? 7 4.964. 3
00109111                                          860.2    6885 6    478 8    843S51. 240 8 4. 109 0             431.9    344.2    240 4    423.4    622. 9 2. 062. ?
ROCK PIIOSPIIAIE                                  384 7    419 6    609.5    640 4        629 4 2,683.6          193. I    210. 6    306 0    321.8    315.9   1. 347. 2
Sub-Iotal FERlILIIER                               8. 849.9 10. 751 11I~.060 8 13, 357 4 16. 508. 3  6 1. 52? 6   4.442 7  S. 39?.  16.054. 6  6,708.8  8, 287. 3  30. 867. 4
NIURSERY 18809                                    653.4    988 2  1.066 6  1. 068 6  I. 137 0   4,908.8          328 0    496 I    83.5.    836.4    868I. 3   2.464. 3
SN tA809 CAEOIT                                 5.910 6  7. 158.7  9, 210. 610. fit 7  9,733.6  42, 125 I   2.961 2  3.593 1  4,623.8  5, 076. 1  4,886.3  21. 147.?2
SN tA808 EQUITY                                 8.910 6  7. 158.?  0,210.6 10.III.?  9 .733 6  42, 125. I   2.96?.?  3.8$93.? 74,623. 8  8.076 I  4. 886. 3  21. 14?.?2
Sub total 18808                                   I2. 474 7 18  0      94782'1,2'9'1. 9 2'0'. 899 2  89?19 I 626               7,863'.85  9,8.  10,6 b88.,7 1,4.   4,5.
N. PESIICIO1S/NER8icioES
IIrRIIrIDI                                     2,429 8  2.076 9  2. 183. 61.780 8  1.747 I   9, 717. 6 1, 219. 6  1, 042. 61. 096.?2   893.8    626.0   4,878.3
a,'                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1. 181 41,163 01 ,171. 31,884 I  2.434 8 7.834 6  593 1    883.8    $8880    148.8   1.222 3   3, 933. 1
W11.10'  3.2399  7.355 0  3.664 6  3,68  9  17.88S2.? 2        .812 7  1, 626. 41. 684 2  1,8$39. 7  1,848.3   8,8$11. 4
.118,,   .                          g 8'~~~~~~~~~~~IA0J  4  3.2081I4,217 9   1. 377? 2 TV  811.476 5  949.0  1, 610.8 S2,117. 4    691 4    393. 0 S.,761. 3
INANSI'UII                                        858.2  1. 364 0 . 1,26. 9  1,0. i4  1. 444,6 6,.764. 0        430.8    684.7    766.5    788.3    728.2   3.398 6
1816 POISON                                        96 9    102 4    ISO 3    188 a        IS0Oa      656.2        48. 6     81. 4     78 4      78.2      78.?1     329.4
80ORAX                                                        129      4??       672       739        201 7                  6.85     240       33.7      37 1      101.3
SUIfUR OUST5                                      144 2    4814    849.7  1. 023 4  I, 186.3   3,854.9            72. 4    22b. 6    426.6    8 13.?7    898.5    1.8$34,8a
IAR/PARAFIN                                         0.7       07        0.?7      0.7          .        2.8a       0. 3      0. 3      0. 4      0 4         .         1. 4
011511,                                            3% 2      416       867       88.8      43 2      238 5        17 7      20. 9     28.8      29.8      21 7      lie. 2
CIIAINSAN LONIRACI                                187 2    2i19       301 2    312.3    233.1I 1.252 9            94. 0    110. 0    151. 2    186.8    I1IF. 0     629.0
NAIIRING                                          269 8    400 8    421 0    411 8    506.6   2,009 7            138 3    201. 2    211. 3    206.?  7824.3    1.008 9
fENCING                                           781 8    997.3  1,793.9  1,339.3    813.7   8. 226.?2          392.8    500 7    649.6    672.4    406.8   2.623.6
tCC SEDs                                          486 6    61.3    805.0    834 8         484 8 3.224A 4         244 3    30? 9    404 I    419. 1    243.4    1,618.7
tAND RENItA                                        20.3      27.7      30.8      31. 6      19.1      129 I       10. 2     13.92    18 3       18.9       9.6       64 8
PiANIING NAIfRIAL                               2.890 0  4.5125 8  4979. 2   .085 4  5.076 822. 513.?   1.450 8  7,265 3  2.499 6  2,5$37. 9  2,548.4  11, 302. 0
PROCESSING EOUIPIIENI                           1, 457. 2  3,063 64.083 0                      -   8,573 9       131.8  1, 537. 92.034 7                     -   4. 304. I
SIEEDBEDSIIAOES                                     2. 0      3. 3      386       39         34        16 4        1. 0      I.?7      19        2. 0      I?         8. 3
HISCEtIAMEOUIS                                     38. 3     Sta 8      3 7      SI 9      f6?3       2600        I7 7      26 0      26.9      26. 1     33.8      130.5
FORNIC ACID                                        29 4      61 9      81.8          .                173. 1      14. 8     SI I      41. 1                  -        6 9
GUIARONOUSE                                         11. 4    18 4      20.9      21. 6       9.1       91.4        8.7       9. 2     10 8      10.9       9. 6      48.9
Sub-lolail OIlHER                                  9. 196.?2 18. 180 6 18,8693.9 12, 316. 3 10.905 2  66,462.2   4, 616. 6  7, 60.? 79.484,9  6. 182. 9  8,474.8  33. 364.8
0. lAND I i1I.1N                                      738.9    931. 21 ,222. 4 . ,267. 6    736.1I  4,896.2         370.9    467.5    613. 7    636.4    369.8   2,488. 0
lotal INVESIIIINI COSIS                              49. 709 3 88.549 8 64, 375.2558,837 3 82. 430 1 277.902 0  24. 954 4 27,885.3 32. 316.9 28, 030 8 26, 320. 6 139,509.0
IFI RECRIIRRINi COSIS
A  TRAVEt                                         2.5889. 9  2. 685. 7  2.788.0  2. 888. I           10. 948. 7   I. 300. I  I, 348. 2  I. 398. 1  1. 449. 8        5. 496. 3
S  atiDMANCES                                     1.936 7  7, 008. 42,082.7  2. 1S9 7                8, 187.8      9 72.2  1, 008. 21,048.5  1,084.2            . 4, 110. 2
C. OFFICE SIJPPIIES                                 216. 3    224 3    23? 6    741.2                   914 2      t0o 6    112. 6    116. 7     171.1 I              488.9
0. EQUIPMENT NAINIENANCE                            816.4    787.0    902.6    936 0        818. 4   3,627.8       289.2    380.0    483. I    469.9    288.8   1, 821. 0
E. OINER A6NINISIRA'IVE EXPENSES
FARMER CRE1IT COKS                               832. 3    55?. 0    872. 4    593 6          - 2, 280. 4      267 2    2?? I    287 4    298 0                  I. 129 7
tINDER SOC. tELEPWONE. [IC                       931 6    986 0  1. 001 8  1, 038. 8              3.938 2      467. 6    488. 0    802.9    821.85               1,977.0
Sub-TotlI OINtR AONINISIRAIIVE EXPENSES           1,463 9  1,8518. 01. 574 2  1,632 4            . 6.188 6         734 9    762 I    790 3    819.8            -   3. 106, 7
Total MCREcIRNI costs                                 6.723 I  7. 193 4  7,7.I7.887 4    5t8 4  29.8666.4   3.378 0  3.6t1  I 3.803 8  3.944 8    258 8  14,993.2
total PROJECI COStS                                   8643.  62  4      1 9236.64     2  4     37  6       8.3983.49 ';4 3.120 6 31  1.   6. 87                        154.502
Rerch 12.  19112  15: 49
.1



as...m me  ea   access
USa eteas                 ....P.....ice Caetiee.aacc                                                                      I &I tw  taent.              ten. Pin6
totAl MI II klpiln 8                     aacl. Ilsatn 8                   tooel it-aS. But o" 8                               totoS  M.d. "atto 8           - Hts.cl  hOIm teaa.
0.-. eek    Coans      lecan,   Tota    Fe.. Ink 1. le    lam    total   Se.. tet    lanocai    Ise"   roate                 (a. Inck    tomes    lames   legal         tiNt.    - Bate Cist
13334    f4l*    454118         .      a0    a I     2 3                    211     0 3     28 a                              1806     s  318   812          24It
118u3 $am                                              155.8    2.32    212 1                9- 88    . 3.6 38K          -         22       84      4 1                      -        43       2       "27.8I      303          232.8
W -1te36 -m                                              412.4    418a   4883 a               20.8      t2 2 38  It00                         8.8      8.1                             414184    488I    43.80        222          45 1
OfIt:slkhmSiSl                              1286       4084    118 a     111         281   2380      289 l  288         5          88       3.3    662I                  86.1        82       661     8 9511.1   212182
SIeFeU$S? 82                                        28.2~  o8        81,74        4.8   2131      482   481          5.8       31-2      181     18                   21044       82 4    1844 4      t0482     498?         8441
CCII                                    48         38. 2    48 8    41786        21    388       215   24.8        5.8         I.?      18      8 7                   13.2       41.8    12$32    m.21.2       21.2I        Sl lf
1a-DIaettI iltUbM 2                                     583.8   2818   2. 04.?         281.2   83 0    10 2   301)        4 0        218       48     28 8                  238 2     3.28 a 2282  2.2320            14. 4       2.407 1
FISbAtUK      l"                           8348a       20132   130 1 1.386 1        41.?   1321      81    6 41       112         '88s      78     28 I3.031?                        28821   34516  5. 484         843        6. 32
ism                                        8648:       2862 32I2 I12488             4 11   626       6 41    812      14.2 3       6115     I  78  2.6                 1860417       208     6418   1.448.1        830o       t.2380.1
8OlUttits                                3.38           33    1Is1 I .1888          188 5    s  31   2     282        4823         IsI 688  8      842                 3.232 4        212.1   3186 0   .780.8      638a       186188
ASlSis                                    428         ' 2 4    8 2     82 2        2 2    01S      83     2 3        @80         0 2      a1 s       2                  418         132 23    .  6    8.1W        2 2          63.4
%O-legal 8185(318                           $883 4        8.t4   428 241.262 5        3482   42.0    2123  2132 t        67.2        b01    2152   21215                  2208.2        4411S   412.3  4.7?228       22.1.       4. $1821
P188 88-041                           82461    S.2824   814.1  0. 7401         22 3   2886    22 1  2320          474        2218    4104   4861                    2 14.?    8.021? 1141I  2. 4?            3184        1382s? 
Wt6tl8838                                M1 84                1        81         42 2S           4     48          22          488      8 22    822                   883 1       M 3 1881384       812        41.1         8141
b4V38l                       3422.   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                ~~1.141  42    142885   23 34ll  S.  222  30.  822   20   6204                     38903       3.218     80    26.82         282.        11 21
14-838  IIShf                               822.2      2428   82as       224          48 328         4.    6  I         68         14I      68 028304                                 .38    .483.46                414        30
88810te5111241                                         22.141   602   1.3024        284   6b0 I      I1    112         2 04      310 42  26           016 25488                    1220.0    380 52 80.8 1    02  2is          .522.8
Sio-Tital o*INvm12.8                                      0842.    03.4   .2.          1    3.9      4. 4.3601  00  00    0.2  0.3   00      00       030423                        01.85     8.44 114    4          11.4  0.2     42
flEsatiola 8mc                                    35. 12        284  21.044         Is2     i20        2   S 322        2.8a        430     0I1    43                    388         23.01 I8 28      28.8I.0      5 23.8       2882
018810                                     213-is  68   1808    134    1243        260?          42  2      28.2       72          26       14     34                    288.       564.2    173a   1233           272         143.8
8lKFlCtt8 8                                11.8          0 384.1483       8332      2        02    8 4     416         632          22      38a    68.8                  624         52.2      41   8203           428          81
Ie-o3e114~688                                 IL6018   851  186  2008   7.02A         88     2831    34.      0.0 60    22          308        II    14                  27020        880.    280.4       t 284     342 S4852
P 8& P88W16048I388                     1108           2 328    6    130M.            -3     -      1 -   13-        838          83         - S   08 I1n7                          628.6    283      M1 12808      S        12888
t8atCIP6fl3      331818208                             138    -I 4      68884       -:       S       I-   1.            838         II      -.   8084                   M312         12482    ST-      1 128.       00.        51249
Mfact1801518416  litSM0                                I6 8     1- 168881             .I     t         .I  41-        83 8         032        -    1608                 61 3a.       328.37   AlI    Bit23            -1      124868
611184ot380611                         . ji7 18108  32'.    2-  2.3889                                             8 21 1.0 10 38  860   S-    840                  lilt?3        6211     0.43."  I 1280          -       128.8".
8C3-5688t8818t1mt1              ~~~~~       ~~~~~~121  81 -    88            -      -       -                8            2        -      2                    1.          16.I             837 M6523 1 M
IC-lla  5w3t85o 8536Spec3.                              120         -lO                         .       .       -      4188        366 I             21910. 1                         .84 2 Its.       .283.         -8        8.283
I.324t3U& "visa8                           188 1        182         -   .8Al4.4              28         -   622I.                   218        -     13                  188.8         CO In12.4138                 6288        tIl  a
MW04                                        622          8.0     80      80          0       22       4     4           6333                0 M'     .62                  543         20       t       88.4 1       4.           8417
0588831                         6268        802 8    82813.   86.2         66    24        .    41          61          I12?     7      11 28                 6286.       48?      86        20         80262
5t*-3o6aI142I-MtPS~~~~~~~~S        634.. .2..  4220.... ......   8086...  8..1....... 32..1............ 448.....328......t.. 84.....838....2140.... 12.2.21    1827                                        408....  ..   286..
1881814816805. 82850. in8368                          2"S4    11        2.35. 1        3413    660    to     t31 3      249.2       11.      44      81.                  848         22.S      36    2.4623        3831        3.22       @@I i
Ulf-mg t, J11111[~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ii'f
I 1 3  5 3      0 1     1. .1                 14.1                                      4.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
utemis                                                         1                                               39   11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IS( owMM        HelIWNal    MC
p    C-1 6    in                  la   I 1-1                    ~~~~~~~~~~Coal  Pot"
local                                      -. .....................  Pr ICo Coa   Sas. Costs
total tInt  hellos 8                       ft.ed Ihtes a                       local lE.t  hellos A                                   loal:4  (esti. bite ma oa  t.stcat  Pr-o coat
ton. (Ent,   I-s   latest tts    ltl    90.. (.ch. lacst   lent   total   lo, (.elk   Ia-W              lTO."    lIltal               to, tech      tOwn)      INt."    blat         Coat     o t" a  Coist
t33h166t6m  189111ff                          312?2       136.6            I' .24889      is 1 4664                62 4       it. 3        636 ,             60 £                    549 0      9,041. 1I,          . n I          66 5          i,n 6
U6coetat TOAlEtS                               1,133 7     3,101 5    159.2  4.434 3         517 I 57I        9.0  23t 7         as*         172 t      4 4    177 6                   3.236 0     3.021 0     MIt6  4.828 a         M.          49A.94 7
4. ?"1t*1m  KotOSt98h3                           430.6       lo?74     51. 1    503.4        2 1 7    54      t.6    sit         isIi          72       3.5     40 5                    4865         12n. 0    5. I     6438          3t.;         *s67.
o 1101it Ina
00518681069                             2.86230        417 0    Sit.I  3.571S         t217     n       ss       ta      tala rs"o      itos     ois?     1563. 3                3.2335         Su6      9290   5.53718        7132a         ooS.41 
toP                                        tent         to.te.  . 4  1.514 0  t.374 7    SQl3I   34 9    soI "S7117         .114 2      2. tIS t  1.306 I t.377 S                 tI. 759 7     4.515  23.042a£ 1.ttt1.0        1.274 *      na.?16.
Wilnt                                       6 025 5      12067.3      Ist  2  o.PS       it  i   184       soa   0704    2.603 3          IS?S    S58   3.71486A 8930 t                         t9t3 01t.154 21 tt71.2           64"5         It. 488 
ORO                                         4.sto 2      1.1411I   57249  S.78  1         005 "   S 513    286     M284     tt   6        ltd 7   36743.073                        6.5222 3     1977.64 S 980  0.,181.0           a*10        6 .418 I
mmtul                                       3.46417        634)1   43023 2548.6S         1242     31t?     2t5   1775         2673         06       ogo9    38t9                   Lo.875         72t    5406   4. t8. 0          195.7       3.113 3
NM 0019601I S3* 23                                         437.?   718 6  2 1361          765 S It9        tO 9 Its5          tt.8         1777     388a    3183                   1.678S         137 I     8M4 2.663 6           131.8       I. SSSS
WNtWa  Iol6t1117IL M,t. o                                   6.740 5  4.6U686  2339. t29    .33l 8   23770   233 3 1.911 I     Its. 131.5   2.617. I 2.664 02I. 643 0                 43.00"4      1*.864 4 7.5ss.6  615327.6      23.5 i.9      S& nt.o
"M" low                                  ~~~~4.453 &         4.453o                             .                           4119              4 055                        -     4668.8 a           4,9008          -0.06       4. " 
usmIam      t 2OD                                        8. Is?           38.t1575                                                      1 387 6           3.967 6                        -      2.t1S         -42.125.1            04        'tint
SNlStam twill                                           ats's1 Sa,t3                                 .        .       .                 3.916  6          36917. 6                             42,2in. I43.17S11                    .        42,12is
SIe01lot                                                 St ?a a~4       . 6 .78.                               .-                        t     I           6.8.                                 9tAS..  681. I                      0.0       U.,11.1I
N. P1KIStttStISAIIClOOS,
MUlICI                                      7. 65t,            -   8132   6,544 7        i2.t      to.     44 3   472        646                    700 it  745?7*.4 IlS                                tOO. 5   tills           4532        *j3.4,
PSItICIKS                                   S.82)D0         -0.0   783.6  6.t30 a        an          -.   39.4   226 0        84. 0         0.0    844    7780                    1.913.6          0 0    820 0 7834.6           313. t       7.4616S
Satifelet PISI3CINSIiII8ICISIS                tints            0. 0  1. 173 a  lb 21533     6785      0.0    63 7 763 3       1, 357           0 0    172 01.52327                   15.521 6         00  t,st   91.5122           8356        38796S4
P. glIt
INAtl IOS                                   S. 0.086     30308a  1.0ti  to.IllS          2 035   151I    S06   5056          1 12a        256 4     65 5    817                   6.89         3.04361 tt476  tt. 475S           s46s       10,986.0
tISogRI                                     3,107. 0     1,713.5   SU41   S. 544I        t7s3     S?07     29.3  28. 2       3711         158 0     St    6268a                   4. M 4       2.0282    6164   6,760a           332:1       juS, 
t611POISO                                     33867        9696 I   5-6      688.2        It       63S      28    243         itO          to81      6.2     817                    283.7          16      S16      611.3         242          636.9
mm&                                            ot 1015      s.48    tE9      16. 2         S. I    23       06      65         944          7 2      2.4    24.0t                   l2t06         so5      301    2"I.            66           12. I
10100 Nsi                                   1.8868        9In84    30 8   3.086           8392    465S    955     I9548      2092         4103      402    402 0                  itIll        1. 0961     M5 3.8546             t7140       t.4w0o
lailt/1111IR                                    1.3S        0.7      032       2.5S        0.1I    00       0 0     f4I        0I           Ot       00       02                        i 7*8a              67        as          *              271
016111                                        122 4         ofI 2    24      200.0         6. I    S I      I 0    to02        328          S4       2       It1 5                   141 3        707      238 6    27.3 SI 12                 334 2
Ct8l6aCUtO61C1                                6106         329.1    tOS2S   t.05419       2)5     162       54    34.2        62           34 1     Itt     ola38                   15. 1        3716    1S3$)    .7129St07                  1.10323
SimiOei                                     1. 00.? I      5282    173.4  1.720 4         32.0    280       a1     i607       1131         86 6      89     Ise6                  1. "S a        6.26    1010 2.68 i157                      1.914 0
hILlSn                                      2.7"t 8      13,1S.0   452.7   4US$6         13 MI 1660        227   210.8       277 7        '28.8    4623 462.8                     3. til 7     1.16 8o?a   23.6  S. 22 2        2468 
muc stisn.1 tut                                            sloe    atMo    2. M98         840    420       340   14060        1107         85.2    284    2641                    01,84.8        6873    314   3.224 4          1525         3,67I&6
imp KElOl                                      674 a        2237     11 2    112.3         34      1.1      0. 6    S. 6       671          3.2      LI1    11.1                     II.3 S      3i        29       t29t          6.1          922.0
"NO M 86861(11A                            I11.867 0     SRI)3 S  1.144 5  11,445.0      183 3MI9  7    87.2  872 3         1717.6        638  28 ta62 2051.4                    12. O.2I      8. 754 32.75114"'S1911         1.077 I       21.441.6
0WCtSStU6666lSlN                            4.1887       2. 2141 a 74076499 T  "4        2295 I3447        38 2   38215       271         1626 5     42     142 0                 S.1.443      2.97      657ASI48.5t2           43           8.106a
MOVEsIums                                       6 5          4 3      t.4     94 2         04      02       Ot      *7         009          09S      02       ISS648                                         S       I10s8                       1
311t8116U5                                    IN4S          61 3     22 4    3243          63      34       II1It2             144          721       24     246                    31610         Iso     260      286.0         t2 4          sj. 
tUIC &CIS                                      0271         43.3    is14     314 %         43S     2.2      0 6     7.7        06           2 .2     LI      lo.                    103 le       i  I      f       1731 I         a2           tsa 
GN&INWM                            47 4         232       7 9     789          2.4     Il7      04      i16         5.1I        21S      0 8      &6S                    348          27.4     5 I      04            4.4            7. 0
S.6 t0tot  lopts                              34,tOt.2     17. 3506  S.183.3S  57.1293 3  1.713  I  8611       282. tCI 8     32.401 I     1. 201    1 733SS 13.S t                86.677 2     1812.7 9 6.57.412  86.412.2      3.13402      53,3M. 3
8. tUS 111118                                               4,913.7       .4.711 7              .212.6           -  212.8           -         32 0        . 432.0                                4.0M. 24,88. 42                   322.2       4,8.
Idolt 1XII111E1 tMIlS                           8638 "    170861 " 4 14.3t4 2 230,1l816     42214. 4 2,1In 3   715 77. 128.4    3.0,58.S    15.387.1  3.526 I 28.708                 1is. M. 1    143.7 IS I16. S80tit86.6 SOL,5IL44            2"3,2 .67.
It. 11506101 eSItS
a  15911                                      t.6937 4    8790       86870    9.$6859       869 3228.0      4484 4142            5 tSS      50442     77.7    317.4                Low861       1.6841  1. 949 90.34. 1d         524         t.2 
. tAiomLS                                         LIS     6,434    7601   7T6. gs4           01      06      01      It          031        W329      s I     Sao 64                   1.7      1. 36711    8168 a A.lo?5          08         S,,ts
C.Moil"SWOtIIS                                  M627        3258a    68.8    8n9            to I 76,2        40    434          Is52         433      55      3                      286    5143M.  "      9 64     961432        425           8301.
90. 810031 SooINt8U                         326. P.4      oS".l    313.2   305. 2.0      Itt) 391 S        1Isa 957.6         232 5        E.8&    330    217.9                  2 539.7        I 75     3 2.7    212 67.3         . 72     L434 I
some13 S0h9I5Itrl9t mmmnsi
"""U8I U   IS 11                                 t. S"28    In.1t  B. 9910        toO    790       10 0    9880        160         t2769    I.O      396                   2290       1803       70        no                       343
ttint $1C. 111600, Itic                      348. 4    t.78t.1    368.4  3.464 1         17 4 in94        974   174 2        86.0        22.               29                     8.        30.16      862    3,28.25         987. 27  e              U14
SO-total 9tMIt $M911ltlvt1  UPPI5S65           347.5      4.380 3    3471  1S.47n.4         274   236,0    37.4  272 8          438         IlS.42.4284.696.450..st...........33
10161 3108301 5015                               4.89M  0    tO. 1C69.6 3,67.5  n.4,iI        1 44. 7  616   85        8589%       438 3      1.524 3    216 I2.181.0.SNIR 
total                                            85.49  1   343,242. III 36,11. 1 253, 7203,   44*86. I P. 4117 I It 4000 S      21.30389    IS,Olt 0 3.118.2416.0                     1.176a      21.86*1 7  2.8M  628.tCH. 4      1.032. I      t 936,3 3e
121,8 M    13Fl4 . 6.21. 544 "T VW8.1184     9627. 5      286,160.19
.s... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . .. . . ... . . . . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . . . . .                          . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .



tIKE COOP SUOISOlbib HUhtOPNWNt ""CT
fps toe I
Sat lists                            u.sCat sIuwce                            PIose.ct  geolluente..total..nt...e..   Ccot plus
Loclfed, butS£lol lOeto bleat S                                                local hId,o 1htes a                               bt lint, bite £n a                Phyiujal  N,de Cot.
le  tInk    basa        anes    tlota    to.  lc       to, a.t     ga   total   E... 'l         latest    late.    Ilgal            Ts. 1t*d     lame       lam."    total        os       oSs  oi
.tO lMI  IlS
Situ                              -         65~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W.0I  1.23  III  -  21      0 4     31                       *3      01I      1 4                  -         102,      10 a    7is2          27           704 
01*1105091                        -        90.2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f      to?7    1010  -0       0%5    523                       10      0        2I                   -         02       tti     14DA4          5.4         I"W)
IIEUU                        45.0      50      50.0           -         ui      ~~~     ~~~~~~~                          ~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~                                      ~~~~         ~~~~~~~~~~~0 2  2 5  0 0.1  to  40.1  52  5234   ..._2.5   .... 5009
Suftlot I16 O                                      -        201 0     21.0    230.0                    10.4      1.2    Iii           -          4.0     0.I4     4 5                   -       nt4    24.0    2490.            It.?         ISIS
a ciil ~5
ltfl.                             28~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n9  23110    250  2800  1 4        ItO6        4    10 4        9.          45       so a      S                 300        24 2    10 9      29. 0         3417         1942
no0        201    410:    49012            25         tO19      2 5    245           06         1         0      9.5                51 4       419 4    52 4      524.2        25 0          4592
ma-          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~so~~~~~         gI"      no       2440          '2         too0        2    '125        0 5         209      05       40                 2171       2110      25n1     251 2        12_1          2545
a    .   -  -                      i025~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19  I 023.    102 9   1.011 0  St1  41 2      SI    51.4         2.1,        1.0 ISO    41   30)0                ift0        me.2    110o.0   1,106.41       54tO
lUowoitsOivI                                 45012        t2t27    050     0550         It.o          is      ii    32.80        1 #I         7s       40     391                509.0        945 1    720      73024         1417         0921
,mmC                                         4592         3 tl     050     0559t        210          0         3    322         212           1 6      3 9    la. 9              So".4        145 5    10a    12117           34.?         0920
eolsecvllS                                   55?15       1593    790        190         219          0          0    10          31           9        00     01.5               0 10?   110.            I4       0.          421          St
3018001                                      1S3          S.17    3l       212          1. 1        0.3      0        i         0.4         01       0         )224                           01       1.       224 A. 
SO6-lobs WIOICOIS                             1.49? 7       421 9    214 0  2.139.)        14 9        21 4     10.1  101 0        001          25.3    52 1    12017             i.001.2       414 1   221.2  2. 312 2         II 0        2.1M.12
PNOTION1  505                                210 4     2.701 0   238 4   3.203 5        10 9        135 0    IS9   1S 2         21)         18IN0     23)6  225 1                210.9      3.0)10. 9    210.9  1.11          000to      2.5US.)3
am00UUalms                                                I" 132   15 0     ISO3         00 a        90       05      1 5         I           SO        ol II)                    Is9         1350t     i 10     150 0         00 A19II
UCOc  IIINKtKL                                029        342.56    42.9    030.5           It        372      21   21.5          J.1t        250       33      III                40.2        M058      48 2    4022          22.0         4591
CR19161                                       is0        512.1I   710       1162 3       20          2017     36    25.0         5 2         Al 0      5.2    52.2                00.4        042.5    80 4     804.3         3913         15600
Sli-loetl 150545151K99                          460.0     11741.5   400.0  40719.9         134         1011.2    13.4  234 0       320 4       2)4.    31 0    230.1                524 4      4. 10. 2   524.4   5704).        249 1       4.911 2
maole OGlC t4p                               2011?       1I0o      55SS4    5520 9      1i4           55      20    21?           1 5         1.2      I   1 0go                  414.0       Its5  5 9St2      5920          202          564I
Klc95cinlIS                                   255          1 3      106      36 4        II           00      0 2     sO          05          0,       @ 1      o.i7               21.3         70I      3 9      200          tO           2791
"KgOcUm"                                       IS          0 4      0.1       2 I        01           0 0     00    OS           00           0.0      00       0.0                  .          0. 4     0.7       22          0.1           II1
OYIUO0 P0OJCIOO                                33          09       0         4.2        0 2          0       00       .1        000                    .0     0250                                      05       50.12                       00
"Ng18014                                      920         2.5      III         1         40           3        01     S0          IS 1I    n    05     0.-1    2.0 9I                           8       I.        40            61
awl150I0                                     14117        520a    260       2001         94           21       92    13 A         20          tO       0. 5    52                 107513                20.1    1008.1        13.1          273
Vito5 ISISOOl                                 M98         02 S    41 2    012 3         144           4i      2 I   200           5)          56       *5      0.                 30906        00112    04.1    *00 9.        21 0          4l0 9
W,lelatf olWUo   astOWNEtRI                     0072        2021    1410   1.4102          49A4         lOt      1.1   105S        10.2          S. 5     21     21 4              1.05.   3.1  206    500   3540S"2             15.0a       1.43023
0. 100901CMt OSSIslIS
3994UC11000001500o                        5310          577               91                SSI-                              0 .l         40 a             45.1               515.1         0 4.3            6 42 0                     118310
?0015100/10i35oI05Spit.                      5107         501         -    53              -                    -       -       41.1          40         -    45.1               570 1         642 3            040 It                      6420
ISoUCIgo50"ISoO                              5276         59I         -    53              ..                   -       -       41 1          4.0 S           45.1                 TI 51?      043         .      43.0           -642 0
"ISScaISIOtS                                5276         Si1g              5911           -            -       -       -       II            405             45.7                510.1        0 4.1 3           643 It                     642.0
IEIIcU?55?91C                          2000          299        -      M90            -                                     o    is                -     I to               1760a         31.0        -     00 a                      309
Sig"                                          09         010ai.5 S         5402            -           .        .       -SIT 5g                          .      .                 in. S       00. 1                                         M 2.  -62
SI-t-lou   IICICOIca  OSSISISCI              1.50 M         107 I           3.o33.o                                               2104         01 5        . 312.9                  .20.1I       054.0        -  4,107 2                    4. ill 3
6  ISPOCIISm 51091116                         0M0          29.23           1. 101.2      44 0         ISO         .         s     W.i         Iw                9.               1.091130       324.3           I.3117.1       62      1    . 131.6
9051gW                          00          3~~~~~~          ~~~~         ~~~         ~~~~~~~~31  4432 0  7 0  2   0           217      04       2.5                  15         314      504S                   2 4          47 5
$41801                                        M3 0.0    40.1    4091'                    3m          Is3      20o   2,1I         50          284       2      305                  Us         144 6               0.           2            43 5'
SO-labol SILl-WIll 109191          ~~~~        ~~~~~~610  2302  45 1    459     1           6         3    25           6           1.0      4.2    421                  11.1        2M.)       56    515. 6         10.6090                0p
ItstlwOool  slayO                           412 4      1.00        90 6 so0   1.S". 1   3006        553J      4 0    s0.0 A     322         396       227    44.3                 445.2      Ill no     65S2   1.123 1        o$3         1.1   SN"    
V-
oJ*



68~~~ £8o98          Ohyoloal Co.o9.ogocc~~~~~~~....... . ..........o.                                            091  00   Co..............
... .. ... .. .. ... .. ... .. .. ... .. .  . .. .. ... .. ..   .. ..   .  ..... .. .. ... .. ... .. .. ..... ... .. .. ... .. ... ..                         ,. *.. Be   .ot
locul lint9. 091.81 4                     loc.9 1F.C1 Dti$o 8                     twat9 9.  out,". a                                14.9 lint. 89909f a               P99yst. *t   P-"~ 499
Fe,. loch    liagal    TO."o   98989      90. 6.h      IS.o.      la,"9  9o909   la,  9.c9,    94.099      IS."1   tot49            bo. Loh    Is.099       98081i   9.9.9       C09.         Be"80  Cos'.
1889960l806691160                            916         4103               9 2609       16          233        - 213            to..5       3 96        -    436s                  91S          131S        -    1$000         324           0071 
1*9,9.9sovi 166316                               6I        9.11140    s00   2. "30I        2P1          108      40   9992         12           St. 6     22     60       201                     9. 119A    8602   2.4246        9its4        3. 00
9M5ts we 66119607166                          39 3          130     254      201.0        I 90          37      93    194         is 0         36       9.9    36.0                   244.2        so. 2    21.1    333 9         Is.0         2913
6099649661619096                9~~~~~ ~~~~~~. 2101  2768    2019  9.36195   62a0           I 991         toa 86      4004        936    pal a ba                       9.8a".?7      2141    46"4   2.6ISO6         917I        3.1S421
tSP                                        101.es.4    9. 314     lie90    I 2962      252S6        67 7    401   2606        4. 9031 S   9.0419 0   66.0  S.662 2                68 41.1      2.1me 3  9.19S 193.436.2        6400        92. M003
60'iICI                                    3.0246         6803    696s0   4.339 2      9192          343    201   2969        911   3        906 ig  P 2002  a."6                 4.463 0      I.0"6S   on0a   S. 462           2616        6.003
00lt6                                      2.0912.        1913    1016   2.81109        *07I         208a    944   9430       9.3691        2600I     901.9.441                   3.41160        M0.0   406 4   4.064 3         2364        4.9210
66ono1it                                   9.1493        3966    296 0   9.71890        624          9109    t00    8f9         9302         336      340    1909                 19443.8        2611    3193   2.0021          0812        9.044
am 0660169989                                la62        219S    90*    90017.4         36.4         9t0      II    140         936 4        30a      19.1 5  9040                  0426         2M4    9341   9.349.2           643        9.3336
1*.109.9 916991920                           93. 3691     2 .383 7 2.342   190.08? 6      us8 9        190 2   991 9504 4    T.11.9 I6       9.9962  9.331 4. M604  2               219.29 2      S. 4009  2 .30I I 30.0   4     9.47068      29.4910 
06611111064                                             2.13514           2.231 4          ..                           -238a                                 2380                             2.464 3           2.464 3            -       2.4643
1618am6461691                                          9691. s.4         19. 954           .            ."  -                             9.09              I 9300a                           29.971      2      9.9493            .       29.9412
so 0660630999                                         It.911s4           190.9114                       .               ..                 40  a            1.9398 a                          29.947.2          29.9413            -       39.9433
1*9.9o89 98WN                                            40.146 2        -  0.1462            .                                              43912 6          4.292                        .    44. M w            44.7140S                   44.7186
616094961                                  30R446                 404 4    349 4 81    19032          a8     12   3941          3347          b0      3 6    314 3                4.3911          *6 0   1806   4.61523        233 3        4.64 06
611994961                                  2.096 4        *0 *   301.4  3.313 6        948.0          l  -    9a   III4 7        434         *0 6    49.2   3066                  3.416 7            .   4624   3.923 9         167.3       3.141 6
0*A 909s9 00199C9011/06809c909                6.8$230        -00    698 3  7. 6631        349 3         0 0     420   383 2       616sI          6       6088 S 164 0                 .642 3         -60  0so0 9  5.694           490.6        0 .309 6
Spoil990099                                3044*        91291    107a5   17896         9123          i62     214   2130        21I4         9261      420 9 479                   3.410.68     9120 ina   769   1.7163         2143         S. 4869          .
9686108*                                   9.1700 S      0403    2934   2.934 2         60*         440      94?   946.2        96n6         144      391S 3946                   2.03.3       9.692 7 3306   3.30M6           9691         3. 2330
9611t 909166                                 9901 S       03    3840   2847              a 0         43 2       4    94I2        98a 6        03       3I9   29 6i9?S6                           3  1      2 4a "  330 0is 7                  393 1
60068                                         510         211       81       0-10        31           9.3     04      43          12          31       92      pIi                   s06          30        0I99                 46             64
Sul 9" 6619                                  0239        4666    9111   9.1112          461          233      1a   770          9299         601      202    2696                   too90       1S"4    98031   9.34            67Z.31
too/Ps UU94                                    0?          0.4      09        93         0.0         00       0I9                8             0       0        9                      35                   9        9            99
of99                                          690low                *3       024         391S                 01 S     9          6 SI2                I99     90                    105'         3Z11    998      990.2          I6          9926
40996M8040690649                             3260         9034    141       1446        963           62      21    372          243         I?I       1      1197                  1714         In0 I    020      0300          300          130
6899I98                                      1224        2693      62.9    81*          269          939      44    43S           586        284        1S    isI                   6013         303?7 S 966    9.0080           400          3 I
963490G                                    9311.4        6032    2277  2. 2?14          603          342      99I0   9910       1904         69?      333    2313                 9.19449        7079    2624   2.6226          0340        2.4046
944091IM                                     6033        429?    9406   9. 4*16         422          29 11      0    18.3       611          436      943     19436                 0192M 486            9690  9.6987           279I        9.1496
t88o6189"                                     33at                   6      14            ?          *         3      2 34                    91      05I1SI60I964                                         6        646           9            69
P9496690991610                                       2.11      011 0261              305         904       48 489            634          319     91   903                      .389S       3.a6990   9.020                  109.33
P0040019610169699019                       23.040       1.91'0   3840   3040           9912           76      902   9920        9632         596      2932919                     2.1III1      9. ";2    434   4.3049          200          4.44021
1090616146611                                  43          2.        1        9          02          09       00    04           4.1          83       6       46                     160          205     08         3047
69409016                                 69 0         30       93    992 6          3 4          91      0       I           1 4         3 1      12      93                    103          309      90      90                          24 3
906094Ot9s                                    461         3233      7a       731         332                  0       30         3.3          96      01 S     11                    122         39        57I      as           49            32a
660309061                                     338         99.0      40      300          93          06       03      20         36           9 3      04      43                    2.1,         933      406      010          32            43?
S*-9.9 0969 9ll7. 4203                                    0.710 9 2 9002 4  0.033 8       6r9 0       431 1    941 3 9.4519 7    9. 127 4      *03 7   287 63.8709                  30.096.      90.060 4 3.3301S 33.364 S       9.1Su5       391. 79 6
0981901991966s                                      -      .9344         -  2.134 4           -        10619            0.  - I"9I0.6S,                    -   216 S                             2.418 0            2.40          9928i?       2.3400
Total 0811099449 CSIlS                         45.4600      63.2639 1.9its6 99181 " 7    2.93 170      9.0000    31093 3.5100    90. 470.9    91.14  19.11 m  I9.916 3                 Is.011.3    92. 917 4 4.3963 193.1S01        34.304      131.9 M6
a958001                                        0720      3.4040   4513   4.8020           40 6        9762    203   2439          169         213.32   30.0   300.3                 9.600 3      3.641 4   1406   S.40126        2897         1 2346
680060417                                                34314    3598   3.6910            a 0*         03      00      60         09         2 a2   329    7690                        0.8a     3.6083   4990   499602            00         4.900a
C. :t099940 S 18996                             0 1S       363       48       8                        3 3      3       6                      29 21    3.3    21                      9          20         1       0160           90439
*  666999669089U9966040  9.9416  3961    9101   9.1833  114  916  ?0    109         9991         390      950    9166                 9.3941         3003    9829   9.0290          50?         9.1363~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1:I  s 11  ` 1.:  "I
IC, 600990"11                              9060        130      900      300518        10.        460       1 0    1: *0       861.        643      80      0664 2 990                        036      93       .920          I38         iouoU 
91663604. 9690                 1..9970                 930.      94 911 I$  .943        01          10       8      8.           00        933       94      9004                  9"119                 01 90106990019
IM%:9.  09686093196991 160310                27 0       3.91      2900   2.M  7          93.        9000      93.1  s37o         1S9         961      33 9   2206                   13909      2.41       390 7   .96 129       942 6        .11 6?s  * 
909.9 61086969 401982.451 2                      0.69609  9.349 S  93. 417 0     9220        300      66as0   460 4      2200        301 4    930S1 .4 0"                  2.806 2     it.6103 6  9 4003  14. 1113 2     1.96.       Is.494.1
I0la$                                           41.03?.) 3   02.692 7 4.1S27 1 9in.3176     23.2431     9 .4081 S 407 3 4.0M04    96.04.?7       8. #01 a  9.8so6 If.6M  2              60.811.6    V2.899.6  M06) 9146   . 162 2   4.83 II      I00.6M.I    L
1111cO. 92. 980 91 NO



......   .........   .......
-A ------ ....
i   j
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jt                                        .1m are   iz::;
---------   ....    ..
.    .......................    ....    ...
.    ......    ...                  .    .......
::   :221-z                                                    :.-   ----- :-   ---: .    ....    ..................... .    ....    ..
ST           I        1 5, i3   xzp:_                U.C-233:1                       C       2 ;                                                                                             :  ; :
-:i   izz:;  :! 2.
;=A
. .... . ......... .......
::::   ::       :--    ------ -    --- -    -- .    .................
M 4                ;M : 1                eeffTlee:2        ....  :.
r=2: 2                        xt:x-z   2 ... Z--Z:.%       ....
. . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .   . . . . . .
Ln    a]
.........     ..........
..................
. . . . .  . . .   . . . .               . . . . . .    . . . . . . .
.     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .   . . . . . .
. .    . . . . . .  . . . . . . .  .   . . . . . . .
..................
......   ....... -    ------- ..    ....    ..            ...    ........   ...         ....    .......................    ....    ........
tSSS:S   Ststttt:t   :zazzzz::z   St:
:sr   Z:st;t;a               ca-c   tttstatattitsts
ze:;                                                                            -31: 2
"as
:C                                                    JIM,                               N.4    1
zm's
2ZH
.=ml Z'X                   1EIR  III  IH                 H M
ag   a                            zx::s                             Ss  :C; VW T11-i snalrHe                   T



55                                                                           Annex 4
Table 7
,.....                                                                         ....    ...                       .-       -- -    --  ..................................
t !              - =ta----3t  |                                   i-i                                                        t 4 °  i -zt=2t--   I 1   ! s.t.X.X.S-----,:---s-
1                                               .n,                         9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-1- 
............                                                          -- - - - -                          -                    - ...............                                  . _- -    .;.............  I _..
99    --        S'---------- ----                                                     ... . i                                                                                                          Ij---------___ I_j.,.j...............j....._
1                                      91                      -: !---------------------------
a~~~~ ~           ~            ~~~~~~~~~ 1in                                                                                            aaae   cacao :-  a.-,,' 
I          9  .........                                               ...:... :. ..... ......--------   ......                                                                                    ..
iE,_    i                                 9GSsXX $     £ ,f           j99999999999199!                                                            - 9s s s| i    X* 
[s-s- !.$XX-sesxs.'.l                                       .          .         .. ! 9i.99    9                                      I.    !. 9-99999.9999s !  .'Xtts . i-
I :                   , -:    : :- f I.1.11       :- - .-----------:--  ......... I........... :                            ---            ---              ------------ --!---
*-i1i ilEEfflif                                            g_ ,I!,,i, -a_ -3    !_ EffEU:                                                                                         2g 1EEEIEEII
t!...               ........... .............                        '.'..............::.!.-!.....                                                                           ..... ..... ..  ...L
@  f   X     j B       -..................                -. ._ E ....   .....................                                                                             ........-.------
. . :-- ..... _ >------- -- -: .......... : :-.-:------.------------:--:.  :---:------------------.-----!--
-                 a..            .    ...         ..      ..
f f z ! @~-                                                                    99  --  9.e9ee4nv.-a-                                                                                  -, i 9 fl9&@*@* ~,  §i f     ,,  ,9
.. I        UI9~9         9.-..........               .               I   ........   .....................- f..
= * -,  -                                                                                                                                             9 ..9. . ............ !.!.!.:.!  .......... ..
A ^ ----,-,,-,--.-.i ... !-3--.-.---.-.~-i ... f.f-'-.-.--.-.-.-'-:-3i.--.
i  --!------------......                                                           ................... i                                  !           ... .       .... _..............
. . . . .           . .                                                               ----- - -! v.-"! ~ ~------- !- !    -                                             -    - -                a
|   z    , ,,,,,  ,,,,,,,    ,   ,,, .f   ff         i  ,_1 ,,,   ,,  ,,                          9      9    199999_9._9_9;
;:-8 _;__9 -                                  ;.,. i                i  ^3                       ~                                             K; I* f-i       i 3i;.
i~ ~~ffj  I                                                                   :IIEff 11*                                                            '10,      S   t|   ; f!f    ''  
a                 -              nnnmnnn..  _                                          a  _ . ,nn9.nnnnn Ia     I  n9  ff. ........  I
-4 444 a                                      22 E-;;E ;i~~~~~~~                                            C0bfl0a 9 . 
!.......a                                                           a    a        :.  s                                                          a            - . .. .-.   31 -.Is  !    | o...  ........
i~~~~~~~~~~~~-------:-- -----------------------'--i ,,,,l,,,,,,,,:,,,,,sj,_-----!---
_ ~~~ ~~                      999sEi3iiEoE    iI                               99 9                               9                      *  iEiiliEE9399'Eii   f                                   2  isoEii3i   
.        . . . .... .     . . . . . . . . .
.1ai - E -                                                                                                                                *                                        -------i--- -_  ----a---
j  -ii~~~~    -        i-i----~    -                                                                                                               :-i2 !- ------ --1-v-
.    .................                                        .    .....                                  ...........................~~9 .       - 9 -.
j !,!i,           fi  i                 i Ez |                                          §  ,             0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i  I  1,                           i  i.
a----I                                                                                                            a~~~~~~~~~~.........
-...........    .                                                                                     ..........
............                                       'Z       11~~ ...    ...j                                            :           ...I
----''''~----          ---   ----    --                                       .....................---- .  .............------- J-'''''' -                                                  ;'
: :         _.: ' I                                     __,I: .:'a a
-xii-999                                           9.                            -                                                           --.. X
i. IS                -         --- --                                                                    . ......                                                                     .   .. _....
 ----!:9               I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-----------a--
.                               .                                  a.  i                9.j . .. . .j.. .-.                          ..i
E~         ~9999 | s   |                                                                                                                          90 9ij fjl         jq j                  
1! __.!.-.-.--.-.-.-.--.-- I  9999999.9.    9                                                                  I    .     I   !*,,,, ~'....M  ......:-.--



- 56 -                           Annex 4
Table 8
INDONESIA
TRUE CROP SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule by Semester
Prolect                               Profile 1
IBRD Fiscal Year                Semester            Cumulative         Cumulative       Cmulative
and Semester                            - million ----                (Percent)       (Percent)
FY92        Second                                                                           3
FY93        First                 5.50                  5.50                   6             6
Second               5.50                 11.00                  13            10
FY94        First                 7.25                 18.25                  21            18
Second               7.25                 25.50                  29            26
FY95        First                 8.25                 33.75                  38            34
Second               8.25                 42.00                  48            42
FY96        First                 8.25                 50.25                  57            50
Second               8.25                 58.50                  67            58
FY97        First                 7.25                 65.75                  75            70
Second               7.25                 73.00                  83            78
FY98        First                 6.00                 79.00                  90            86
Second               4.00                 83.00                  95            90
FY99        First                 3.00                 86.00                  98            98
Second               1.60                 87.60                 100           100
For  perennial  crops  projects  world  wide.    The  profile  for
agriculture  projects  in  Asia  is  the  same;  the  profile  for
agriculture projects in Indonesia indicates an average disbursement
period one semester longer.



- 57 -
Page 1 of 2
INDNESIA
TREE CROP SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Recovery Arrangements
A.    General Principles
1.          The PMUs would be responsible for administration of: (a) credit to
be granted to new participants under TCSDP; (b) credit granted by Government in
the project area during GOI FYs 1988/89, 1989/90 and 1990/91, referred to as
TCSDP (GOI phase); and (c) credit to be granted for maintenance, to existing
participants in the Second Smallholder Rubber Development Project (Loan 2494-IND)
together with credit already provided to such smallholders. Subject to further
GOI review, PMUs may also be made responsible for (d) credit granted to
participants, now in the mature phase, of the Smallholder Rubber Development
Project (Credit 984-IND), the Smallholder Coconut Development Project (Loan 1898-
IND), and the Second Smallholder Rubber Development Project (Loan 2494-IND).
2.          The terms and conditions for credit, and for an associated grant, for
items (a) and (b) above would be as follows.  The first year costs would be
provided as a grant, and would include partial family labor payments for land
clearing and preparation, with a limit of 50 percent of prevailing farm labor
rates. The absolute amount of the first year grant for each crop would be fixed
at the beginning of each planting year. Maintenance costs during the period when
trees have not started to produce, would be made available as credit from the
Government through PMUs, and would consist of normal agro-inputs, partial family
payments to those in need (and willing to accept the payments on a credit basis),
and on-farm processing equipment. Cost Recovery Payment schedules would be set
to effectively include 21 percent interest compounded annually during the grace
period, which would cover the immature period until substantial revenue
commences. Formal land titles (hak milik) would not be required as a condition
of project entry, but participants would be asked to agree that formal titles
once issued would be retained by the Government until the cost recovery
obligation were fully met.
3.          The terms and conditions for (c) would conform to the existing
arrangements for the Second Smallholder Rubber Development Project. The terms
and conditions for (d) would conform to the existing arrangements for the
respective projects.
4.          Notwithstanding the adoption by Government of a new sustainable
financing and cost recovery system acceptable to the Bank, the arrangements for
the credit mentioned in para. 1 (a) above shall only be changed pursuant to an
explicit agreement or agreements between the Government and the Bank.



- 58 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
B.    Detailed Procedures
(a)   The project will, by September 30, 1992, establish standardized
amortization schedules and procedures for a simplified system for
accounting for interest. Smallholders will sign participation and
cost recovery agreements on entering the project, which will detail
their individual repayment obligations as indicated by the
standardized schedule.
(b)   Upon commencement of the repayment period, the Project will prepare
individual amortization schedules based on actual credit drawdowns,
with repayments of about 30 percent of expected farm income, and
provide each smallholder with a copy of the amortization schedule.
(c)   In conjunction with  the extension  services  on processing and
marketing, the PMU will coordinate with farmer groups concerning the
place and schedule of sale of farm produce, and assign staff to
collect repayments from each farmer.   The collecting staff will
issue a collective provisional receipt per farmer group.
(d)   The PMU will deposit the total collections with a depository bank,
in accordance with procedures specified by the Ministry of Finance.
(e)   The PMU staff will record farmer payments in the cost recovery
accounts, and will prepare a collection report for submission to the
provincial office, the PMU Jakarta Head Office, DGE, and the
Ministry of Finance.
C.    Monitoring
6.          The PMU monitoring system would include detailed procedures, for each
type of credit mentioned above, in relation to the number of participants, the
total outstanding credit, the amounts currently due, the amounts collected, and
the number of hak milik certificates issued. In this connection, statistics of
amounts collected will be related to amounts currently due or overdue, and not
against total outstanding credit, and would include an analysis indicating the
age of overdue amounts.



lndo.,eim
Tree Crop S_l Ihlder i*w*l_opt project                                                                                                                                    F         1W2
Price Projection of Sdlect.  FertIlierFe
Fletzcisl sad   imle  I19  Constent yale4
Commodity         Oseription                              tJiT      Ieel   1992   1993    1994    196        1996     1997     19        1999     2000     2001     2002      20tl     2t4       2006
tLA               i    PArmI
*     RN Earop (0 ed) Cot tiS           a/   S/ton      116     101    105       06    lOti      111      113      218       117      120       1IU      117      11S       114      112
*      FSEurope (8god) Cot 91          c/      /ton     173     150    56O    161       161      165      14      171       174      179       176      174      172       169      167
*     FMt Indonesia                    d/    Rp/ke      344     300    312     321      321      329      335      341       347      356       351      344      342      337       332
*     Oastic Wotreting & Transport                       78      78     78       78      73       78       76        78       78       78        76       76       76        78       78
,    r      ecnic fa rmp*tr  price                      422     378    390     39       39       407      413      419       425      434       429      424      420      415       410
*     Financil fart  price                              210     236    265     341      438      448      454      461       487      478       472      467      462       4S7      451
12.33t 12.3313  28.62S  26. 62   2.09      1.46t    1.443    1.421    2.24t   - 1.12S   -1.12t   -1.122   -1. 12i  -1. 11
A iUfl            D9T  PRTYm
StLrATE    *      Eco. price Indonsisa (Landed)    b/   */ton       100      100    100     100     100       100     1O0       100      100       100      100      1O0       100      100       100
*     Oe_otic Mmrketing A Transport          Rp/kg       51      51     51      51       51       51       51       51       S        51        51       51       51       51        St
w     econoic feorsat* price             /   RPe/g      250     250    250     250      250      250      250      250       250      250      250       250      250      250       250
*     Financial feregt_   price                         210     240    275     275      275      275      275      275       27S      275      275       275      275      275       27m
14.48t 14.48ti  O.00    0.001    0.00    0.001 .OOt         0.00S   O.00i    0.00      0.t oos    O.0D    OOD      0.00
TSP                DOUT  PARIT
*     FP -Wus Olf Cot85                */   8/ton        90      79     90      93       96       06        6       97         7       968       96       oa       98        96       96
*     FPU-Wlf Cot91                    c/    6/ton      134     118    134      139     143      145      145       145      145      146       146      144      144       146      146
*     Freight and Ing.                                   43      43     45      43       43       43       43       43        43       43        43       43       43       43        43
*     CIF nd. Port                     d/    Rp/kg      353     320    353     362      371      371      371      374       374      377       377      377      377      377       377
*    Domtic lbrketing & Transport                        51      51    S1      5        51      1S        51       51        51       51       51        51       51       S1        51
*     Economic farepte price                            404     371    404     413      422      422      422      425       425      428      428       426      42       426       428
*     Financial fargate price                           260     340    444     454      464      464      464      467       467      470      470       470      470      470       470
30.701 30.701   2.21U   2.166    0.001    0.00     0. 705    O oo0    0.703    0.003    0.0 OOi   o.o0    O OS    O.00D
RlltAHTE          D9U1T PARIT
F B-Casablanca Cot 85                  */    */ton       28      29     28      29       30       30       30       30        30       31       31        31       31       31        31
*    FO-Caahblnce Cot 91               c/    S/ton       42      43     42      43       45       45       45       45        45       46       46        4t       48       4t        46
*     Freight and Ins.                                   32      32     32      32       32       32       32       32        32       32       32        32       32       32        32
*    CIF Ind. Port                     d/   RNp/k       147    ISO    147      ISO      153      153      153      153       153      156      13S       156      156      156       156
*     Ometic  areting A Traneport                       S       51     51      51       51       51       51      S         51       51       51        51       51       51        51
as    tenomic farsgst.e price                           196    201        198  201      204      204      204      204       204      207      207       207      207      207       207
e     Financial format. price                           210     221    218     221      224      224      224      224       224      227      227       227      227      227       227
5 19S  -1.481   1.506   1.481    0.001    0.006    0.001    0.001    1.46S6   0.001    0.006    0.00        . OOS   O .OS
t'OP/KO           JU?T PARITY
*     FDS-Vanvcouer Cat 85             a/    */ton       73      73     72      72       72       72       72       72        72       71       71        71       71       71        71
*     FOS-Vancou,er Cot 91             c/    6/ton      109     109    107     10'    107        107      107      107       107      lO      106       106      106      lO      1O0
*     Friht and Inc.                                     21      21     21      21       21       21       21       21        21       21       21        21       21       21        21
CIF Ind. Part                         d/   fp/kg       259     259    256     256      256      256      256      256       256      253      253       253      253      253       253
*    Do_*t;ic Mrketine & Transport                       58      58     So      58       58       56       56       so       56        58       58        58       58       58       6s
Economic faraget. price                                317     317    314     314      314      314      314      314       314      311      311       311      311      311       311
*     Financial farogate price                          260     299    345     345      345      345      345      345       345      342      342       342      342      342      342
-- -------------------------------------------------------------------  15.17S 1S.171   0.006   0.006    0.006    O.o0t   0.006    0.001   -0. 9S         3 0.00    O.0      0.0       0.00     OO6
*/ hee d On World 8 nk Coaidity Price Projections. dated February 3. 1992.
b/ 8aad on current erk*t price of S50/ton FPU Europ. for granular amonium sulphate, plus 85/ton freight and insurance.
c/ tV multiplelr * 1.4669
d/ E chante Rate, U531 . Re 1992
*/ Ased that 001 will eliminate fertilizer subsidies. such that the financial faragste prices for currently
subsidized fertililzrs will equal the economic farepte costa plus 10 VAT by 193. That implice for the ns.t two year. a
yearly increase In constant terse of: 251 for asoniun au phats, 371 for TSP and 143 for KCL. Rock phoephate has no tubti;ty.
For urea, the financial or bud;et subsidy should be  I;minated by 13 and the production subsidy by IS.
t-I, --



Indonesia                                                                                                                                                        February 1992
Tree Crop Seal holder Development Project
Price Projection of Selected Commodities
Financial and Economic 1991 Constant Value
Co_mmdity        Description                          U1l1      1991    1992  1993   1994   1995    1996    1997         1998    199       2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2006
ca               EXPIRT PARITY
*    tIF Rotterdam Cat 85             a/   */ton     193    249   214    213    223         225      227      229      230      232      230      228     226      224      221
*    CIF Rotterdam Cat 91             e/   3/ton     288    371   319    317    332         335      338      341      343      346      343      340     337      334      329
-/-  Freight and Ins.                                 57      57    57       57      57      57       57       57       57       67       57       57      57       57       57
FOB Ind. Port                   d/   Rp/kg    459    626   £22    519    548           554      560     566      569      575      569      563      557      551      542
--   Tranaport * Handling                             27      27    27       27      27      27       27       27       27       27       27       27      27       27       27
-/-   Adjustment for loss  (Si of FOB)*/              23      31    26       26      27      28       28       28       28       29       20       28      28       26       27
--  Traders' margins (51 of FOB)                      23      31    26       26     27       28       28       28       28       29      28       28       28       28       27
Economic farqegte price                         386    538   442    440    467         472      477     483      485      491      485      480      475      469      461
Financial faragate price        f/              348    482   398    396    420         425      429     434      437      441      437      432      427      422      415
ERUB             EXPORT PARM
*    RSS-1 CIF N Cat e5               */   c/ko       68      69    71       73      85      86       87       87       98       69       69       88      68       87       87
*    RSS-1 CIF Nf Cat 91              c/   c/kg      101    103   106    109    127          128     129      130      131      133      132      131      131      130     130
.9-  Freight and In.                                   6       6      6       6       6       6        6        6        6        6        6        6        6       6        6
-/-  Ls quality 6151 of RSS NY                         15     13    16       16      19       19      19       20       20       20       20       20      20       20        19
*    SIR20-FOB Ind. Port              d/   Rp/kg   1596   1621  1672   1722   2025    2045    2065    2085    2105    2126    2116    2106    2095    2065    2075
-/-  Procasaing/Traneport/Nandling                    175    175   175    175    175         175     175      175      175      175      175      175      175      175      175
-/-  Traders' Margins (S3 of FOB)                     80      81    84       86    101       102     103      104      105      106      106      105      105      104     104
Economic faragate price                        1341    1365  1413   1461   1749    1767    1786         1606    1825    1845    1835       1825    1816    1808       1797  0'
Financial farmgate price        f/             1207   1229  1272   1315   1574    1591    1606          1625    1643    1660    1651    1643    1634         1625     1617  0
s/ Based on World Bank Commodity Price Projections. dated February S 1992.
c/ IN multiplier m 1.4869
d/ Exehange Rate: US1 - Rp 1992
e/ Loss  due to insects and spoilage.
f/ Financial faragate price of rubber projected at 906 of the economic faragate price (10 difference due to VAT).
__--__--__--------_ --__----____--_--_------__--____-- ___--- ___-- _---- __-- ___-- __-- ___---- _------ __- _  _  _- __-_- __- _  __-- _- ___- ___-_- __-_- __-_- _-__-__-_-_-___-_-__-____-_-_-__-_-_
I0  :
t1p
S.o



lIndoesia
Tres Crop Smallbolder kvelopset Project
Estimated Yields
Platatio  Yeuas                                    VI    12    13    14    5s   Y6    VI    Y9    19   110   11l   Y12   113   V14   n15   11   1Y17  Y1  11l9   1 e               21   122   123  1n    125
UER YIELDS K1Il
Averaqt for the Vo1e Proictt                      0     0      0     0      0     0   290   560   940   930  1030  1120  1120  1210  1310  1400  1400  1400  1310  1210  1120  1030   930   340   750
Class A   lestimated at 301 of total  real        0     0      0     0      0     0   360   720  1010  1200  1320  1440  1440  3560  160  1900  3300  100  16C0  1560  1440  1320  1200  l60  9no
Class I   (estiuted at 401 of total area)         0     0      0     0     0      0   300   600   9    3000  1300  1200  3200  130o  1400  3500  1500   500  1400  1300  1200  3100  3000   so0    00
Class C   (etimated at 151 of total area)         0     0      0     0     0      0     0   480   720   o00   360   960   960  1041  3120  1200  1200  1200  1320  1040  9S60   960   60   720   640
Class I   (estiat at  15lof total aeal            0     0     0      0     0      0     0      0   200   400   440   490   480   520   560   eo0  600   600   560   520   4o0  446   400   3             320
COPA YIELIS MINIAl
Awraqe for the Role Project                       0     0      0     0   160   540  1170  1610  1970  2340  2540  2700  2700  2100  2700  2700  2700  2700  2700 27 00  2700  2700  2700  2700  2700
Class A   (estimated at 301 of total area)        0     0      0     0   210   710  1530  2090  2560  3030  3290  3500  3500  3500  3500  3500  3500  3500  3500  3500  3500  3500  3500  3500  3eo0
Class I   (stimated at 401 of total area)         0     0      0     0   390   640  3390  3930  2340  2770  3010  3200  3200  3200  3200  3200  3200  3200  320  320  3200  3200  3200  3200  320
Class C   lestimated at 151 of total area)        0     0      0     0   120   400   970  1190  1460  1730  1890  2000  2000  2000  2000  2000  2000  2000  2000  2000  2000  2000  2000  2000  2000
Class  Ie ntiatad at 15 a    of total area)       0     0     0      0     0   120   260   360   440   520   560   600   600   00  600   600   600   600   600   600   600   600   600   60    600
0



544
0
'0 1t
*  a's W-I        n'        '         5S 55     5551 St55e       tU                 5..5  M's      S.  w5',         *Ua                         weS 5.   's'  MU'55   10'.    M "~     * su' s             ., "    . "         *".M'       'O.,                       ,    -        ,f
SO'S gUsS   SC'S  55'    ta'S  55.5 5'U't           m's * U.    555   5U.                  5.5      'ttte    5~5    *'sU   Ss'S CUS    tIe'om.Us W"n'.   '.an   5sees,s'.W'    *5                                         *s                      Swa. sW.tq-W.
two                 U         =                  =*        55        StU       U,    U 1    Z:               =1                                                                                                                                                                   own5 55    5*   
=7   Z-   --                             -=   --                      "'    ' -    "'-"- Z"-"'ZZ7   Z-    -                                                                       Z;. -"Z'-';;-   Ze   7 -                                        --I
S's  at'S  au's    at'S    ~~~~At'S 5,            US's.    U'S .       W          is     at's!!    US        as's.   ats          s's      Ss          .                                                                                                   U 55          m            /
An'.  M  M`-  Wov.  WA-  0,10    AW's,    W".  W:""                                                                                                                                                             Aft..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~55tM      S'   5/
5  5  C'S     S*'U      a'S.       MS5      ss'ss~~~~~~~~t  Mo.    555 W    O'       Wa,s      M:.      55's      55-.       WA..     *554    *S'S       C.,         iPS     .J5         sS      55'                                     55.55*qeA                       l 
rNA'      ats       at's      ass'      US'S     as's.     St'.      If'U       US'S      M5'      at'                 WASUs'    S"..S    -5'5       WS'.S    55          Ss       55        ms         ts      a'         s                                      SSust
as's  'a  ats.    .s'5  m   Us's at'S au's  's.    nst    a's  5'   at'S Se's P55's 5555  s..  s.'s              5          s                   s        sae$555 -                                                ,s)55*w a.smom
at's      ;ss          -a's    us        t'     ,a'        US',      S',       O-5       -A-M,    U-'s    at'S         at's..sn'....                                                                  ....1-a-.- -----'---s-ss
au's  at'S  55  S'S  S'S  at's  555   at's      at's      USeS      St 5     US'S      at 55    US'S       at'.      *                                                                                                               0155555~~~ .... . ..........i!!!t...'S  sSf....
,'Sa,       '       at's        's W     utS      m    WAu    WAss             US'    us'5         at's      WA'5      "At'      at'       eS'       Mt'          we                                                                                                 *55554l'tat's  
ss   at'     at'             mg'        0,' ;  "ts  at'    at's         at'        as'       WA,'      au's       an'      mta       Sn.       at'       Us'       U' .    "H'  4st's            Ote      s on'         Al                               0555    It5-W55Gas'sA5
* US  au    555        at         at         Us        at         at         a~~at ItW5M.U.                            I£          at.       NO5        M.        atl,  Mss                                ...sn.f .
SS  S5  SW  ass  si.  555  555  55  55  55  551  555        US        Si         U.S       isa    W*          US        U.                                                                              a.(sl 555 555 US~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SmAmim U asss,qc
5 5 5  5          5        S..5         4       5 55. . . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .  ...  .   . .. ... .. ... ..   s... .. ... U... . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . .  . .......... U S.  a.. . . .  . . . .  .     . . .. .  . .. . .. .. .. .. .
01 ~~~~~~--,                                                                             (I)              -:o -   -IA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~556U 
'U.  at  at  US        U.         s.         5,5       U.         US         at         at        us         55        aS         ssa       at         at    at          US                                                                            setss-41..,5s-sa'Us-A,wssS



INDONESIA
TREE CROP SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RUBBER CROP MODEL AND COST RECOVERY
-1PU  4029Wp 279CM.  ltU   . Vlki   Ai ii -
caw  fEa ;%ow    ftM#D  majos                                    VW   VW   tEAM  liE "A   WKM   VIMa  viM   "Al  WA*   WM    IM  VW  *m   TM    no    iE   VIW   VIM   TM    Wm
O_ _ __             _. 3 / l *    J   *           4        7         S        9        20       12        22        2        24       21        2         17       Of        It       20        21
29       19        so"      2997       9W      299        tO       00o       0       gmO   i 00d        200O    I2tt        207    gWm         2009     00M0      02       3022      s0ts    3so02
2h.4.poJV... (PhI... .'420)                                                                                         0       103      lot      2i4       in t       47      is?       I07         7 t47            267      2         247      207       If?       is?
1.l6f                                          too 00000                                                                              0        900     200       20       2200      220O      130      240 0.             XSCO 100  100  20  1400      lt10
019-.-o.t_o. P.l ... 0:boi l  C2-S1. 91 925                                1574       I2       409      :621     243        60       61       2643     1934      026      2427      24t       227       0627     1027     2027      1027     2027      s101      2So?
M,b-421opt  4.2.. */kg; so C....                                 2013      2077     2900     2003      2202     2204      274      2449      2027      960      24        2774     207       2902     a09       220      332       1449     as??       709      2047
l~6.,.30.201244'AP C69W.0  2991                          749424   1992    626030   19363S2  10300   300110
-6.2..  M.... P..-.  P C....oI062 022   223i20   226242   2463    241i   5247                                                0         0        0         0        0         a         0                  0        0         0        a         0         0        0
00 U0Uma   P.* C %..l.  2991                                     0         0        0         0        0         0   4 0          0    24770   1      0   17O700  194040  1940600  2202100  223000  24210  241100  724210   243000  2102200  19404
3     OW11      PI   C.A .0                                         0 oC0 0                      0 o                0o 71733   2409327  22412   260433  2 502         20032      21004  20722   433042m  4411444  4910949  Z174107  £07n4   40t29   4492
Ph2.l..09. C0.20, P. C.. t 2991                                                                                      '22940   244720   24002   ll227O   227700   22700   127700   227700   227700   2770   22770    1I274    22I770   122740   3274#0
Ph2.14.e0. C., I. C.".9                                          0         0        0         0        0         0   22271   2120       22203    207        9461£   20209    2093       227209   225124    2422   242221   2527    20029   20942    2793
c4           DM            (CD), f  c.     r                        0         0        0         0        0         0   L1010  220709  2072y3  242060  27030201  312477  3242291 240 6024  420275  427790   47470    492020  4747477  41*sm70   43210i4
.06.2140.9 LONe OWA224Ws Ps C.,,.&
0.2.229.1-  .1. Leo  4,2r 1.22                                             0   231114    51273   9s2    2437400  229482   2294122  2720720  2         0 7  131722   1069730  129279    321712   o               0        0         0         0        0         0
D_..t 0    9  2     . lr  22 to132    292442   241032    221232 2o4379                                               0         0                           0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0 o                0         0
C.*2l.ts r 12 I                              3115                      2420t9       n     li           o 77423143021325220322773209479 4     0         0        0         e 0       0        e 0       o        O                   0        0                  0              1
*Plhigo  00.9o7-6                                                             0        0         0        0         0        0        0  13071207M22 447M290   74944 0770 4 33               720                   0        0         0         0        0         0
bd.e  02. .  Lo_ P*o.e1                                               250    024213   911330  2417900  2202  21S4     212072W   2"043017  2337229  109730  129    21072                      0        0                            0   0         0         0   0
o . ..;  ...,.b.                            31                                                                       123012  627        01599    32"       439421   222244   2039        13220                            a 0               1#00
D* 2o,.,..o P*7*.t                                                                                                   23702  .40007   21599    1400    422   322 we              204      33200         0                  0        0         0        0
...      ....----..   .....................------                                                 - .------       ---   .             -----
0240 Tl .920. t l 26   .                                                                                             223:  O   O  e 702   44000e7   042201   742926   00i7022   990520  203247S, 1263240
0.=14.92.M   42-1.016   0660                                                                                             30        00       30        00       30        so        20       30
TddOW  0011 S.-.:o  P   -U.:.20  C.-.t                                                                   0        0   21270    44007   "424    7021923   00702    W99030  1032475   3410800             0        0         0        00                  00
*  16206 0.11 5.0.29. Pop....I.~ 0.12.1.4 l~ 2.0.6 2442.1  0   0         0        0        0   122200    22224    344020   3722    2900131   422704   4214S1322442                    0             0 0      0         0         0        0
1376.  Om Dw420  P01290 42               r W   I FM 1d .                                                                 14121    29902    4223 I      1ti 0    67       4747    70229    22704 e                  0         a 0  0  0  0       0        0         0
60c CASCDPLOW 01T8  oM  200       : *a C.,..                                  0         0        0         0        0   327002   61292  220425    0 0   2071006  2227907  2200744   311504  41051  437702  47471  4922                   4747477  4132709  4332601
21? 039 i 2.20 44180 owti7 2802CC: P. C       I 2991 0i                                 0        0        0         0   322040 S 1ti720  0002ti   020100  22334202240040  1240050  127s127   2124600  230700  23071000  207800  22441    2400 144 0 29250
r~2 PU _en641 - CS40tM4I 2991                                                                                           2272     20        0I7      600       0740      7420     7420    20720    2252    23029    13029    23019    12303         2260      2
NU7 CASH f42*  IW     0407 $121: *v C_ _t 2991                -749rS4   .-23020  -     W430  -P93032 -202200  -3022SO   272060   4450          9 1   124I30  I204100  203270O  1202        1904400  2241020   23071000 23070t  3207600  2140200  294110
nI10iAL RATE O   IET. 2        t
ItO Se   O   aISOL_  _(C;;;-.t 1"t9) A7 100  ... 2-14360
IN 80  2T i WAln  IS (i.89.  2991) AT 100 U.               609929
PM ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M
Cititi7 --- -  - - -  - --------------- -   -- - ------------ -  ---  -   - ----------------------------------------------------------------------t--------             ---------
__ ...._._____...................... __._ ........ ._. ...... __ .  _.__ ........... ............................................. _..............___ ....................  ....___ ... __________________.__ ____



INDONESIA
TREE CROP SHALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COCONUT CROP MODEL AND COST RECOVERY
- CaSsn   rUam. ,Vn&Ca U~   - 11S800  0.00W
owmmam         00 P1*630  30498qiR                                    tAR      tA WARV  V    W      ER      1*        tA em              tea W  N% v  Vea   VWa      tsAR      team     tem       Vea      1VW       SAR      'A        taR        team     seam
0fl        2         8                  A                  7        S                 10        31       12        13        14       is        is       17        as       9s         2         23
ow.       "A8      £90      39 19       90e?  o  3999   2000      203       20 2002  2W 004             2000      201      200?      200      2004      2030     2013      2012       2032    2034
0       423      0         74        02       07        Os       93        91       91        93       e3        91       91        el       91         n1        n
13414lpb                                       SOD                                                0       19       g40     I9        1910     2240      277      3010    3220        2200     am200         2200 0        3200      3200      3200         00o    an
Cen-P.w. P.3..bAg: lbC...t.a  2I9 aa"                                420      42S       429      454       427      40        437      422       421      422       410      411       411      416       4315     411       410      410        410       415
Cp -W.o.. PrOc.: ftlb/'.' Rs C."-48                                      03       46         10        7      402       03k      948        45      003       900       712      720       748      794       022      654       10       918        922       907
I-n...  ....Ono   AP CantO  1991                           9066s   24970   224802   248340   240100
1ao,1s:tnt e. lbC."-S                                     107923224449529215228033102 im                        o0       0              0        0         0             0         0        0         0        *   0         0         0               0        0
flsu   Ww"S  lb C..4-4t 1992                                         0         0        0         0    62440   21940    032940   134670  1030M0  1302790  3270M3  1329000  32200  1321100   232300  1322900   132900   1323001200                     200 3326000SM
GM  905085: lb C-,-ct                                                     0         0             0   10941    205791   876823  1220004  11,54930  IS0M44   2101073  2277918  2302246  2449429  2040333  205430   2753629  2022006  2927724   2040420  03"1933
C-%-I to C-t-    1"t                                                    WOO~~~~~~~~~2104    232040   212040   212040   232040   23240   212040   232040   212040   211040   232040   212040   212040   212040    212040   212040
3befC-"Ca., lb C.,,"S                                       0        0         0        0         0   202400   303302   3145139   326300   322027    220725   302712   37737    291329   40241    420424   43037   412320   449007    4010418   104430
CASh SEWO  OM0  $ ICiE (CMC: lb Crt-t                                0         0        0         0   10949     9303"   073519   923147  1220770  1544423  1710330  1414204  1900070  2050100  233472   2213370  2293841  2200600  240842   260404   205472
0408220.00 LOW SAtICOl lb C.,,-%
00.nOA0 W       of4  @  LaP' Priacip.3                                      0   270312   42429  31281305  1743737  235202   2304090  2503799  270071  2140707  2432218   222900   197322   1610493  3042027   51232                 0        00 
a.0Oo....t  I.0 .1343.,7445    970W3002am                                                                                         0.       0         0        0         0        0         00       0                  0         0         0         00
Co$04313.4 z.u..n          2"',        21            2            10572    67474   170010  272900   409340   2132        279        47 6                            0        0         0        0         0        0         0        00                  0
*  P,n&c.l m.p.,..n                                       ~~        ~~       ~~       ~    ~ ~       ~ ~      ~~0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0    29240   100320   Inn7s   29V427    250043   472454   334025    M1322     (1       0          0        0
fr4,   WI..  @4L.Pal.                                                   7107   04029   132871  1743717  235251  220409   210379   2070071  214007  2432220   72394000  197383   1012493  1134W7   22012                   0        0         0           
1. I..   p.3                          21                                                            4093400  474279   511312    03217   03002    122195   490001   442400   270847   299841   172403    65002               0        0                   0Q
*   4..1Pflafl                                                                                                    261040   373420   04641   020032   0214    490001   442400   270847   209041   171403    0540                 0         0         0         0
04, S-41    A:I-:.II:  . C                                                         ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~0 20304    271320    "4001   064000   430323   003370   700674   734080   702099   790300   019149
Cabs S.  :3t  03*C13_                                                                                                     2        3          0       20        20       30        30       30        so       30        20
*   .I   0    S.rwc.: Pat00t4t C.,.                                          0                   0       0             20304    373420   404831  00400    6202    00370   700474   734400   74209    79000   04374                   0        00                  0
*  7,n  Dal S.:..  Nlyaot: 0o.t"04  h7 4..  33t.0                                      0                               344030   39010    235392   269234   202040   29929    20303    270008   27009    201017   18440               0                     
snag. OUT OunCe 04734063 PS lb100.400  urn                                             0    21307    31200    39310    47497    33337    57300    44720    63929    04222    04299    49300              0         0         0        0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 217  1*  430  797 6317 65""70 60  622  S".0"
MPT CASH F1.OW APIS OMT tunaE  lb C-"-%.                                       0         0        0  IOU40I   02203   230472   332327   7022950 94443  1320034  2320031   27096S  322243   3372023  123454  3733948  3200100  214004                  8022443
---- - - - - -- - - - -- -             --- -     - -- --- - - - - - -- - -- --- - - - -                     - - -- -- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - -- ----------~---                                                             -----
IC CAl fLUt  APS OUT 65530E: lb C-nat 1991                                   0        0         0    260      0440   217043   272229   451674   034141   0771         737100 2110   7     3730    737340s  71710    032411001390 11194  313190
___  - casio  3991                                                      3910~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol  3220  295  4129"    1090  6708  7.4 1   70"        705        0       70        740      940"   32292      323       120        20
                         --... . . .                                                                                ..       . .                                                  - -- - - - - -- - - - - -     -- - - -- - - - -    -- ------.-  - --  - -- - -
itTCAh  1S ;;;We 0am  SCRC   lb C--,. 393                  -930389  -204976  -2048   -248100 -300420    47040   40091    022020   710640   970700  1000100  333040   3332400  31194033190 13              140335900iiw     as   131000  3311940   331990
!-1m-        --------           ---------  -         -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------                                                                               --------
ICY S    31Sfl0OI (C.241 3993) AT 3004d...               133432
ICY 09 flDIT ONEP5t7S (Ca.24.t 199) Al 100 4...                 *77079
00610001009130-----------0                                   ----------------             ---------                                                                                                                               ------------------------------------------------------------  ---- -- -    -       - 



18010016
Ire Cr etp 15616cldr tltI~t Project
Project 9",                                                 P0 5 931    9 ^     5/96   9697M  9?il   9"I"    nLe,  00105   Nusne   WIN    03/U   '6410   Vsj,"     -am         7/l8       69     9/10    1O/11    5 '1112   1fl5,3   13116  W4l5       116
Jlet~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, A,1t  
iertlIl,.                      8,t037   10,461   12724    4,714  16.732  i8,316  16,451  16,22   16,060  13,S32  14,17  15.311   16,913  14,652          14,34    1,344    12,80S   10,592   9,256    9256           0        0        6        8         0
tLa                            7,533   12,311   26,596  59,03   3 5426  29,824  27,966  30,734  36,8         4 ,197  64,793  43,06    *1f60   47,911     47,911   47,911    47,911   47,91   47,       47,9t       911 45  ,911    6,109   65.6      665,42?
Oter Cato                      4,445   12,10M   23.m      ,ss6e  12,95   8,214   9,617  11,066   13,446   8,523   9,069   8,n2   08.680    *M              ,6,0    8,60    8,10        96,80   8,100    8,660    810   80,0    6,4a          8,38s    6365
IMet ot                    20,2n   35,652   61,067   n9,374  44,143 S56,3S3   S,106   s7,916  46,39   68.082   8,389   9.303   71.3z3 7s,243          70,935   70,3      69,076   6.s1o3  63,o47   65,6S4    56.1   56,591   54,916   53,992   S,3993
8b..eruivelsl cearl  Is         13,56   17,ff6   15,439   13,111   7,694   7,654   7,3S   S,309    2,539           0       0       0        0        0          a        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        a         o 
epprte lty Cost oe    d  b      20,608        0        *        0       0        0       0        o       o        0       0       0        0        0          0        0         0        0        0        0        0        8        S         8        8
Totel Nee C_ts                  53,801     .11m  n72,s5    92n,e   71,83   6,00   61,236  63,275  68,n2   68,002  6.39  69.303   71.3n,    71.243         70,9m    70.,s   69,076   67,10   65,647   65.647   s6,s91   36,s5s   54,996    33,992   13.,92
iuIcel cwtliqsie                   no    1,066    5,98    2,08   1.022   1,022         965      m       337        0       0       0        0        a          0        0         0        0        8        0        9        0        S        0         8
TOAL CoS,                  S,519   s,5s"     4 78 n,45s  4,5S6  72,29  65,3   42,m    63,s60   69,269  68,002  6,389  69,303   71,323   71,243        70,95   70,935    49,07    67,103  6,6?   63,647   56,59         6,591   s4,996   53,92   53,92 
r,tse PIrces *8
bint                           1,341    1,365   5,413   1,461   5,749   1,767   5,706   1,806    1.e5  I,8s   1,8           1,825    1,816    1,606      5,707    197       1,797    1,797   1,797    1,707    1,797    5,19?  15,79        1,79?    1,297 
two               e30                     56       64       448     46       472     477      48      480      49      45      480      4s       4          46       "    o             461      46"I     465       "5I     465      "I        461      "l
9.eixlln (lw".)
Sobe                               8        0      I49   3,950  10,323  16,01  18,2    5,636 s3,014  30.U96  43,130  60.5s6 7s.8   87.538                93,662   96,621   523,077  105,596 107,747  108.372  108.557  105,300  160,05   94,735    6,63
bpe                                0        0    2,715    8,497  17,066  8,.646  n836   2,V134   55,709  68,535  44,714  97,12   107,333   34,49       1180,09   519,     1,       559,699 1 19, ll99n  519,699  519,4n   5,699  106,232    6,58    96,50
Prewctle Yulue                  8        0    2,400   9.510  26,015  39.523  66,2?  52,180   67,118  90.479 120.211 137,215  56,760  255,071    22.73   232,48   260.41   24,s37 28.103  Z50,272  2249,S9  24,405  229,25    213,79   32,842
tlt Seellr 54,519   .54,554  -72.054   e5,0s5 ,46.81 a 25,507 S                -6.20  -11, c      2,051  22.397  55.222  87.912  117.437  139,8      IS015 9  565,448   171,333  177,754  522,956,  A84.4335  192m,s9   187,854  174,zs    1598t   U43,5
e38wn9  fmefr 6t09                 143
of  e 8icl>ttw    tes  f0 rI9I 97 dd  w6l wep  stEels               e  iatly to thle fator uea    -  the bi.l_ sf tte cts  of IM 96.
This *erreepe   To ul'  rwmie  tes _n1t C Ari we .jwe  is st".
w  o fln"tI  te t so I.d in tle pjoct Wr   es atlst  at eta *          A 1 o tp q60,000 per be.



- 66 -
Annex 9.1
Page 1 of 3
rSoNDSrIA
STRATEGY FOR SUSTAINABLE FINANCING AND COST RECOVERY
OF SMALLEOLDER RUBBER AND COCONUT DEVELOPMENT
CONSULTANTS' REVISED TERMS OF REFERENCE
Backaround
1.          The three major tree crops, rubber, coconut, and palm oil play an
important role in the Indonesia economy. Apart from boosting non-oil exports and
generating foreign exchange, the development of these crops in the Outer Islands
contributes to regional development. A substantial hectarage of the tree crops
in the country has been established under government-assisted schemes. While
these schemes have suffered from a variety of implementation problems, they have
enabled many thousand smallholders to achieve yields several times higher than
those achieved by the average unassisted smallholder.   Government-assisted
schemes have proven to be a potent tool for raising the incomes of poor farmers
located in the Outer Islands of the country, which tend to have poorer soils not
suitable for most intensive agricultural activities, particularly food crop
cultivation. Consequently, the Government of Indonesia (GOI) wishes to extend
the reach of its tree crops programs to a greater number of small farmers, and
it is gradually modifying the input package to ensure that it has a modest cost
appropriate for smallholders under normal constraints faced in the field.
Nevertheless, tree crop development requires a substantial investment during a
4- to 6-year imnature period during which the trees produce no income. (For a
more complete description of the Indonesia tree crops sector, see the December
1989 World Bank report "Indonesia: Strategies for Sustained Development of Tree
Crops.")
2.          Unfortunately, past and ongoing schemes have suffered from financing
difficulties as well as a failure of the intended cost-recovery system, and these
two problems have impeded the expansion of the GOI tree crop program. Due to GOX
budgetary constraints, funds available have often been insufficient to cover the
planned inputs, and these funds have often been released late in the planting
season. In addition, a complex combination of administrative difficulties and
lack of incentives to the financial sector have meant that the funds used have
not been converted into smallholder loans, as originally intended.  Continued
budgetary constraints and recent financial sector reforms mean that it is highly
unlikely that the current financing and cost-recovery mechanisms will be viable,
even in modified forms, except perhaps for oil palm. The Government currently
intends to proceed with some projects, on the basis of interim financing and cost
recovery mechanisms under which funds derived from the national development
budget will be provided to smallholders as a mixture of grant payments and
government credit.   However,  the Government wishes to thoroughly explore
alternatives which may be more sustainable and feasible in the long term than
these interim arrangements.
3.          The December 1989 World Bank report reviewed the financing and cost
recovery situation and briefly analyzed alternative mechanisms.   The three
principal, alternatives the Government wishes to further study are: (a) an export
development levy on rubber, to finance smallholder rubber development with either
the levy being regarded as indirect cost recovery, or coupled with an element of
direct cost recovery;  (b) term credit by banks on commercial terms; and (c)
continuation of the present interim arrangements. The consultants employed under
these terms of reference should prepare working papers for the Government, which
should analyze these options in more detail. The working paper for each option
should also deal with the transitional procedures for introducing the option, and
should include a discussion of the options for handling the situation of existing
outstanding smallholder tree crop loans.  This discuesion needs also to cover the
transitional arrangements that may be needed, from a practical and equity point
of view, to handle the introduction of the various options for long-terr.
financing/cost recovery arrangements under consideration.



- 67 -
Annex 9.1
Page 2 of
Options to be anaXvzed
4.          Zx2ort Develooment Levvs The above cited report considered that an
export development levy on rubber would be a worthwhile option for generating
financing for rubber, which could also be regarded as indirect cost recovery.
Analysis undertaken in the report indicated that a small levy (5%) on rubber
would be optimal from a national welfare point of view, since Indonesia is a
"large-country" rubber exporter.   Unfortunately,  a similar levy on coconut
products would cause substantial deadweight losses, and thus the rubber export
levy might also need to be considered an a means of generating financing for
GOI's smallholder coconut program.  The working paper on this subject should
describe the detailed institutional arrangements needed to collect and distribute
a rubber export levy, including control, audit and accountability mechanisms, and
evaluate its application to Indonesia, as a basis for discussion and review
within GOI. The consultants should analyze separately the pros and cons: (a) of
an export development levy as a revenue generating mechanism;  (b) as a cost
recovery mechanism;   (c) of its use to support various activities, including
smallholder planting and replanting for different groups of beneficiaries; and
(d) of in addition to the levy instituting a direct cost recovery mechanism for
beneficiaries of programs to be financed from the levy or elsewhere.   The
analysis of direct cost recovery options as opposed to using the development levy
as an indirect cost recovery mechanism needs to take into account the likely
level of net cost recovery under any scheme after allowing for administration and
non-payments.
5.          In order to familiarize GOI with the experience of various countries,
the consultants will first produce a short review of similar export levy-based
financing and cost recovery mechanisms in Malaysia and Thailand. The consultants
will then consider and discuss with GOI officials how these various mechanisms
could best be adapted to the Indonesian situation, bearing in mind the country's
previous experience with an export cess on rubber.   The consultants will
determine the size of the levy, the amount of resources such a levy is likely to
generate, and the size and nature of the smallholder rubber development program
that could be financed with such revenues, taking into account any differences
that may be appropriate for different categories of  farm  families.   The
consultants will also discuss the arguments for and against using revenues
generated from the rubber levy for smallholder coconut development, and for
research and extension. The final working paper will include discussion of the
institutional arrangements, the size of the proposed tax, the costs of delivery
and administration, and "think pieces" covering the pros and cons for discussion
within GOI.
6.          Von:2rc.Pl Sank Crpdit:  Tha working paper on this subiect shozld
consider the conditions that would need to be present for successful long-,
medium-, or short-term lending by commercial banks at market rates to
smallholders for rubber and coconut planting, replanting, or maintenance. The
paper should consider what alternatives may be possible to the existing long-
terms loans which have been made available to farmers under the now discontinued
subsidized credit schemes. In this regard consideration should be given to the
relevance of total farm activity, the different income- situation of various-
farmers within a region and between different regions of the country, and the
value of felled trees, in possibly permitting shorter term loans being granted
to farmers for re-planting. Again the working paper should constitute a "thinkr
piece" outlining the pros and cons of the situation for discussion within GOl.



- 68 -                                  Annex 9.1
Page 3 of 3
7.          The 'Interim" Arrangements: A further working paper should consider
the mer&ta or otherwise of the Government continuing the present "interim"
financing/cost recovery arrangements, whereby the Government is to make available
to smallholders a combination of grant and government credit. Amongst items to
be discussed are the pros and cons of DGE staff continuing to be heavily involved
in the credit recovery process, and an assessment of likely net recovery rates
after allowing for administration coats and non-payments of the Government
credit.
Exerrience Reoruired
8.          The consultant team should have a solid understanding of theoretical
and empirical bases underpinning trade as well as practical experience with
devising  and/or  administering  a  financing/cost  recovery  mechanism.    The
understanding of trade and fiscal economic is necessary in order to enable the
consultants to help respond to questions rAised about the efficiency or equity
effects of the levy being proposed.   The administrative experience will be
crucial,in giving the consultants credibility in proposing mechanisms that are
likely to function well. Prior experience in Indonesia and/or Malaysia is highly
desirable, but not required if the candidate's other qualifications meet the
above description.
Timino
9.          Interim findings should be ready by the end of December 1991 to
ensure that the final working papers are available to the Government by March 31,
1992.
Revised: September 6, 1991



- 69 -                             ANNEX 9.2
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
TREE CROP SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Rubber Agronomist
The Rubber Agronomist will be based at DGE-BRPT and will support the
planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation activities related to
rubber in TCSDP. The counterparts will be the DGE Specialist and the HO
Technical Department Head. The Rubber Agronomist will provide guidance on
smallholder rubber technology and, together with the counterparts, will
monitor field implementation to ensure adherence to the project's rubber field
standards.
A. Functions and Responsibilities
1.   Provide technical guidance to technical staff to ensure
agronomically and environmentally sound planning and implementation
at all stages of rubber cultivation, production and processing.
2.   Assist and advise in identifying training needs of technical staff
and smallholders.
3.   Participate directly in conducting rubber technology training.
4.   Assist and advise in preparing and reviewing field technical work
programs, including those related to nursery establishment,
procurement of seed supplies and planting material production.
5.   Assist and advise in designing the rubber technical reporting
requirements.
6.   Review the periodic rubber field technical reports submitted by the
PHUs and POs; review reports by the Inspection Service; and make
appropriate recommendations to Director, BRPT.
7.   Review and evaluate technical recommendations; develop site-specific
recommendations for implementation by PHUs.
8.   Assist and advise on the planning and supervision of rubber field
planting and maintenance, including the requirements for agro-
inputs, and advise on the appropriate rubber tapping, collection and
processing systems and facilities.
9.   Advise and assist in monitoring and evaluation of field performance
of clones, smallholder planting, production and processing
standards.



MNNEX 9.2
-70-                          Pago 2 of 2
10. Assist and advise in daveloping or improving rubber technology
manuals, handbooks and posters.
11. Ensure that expertise is passed on to the counterparts.
12.  Perform other related activities in TCSDP and other PHU-type
projects which may be required by the Director, BRPT.
B. Exwerience and Qualifications
1.  At least eight years experience in rubber cultivation, production
afid management.
2.   Experience in assessing growth and production of rubber in relation
to agro-input use and management.
3.   Preferably with agricultural extension background.
4.  University degree in agriculture.
5.   Preferably with a working knowledge of Bahasa Indonesia.
6.  At least 40 years of age, but not more than 60.



- 71 -
ANNEX 9.3
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
TREE CROP SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Coconut Agronomist
The Coconut Agronomist will be based at DGE-BRPT and will support
the planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation activities related to
coconut in TCSDP. The counterparts will be the DGE Specialist and the HO
Technical Department Head. The Coconut Agronomist will provide guidance on
smallholder coconut technology and, together with the counterparts, will
monitor field implementation to ensure adherence to the project's coconut
field standards.
A. Functions and Res2onsibilities
1.   Provide technical guidance to technical staff to ensure
agronomically and environmentally sound implementation at all stages
of coconut cultivation, production and processing.
2.  Assist and advise in identifying training needs of technical staff
and smallholders.
3.   Participate directly in conducting coconut technology training.
4.  Assist and advise in preparing and reviewing field technical work
programs, including those related to nursery establishment and
planting material production.
5.  Assist and advise in designing the coconut technical reporting
requirements for project management.
6.   Review the periodic coconut field technical reports submitted by the
PHU/PO; inspection service reports; and make appropriate
recommendations to the Director, BRPT.
7.   Review and evaluate technical recommendations; develop site-specific
recommendations for implementation by PM.
8.  Assist and advise in the planning and supervision of coconut field
planting and maintenance, including the requirements for agro-inputs
and advice on appropriate harvesting, and processing systems and
facilities.
9.  Advise on coconut seed production by DGE and technical procurement
criteria and guideli. 
10. Assist and advise in developing or improving coconut technology
manuals, handbooks and posters.



- 72 -                         ANNEX 9.3
Page 2 of 2
11. Advise and assist in monitoring and evaluation of field performance
of hybrids, smallholder planting, production and proceesing
standards.
12. Ensure that hie expertise is passed on to the counterparts.
13.  Perform other related activities in TCSDP and other PHU-type
projects which may be required by the Director, BRPT.
B. Experience and Qualifications
1.   At least eight years experience in coconut cultivation, production
and management.
2.   Experience in assessing growth and production of coconut in relation
to agro-input use and management.
3.   Preferably with agricultural extension background.
4.   University degree in agriculture.
5.   Preferably with a working knowledge of Bahasa Indonesia.
6.   At least 40 years of age, but not more than 60.



- 73 -                           ANNEX 9.4
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
TREE CROP SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Financial and Credit Specialist
The Financial and Credit Specialist will be based at DGE-BRPT and
will support the planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of
financial and credit systems and activities related to TCSDP. The
counterparts will be the DGE Specialist and the HO Finance Department Head.
The Financial Specialist will be responsible for designing and implementing
the financial and credit systems. The specialist will work closely with and
train the counterparts and fir.ancial staff in discharging the financial
functions of the projects.
A. Functior.s and Responsibilities
1.   Considering GOI policies/regulations and guidelines of the World
Bank, review and recommend improvements of the financial and credit
systems, and advise in the proper implementation of the following
systems:
- budgeting
- funds management
- loan disbursements
- general and cost accounting
- credit administration and recovery
- procurement and stock control
- internal auditing
2.   Advise and assist in developing the manuals/guidelines for the
projects' financial system.
3.   Assist the Training and Extension Specialist and the Finance and
Credit Department Head in developing the required training programs,
and participate in their implementation.
4.   Advise and assist in implementing the disbursement procedures of GOI
and World Bank.
5.   Provide guidance to the Internal Audit in developing appropriate
audit programs and in conducting audits, and liaises with
independent auditors.
6.   Review compliance with established financial policies and systems.
7.   Assist in the implementation of the smallholder assistance package,
maintenance of proper records and cost recovery, and design of.the



-74 -                            ANNEX 9.4
Page 2 of 2
smallholder amortization schedules, and simplified arrangements for
accounting for interest.
8.  Advise in preparation of annual financial reports for external
agencies.
9.   Develop and implement working relationships to ensure transfer of
expertise to the counterparts.
10. Perform other related activities in TCSDP and other PMU-type
projects which may be required by Director, BRPT.
B. Experience and Qualifications
1. At least eight years work experience in accounting and financial
management, preferably in foreign-assisted agricultural projects.
2.   Experience in budgetary control, internal auditing, procurement,
inventory management, cost accounting, management reporting, and
financial training.
3.   University degree in accounting and a member of a recognized
accounting organization.
4.   Preferably with work experience in Indonesia and working knowledge
of Bahasa Indonesia.
5.  At least 40 years of age, but not more than 60.



ANNEX 9.5
- 75 -                          Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
TREE CROP SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Management Information Systems (MIS) Specialist
The MIS Specialist will be based at DGE-BRPT and will support the
planning implementation, monitoring and evaluation activities of TCSDP.
Counterparts will be the DGE Specialist and the HO Management Services
Division Head. The MIS Specialist will be responsible for designing,
integrating, installing, and overseeing the operation of the project's MIS.
The specialist will work closely with and train the counterparts and selected
project staff.
A. Function. and Responsibilities
1.   Reviews the operations of TCSDP, the existing MIS and related
personnel and equipment.
2. Determine inforumation requirements of Managers and staff at 11
levels.
3.   Review the information needs of external agencies and integrates
these with the information needs of the project.
4.   Develops the projects' MIS framework and structure, including the
relationship to the project's environmental montiroing plan, and to
the inspection service, together with the related procedures and
forms, and determines the required equipment and personnel.
5.   Identify applicable computer packages and develops, where necessary,
computer systems for data processing, storing, and retrieval.
6.   Develop the mechanism of information dissemination to decision-
makers and the guidelines for report users.
7.   Prepare detailed operational guidelines for the MIS.
8.   Assist the Training and Extension Specialist in developing and
conducting the required training programs to implement the proposed
MIS.
9.   Assist and advise in installing and implementing the MIS at all
levels of the Project organization.
10. Design programs to ensure the transfer of expertise to the
counterparts.



- 76 -                             ANNEX 9.5
Page 2 of 2
11. Perform other related activities in TCSDP and other PHU-type
projects which may be required by Director, BRPT.
B. Experience and Qualifications
1. At least eight years work experience in MIS design and
implementation, preferably in internationally-funded projects.
2. Knowledgeable in computer applications and systems design.
3.   Graduate degree, preferably in business management.
4. Familiarity with the Indonesian culture and working knowledge of
Bahasa Indonesia.
5. At least 40 years of age, but not more than 60.



- 77 -                           ANNEX 9.6
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
TREE CROP SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Extension and Training Specialist
The Extension and Training Specialist will be based at DGE-BRPT and
will support the planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation
activities related to extension and training in TCSDP. Counterparts will be
the DGE Specialist for Extension and Training, and the HO Field Operations and
Extension Department Head. The Extension and Training Specialist will improve
the extension and field training capabilities of the project, provide close
guidance for on-the-job training of field staff, coordinate with other
government agencies for the implementation of external training program.
A. Functions and Responsibilities
1.   Advise in planning and implementing extension and training programs
including the methodology and techniques to be used during
implemention.
2.   Assist in monitoring and evaluating all training activities at the
HO, PO, and PMU levels, as well as training courses undertaken by
smallholders.
3.   Participate in conducting the formal and informal training of
project staff and smallholders.
4.   Assist and advise in scheduling and recommending trainers for
specific field courses.
5.   Liaise with training institutes and TCHRDP in the development of
courses for project staff and farmers.
6.   Maintain close liaison with other government agencies at the
national and regional levels for the conduct of training courses.
7.   Assist and advise in the continuing development and collection of
field training and extension mater-ials.
8.   Re-iew current system and methods used for extension and training.
9.   Ensure that expertise is passed on to the counterparts.
1C.  Performs other related activities in TCSDP and other PMU-type
projects which may be required by Director, BRPT.



- 78 -                           ANNEX 9.6
Page 2 of 2
B. Experience and Qualifications
1.   At least eight years experience in planning and operating extension
and training programs for smallholder dev3lopment projects.
2.   Experience in the use of mass communication methods, particularly
for non-formal adult education.
3.   Degree in Agriculture.
4.   Familiarity with the Indonesian culture and working knowledge of
Bahasa Indonesia.
5.   At least 40 years of age, but not more than 60.



INDONESIA
Tree Crop Smallhboder Development Project
Bank Supervision Mission Plan
| Project                                                                                  Expected Skill          Staff Inputs
|  Year   Mission Date                     Area of Concentration                           Requirements              (s.w.)
1992     May/June          Loan effectiveness; procurement and disbursement         Financial/Credit Agric.;          8.0
arrangements; recruitment and appointment of             Training
consultants; arrangements for implementing 1992/1993
planting program; training; mature phase extension;
l _________  ________________   credit.
1993     Feb/March         MIS; Environment Management Plan; self-help              Agric.; MIS; Environment         10.0
scheme; mature phase extension; planting program;
l_____________  procurement.                                                                                                                      so
1993     Oct/Nov           Staff/farmer training; trials and demos; work program    Training; Agric.;                11.0
and budget for 1994; seed gardens; credit.               Financial/Credit
1994     March/April    Inspection service; MIS; Environment Management             Agric.; MIS                       7.0
Plan; field planting program; self-help scheme; mature
l _______  ____________    phase  extension.
1994     Oct/Nov           Mid-term review; work program and budget for 1995.    Financial/Credit; trainin;          12.0
Agric.; Environment;
______  ______ ___  ________ _____________  ____________         sociologist_                    _  _  _  _
1995     March/April       Procurement/Disbursement; self-help scheme;              Agric./ processing                7.0
l______ ____________  processing; mature phase extension.
1995     Oct/Nov           Work program and budget for 1996; credit; MIS;           Financial; Agric.;               11.0
l_____                        Environment; inspection service.                         Environment
1996     March/April       Disbursements; credit; self-help scheme; mature phase    Financial/Credit;                12.0
extension.                            _                  Agric./Sociologist          _
1997     March/Aprl        PCR.                                                     Agric; economist                 12.0



- 80 -
ANNEX 1I
INDONESIA
TREE CROP SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
1.   DGE:  Preparation Report (Final Proposal), July 1991.
2.   Economic and Financial Analysis; Project Costs Working Papers.
3.   Sociological Aspects.  Report by Mary Hawkins, July 1991.
4.   Performance of Hybrid Coconuts in Indonesia.  Report by Alfonso Mendoza,
July 1991.
5.   Comparison of Malnourished (6-36 months) from two Susenas.  Bank Staff
working paper, for poverty report, June 1989.
6.  Working paper. and sensitivity analysis, rubber and coconut models
prepared for sector review, May 1989.
7.   Environmental Analysis:  Coconuts, PIL, RKL, RPL July 1991; Rubber, PIL,
RKL, RPL August 1991.
8.  Mission Report, Coconut Component, by David Meadows, July 1991.
9.   c-rengthening the DGE Tree Crop Hunan Resources Development Project (Loan
2992-IND). Project Manager, April 1991.
10. Poverty Focus in TCSDP. Report by Renee Dankerlin, October 1991.



_______________________________________                                                                                                                                       E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD 2339,
a.tt       /  ~&~a3~0                                                  'in                          INDONESIA
TREE CROP SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
r.'~A*32O                    2.' 1lAh  o!                                               * COCONUT
.na.                                                                                                   2 *      RUBBER
-V/A  '     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
-cdMap  e .  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                               aci 2           84 hno
_  .                                                                                                                      3 Dim  mb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nn  15 KnoohEnonn
-J7 } r               THAILAND                                                                                                                                                Oik-npo      16 Bo nn-
tD                                                               I Ku-lu                                                                                                                               6 Siouno        17 Pobo
2            1  *s                                             3     ir   Jaya                                                                                                                        7 Taboa Ukmp 19 Umbot0
EJ ACL'                                                  4 Tona, PNI,          I Roou Jayo                          BRUNEI                                                                     8 Tomboion    20 Tibco.
3 P.nghidupon         2 AAjuogo                                                                19o igt                                  Tumpoon      21 S
Mdon             MALAYSIA                6 TlIukontn           2 Kng                                                                    2 Pontdocn    7 Toboli                1  Tangoli       23    onCo
00                                   S ~~~~~~~~bntotooIPm.kaanK.-o    Sooggod. [adTbips                                                                 u                 1 2 Tag  I      24   omi
I PMromop             6 S-koIc                                                                 4 Sobono      lOA iTpnnoKo                                T
2 8hn@Pb                                                       IS Taloti tcItbang     7 8itongebog                                                            I Bo o          11 Annon ToIt
1 Binun      SUMATEL 'F A,                                     12 Tom!ah.on          9 Nongoh Pnoh                   6L S                                     6 Anpibobo   12 Loolo                     /2
4 Bukit 7tojo                  t                               13 TanIA LaiN                                                                                                 13 KiTMm                 /
01hi                            .,  *u                         i4 8nton,g                                                                                                          02                                      02_~KLMNA   IMP\*> >7 g 
J -G N3Pakonb, 5iN\@*                                                                                                                                                            0 '    HALMAHERA
rt konb*s         SINGAPORE                             ^ 7  KtIAMANTA  BARAT                                                 a.          2 \0        12 2                                                 _
* ~% o                                       @      K  A  t -    A       1X1  T A  NQ 0 *    /9
J-1 *,  0bi                                                               L, 2AyMAN,AN TENGAH                           .*
|'-                                                                                                               ULAIpolongk"royo 
B.1- MuoroA8ubon                        *N@            - K                                                                A yArAN  I KAL,WNTAN [ELATAN  *\2
2Muo  Tnbu                         8nulu<Y               *'              4                                                                                                                                                  a   CF'-A2
*  ouolngu                            0.        *          l  !KJ-O                                             gorrormo6in                               *1   * s                 rn-/                                     humor
s  go        l          I Probumnukh* 7t *, .        ?--i    *      '< KorouN.                                                                                      0_
e PuouT Smiong           Pobinjouon1Rl                  030 @Lompung                                                         1 H6dung g ,j,     WOI IuOgrOto              c                                   2 4 Jcololo
Panmobong Ponggong               /         (AAT                                                    3 v,.,..          Cmclgin            *   a                                     | 5 loiN.
9 WoyHitom                         I       ~           C/4Tluiob                                                       0iombougng                  |                                      SodE1         bu
6To_n1unAg,ng                                                                                          Tollusiotlinon lOTin noo5buog                Kandor'ggII I  
9 Lubuk Linggou            I BAI,ondo             |     7.  I.CJYAXA RTA 0             Av                                                                                                ---o
MuProRupil              2   G dong Tohoon                         ogyokorto                               EALI/tohrna                                                         -
Not. Koob 0                                                                                  SL5MBAWA    |             LORES
07 pM'-"T.T'         I  SiL-k-y                                                                                                                                   - Wonpabo  o o r(mjto  HULA 1INGGA&  S I.  r ¢       - .                      -
ul.   Zng  2Tiani-g R.I.arongUSungb11054                                                                                          .ln TENOGAEAS
3Torbooiggi B-oo                                                                                               SUMEA                 Kupon4 TIMOR
7 8orodotu, 
o SunokPoinSgloton             TI,.i r1g9m' r"o  f ,gi-.o'  tT.ndO.otO  0.07.r.
9So,ogko. Utoro              a., con_A   TIcoo. 2.'  slom,r.'3,oo  .'.   a ,  .,0...... 
10 Tulong Bowng TeongI |       mr  &7eO 'mJW otm  3,oh  th  TA. 229.3 Sm.'& 0.   n'r  'a'"h '                                   _________________
1'| Tulong Bonoong I    I            9..'.,oudo,,.________________________
e                  so                                                                     e  zti U                 70D    47                 o           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DECEMaBER 199'



