Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20906
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-34640; SCL-3464A; SCPD-3464S; TF-27021)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 87.6 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FORA
TREE CROPS SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
September 29, 2000
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of May, 2000)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp.)
Rp. I million = US$ 116.00
US$ 1.00 = Rp. 8,620
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
Government: April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPPENAS        National Development             MTR                Mid-Term Review
Planning Agency                 NBF                Non Bank-Financed
BPKP            State Auditing Agency            NCB                National Competitive
BPN             National Land Agency                                Bidding
BRI             Bank Rakyat Indonesia            NES                Nucleus Estate and
(a state commercial bank)                          Smallholders
CAS             Country Assistance               NPV                Net Present Value
Strategy                        PMU/UJPP           Project Management Unit
DGE             Directorate General of           PNS                Public Civil Servants
Estates                         PPL                Extension Workers
DIP             Annual Development               PRPTE              Project for Rehabilitation
Budget                                             and Expansion of Export
Disbun I/II     Estate Crop Agency at                               Crops
Provincial/District Level       PRONA              National Land Registration
ER              Exchange Rate                                       Project
ERR             Economic Rate of Return          REPELITA           Five Year Development Plan
FRR             Financial Rate of Return         SCDP               Smallholder Coconut
GOI             Government of Indonesia                             Development Project
ICB             International Competitive        SIR                Standard Indonesian Rubber
Bidding                         SNI                Indonesian National Standard
ICR             Implementation Completion        SRDP I/Il          Smallholder Rubber
Report                                             Development Project I/II
IRR             Internal Rate of Return          TCSDP-GOI          Government Financed
MIS             Management Information                              TCSDP
System                          T&V                Training and Visit Approach
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:    Mark Baird, EACIF
Acting Sector Manager/Director:    Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
Task Teamn Leader/Task Manager:    Sumaryo Soemardjo, EACIF



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                13
6. Sustainability                                                                    16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     18
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   19
9. Partner Comments                                                                  24
10. Additional Infonnation                                                           35
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 37
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 38
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 40
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 41
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 42
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    43
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                44
Map               IBRD 23392
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P003 860                                     Project Name: TREECROPS SMALLHOLDE
Team Leader: Sumaryo Soemardjo                           TL Unit: EACIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: September 29, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: TREECROPS SMALLHOLDE                          L/C/TF Number: CPL-34640;
SCL-3464A;
SCPD-3464S;
TF-27021 -
Country/Department: INDONESIA                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: AG - Agency Reforn; AP - Perennial Crops; TR -
Rural Roads
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  11/11/86                                Effective: 06/30/92           09/03/92
Appraisal: 09/01/88                                  MTR: 11/30/94              08/16/95
Approval:  04/30/92                                Closing: 09/30/98            03/31/2000
BorrowerlImplementing Agency: GOI/DGE; MIN. OF AGRIC./FORESTRY
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                       Gautam Kaji
Country Manager:     Mark Baird                                Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:      Mark D. Wilson                            Anthony P. Cole
Team Leader at ICR:   Sumaryo Soemardjo                        Dennis Notley
ICR Primary Author:   Colin H. Shearing (FAO)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly UnsatisfactoTy, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective.
The objectives of the TCSDP (Tree Crops Smallholder Development Project) were to promote income
growth and employment opportunities in the outer islands. It would seek to: (a) assist poor families
increase their incomes; (b) test ways of lowering support costs to facilitate a more rapid and spontaneous
expansion of planting with improved varieties; (c) further strengthen the Directorate General of Estates'
supervision of smallholder program activities; and (d) help the Government to further develop sustainable
financing procedures for the smallholder tree crop program.
Project objectives were clear and in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) to support: (a)
a policy environment for the sub-sector that continues to be attractive to commercial private sector
investment in planting, processing and services in a market open to competition; (b) continued
improvements in the central and provincial institutional frameworks for the sub-sector, including research
and extension, a stronger rural financial infrastructure, and the improved oversight of the existing
Government investments in estates; and (c) investments in smallholder development, including adequate
upkeep of immature plantings. A principal objective at the outset was to assist Govermnent to further
develop the system  for sustainable financing for the smallholder program.  This would involve
implementation of the program being proposed, and an examination of additional financing and cost
recovery options to determine what further improvement should be made to provide a sustained flow of
financing for smallholder tree crop development.
No major technical risks were identified, as the project would use well-proven technology. However, there
was a noted risk that credit recovery rates may continue to be low, even though early experience of PMU
(Project Management Unit) administration of credit recovery of an ongoing project would be available to
the Government, when studying the financing and cost recovery options.
3.2 Revised Objective:
A MTR (Mid-Term Review) was carTied out during July/August 1995. Based on the findings during the
review, the original project objectives were maintained. Satisfaction was expressed at the progress being
achieved and a number of slight modifications and changes in areas of emphasis were proposed by project
management, and subsequently agreed to by the Bank. The proposed and agreed additional future areas of
emphasis involved: (a) increasing areas to be developed to rubber and coconuts; (b) establishing village
budwood gardens; (c) rubber replanting with wood utilization (pilot); (d) additional supplying to increase
the proportion of fully satisfactory plantings; (e) further supporting the tree crop based farrning system
approach; and (f) further encouraging tree crop farmer cooperatives (pilot).
3.3 Original Components:
As designed, the TCSDP included components to : (a) assist 93,000 farm families establish 65,000 ha of
rubber and 35,000 ha of hybrid coconuts; (b) assist 7,000 farmers develop 4,000 ha of rubber and 3,000 ha
of coconuts using a self-help approach; (c) assist 61,000 farm families maintain 61,500 ha of rubber and
13,000 ha of coconuts established under earlier projects; (d) construct farm access roads; (e) provide for
training and extension to new farm families joining the project, and to farrners assisted under earlier
projects; staff training; and project management; (f) implement the project's environmental management
plan; (g) improve monitoring and inspection of project and program activities; and (h) provide for
administration and recovery of credit granted under the project, for a study of sustainable financing and
cost recovery options, for a feasibility study and start-up of a future smallholder tree crop project, and for
other agreed studies.
-2 -



It was stated at the outset that the indicative planting targets would be subject to review during
implementation, in line with the goals of maintaining quality and reducing costs where possible.
3.4 Revised Components:
As a result of the findings prior to and during the MTR, the project was rated as satisfactory and bearing in
mind the points noted under "Revised Objective", the Loan Agreement was modified by mutual consent, to
allow for:
-  Additional new plantings (rubber 10,000 ha and coconut 5,000 ha).
-  Intercropping with annual crops in mature coconut plantings.
-  Pilot rubber replanting with utilization of rubber wood.
-  Establishment of pilot village rubber budwood gardens.
- 200 ha of rattan intercropping in mature substandard rubber plantings.
-  Additional training of staff and farmers, including the formation of farmers' cooperatives.
-  Construction of pilot coconut processing facilities.
- Assistance to be given for 20,000 hectares for hybrid corn intercrop in 1993/94 and 1994/95 plantings
of hybrid coconuts.
-  Monitoring and evaluation activities to be carried out by DGE.
Additionally, it was mutually agreed to terminate the self-help program for coconuts after 1,356 hectares
had been planted.
The other modifications and changes of emphasis noted under "Revised Objectives", were accommodated
without further revision of components.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is assessed to have been unsatisfactory for the following reasons:
(a) During the design and appraisal stages, all objectives and components scheduled urnder TCSDP were in
line with the priorities assigned to tree crop development and assistance to poor smallholders during the
concurrent Five-year Development Plan (REPELITA). Project design of TCSDP built upon the
satisfactory results which had been achieved in the predecessor PMU-type projects i.e. SRDP-I,
SRDP-II, and SCDP.
(b) Whereas the predecessor projects just mentioned utilized credit assistance through a responsible
executing bank in support of smallholder tree crop development, TCSDP was rendered responsible for
credit collection utilizing its own staff, because the earlier programs which used the banking system
had failed and because of the banking reforms which occurred in 1990. Low levels of cost recovery
had dogged most previous tree crop projects. Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) considered that the risks
involved in financing the project were too high, so in 1991 the Government decided that the project
would deliver finance and recover the credit component, even though no specialist knowledge or
expertise was available in DGE. In the SAR there is no evidence of active beneficiary participation in
the assessment of credit requirements. Today this would be a pre-requisite of project design.
(c) At the time of preparing and appraising TCSDP, the increase in local interest rates prompted the
utilization of grant support for first year activities during the period of perennial crop establishment, as
a means of reducing the overall credit burden to farmers. Although this reaction is understandable, the
decision to provide free planting material should be regarded as an erroneous starting point, in that it
- 3-



could adversely affect farmers' attitudes towards such a valuable asset. At the same time, free
provision of planting material destroys the incentive for production of high quality planting material by
the private sector.
(d) Although the TCSDP was soundly-based technically, the project design failed to appreciate the degree
of difficulty associated with the establishment of a computerized credit recording system, and the
recovery of credit by staff members whose principle function is as extension agents. The large amount
of time absorbed by establishment of the credit recovery system had a directly adverse effect on the
development of other intended aspects of the project management information system (MIS). That this
would happen, was not fully appreciated at the time of project design.
(e) The delays which have occurred with land titling (which is a vital precursor to timely credit recovery),
were not appreciated at the time of project design.
(f) The possibility that there would not be a follow-up project to TCSDP was perhaps not fully
appreciated at the time of its appraisal. However, the Government should always be aware of the
possibility that follow-up projects might not eventuate, by planning self-sufficiency for follow-up
operations, without relying on assistance from donors.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project as a whole is rated as satisfactory, although some of the objectives as laid down in the SAR
and expanded upon at the time of the MTR, have individually failed to reach expectations.
Considering each of the stated objectives in turn, assessment of achievement is as follows:
a) To Assist Poor Families Increase their Incomes. TCSDP has successfully achieved these objectives.
(See Annex I and Appendix 3 for full details).
b) To Test Ways of Lowering Support Costs to Facilitate a more Rapid and Spontaneous Expansion of
Planting with Improved Varieties. TCSDP succeeded only partially in this objective in that the hybrid
coconut self-help program was curtailed. The programs for self-help rubber nurseries and field planting
have been more successful. Shortcomings in achieving this objective can be ascribed to the preference
of participants to avail themselves of the free planting material provided under the project.
c) Further Strengthen the Directorate General of Estates' Supervision of Smallholder Program Activities.
The heavy demands imposed upon the MIS consultant precluded his devotion of adequate time to
strengthening other aspects of the DGE supervision capability. This unsatisfactory achievement of the
original objective was compounded by the failure to utilize outside inspection teams on a regular basis
as had been foreseen at the outset.
d) Help the Government to Further Develop Sustainable Financing Procedures for the Smallholder Tree
Crop Programn. This objective was partially achieved through the undertaking of a related study early in
the life of the project. The project has developed a workable system, which is transparent and accepted
by the farmers. However, credit recovery is slow, and the system is unsustainable without continued
Government funding. Some examples of sustainable systems have been identified. In some areas,
commercial banks are willing to lend to farmers against the collateral of their land title. In other cases
farmner groups and village co-operatives have been able to raise finance. Ultimately, financing is only
-4 -



sustainable if enterprises have strong cash flows with adequate collateral and lenders have adequate
margins to cover costs and risk. This will arise if producers can achieve fair prices for production
and/or add value on the farm. Overall performance was unsatisfactory. The project design in this area
was weak, and implementation slow.
e) Additional Supplying to Increase the Proportion of Fully Satisfactory Plantings. This objective was
achieved.
f) Further Supporting the Tree Crop Based Farming System Approach. This objective was met through
the intensification and extension of areas of tree crops complemented with annual or perennial
intercrops.
g) Pilot Activities in Relation to Rubber Timber Utilization and Farmer Cooperatives. These objectives
were accomplished with moderate success.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Macroeconomic Policies
Current (March 1999) Bank macroeconomic policies were formulated in a period of intense political, social
and economic uncertainty and are aimed at macroeconomic stabilization. Bank strategy focuses on:
*     Reinforcement of social safety nets
*      Stabilization of the economy
*      Strengthening institutions to support sustainable growth
The project has delivered positive results in all these areas. The income of over 100,000 of some of the
poorest rural families has been increased and they do not need a safety net. The commodities produced are
either for export, or import substitution, thus assisting in reversing the negative foreign trade balances that
Indonesia experienced before the crisis. Project performance in relation to macroeconomic policies was
satisfactory.
Sector Policies
The project provided some training and facilities in support of the Directorate General of Estates, and
assisted with the establishment of farmer cooperatives, which can develop added value functions. However,
no progress was made in developing sustainable financing institutions for smallholder tree crop
development.
Policy in the Tree Crops Sector is currently being reformulated and no specific policy has been put
forward. However, environmental management and social development issues are high on the near and
medium term agenda. In the course of the project, huge areas of land covered with alang-alang were
planted with trees, with measures being taken to prevent soil degradation and to retain water. Whilst
biodiversity was not significantly enhanced, the project had a positive impact on the environment.
Socio-economic surveys undertaken by the project staff in 1999 and field questioning by the ICR team,
suggest that the project had a positive social impact on the communities within the project area through
enabling poor people to increasingly access education and health services. Project performance in relation
to sector policies was satisfactory.
-5 -



Physical Objectives
General
In furtherance of its stated objectives, the project has "managed" a range of rubber and coconut plantings
established under earlier projects, and also aimed to establish and maintain additional plantings of these
crops throughout a selection of provinces in the islands of Sumatra, Kalimantan, Sulawesi and Maluku.
Plantings amounting to 197,502 ha (132,648 ha rubber and 64,854 ha hybrid coconut) from earlier
initiatives (SRDP-I, SRDP-11, SCDP and TCSDP-GOI) which were to be maintained and/or supervised on
a continuing basis under TCSDP.
TCSDP was also charged with the field planting and maintenance of further rubber and hybrid coconut
areas. The total area initially planned for full assistance field development of these crops during the period
1992/93 to 1997/98 was 100,000 ha, comprising 65,000 ha of rubber and 35,000 ha of hybrid coconut. At
the time of the project Mid-Term Review in 1995, the area for smallholder tree crop development was
increased to 115,000 ha, comprising 75,000 ha of rubber and 40,000 ha of hybrid coconut.
Other project components as initially conceived, were the establishment of budwood gardens and nurseries,
construction of village access roads, bridges and offices, provision of vehicles, training, technical assistance
and studies, support for monitoring and inspection services, land titling and credit recovery operations. At
the time of the project Mid-Term Review, the increase in areas for field development was complemented by
activities related to supplying existing tree crop plantings, intercropping, down-stream processing and pilot
replanting of senescent rubber areas, following exploitation of the existing stand for timber production.
Whilst the record of cost recovery of tree crop projects in Indonesia had been better than that achieved by
other agricultural projects, it was noted in the SAR that overall cost recovery in previous tree crop projects
had not reached target levels. The banking sector did not want to be involved in the credit operations of
TCSDP. Government nominated the project to handle the credit function, but no clear operating guidelines
were established before the project commenced.
A complete summary of the project Key Indicators is provided in Appendix 1 .
Main Components
a) Maintenance of Earlier Tree Crop Plantings. Under TCSDP, the maintenance of rubber and hybrid
coconut areas established under previous initiatives was undertaken according to plan, with initial areas
for maintenance initially comprising 81,306 ha of rubber planted under SRDP-II and TCSDP-GOI and
approximately 14,799 ha of hybrid coconut planted under TCSDP - GOI. The areas developed under
previous initiatives and requiring maintenance during the TCSDP period, clearly decreased with time.
For those plantings which were undertaken under earlier projects and which continued to be maintained
during the early years of TCSDP, technical standards were relatively satisfactory, with 68 percent and
49 percent of rubber and coconut areas respectively, falling within Classes A and B combined. Project
performance was satisfactory.
-6 -



Details of classification are as follow:
Rubber             Coconut
No. of   No. of   No. of   No. of
Class  trees/ha productive trees/ha productive     Credit Repayment        Remarks
at   trees/ha at    at   trees/ha at
planting  maturity  planting  maturity
A      500      > 300      160     > 120   Full repayment                Very good
B      500    200 - 299    160    100 - 119 Full repayment                 Good
C      500    40 - 199    160      30 - 99   Proportional to the no. of    Fair
D_ I_        I    I_I_<_30_productive trees                            I
D      500      < 40       160      <30    Not required to repay any credit   Poor
b) Development of Nurseries for Additional Fully-Assisted Smallholder Tree Crop Plantings. The project
successfully established 106 ha of rubber budwood gardens, 833.75 ha of rubber nurseries and 427.65
ha of hybrid coconut nurseries. In support of the additional plantings and supplying of earlier field
plantings, as agreed at the time of the Mid-Term Review, further rubber and hybrid coconut nurseries
were established to the extent of 151.2 ha. Additionally, TCSDP has established 78.85 ha of village
budwood gardens (or 79 percent of the planned total). These budwood gardens which are located in
230 villages within 32 PMUs, comprise the recommended clones PR 261, PB 260, RRIC 100, RRIM
712, BPM 1 and GT 1. Production of high quality planting material in the rubber and coconut
nurseries proved to be problematic. In the case of rubber nurseries, a general problem was posed by
the very poor germination percentage of seeds, which were procured from either North Sumatra (the
majority) or from the Research Center at Getas Salatiga in Central Java. This low germination
percentage coupled with normal losses during the budding and selection process, meant that inadequate
numbers of high quality polybagged rubber plants were available per hectare to assure the
establishment of a full stand (following any necessary field supplying of vacant points or unthrifty
plants). In the case of hybrid coconuts, a combination of poor seed germination and the high
proportion of non-hybrid seedlings produced, also led to shortages of high quality polybagged plants
for field planting and supplying. However, the shortage of hybrid coconut palms was said to be less
severe than in the case of rubber. In the case of both rubber and hybrid coconut seeds which were
utilized in project nurseries, redress for sub-standard quality was sought through requesting
supplementary seeds or financial compensation. Project performance was satisfactory.
c) Development of Additional Smallholder Tree Crop Plantings. The field planting of rubber and hybrid
coconuts in relation to the increased targets fixed at the time of the Mid Term Review, has been as
follows:
Rubber:          70,769 ha, or 94 percent of the 75,000 ha planned.
Hybrid Coconut: 41,036 ha, or 102 percent of the 40,000 ha planned.
In spite of the nursery constraints noted above, which were frequently compounded by the late
availability of polybagged plants for timely field planting near the start of the rainy season, the ability
of TCSDP staff to oversee the successful establishment of extensive and scattered rubber and hybrid
coconut plantings, is creditworthy. In the case of rubber plantings, only two provinces were behind
schedule : Maluku (due to organizational and geographical problems) and Jambi (due to organizational
problems). Major emphasis with rubber has been placed upon assisting transmigrant farmers with
- 7-



development of their first and second land holdings (LU I & LU II), with the vast majority of plantings
being undertaken after alang-alang (41 percent) and belukar (58 percent). For rubber field planted
under TCSDP, the proportions of the various quality classes has compared favorably with the SAR
assumptions, with standard quality plantings totaling 76 percent. In the case of hybrid coconuts, the
proportions of the various quality classes were well below SAR assumptions, with standard quality
plantings totaling 45 percent The poor quality of the coconut field plantings resulted from severe
drought, pig damage and the late supplying of agrochemicals. For details, see the Appendices to the
ICR. Project performance was satisfactory.
d) Additional Supplying of Existing Field Plantings. Of the 20,446 ha of additional field supplying
agreed at the time of the Mid-Term Review, 18,550.5 ha were accomplished. A total of 11,441 ha of
sub-standard rubber plantings were supplied, utilizing an average of 135 plants per field ha, and 7,110
ha of hybrid coconuts were similarly treated, utilizing an average of 60 plants per field ha. The agreed
additional supplying of existing field plantings was generally carried out successfully. Such supplying
of rubber plantings was undertaken in seven provinces, while the necessary additional supplying of
hybrid coconut areas was undertaken in nine provinces. Project performance was satisfactory.
e) Self-Help Nurseries. Planting and Maintenance. Additional areas of rubber and hybrid coconuts were
established under the self-help program. The areas so established, were 2,605 ha of rubber (or 40
percent of the planned area of 4,000 ha) and 1,356 ha of hybrid coconut (or 45 percent of the planned
area of 3,000 ha). Despite the arrangements which were made to provide farmers' groups with the
necessary inputs to produce high quality planting material, achievements were constrained by their lack
of motivation in developing the nurseries and their reluctance to purchase agricultural inputs such as
fertilizers and pesticides. They also preferred to purchase ready-to-use planting material in the case of
rubber. The self-help nurseries of hybrid coconut were discontinued in 1995 because DGE preferred to
utilize tall coconuts, which are better adapted to upkeep by farmers. In terms of the quality of plantings
established, both rubber and coconut proved to be below the standards assumed at appraisal. For
rubber, the achieved combination of Classes A and B was 59 percent (against a standard of 70 percent
in the SAR). In the case of hybrid coconuts, the achieved combination of Classes A and B was 46
percent (against a standard of 70 percent in the SAR). For details of the classification of the self-help
rubber and hybrid coconut plantings, see the Appendices to the ICR. Project achievement in the
establishment of self-help nurseries and plantings can be regarded as modest, with the provisos noted
above.
f) Intercropping within Established Tree Crop Plantings. It is worth mentioning that the intercropping
which has been undertaken in established tree crop plantings under TCSDP has in many instances been
supplemented by intercropping undertaken directly by farmers. A significant example of such
spontaneous intercropping is the planting of cocoa and sometimes of robusta coffee under hybrid
coconuts. In addition to the utilization of intercropping with short-term species within tree crop
plantings during the early stages of their immaturity, intercropping within mature tall coconut plantings
was undertaken under TCSDP, following the Mid-Term Review. Such intensification of tall coconut
plantings was undertaken using annual crops over an area of 22,991.5 ha during a 3-year period, which
represents 89 percent of the planned total of 24,150 ha. Additionally, perennial intercrops were
established within 1,902.25 ha of tall coconuts, and rattan was planted within 200 ha of sub-standard
mature rubber. Project perforrnance was satisfactory.
g) Pilot Rubber Replanting Incorporating Rubber Timber Utilization. Pilot projects to assess the
practicality and viability of utilizing old rubber stands for timber prior to rubber replanting, were
established in 1997/98 over an area of 400 ha, in South Sumatra and West Kalimantan. Within the
-8-



constraints imposed by the poor tirnber quality of the rubber areas available for replanting, Project
performance was satisfactory.
Support and Derived Components:
a) Provision of Vehicles. Of the total of 45 four-wheel vehicles planned for purchase, only 16 were in
fact obtained. In the case of motor cycles, 593 units were purchased compared with the 510 planned.
The number of 4-wheel vehicles procured under TCSDP has been well below requirements. Project
performance was unsatisfactory.
b) Construction of Village Access Roads. Bridges and Culverts.
Access roads, bridges and culverts were constructed in rubber and coconut development areas under
the project, as follows: (i) 1,151.2 km of fanner access roads were constructed compared with the
1,250 km planned; (ii) 263 meters of wooden and concrete bridges were constructed, compared with
the 250 meters planned; and (iii) 2,220 culverts were constructed compared with the 2,000 planned.
It should be noted that requisite repairs and maintenance of the upgraded/constructed facilities has not
been undertaken because of a shortage of allocated funds. Although project performance in relation to
the construction of road infrastructure was generally satisfactory, maintenance of such infrastructure
has been unsatisfactory.
c) Construction and Rehabilitation of Buildings. Land for buildings was donated by local governments.
A total of 123 units of new offices, staff houses and warehouses with an area of 10,210 sq meters were
constructed, which was slightly below the planned area. A further 2,414 sq. meters of old buildings
were rehabilitated. Although project performance in relation to the construction and rehabilitation of
buildings was satisfactory, maintenance standards have been unsatisfactory.
d) Production and Downstream Processing of Tree Crop Products. On the basis of data collected during
the TCSDP implementation period, average productivity of Class B rubber plantings during the
project series over a period of 11 years, was 11.4 percent above the SAR estimate of 1,157 kg per ha
per annum. In the case of hybrid coconuts, the average productivity of Class B plantings during the
project series over a period of 8 years, was 19 percent below the SAR estimate of 1,678 kg per ha per
annum. The favorable yields from rubber areas can be ascribed to good maintenance and supervision,
while the sub-optimal performance of the hybrid coconuts resulted from sub-optimal maintenance, pig
damage and extreme sensitivity to the severe droughts during the period. Processing technology was
provided to TCSDP farmers in relation to improvement of the quality and uniformity of rubber end
products, and in relation to the requisite technology for producing nata de coco and brown sugar. In
terms of processing, the majority of rubber farmers produce thin slab, rolled slab, thick slab and cup
lump. Where they undertake controlled coagulation, such farmers normally utilize high quality formic
acid in order to produce a good quality product in accordance with SNI06-2047-1998. In the case of
coconut, a range of products is produced by farmers, encompassing copra, brown sugar, kientik
cooking oil, fresh nuts and charcoal. A limited number of farrners sell coconut water to pilot
producers of nata de coco. There is a need in future to develop an environment favoring a close
combination of the efforts of groups of farmers with appropriate business partners, in mutually
beneficial relationships Project performance was satisfactory although further improvements are
inevitably necessary.
e) Marketing. Of the 173,432 farners who were assisted under TCSDP and who have mature plantings,
one third sell their agricultural products through farmers' groups or cooperatives, while two thirds
-9-



make sales directly to local traders or private processing units. In the case of rubber, which is sold at
auction or direct, surveys have shown that fanners receive proportions of the FOB prices ranging from
80 to 85 percent of FOB. Just as for processing operations, there is a need in future to develop an
environment favoring a close combination of the efforts of groups of farmers with appropriate business
partners, in mutually beneficial relationships. Project performance was satisfactory, but more work
remains to be done in this connection.
f) Farmer and Staff Training and Extension. During the project period, training was undertaken as
follows:
Farmers: 83,988 farmers were trained, involving 389,081 mandays, compared with the 121,328
planned. The substantial increase in the training given arose from the fact that farmers were
trained as well as farmer leaders. All aspects, ranging from field establishment through
maintenance, harvesting / tapping, processing, marketing and cooperatives, were covered.
Project Staff: 5,657 project staff were trained, involving 30,267 mandays, compared with the
42,352 planned. A total of 31 courses were run, covering general aspects, technical subjects,
finance and credit and administration.
On the basis of assessments by TCSDP staff, the quality of training has been mixed, but the farmers
appear to have exhibited some improvement in their knowledge and skills It is unlikely that the true
impact of the training given will become known without undertaking an assessment study. Extension
under TCSDP utilized the Training and Visit (T & V) system and packaged technology. Through the
extensive utilization of farmers' groups, training was provided to farmer leaders who in turn trained the
farmers in the group, with the assistance or supervision of the extension workers (PPL). The system of
training utilized and project performnance were generally satisfactory, especially for fanners with
immature tree crop plantings.
g) Land Titling. To the end of the TCSDP project period, completed land titles had been issued for
153,189 ha of tree crop plantings undertaken under TCSDP, TCSDP-GOI, SRDP and SCDP. The
balance remaining to be contracted and certified by the TCSDP completion date is 156,118 ha,
comprising 79,155 ha of TCSDP plantings and 76,963 ha planted under previous projects. During the
period of TCSDP implementation, contract agreement on land titling between Provincial Office
Managers and BPN involved 32,650 ha, or 29.2 percent of total TCSDP field plantings amounting to
111,805 ha. The extreme delays in land titling appear to have resulted from the large carry-over from
previous projects and the heavy workload assigned to BPN from many quarters. The progress with
land titling under TCSDP has been poor, as evidenced by the large balance of farmer plantings yet to
be contracted for certification or having had certificates issued. Urgent action is required to accelerate
the land titling process by improving coordination among the institutions involved, promoting PRONA
(a national land titling program), and continuing titling of the outstanding balance of land areas after
the TCSDP closing date, at an appropriate price. Project performance was unsatisfactory, as a result
of the combination of circumstances which combined to seriously retard the rate of certification.
h) Credit Recovery Operations. The establishment of a computerized credit recovery system was intended
initially to be one of five modules incorporated within a project MIS, which would prove suitable for
extrapolation to other DGE operations. In reality, the development of the credit recovery system
proved complex and time-consuming, and was undertaken to the exclusion of the other modules. Up to
the December 1999, total credit recovery amounted to Rp. 40.490 billion. Although this is significant,
it is well below the target sought. During Financial Year 1999/2000 for instance, credit recovery to
- 1 0 -



December 1999 was Rp. 5.296 billion, or 26.26 percent of the target of Rp. 24.905 billion.
Establishment of an appropriate system for registering farmer credit quanta on a centrally coordinated
computerized system, lagged far behind expectations. The result is that credit recovery started
relatively late during the TCSDP period. The inputting of farmer credit data into the computer system
should be continued until the year 2003, with recovery of credit continuing way beyond that date, with
all the attendant implications of staffing and costs. Despite valiant efforts in establishing a workable
credit recovery model and mechanism, project perfornance is regarded as unsatisfactory, bearing in
mind initial delays and the large over-hang of basic work remaining after project closing.
i)  Management Information Systems. Whereas an original objective had been to establish a fully-fledged
MIS under TCSDP which could be extended to other parts of the DGE organization, various
constraints in terms of methodology, computer hardware and software, staff and time, led to the
majority of emphasis being directed towards the establishment of a workable credit monitoring and
recovery system. While the development of the credit recovery system itself fell behind schedule on the
one hand, on the other hand the absence of a streamlined overall MIS has hampered the efficiency of
project management. The database created for credit recovery has nonetheless proved useful in
monitoring participants for other purposes also. Despite the fact that the database concept has already
been developed and adopted by the project, and the transfer of technology (including knowledge on the
database concept, windows application, credit, field operation etc.) has already been provided to and is
well known by many TCSDP staff. Project performance is rated as unsatisfactory as progress made
was hampered by the excessive attention of attention to the credit recovery operation.
j) Technical Assistance and Studies. The originally-approved technical assistance of 240 man-months
was augmented at the time of the Mid-Term Review, to 335 man-months. Consultancy positions were
provided for a Rubber Agronomist, a Coconut Agronomist, a Training and Extension Specialist, a
Finance and Credit Adviser, a MIS Specialist, and a Project Management Adviser.
Few of the required studies were in fact carried out. The following studies were undertaken:
- A study on sustainable financing and cost recovery for smallholder tree crop development
- A study on coconut processing in collaboration with the Bogor Tree Crop Research Center.
- A study on raw materials required by rubber factories.
The originally - proposed study leading to the preparation of a follow-up smallholder tree crop project
was not undertaken. This decision was taken following mutual agreement between the Bank and
Government on the basis of changes of development emphasis. Financial constraints precluded the
undertaking of the following studies which had been agreed at the time of the Mid-Term Review:
- Post loan period operations
- Performance of different coconut hybrids
- The impact of earlier field development
While the performance and impact of the resident consultants was generally satisfactory and useful to
the project, the failure to undertake all studies foreseen, is unfortunate. This is particularly so in the
case of the studies on post-loan period operations and on the performance of different coconut hybrids.
It is also unfortunate that inspection services were not carried out on a regular basis and to a standard
acceptable to DGE. However, DGE was able to undertake similar inspection services internally.
Project performance in relation to technical assistance was generally satisfactory, whereas performance
in relation to studies was unsatisfactory.
- 11 -



k) Inspection Services. Whelreas it had originally been foreseen that inspection services would be
undertaken by consultant teams on an annual basis over four years, to assess the progress and quality
of the tree crops program, only one round of such inspection was in fact undertaken, in late 1996. That
such inspections were not commissioned at the frequency foreseen was due to financial constraints,
procurement problems and criticism of the quality of reporting produced. Project performance was
partially satisfactory in that internal services were substituted for the intended external services.
Institutional Development
TCSDP organization and staffing were established based on functional considerations, allowing the project
to be largely self-contained although interacting with other DGE and Disbun operations. The organization
was based on the Project Management Unit (PMU) model, with Central "control" in Jakarta and with
implementation being by Provincial Offices, PMUs and sub-PMUs. The degree of central control has
progressive declined during the period of TCSDP implementation as a result of the progression toward
decentralization.
The peak staffing level for TCSDP has been 3,028, with 58 at HO, 482 at POs and 2,488 at PMUs and
sub-PMUs. Approximately half of these staff overall have only temporary (honorer) status, and are not
permanent civil servants.
Under TCSDP and in line with INPRES NO. 18/1998, assisted farmers have been encouraged to establish
primary cooperatives at the PMU level and secondary cooperatives at PO level.
The forrnation of cohesive and functional farmers' groups which are the precursors of cooperatives, has
fallen behind expectations, with 28 percent being characterized as beginner groups, 37 percent as medium
category groups, and 35 percent as advanced groups. A total of 12, 000 farmer groups have been
established. There is a need to encourage the acceleration of the strengthening of such groups. The most
successful group formation has been in Riau, South Sumatra and Central Sulawesi.
The project encouraged the formation of 267 farmers' cooperatives, with project staff taking an active role
in such formation, and the formulation of objectives and management procedures. Project performance in
terns of institutional development was "Modest".
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The Economic Rate of Return' for the project was calculated using actual costs to date and forecast benefit
and costs based upon physical data provided by the project and economic projections from the Bank. The
recalculated ERR is 21% (SAR 14%, and 20% at MTR). A 20% reduction in benefits reduces the ERR to
18%. Project performance in terms of anticipated economic rate of return was highly satisfactory.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Indicative Financial Rates of Return at the farmer level have been estimated' based on actual costs and
inputs to date and projected economic data set out in the table below.
- 12 -



FRR          Annual         Return After        Cost
Component          Real        Repayment/      Debt Service      Recovery
Terms      Average Gross     per Day of     Index (@10%)
Revenues       Labor Input
(1998 Rp.)
SAR - Average
Rubber            28%            30%           Rp. 11,352         60%
Coconut           21%           30%            Rp. 13,370         60%
Average plantings
Rubber           31%            19%           Rp. 26,220         28%
Coconut          27%            14%           Rp. 28,312         12%
Class A Plantings
Rubber           34%            18%           Rp. 32,151         34%
Coconut          37%            14%           Rp. 55,575         21%
See Appendix 3 Attachments 3 and 4 for full details
The Financial Rate of Return was improved considerably by the dramatic fall in the value of the Rupiah.
Project performance in terms of the financial rate of return to farmers was highly satisfactory.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development under the project has been outlined in Section 4.2.5 of this Report. The project
continued to operate under the well-established PMU model, but the fragile sustainability of such an
arrangement is becoming clear at the end of the project period, when continued support by Government will
prove necessary if extension and credit recovery operations are not to suffer.
The formation farmers' groups has proved to be sound and sustainable, but establishment of cooperatives
which was provided under the project, was slower than ideal.
The establishment of a credit recording and recovery system was a major achievement, but since as
conceived, it relies on PMU staff members and additionally has a severe back-log of collection, such an
arrangement may eventually be regarded as an institutional "blind-alley".
Attempts to create private village nurseries were generally successful in a technical sense, but were
adversely affected by the provision of free planting material to project participants. Project performance in
terms of institutional development impact was "Modest".
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The Indonesian monetary crisis has affected the outcome of the project in two major ways. The crisis led to
increases in the costs of fertilizers and agrochemicals after budgets had been approved. Thus quantities
were reduced and plantings have been adversely affected by the reduction in inputs. The credit is contracted
to the farmers in Rp. As much of the investment was made before the crisis, the US$ value of the credit
repayments will leave government with a severe shortfall in cost recovery on the foreign loans.
- 13 -



An additional external factor which has affected implementation and outcome was the occurrence of severe
droughts during 1993 and 1997. The severe droughts had a direct effect on the classification of field
plantings, with burning and plant death reducing plant stands in many areas. To date, around 33,110 ha
out of 52,192 ha of Class D plantings have been audited by BPKP, to be written off as a risk to be borne
by Government.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Land title certificates have been a major issue throughout all tree crop projects in Indonesia, and represent
a topic which has been raised continually throughout TCSDP. The evidence suggests that land titles are a
major incentive for farm families to repay their credit. However, many farm families have yet to receive
their certificates. BPN did not perform as expected, and this may have arisen for a number of reasons. A
shortage of staff and an unwillingness to place adequate priority on TCSDP work relative to more
rewarding certification programs are likely to have been contributory factors. Although the contracting for
land survey and titling between TCSDP management and BPN was initially undertaken at the central level,
it was subsequently moved to the provincial level without tangible success, in an attempt to accelerate
requisite procedures.
In 1995, Government began a process of decentralization, shifting power away from the center and giving
greater autonomy to the provincial governments. This has resulted in the division of technical and financial
responsibility for the project. Overall responsibility for the project remained with the TCSDP Project
Manager in Jakarta, whilst the project staff report to the head of the Provincial Dinas Perkebunan who in
turn reports to the Provincial Governor. Provincial Governments are now responsible for administering the
GOI contribution. This resulted in some problems with achieving agreement on project budgets.
The project employs 1,523 temporary staff. They have not been fully effective, as their motivation has
been adversely affected by the decision to freeze their salaries at 1996 levels, and because of a shortfall in
the provision of the vehicles required for them to function effectively. Bank supervision missions
continuously highlighted the second point, but action was only taken belatedly, and the full complement of
project vehicles was not delivered.
Other factors which have been under Government control and which have impinged adversely upon project
implementation, are policy changes on fertilizer subsidies which have resulted in procurement shortfalls,
and the arrangements which came into force in 1995/96 whereby TCSDP budgeting has come under the
PSSP DIP. The result of this latter change has led to TCSDP-PO Managers being operationally responsible
to the PSSP-PO Manager, but organizationally responsible to the TCSDP-HO Manager in Jakarta.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The only factor to have affected project implementation and outcome and which can be identified as being
subject to implementing agency control has been the creation and working of an affective credit recovery
system. The delays experienced in establishing the credit recovery system had, and will continue to have,
an adverse effect on project outcome. This adverse affect stems in part from the delay in establishing the
system and also from the fact that it diverted the attention of project staff away from establishment of a full
management information system (MIS), and other routine functions.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Budgeting and Funding.
The project was originally funded by the Bank (56.7%), Japanese Grant (2.7%), Government (25.4%) and
-14 -



farm families (I5.3%) to a total of US$ 154.5. The budget was amended down to US$ 167.6 at the MTR.
The final outcome was that the total project funding is estimated to be US$ 149.5 provided as follows: the
Bank (45.1%), Japanese grant (2.2%), Government (28.6%) and farm families (24.1%). In cash terms
only, farm families contributed more than their original commitment. Whereas the original intention was
that farmers would receive credit for half their labor input during the initial field year of tree crop
establishment, in practice it was observed that farmer families appeared content to contribute more equity.
This can be considered successful and it reduces their leverage and increases their security.
Due to Rupiah devaluation, some US$ 10.7 million of the loan fund was cancelled. The Japanese Grant
was not fully taken up, as the TA, which it would fund, was not utilized. The Government was unable to
provide an adequate budget for vehicles and funding loans for farmer labor at the levels originally
envisaged. Since 1998, extreme currency fluctuations have made accurate budgeting difficult, if not
impossible. As a result, procurement of inputs has been reduced to meet budget constraints, or procurement
delayed as budgets are revised. Project performance in relation to budgeting and funding as satisfactory.
(See Appendix 3 Attachment 1 for full details).
Project Costs
The overall project cost is Rp. 464,549 million, or US$ 149,466 at ruling exchange rates. Whilst in
current Rupiahs the project budget was exceeded, in US$ terms total project costs were 3% lower than the
SAR and 11% lower than the MTR. The main savings were achieved in fertilizers, travel, and "other"
accounts. Costs were over estimate in terms of labor, allowances and other administrative expenses.
Because the savings achieved have had negative impacts on overall project performance, this aspect must
be classified as unsatisfactory.
Credit Administrative Recoverv.
The project was the chosen medium for delivering finance and recovering credit. This has placed a heavy
burden on project management and diverted resources away from other project activities. Most notably,
the development of a comprehensive computerized MIS was abandoned to devote all relevant resources to
developing a computerized system of credit calculation, registration and administration. Credit installments
are collected by project staff. The computerized system appears to work effectively, and is well accepted
by farmers. However, considerable resources are required to clear the backlog of farmer records that still
have to be entered into the system. Until this is completed, the real situation regarding outstanding credit
cannot be accurately calculated. 136,493 out of approximately 285,000 farmers have been entered in the
system. Their opening balance averaged Rp. 2 million. So far, the figures provided by the project suggest
that 13.4% of the total credit advanced by TCSDP has been recovered, and 21.1% of all the balance
inherited from previous projects. Evidence from interviews conducted in the field during the ICR mission
suggests that land titles are a key factor in persuading farmers to repay their credit. The problems arose
from weakness in project design and a lack of commitment to resolve this issue early in the project period.
Project perfornance in relation to credit administration was partly satisfactory but recovery was
unsatisfactory.
Loan Disbursement and Audit Reports.
As of May 2, 2000, the total amount of loan disbursement was US$ 67.4 million out of the total available
loan amount of US$ 76.9 million (original loan was US$. 87.6 million and a total of US$ 10.7 million was
cancelled in August 1998, February and August 1999). By end of July, 2000 (4 months after closing date
when loan disbursement would be stopped), it is expected that the total loan disbursed would be about US$
68.4 million. In addition, a total of US$ 3.7 million from the Japanese Grant Fund was also disbursed (out
of the original total US$ 4.1 million). The Bank has received the required annual audit reports, and the FY
1998/99 Special Account/SOE from DG Budget which had been overdue since December 31, 1999, was
- 15 -



received subsequent to the ICR mission. Project performance in relation to loan disbursement has been
generally satisfactory.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Although there can be little doubt that TCSDP has had a very positive impact upon the Indonesian
smallholder tree crop sector through its role in developing and maintaining over 300,000 ha of rubber and
coconuts, doubts certainly exist as to the overall sustainability of the PMU model in its present form, which
the project represents. These doubts have been thrown into focus by the absence of an immediate follow-up
project.
TCSDP has contributed to the cost-effective development of tree crops to a generally acceptable technical
standard, and the viability of the operation has been amply demonstrated at the national economic level and
at the farmer level. However, it is necessary to consider whether additional approaches should now be
utilized to move forward with smalfholder tree crop development in ways which are even more
cost-effective and sustainable, especially bearing in mind the current rapid move towards decentralization
of Government interventions.
The degree to which various facets of TCSDP operation might be considered as providing a sustainable
basis for future smallholder tree crop development, are summarized in the paragraphs which follow.
Sustainability at the farmer level and institutional level are considered.
The Farmer Level
a) It is evident that through their assimilation of the technology packages offered by TCSDP, direct
participating farmer families have in many cases undertaken additional tree crop development to a
similar standard. In the case of other farmers in the neighborhood of TCSDP activity, self-help or
spontaneous development of rubber and hybrid coconut plantings along similar lines, has occurred to a
significant extent.
b) Through its direct actions and also through the example set to a range of farrners, TCSDP can be
regarded as having had a sustainable impact in the areas of provision of high quality planting material
through appropriate budwood and general nursery techniques, and in the establishment and
maintenance of field plantings of tree crops. It is nonetheless noteworthy that TCSDP efforts to
encourage self-help and spontaneous activities in relation to tree crop development, have been tempered
by farmers' tendency to prefer the grant/credit approach offered through full participation.
c) The use of rational intercropping of rubber and coconuts during both the immature and mature phases
of tree crop development, has been encouraged under TCSDP, in some cases with parallel support
through other initiatives. This represents a highly sustainable impact of TCSDP.
d) TCSDP has had some sustainable impact upon primary and secondary processing of the products of
rubber and coconut. While this positive impact has been more noticeable in the case of coconut, a
general problem tends to remain unsolved, in that there is only a tenuous relationship between the
quality of products and the price premium received by the farmers.
-16 -



e) A further sustainable impact of TCSDP and the PMU system which it represented, is that through the
system of farmer groups encouraged under the design concept, formal and informal savings (arisan),
have frequently been developed as a means of self-help financing.
The Institutional Level
a) Despite the proven merits of the PMU system represented by TCSDP in technical and organizational
terms, there is now an accepted need to search for new/alternative models to allow continuing
cost-effective and sustainable tree crops development. The sustainability of the PMU system, as
currently conceived, needs to be brought into question from the standpoint that it calls for repeated
follow-up Projects to complete actions already initiated. This requires comparatively large numbers of
staff at various levels who are dedicated to project activities, and who would require eventual
re-assimilation into the main-line Government organizational structure at the end of the project type
activities.
b) From the standpoint of extension, the PMU approach is sustainable only if an appropriate follow-up
framework is provided. To the extent that farners' groups and cooperatives have been encouraged to
develop under the PMU system represented by TCSDP, then these institutions would be well able to
take over some of the extension functions.
c) In terms of financing and cost recovery, TCSDP has brought together a complex mix of grant
assistance to farmers in the first year of tree crop field development, and credit support thereafter until
the tree stand reaches maturity. The incentive to farmers lies in their participation in the development
of viable and profitable plantings and the issue of a land certificate in respect of the developed land,
once credit has been repaid.
d) Despite the intrinsic merits of a credit-based system for tree crop development, the TCSDP approach to
the system has been hampered by a number of in-built errors which are likely to make the approach
unsustainable. The main factors which contribute to the lack of sustainability are as follows:
(i)  The mixture of grants and credit is complex and may now be considered as inappropriate for tree
crops. The most valuable asset in tree crop development is high quality planting material, and
this should not be provided free of charge if it is to be valued. However, there is a real need to
establish rural financial institutions to support long-term financing, such as those existing in
support of tree crop development elsewhere in the world.
(ii)  Valuation of tree stands for establishment of the credit quantum for each farmer, is over-
complicated and could lend itself to abuse.
(iii) Credit recovery is really a function of banking institutions and not PMU staff. The intensive
nature of establishing and maintaining individual farmer credit records, and of recovering the
credit, have already become abundantly clear, and will impose a very great burden during the
post- TCSDP phase.
(iv) The failure to ensure that land certificates are made available in good time, could discourage
farmers from making routine or advance credit repayments.
- 17 -



Overall, the sustainability of the project objectives through its economic life are rated as "Likely", in terms
of physical status and economic and financial viability, but "Unlikely" in relation to the function of credit
recovery.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Continuation of the planned supply of inputs, extension and credit recovery operations during the post-loan
period will severely test the sustainability of the TCSDP operation. Great care will be required to retain
adequate funding and staffing to ensure continuation of objectives already set in motion. Such care will of
necessity have to be exercised against the complex background of ongoing decentralization activities.
At the time of the ICR mission there was no evidence of a plan having been prepared for post loan period
operations. However, a plan dated March 2000, which had as yet to be formerly conveyed to the World
Bank, has subsequently been studied and appears to provide an adequate basis for the provision of funds
during the post loan period, to bring all tree crop plantings to maturity and to allow the transfer of PMU
staff duties to other Government organizational units.
At present, an appropriate budget is regarded to be in place in respect of adequate project-related staff for
the Budget Year April to December 2000. The same is not yet true of requisite physical inputs for
immature plantings, or for recurrent expenditure related to transport running and maintenance of buildings,
vehicles and roads. Transitional arrangements to regular operation can be regarded as adequate, provided
funding is made in line will the schedules prepared.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project was consistent with GOI and Bank development priorities and the Bank's country assistance
strategy. The technical and operational approaches which were proposed for implementation were sound,
and followed on directly from the preceding series of successful smallholder tree crop projects which had
also been based on the PMU (UPP) model.
In retrospect, a number of flaws can now be identified in the Bank's performance in relation to project
formulation. The time- consuming and complex nature of establishment and running of a smallholder
credit-recovery system was underestimated, as was the degree of interrelationship between the success of
such a credit recovery system and the process of timely availability of land certificates. The concept of
promoting self-help and spontaneous development of smallholder plantings alongside a support system
which included grant support for first-year field inputs, was also a basic flaw. Bank performance in
relation to the lending process is rated as unsatisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
Recognition of the flaws mentioned above emerged early and repeatedly. Supervision teams made frequent
efforts to accelerate the arrangements for timely issuance of land certificates, and for establishrnent and
implementation of the agreed credit recovery system. Efforts were also made to boost the area of self-help
plantings towards the required targets.
Despite the best efforts of the supervision teams, inadequate progress could be made to rectifying the
problems identified. With the approach of the extended loan closing date, and with the realization that
there was to be no follow-up project to TCSDP, it would have been prudent for the Bank to take more
seriously, the delays in land certification and credit recovery, and to agree with Government the appropriate
- 18 -



ways of addressing related problems during the post-loan period. Bank performance with respect to
supervision was generally satisfactory, with appropriate attention being afforded to the majority of
components.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Although in several respects Bank performance was adequate, overall Bank performance is scored as
unsatisfactory as greater reaction to and assistance in resolution of the related aspects of credit recovery
and land titling, would have been appropriate in reaction to the supervision process.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Project preparation was carried out by the borrower, with the assistance of consultants associated with the
precursor project, SCDP and SRDP-II. Preparation was carried out effectively and efficiently in close
liaison and collaboration with Bank staff.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Macro-economic and sector policies did not directly affect implementation of the project. Nonetheless with
Government always being unable to provide adequate budgets (for vehicles, staff travel and vehicles etc)
the financial crisis which commenced in 1998,coupled with the progressive move towards decentralization,
aggravated the difficulty of timely provision of counterpart funds during the later years, with a consequent
reduction in inputs to field plantings and a shortage of funds for routine maintenance of infrastructure and
vehicles.
Government was apparently unable to play its necessary role in ensuring an acceleration of the land titling
process. Nor was it able to satisfactorily resolve the question of the long-term prospects for temporary
staff who have played a vital part in implementation during the Loan period. Borrower performance in
relation to the implementation process is rated as unsatisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
In all respects other than the development of a wolkable credit recovery system and the establishment of a
comprehensive MIS, the implementing agency undertook its duties with diligence and efficiency.
Although noting the importance of the credit recovery process, and the delays which were experienced in
establishing the system, alongside the failure to rectify the delays in land titling, it is felt that these
problems were not the direct result of shortcomings on the part of the Implementing Agency alone. For this
reason the performance of the implementing agency is rated as satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Although the performance of the implementing agency was satisfactory, the overall borrower performance
is rated as unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The Range of Lessons
General
A number of lessons need to be learned from the implementation of TCSDP and its predecessor projects in
the PMU series of interventions in the Indonesian Tree Crop Sector. The most important of these lessons
- 19 -



are itemized below. Many lessons are positive and can contribute to appropriate formulation of future
policies for the tree crop sector. Other lessons have a negative message, which if heeded, can also be
constructively utilized in future policy formulation.
Positive Lessons
a) Technical Aspects
The technical models for the establishment of successful tree crop nurseries and field plantings, and for
their appropriate maintenance up to maturity and beyond, have proved to be appropriate and resilient in
the majority of situations.
The technical models for the establishment of annual and perennial intercrops during the immature and
mature phases of tree crop development have also proved to be generally appropriate and resilient.
The technical models have had a favorable impact on the environment, particularly where development
has been undertaken after alang-alang and on lighter textured soils and/or on slopes greater than 15
percent.
b) Institutional Aspects
The PMU system of project management has proved effective in ensuring quality physical
achievements, extension and training.
The development of cohesive farmers' groups, associations and cooperatives during the project period
has been a positive institutional development. The effort should actually be started at the beginning of
a project.
c) Financing and Cost Recovery Aspect.
Poor smallholders who have been given access to credit assistance have effectively utilized it to develop tree
crops and benefit from increased income.
The computerized credit recovery system has been well received by farmers in view of its transparency.
Amortization schedules are easily seen as is the extent of outstanding balances. Discounts are provided when
credit is repaid earlier than required.
d) Viability Aspects
TCSDP has shown good economic viability, and a healthy cash flow at the farmer level over a wide range of
technical quality of the plantings.
e) Land Titling Aspects
The promise of provision of land titles encourages farmers to maintain their plantings and to repay their credit
as a means of obtaining such title.
Jj Extension and Training Aspects
The training and visit (T & V) system of extension has proved generally successful during the implementation
of TCSDP.
g) Sustainability Aspects
Activities undertaken during the TCSDP implementation period in terms of the field establishment of
rubber and coconut, and the maintenance of plantings undertaken during earlier projects, can be
-20 -



generally regarded as sustainable, but such sustainability will be jeopardized in the case of recent
TCSDP plantings, if adequate inputs are ndt utilized to bring these areas successfully to maturity.
Pilot village budwood gardens and nurseries and self-help and spontaneous field plantings under
TCSDP are positive indications of sustainability:
Immature and mature phase intercropping under TCSDP are also positive indications of sustainability.
h) Processing and Marketing Aspect.
A good start has been made with farmer group formation and orientation towards value-added
operations and marketing in a quality-based manner
Negative Lessons
a) Technical Aspects
Despite the basic resilience of the technical models for tree crop and related intercrop cultivation,
instances have occurred of faulty site selection with respect to soils and climate, and inappropriate
selection of varieties or clones. Typical examples of such negative lessons have been the undue
reliance on a narrow range of rubber clones in any given location (e.g. GT-l in West Kalimantan), and
the planting of hybrid coconuts on shallow soils and in areas subject to prolonged droughts.
The failure to ensure timely provision of planting material or vital agro-inputs (especially during early
tree crop immaturity), has adversely affected tree crop development.
b) Institutional Aspects
As the result of the closing of TCSDP, a considerable burden is being placed upon Government to
either continue to fund all project staff in their present positions or alternatively to fnd appropriate
niches for such staff (especially the honorary staff) in other fruitful employment.
The PMU approach, while successful during the period of the project, will lack resilience thereafter
because of its dependence on staffing with Government personnel, and Government support.
The utilization of a significant number of TCSDP extension workers as "credit collectors", although
relatively successful, will prove to be a negative factor in the event that such collectors are unable to
effectively continue such duties on a long-term basis. Such a situation could arise if their transport or
remuneration should prove to be inadequate.
c) Financing and Cost Recovery Aspects
The credit collection role of extension workers has become counter-productive in some instances, as
farmers try to avoid meeting them. It should be mentioned however, that in other instances extension
workers have been more successful in collecting credits as they are well-known to the farmer
participants.
The classification of smallholder tree crop plantings for the purpose of credit quantification is unduly
complex and directly related to the system of classification utilized for the technical purposes. The
arbitrary cut-off points for the lower end of Class C and the upper end of Class D plantings leaves
room for evasion of credit. Equally, the direct relationship between tree count and credit quantum
-21 -



within the wide range of tree stands within Class C plantings, gives little incentive for counts to be
recorded at their true levels. More appropriate classification systems need to be considered for
incorporation in any future credit-supported smallholder tree crop projects.
d) Land Titling Aspects
Tardy procurement of land titles has adversely affected credit recovery. It will continue to do so during
the post-project period unless positive steps are taken to accelerate the issuance of such titles. Although
the need for prompt land titling was appreciated during project formulation, appraisal and
implementation, the scope, scale and nature of bureaucratic hurdles associated with this operation in
relation to TCSDP were never fully grasped. What appeared to be appropriate systematic contractual
arrangements were in fact made for land titling and funds were provided and few dispute arose.
However, the progress of this vital operation was extremely sub-optimal.
e) Sustainability Aspects
The provision of inputs (including planting material) on a grant basis during the first year of
participation by full-assistance participants, has had a negative impact on sustainability in that it has
distorted the free market system for such materials. Farmers have preferred free planting material from
the project, rather than purchasing in the local market.
The possibility that GOI will be unable to provide adequate funds for TCSDP to ensure that recent
tree crop plantings are brought successfully to maturity, may significantly reduce the returns from such
plantings.
When pursuing a farming system approach, care needs to be taken to ensure adequate erosion control
measures and avoidance of weed infestation in food crops, which can ultimately endanger the main
crop.
.D Processing and Marketing Aspects
Much more needs to be done to improve the relationship between product quality and premium pricing.
There has to date been an inadequate relationship between quality and farmer selling price in many
locations.
Application in Future Projects
Based on the lessons learned from the implementation of TCSDP and similar projects in Indonesia and
elsewhere, it is possible to provide a number of pointers for successful future project initiatives in the tree
crop sector.
The majority of such pointers were clearly laid out in the Mission's Aide-Memoire. For purposes of
impact, the requisite ingredients  for future project initiatives, which have been derived from a
consideration of these pointers, are now provided:
a) There is a need for future tree crop projects to build upon the experience gained from the range of
models which have been used in the past.
-22 -



b) Existing evidence is that the best general approach will be to build upon the success achieved with the
PMU (UPP) model. The PMU concept could be progressively modified in ways which would enhance
sustainability, through the establishment of symbiotic relationships between farmer groups, private or
public sector agribusiness enterprises and Government staff.
c) Future project initiatives in the Tree Crop Sector should necessarily more fully appreciate the role
which can be played by smallholder farmer participants. Whereas many projects in the past have
treated the smallholders as primary producers only, there is a need in future to ensure that adequate
attention is paid to value-added aspects and to strengthening the linkage between product quality and
the price premium received by farmers. The vertical and horizontal integration which would arise
from the symbiotic relationships mentioned earlier, would help to achieve these objectives.
d) In the further interests of sustainability, it is essential to successfully explore effective methods of
ensuring long-term financing of the smallholder tree crop sector, to replace the generally short-term
approaches which have been used in the past. To some extent this aspect can be tackled at the
smallholder level through the fostering of appropriate farming systems, which can generate adequate
cash flows in support of tree crop establishment and maintenance. Specimen models are provided in the
Appendices to the ICR. There needs be less reliance on long-term credit.
e) Land titling should be regarded as a vital ingredient in fostering the long-term financing of smallholder
development in that it provides ideal collateral for farmer loans from the banking system . A concerted
effort must be made without delay, to resolve the current shortcomings in the procedures for
certification of tree crop smallholders land through survey and land titling. A systematic approach must
be adopted and adequate financial provision must be made to accomplish the task on time. The
establishment of a fully-detailed land-titling program should be a "sine qua non" for future projects
involving support for the smallholder estate crop sector.
f) Through the introduction of a range of appropriate farming systems approaches to smallholder tree
crop development, environmental considerations can be taken into account alongside the farmer cash
flow and investment aspects just mentioned.
g) As far as possible, it is now recommended that there should be a move away from the grant-support of
smallholder tree crop development Provision of free planting material in particular is regarded as
being counter-productive in that it undermines the incentive for local nurseries to produce high quality
plants for sale, and also fosters a dependency culture among project beneficiaries. Good quality
planting material, which is made available at the correct time for successful field establishment, is the
most vital ingredient of successful tree crop development. Farmers will value such planting material to
a greater extent, if they have to purchase it Support should be given to strengthening the emerging
enterprises which specialize in producing high quality planting material.
h) Continuing consideration needs to be given to who produces the perennial crop planting material and
to the type of planting material which should be utilized by farmers. The potential value of polyclonal
seedling rubber should continue to be borne in mind and the appropriateness of tall coconuts in
preference to hybrid varieties should be stressed in the majority of smallholder situations. Farmers can
play a part in the production of planting material as part of vibrant private sector associations with
business partners, provided that there are assured quality control mechanisms.
-23 -



i) In circumstances where credit is a necessary component in support of smallholder tree crop
development, the handling and recovery mechanism should be simplified and avoid using Government
staff.
j)  Bearing in mind the necessity for increasing the positive interaction between farmers' groups and
agribusiness entities as a key to sustainable smallholder tree crop activity, and taking account of the
planned moves towards decentralization and regional
autonomy in Indonesia, there will be a need to redefine the role of Government. In support of the
smallholder tree crop sub-sector, it will clearly be necessary to devise appropriate mutually-acceptable
roles for Central and Regional Governments and Departments, so as to avoid counter-productive
overlapping or omission of responsibilities.
k) In broad terms, Government should increasingly take the role of enabling or facilitating effective
smallholder tree crop development, rather than being intimately involved with implementation detail.
The main functions of Government in this enabling process would necessarily include the following: (i)
appropriate enabling legislation; (ii) research and development activities; (iii) education and training;
(iv) information systems; (v) provision of infrastructure; (vi) acceleration of land titling; (vii)
institutional development; (viii) interactive cooperation; and (ix) tapping the global pool of knowledge
and technology.
I) Effective planning in relation to land use potential, selection of development priorities and rational
packaging of future project initiatives will be essential to the successful future development of the
Smallholder Tree Crop Sub-sector. Such coordination should be aimed at ensuring that Government
investment and borrowing is limited to the extent possible, without compromising the quality and
viability of the development undertaken.
m) As far as possible, a new spirit of collaboration should be fostered between Government and the range
of major donors who have been, or wish to be associated with smallholder tree crop development in
Indonesia. Such enhanced collaboration should be aimed, interalia, at the following: (i) joint study and
assessment of development aims and priorities in the tree crop sector; (ii) avoidance of overlapping,
conflicting or duplicative activities or interventions; and (iii) co-financing of agreed priority program or
project targets.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
TREE CROP SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3464-IND)
Executive Summary of the Final Evaluation Report on TCSDP as Prepared by Project Staff
1. Introduction
1. 1 Design
TCSDP was designed not only to plant new areas of rubber and coconut, but also to absorb the
-24 -



administration of previous related projects in the islands of Sumatera, Kalimantan, Sulawesi and Maluku.
The project has managed 309,307 Ha of field plantings owned by 289,226 farmers, including new
plantings (70,769 Ha of rubber and 41,036 Ha of hybrid coconut, which were planted within 6 years:
1992/93 - 1997/98) and previous plantings of 132,648 Ha of rubber (SRDP I: 51,342 Ha SRDP II:
72,271 Ha, and TCSDP GOI : 9,035 Ha) and 64,858 Ha of hybrid coconut (SCDP: 50,055 Ha and
TCSDP GOI: 14,799 Ha).
1.2 Objectives.
The objectives of the project were to promote income growth and employment opportunities in the outer
islands, by seeking to:
a) assist poor families to increase their incomes;
b) test ways of lowering support costs to facilitate a more rapid and spontaneous expansion of
planting with improved varieties;
c) further strengthen the Directorate General of Estates; supervision of smallholder program
activities, and
d) help the Government to further develop sustainable financing procedures for the smalfholder tree
crop program.
The GOI policies are mainly concentrated on the improvement of farmers' income through farmer groups
and cooperatives. GOI acts as a facilitator and provides conditions aimed at accelerating smallholder
development, in the hope that in the future smallholder farmers could manage their plantings, harvesting
and processing, as well as marketing independently.
1.3 Components
The Project included three components:
a) Farm Level Activities,comprising new plantings of rubber and coconut, a self-help scheme for
establishing rubber and coconut nurseries, maintenance of existing plantings (from previous
projects), building farm access tracks, farmers training and demonstrations;
b) Project Management Activities comprising buildings, land, vehicles & equipment, staff training,
and incremental operating expenditures; and
c) Tree Crop Program Support, comprising technical assistance, inspection and studies.
1.4 Project Organization
The project was established through the issuance of Ministry of Agriculture's Decree no.
506/Kpts/OT/1992 dated September 3, 1992. Based on the Decree, there is a Head Office in Jakarta
headed by Pemimpin Proyek, and 12 Provincial Offices headed by Pemimpin Bagian Proyek. In each
province there are 1 to 11 PMUs or UPP (Unit Pelaksana Proyek) headed by Kepala UPP. The Project
Manager is directly supervised by the Minister of Agriculture, and is supervised daily by the Director
General of Estates. To manage the project, the Project Manager is assisted by 4 Division Heads, a
Treasurer and an Internal Auditor, while each Provincial Manager is assisted by 4 Sub-Division Heads and
a Treasurer, and each Kepala UPP is assisted by 2 Section Heads and a Treasurer. In the provinces the
Kepala Dinas Perkebunan acts as the day-to-day supervision of the Provincial Manager, mainly in planning
and coordination with other related agencies.
2. Achievement of Objectives and Output
2.1. Main Components
To meet the planting material requirement for fully assisted rubber plantings, the project established 106
Ha of budwood garden with 680,543 plants, and 833.75 Ha of rubber nurseries for 70.769 Ha of field
- 25 -



plantings in all rubber PMUs from 1992/93 to 1997/98, or 94% of the target (75,000 Ha). On average,
each hectare of rubber planting received 495 polybagged plants, which was below the standard of 525
polybag plants. Plantings were mostly implemented on open land after alang-alang (41%), and bush or
scrub (54%).
About 11,927,543 hybrid coconut seeds were procured from various seed gardens to establish 427.65 Ha
of nurseries, which produced 7,337,717 seedlings in polybags to establish 41,036 Ha of field plantings in
all coconut PMUs (102% of the target of 40,000 Ha). Almost as for rubber, plantings were implemented on
open land after alang-alang (41%), bush or scrub (5 8%) and only 1% represented coconut replanting.
The project also maintained about 61,035 Ha of rubber field plantings from previous projects (SRDP II,
TCSDP-GOI) and about 13,000 Ha of hybrid coconut plantings of TCSDP-GOI. An additional supplying
program had covered 18,550.5 Ha or 91% of the 20,446 Ha total additional supplying program. foreseen,
Moreover, the project established village budwood gardens amounting to 78.85 Ha or 79% of the 100 Ha
total program foreseen, located in 230 villages within 32 PMUs, with about 513,753 budwood plants
comprising several recommended clones i.e. PR-261, PB-260, RRIC-100, RRIM-712, BPM-1 and GT-1.
Intensification of total coconut plantings through food crop intercropping amounted to approximately
22,991.5 Ha (89% of the 24,150 Ha program within 3 years), whereas 1,902.25 Ha of it was intercropped
with perennial crops. About 14.5% of the intercropped area, particularly 3,332 Ha of annual food crops,
failed to reach harvest, principally due to pest and disease attack, low quality seeds and unsuitable seasons
for planting. Experience in the last five years indicates that annual intercrops (food crops, spices &
medicinal crops) have offered altemative ways of increasing project farmers' income and improving field
maintenance. Currently, about 17.5% or 18,200 Ha out of 105,000 Ha hybrid coconut field plantings are
intercropped with perennial crops.
From FY 1992/93 to 1999/00, the project trained 95,088 farmer leaders and farmers over a total of
389,081 mandays or 321 % of the SAR program of 121,328 mandays. The increase of mandays was due to
the increasing demands for training on rubber tapping which involved not only farmer leaders but the
farmners and their famnily-members as well. The training was implemented sequentially, covering various
aspects such as field establishment, field maintenance, harvesting/tapping, processing, marketing and
cooperative operation.
The processing of land titles has suffered from extreme delays, because of the large areas involved, a
carry-over from earlier projects and the inability of BPN to complete contracts on time. During the TCSDP
period, contract agreement for land titling between PO Managers and PO of BPN corresponding to a total
of 68,441 ha, has resulted in the issuance of certificates for 27,812 farmers covering 32,650 Ha, or 29.20
% of the total TCSDP field plantings of 111,805 Ha. The total completed land titles during the project
period, including carry-overs from previous projects, covered 153,189 ha. The remaining areas of 156,118
ha (TCSDP: 79,155 Ha and previous projects: 76,963 Ha) were not contracted or certified at the Loan
completion date. A wise solution is urgently needed to solve the land titling problems, for instance by
improving coordination among the institutions involved, promoting PRONA (a national program for land
titling) and a self-help program with a unit cost equal to that foreseen under the project.
To implement the self-help program, the project encouraged the farmer groups to establish 37 Ha of rubber
nurseries and 16 Ha of coconut nurseries. Seeds, rubber budwood and technical assistance were provided
as a grant, while agro-inputs and labor were provided by farmer groups. From these nurseries, the farmers
have planted 2,605 Ha of rubber and 1,356 Ha of coconut, which represent only 65% and 45%
respectively of the targets. The low achievement of the self-help program was due mainly to most of the
- 26 -



farmers preferring to receive or buy ready-to-plant planting materials. The coconut self-help program was
discontinued as mutually agreed between DGE and the World Bank, as the DGE preferred to promote the
planting of tall coconuts due to limited maintenance of such area by the farmers.
A total of 1,151.2 km (1,250 km per SAR) of farm access roads, 259 m (250 m per SAR) and 263 m (250
m per SAR) of wooden and concrete bridges respectively, and 2,220 culverts (2,000 per SAR) were
constructed in rubber and coconut development areas. Repairs and maintenance have not been undertaken
satisfactorily due to insufficient funds.
2.2. Project Management
As planned at appraisal, the land for offices and staff houses was donated by the local governments.
Construction of new houses, staff houses and warehouses totaled 126 units of 10,210 sq.m. representing a
0.8% decrease compared with the SAR estimation of 127 units, while 2,414 sq. m of old buildings were
rehabilitated.
A total of 14 units (36 per SAR) of 4-wheel drive vehicles and 593 units (510 per SAR) of motorcycles,
plus an additional 2 units (19 units additional approved at the Mid-Term Review) of 4-wheel vehicles were
procured.
During the project period, 5,657 project staff, equivalent to 30,267 mandays (72% of SAR program of
42,352 mandays) have joined various internal an external training sessions. The big difference in mandays
between the SAR and actual achievement is due in part to the non-approval of the proposed budget for
some training and changes in the method of training implementation from third party contracts to mostly
in-house arrangements. There were 31 courses i.e.. 5 general courses, 16 technical courses (including
environmental management), 7 finance /credit courses and 3 administrative courses. The training was
aimed at improving staff members knowledge and attitude, as well as encouraging their motivation in the
hope that they have the capability of implementing the project activities and providing a better service (e.g.
extension) to the farmers. The training was generally well conducted, However, the results (the training
impact) still need to be investigated further. For the future, non-technical training is needed as social
situations in the farmer communities tend to change rapidly, mainly under the impact of the globalization
and reformation era. When field plantings enter the mature period, such social problems may negatively
impact on credit repayment, farmers' attitude and behaviour, cooperatives, processing, and marketing
systems.
The project personnel strength reached 3,028 by 1999 comprising 1,505 (49.6%) permanent staff (PNS)
and 1,523 (50,4%) temporary staff (honorer) as follows:
Status of TCSDP Staff
Location            Permanent           Temporary             Total
StabPNS           Staff/Honorer
Head Office                      44                   14                 58
Provincial Offices              348                  134                482
PMUs                           1,113               1,375              2,488
Total                          1,505               1,523              3,028
- 27 -



It is understandable that the temporary staff who have been working for a long time are demanding
permanent status as PNS (Pubic Civil Servant ). However, current economic conditions have made it
difficult to recruit a large number of PNS. This situation has a serious impact on the work system
performance of temporary staff, especially in the implementation of the training and visit system of
extension and in credit repayment collection.
2.3. Tree Crop Program Support
Technical Assistance amounting to 335 man-months (240 man-months per SAR plus 95 man-month
approved at Mid Term) was provided for the following consultancy positions: Rubber Agronomist (48
mm), Coconut Agronomist (53 mm), Environmental Specialist (attached to TCSSP), Training and
Extension Specialist (53 mm), Finance and Credit Adviser (77 mm), Project Management Adviser (55
mm), MIS Specialist (54 mm). The consultants who cooperated closely as a team, performed admirably
well in providing assistance not only to the project, but also to other foreign-assisted projects of DGE. No
doubt they contributed to the successful completion of the project.
The studies conducted by the project and other agencies utilizing the formal budget were: (i) Strategy for
Sustainable Financing and Cost Recovery of Smallholder Rubber and Coconut Development, and (ii)
Coconut Processing (in collaboration with the Tree Crop Research Center PUSLIBANGTRI). In addition,
the project conducted some studies utilizing its informal budget. The study on the preparation and start-up
of a future smallhoder project was not carried out due to a range of reasons, among others the change in
Government and World Bank policy towards the regional approach to project programs. Some other
agreed studies were considered at the time of the Mid Term Review and not conducted, due to financial
constraints.
As originally envisaged, inspections of project implementation were to be carried out annually over 4 years,
but only one inspection was undertaken. The project encountered difficulties during the tendering process
and consequently spent a lot of time and effort to resolve the problem. In general, the implementation of
inspection services seemed not to give high benefit to the project. Generally, many of the reports lacked
critical analysis, focussed on problem areas, failures and substandard plantings, and failed to impact
project successes. Among the four inspection reports, ADS Ltd's which was done in Kalimantan Barat in
association with PT Exsa International Co.Ltd, proved to be the best.
3.    Assessment of Project Outcome
3.1. Field Classification
The quality of TCSDP rubber field plantings comprised standard quality (Class 1+2) at 76% or higher than
the SAR target, sub standard (Class 3) at 15% and Class 4 at 9%, while that of coconut field plantings
comprised standard quality at 45% or lower than the SAR target, sub standard at 25% and Class 4 at
30%. The poor quality of coconut field plantings resulted from causes such as drought, pig damage and
late supplying of agrochemicals. Such situations occurred in all provinces except Maluku. The TCSDP
field classes including mature areas as at 1999, are as shown in the following Table:
- 28 -



TCSDP Field Classes (SAR vs Actual)
Class       SAR Standard                      Actual ()
(%)            Rubber          Coconut           Total
1              30               45              25               37
2              40               31              20               27
3              15               15              25               19
4              15               9               30               17
3.2. Field Classification of Previous Plantings
Rubber and coconut plantings from previous projects were maintained from 1992193 to 1994/95, and
resulted in a field classification as follows:
Field Classification of Plantings Made Under Earlier Projects
Class                     Rubber %                 Coconut %
1 & 2                        68                        49
3                           19                        18
_    4               _      13                        33
In the case of rubber plantings, the period from planting to opening for tapping varied as follows: 4-5
years after planting: 8%, 5-7 years: 36 % and more than 7 years: 56% (mostly found in SRDP areas in
Kalimantan Barat and TCSDP GOI areas).
3.3. Yields
Out of  309,307 Ha of field plantings (including previous plantings), the mature plantings comprise
179,690 Ha or 58 % (rubber 125,066 Ha and coconut 54,624 Ha). The average rubber productivity as
recorded in 14 years tapping for Class 2 plantings was 1,289 kg/Ha/year, or 11.4% above the SAR
estimation for Class 2 of 1,157 kg/Ha/year. For coconut, the average productivity as recorded in 8 years of
production ( based on the Class 2 field plantings) is 1,678 kg/Ha/year or 19% below the SAR estimation of
2,072 kg/Ha year. The low productivity was due to the long droughts in 1994 and 1997 and the lack of
fanners' ability to purchase agricultural inputs such as fertilizers and pesticides.
3.4. Processing and Marketing
Rubber farmers produce various grades of product including air dried sheet, thin slab, rolled slab, thick
slab and cup lump. Most farmers tend to avoid producing air dried sheets as their selling price is not equal
to additional labor and material costs. There are 3 models of rubber marketing systems i.e. auction and
mutual partnership or direct selling to processors and through middle traders. By auction and mutual
partnership the price at farmers' level reached 80%-95% of FOB SIR 20. Coconut farmers produce copra,
cooking oil (klentik oil), brown sugar, coconut, charcoal and nata de coco. Copra and charcoal are sold to
the village middle traders or private processor units while cooking oil, brown sugar and nata de coco are
sold in the local market.
- 29 -



3.5. Socio-Economic Impact
In general , the project has improved the socio-economic status of participants as indicated by income
increment, improvement or construction of new houses, new field plantings, new motorbikes, childrens'
education, Haj pilgrimages and 4-wheel vehicle ownership. A socio-economic survey carried out by the
project in 1999, shows that the total annual income of a farmer family (rubber and coconut farmer ) ranges
between Rp.4,554,000 and to Rp. 11,323,000 (USD 619 to USD 1,540) or higher than the SAR target of
USD 410. The survey result also indicates that by participating in the project, most farmers increased their
land holdings and moreover in some provinces such as Riau and Lampung, other land with various status
was used . All interviewed farrners confirmed that the project was beneficial and improved their living
conditions. The project also had direct and indirect effects on the economic
development within the local community as indicated by some improvemnents such as the increased number
of new small businesses (nurseries, suppliers of fertilizer and pesticides etc.), the increase of local market
activities, changes in the farming practices, the emergence of workshops, village transportation, shops and
wheeled vehicle dealers.
4. Major Factors Affecting The Project
4.1. Internal Factors
The main intemal factors affecting the project are the status and salary of the temporary staff (tenaga
honorer proyek ) . Most of them have been working for the project for more than 13 years without any
clarification of their status and no regular increase of their salary. In addition, the mobility of extension
workers was low due to inadequacy of transport vehicles or due to the existing vehicles being too old.
Besides that, the new government policy involving a decrease in the fertilizer subsidy and the new policy on
marketing systems, led to a decreased amount of fertilizer being distributed to the farmers.
4.2. External Factors
There were at least two external factors affecting project implementation and output:
a) The national monetary and economic crisis since mid-1997, caused fluctuation of fertilizer and
pesticide prices, which hampered the procurement of agrochemicals required by the rubber and coconut
plantings during their immature phase. The lack of fertilizer has lengthened the immature stage by up
to 2 years. It seems that most of the plantings, since 1993/94 for rubber and 1994/95 for coconut, will
experience this lengthening.
b) Change of climate in certain years i.e. the long dry season in 1993 and 1997 in project areas caused
burning and death , which increased the proportion of Class 4. Up to date, around 33,110 Ha out of
52,192 Ha Class 4 areas, had been audited by BPKP, to be written off as a GOI risk.
5. Finance and Credit
5.1. Project Expenditure.
The project expenditure by component, estimated as of March, 2000 is presented in the table below:
- 30 -



Estimated Project Expenditure by Component
Components                 Total                  Remarks
(Rp million)
Farnn Level Activities           242,457           Estimated as of March
2000
Project Management                98,982
Tree Crop Program Support         12,720        _               _    __
Total                  354,159
5.2. Annual Expediture
Annual expenditure by Indonesian Fiscal Year is shown in the table below:
Project Cost and Expediture b y Fiscal Year _Rp. Billion)
Total         92/93 | 93/94   94/95   95/96   96/97   97/98   98/99    99/00
Annual Project Cost    23.9    50.1    63.0    56.3    81.6    75.2    46.9   67.3*)
Annual Expenditures    18.3    35.6    64.5    43.9    45.6    49.7    33.5   49.1*)
*) estimation as of March 2000
5.3. Amendments of the Loan
At appraisal, the project cost was estimated at USD 154.5 million, comprising USD 39.2 millions from
GOI, USD 87.6 millions from the Bank loan, USD 4.1. millions from the Japanese Grant, and USD23.6
millions from farmers' equity. During the Mid Tern Review with agreed additional activities, the project
cost was estimated at USD 167.5 millions, comprising USD 36.2 millions from GOI, USD 79.7 million
from the Bank loan, USD 5.3 million from the Japanese Grant and USD 46.3 million from farmers' equity.
However, during project implementation, GOI requested the Bank to cancel some loan, totaling USD 10.7
millions. Therefore, the project financing available from the loan was only USD 76.9 millions compared
with the original loan of USD 87.6 millions.
5.4. Disbursements
Disbursement of loan reached USD 65.7 millions by December 1999 and is likely to reach USD 68.4
millions by the end of July, 2000. Annual disbursement (Bank fiscal year) progress is summarized below.
Annual Disbursement         (Cumulative US$ Million)
Disbursement   92/93   93t94   94/95   95/96   96/97   97/98   98/99   99/00
SAR Schedule    11.0   25.5   42.0   58.5   73.0   83.0   78.3    87.6
Actual           2.3    12.4   25.3   36.1   51.9   60.4   62.9    68.4*)
*) estimation as of July, 2000
5.5. Credit Recovery
The project has the responsibility for collecting farmers' credit repayments including those in respect of
previous plantings, through the new credit repayment system. In spite of the sheer volume of farmer credit
accounts and varying credit schemes, project collection efforts have resulted in cumulative credit
- 31 -



repayments amounting to Rp. 40,490 millions, consisting of Rp. 28,950 millions collected from farmers
still having outstanding repayment and Rp. 11,540 millions from farmers who have now fully repaid their
credit. Up to FY 1997/98, the actual repayment tended to increase. However, it remains below the
estimated target. Collection of farmer credit repayment will be improved through: (a) intensifying
extension to the farmers to repay their credit as the amount stated in the JAK and promoting the role of
fanner groups in collecting credit repayment; (b) extending the coverage of the farmers who have to repay
the credit; and (c) motivating the collectors/treasurers by promoting their status and/or providing a
reasonable salary.
5.6. Recalculation of the Rate of Return
With the new data available and based on the latest actual classification and average yield, the internal
Economic Rate of Return for the whole project is estimated at 40% (14% per SAR and 20 % at MTR ).
The main difference appears to lie in the higher production of rubber, actual rubber field classification, the
exchange rate and the inflation rate.
6. World Bank Performance
The Bank performance can be observed from several viewpoints i.e. : lending operation, supervision,
processing of procurement contracts, processing of disbursement and relationships with GOI. The Bank's
supervision, which is done regularly, has strived for good performance. The Bank suggestions have been
very helpful in cases where unusual situations were encountered by the Provincial Offices of the project.
The relationship with the Bank has been pervaded by mutual respect and close cooperation. Bank officials
have displayed their willingness to accommodate DGE/project requests insofar as these are within Bank
Guidelines. Based on data mentioned above, the overall Bank performance' rate is satisfactory.
7. Sustainability
7.1. Agronomic Aspects.
Village budwood gardens established by the project have created motivation for farmers to develop
budwood gardens independently, especially in South Sumatera, Riau, Lampung and West Kalimantan. The
project has successfully improved farmers' ability in providing budwood trees for their own use and for
sale to other farmers who have nurseries. The provision of budwood (with improved clones) in the future,
is likely sustainable. Moreover, many farmers with entrepreneurial skills have been adopting improved
technology in developing nurseries i.e. producing and selling planting material independently. The provision
of planting materials in the future, therefore, is likely also to be sustainable. About 40% of farner
participants have developed new field plantings or replanted their old field plantings independently, using
improved technology replicated from the project. For the future, sustained cropping activities are likely to
be maintained, although a big effort is needed to motivate some 60% of participants. Coconut farmers have
undercropped their field plantings with food crops such as paddy gogo, maize, soybean, cassava and
groundnut. They have been encouraged to use part of the additional income generated from the intercrops
to plant perennial undercrops such as cacao, coffee and avocado successively. It is expected that by
adopting this pattern, intercropping activities would improve in the future.
7.2. Post Harvest Aspects.
The role of extension workers and the impact of fanner training are quite significant in regard to
harvesting/tapping, processing and marketing. It is apparent that many TCSDP rubber farmers are able to
produce clean and thin rubber slab (slab tipis) coagulated with proper formic acid as demanded by crumb
rubber factories and in accordance with SNI 06-2047-1998, while many coconut farmers have improved
their processing quality, and diversified their products. They also have improved their product marketing by
- 32 -



adopting direct selling to the processors. It is likely that that the role of cooperatives in the future would be
very important especially in providing farmers' needs such as agricultural inputs, processing, marketing,
household materials and working capital (credit). It is expected that the cooperatives could help to
accelerate credit repayment of fanmer members.
7.3. Post Loan PeriodArrangements
After the loan closing date, the following main activities will still be carried out:
(a) maintenance of immature plantings;
(b) provision of extension to farmers including training and promoting cooperatives to accelerate
village economic growth;
(c) collection of credit repayment; and
(d) continuation of land titling program, may be using the PRONA system or swadaya.
The implementation of the above activities will depend on the Governnent capacity to provide the
necessary budgets. Due to the current crisis, the activities will be implemented according to the available
budget based on priority.
It is necessary to continue the project organization up to the maturity of all plantings, and thereafter (from
the year 2003), the organization could be terminated. Its functions, assets and personnel might be
transferred to the Disbun I & II and DGE, in accordance with the Government Law no. 22/1999
(concerning Regional Autonomy).
8. Lessons Learned
8.1. Development Scheme
This PMU scheme has been able to motivate participants to develop new plantings and re-plantings,
maintain field plantings, and manage post-harvest products as well as marketing. The PMU scheme is also
able to accommodate the functional linkage between project staff and the geographically dispersed farmers.
Poor smallholder farmers, when given the chance to have access to credit assistance and improved
technology to develop their lands, are able to plant or replant (rubber or coconut) fields to a satisfactory
standard and benefit from increased income.
8.2. Agronomic Aspects
Through pilot projects of village budwood gardens, the project was able to demonstrate that, with
appropriate technical assistance, farmers/ farmer groups are capable of establishing their own budwood
gardens independently. Identical findings applied to the establishment of nurseries. Usually, rubber farmers
prefer to receive "ready to plant" planting materials from the project or buy them from private nurseries
rather than from self-help nurseries. This situation discourages the self-help nurseries program. Better
extension is needed to solve this problem.
Never plant a single clone over large areas, but always have a mix of 3-4 improved clones; plant clones
known to be resistant to locally endemic diseases ; and for areas close to the equator, plant clones which
winter early and re-foliate quickly, such as PB-260, RRIC-100 and AVROS 2037.
The use of sea salt as a fertilizer for coconut was quite effective; therefore extension for this technique
should be intensified for the whole coconut area.
- 33 -



Rubber replanting which takes advantage of rubber wood utilization at the same time, requires accurate
site selection, considering the economic size of the new field planting and its closeness to a wood processing
factory. Without meeting this requirement, the added value from selling the rubber wood will be absorbed
for transport costs.
Undercropping, financed either by the project or by farmers independently during the first 2-3 years of field
development (if done properly) is able to provide a supplementary source of income. Particularly for
coconut farners, additional income generated from the undercrops could be utilized to plant perennial
intercrops.
Provision of agricultural inputs such as fertilizers and pesticides should be on time. Delaying procurement
of agro-inputs always resulted in the degradation of field planting quality.
8.3. Other Aspect
Training and Visit (T&V) system of extension has been working well during project irnplementation
especially during the immature period. This system is likely to be suitable for such projects in the future
(with selective implementation).
In preparing reports particularly in processing data/information, application of the data base concept is
faster and easier than using spread-sheets, as one input will produce several outputs.
The computerized credit recovery system is well received by farrners, as they know transparently their
credit status, the anortization schedule and amount due at any time. Discount is provided for those who
have advanced repayments or full payment.
The additional role (i.e. collecting credit repayment) given to the extension workers has in fact become
counter-productive, as farmers tend to avoid them. Special credit collectors should be recruited instead of
employing extension workers, However, in some areas, employing extension workers to collect credit
repayment (with adequate transport facilities) proved to be successful as they were already familiar with
farmers. This situation needs to be discussed further.
Land titling is a crucial aspect to be taken into account during project periods, in order to encourage
farmers in maintaining their fields and repaying their credit.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
Project Achievement is Selected Thematic Areas
Poverty AUeviation and Other Social Objectives
Socio-Economic Impact on the Participants.
The project carried out a sample socio-economic survey in five provinces (Socio-Economic Survey in TCSDP
rubber and coconut planting, carried out by project staff from June to September 1999) to ascertain the benefits of
the project to the participants. See Appendix 3 Attachment 5 for full details. Whilst the sample size was
- 34 -



small (390 families) and the range of questions limited, the results of the survey were borne out by the
answers solicited in the fieldwork of the ICR mission. All the indicators suggest a substantial improvement
from project involvement in the economic well-being of the families, measured in terms of acquired assets,
and increased access to education. Respondents also noted that the economic crisis had a major adverse
effect on their welfare despite advantages gained from the project. A wider economic survey said to have
been undertaken by project staff, registered similar results in terrns of economic advancement and poverty
alleviation. Project achievement was highly successful.
Socio-Economic Impact on the Local Community.
The data gathered regarding the impact on the local community and interviews conducted in field visits,
suggest that the project had a positive impact on the economy of most of the communities within the
project. Generally, the social impact has been positive through stimulation of cooperative development and
the provision of utilities such as transport. Project achievement was successful.
Socio-Economic Impact on Project Staff
The project impacted on over 1,500 permanent Government employees and 1,500 contracted employees.
The employees benefit from allowances and training, and although many have been transferred away from
their homes, an overall positive impact has been engendered. The contract employees have benefited from
training and an income from the project. However, their salaries remain frozen at 1996 levels (a reduction
of 70% in real terms) and employment status has not been confirmed. Overall project rating was
unsatisfactory. See Appendix 3 Attachment 5 for full details.
Gender Concerns
Staf
Of the project staff, women account for 24% HO staff, 29% PO staff and 13% PMU staff. Some hold
responsible positions and their numbers represent a significant number in agriculture, an industry into which
relatively few women enter. Project rating was satisfactory.
Farmer Participants
Of the farner families within the project, 12% are headed by women, and 17.6% of the farmer families in the
self-help program are headed by women. The numbers are probably higher than recorded if households are
included where the male head has died or left. Women work in the fields alongside the men, and when
questioned said they appreciated the tree crop project as when mature it generated a larger and more reliable
income. Project rating was satisfactory.
Environment
Environmental Impact on Land Resources Management and Soil Quality.
The majority of the land areas developed under TCSDP were previously occupied by alang-alang grassland
and scrub (belukar). The conversion of such areas to perennial crop stands incorporating appropriate soil
conservation procedures where slope conditions demanded, has undoubtedly had a generally beneficial
impact upon the environmental conditions in the blocks developed. This was a satisfactory achievement.
Improvement of Farmer Awareness on Environmental Issues
Through the training and extension offered to participant fanners, awareness of environmental issues has
been sharpened. This awareness ranges from the selection of areas for development through to the
appropriate methods of field establishment and maintenance of tree crops and associated intercrops. This was
a satisfactory achievement.
- 35 -



Private Sector Development
The Project's role in Fostering Private Enterprise through Resource Transfer and Other Support
The project was mainly focused on the resource- poor farming families as well as the private sector,.
Government resources (land, capital and expertise) were transferred to the private sector and resulted in
economic and financial benefits being realized. This was a highly satisfactory achievement.
The Project's Role in Fostering the Development of Cooperatives
The project assisted in fostering the establishment of 267 cooperatives and over 12,000 farmer groups, of
which 4,000 are classed as being advanced. During the course of the ICR mission fieldwork, several of the
most successful cooperatives were visited and their activities were noted as being highly successful. This
was a satisfactory outcome.
-36 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
1. Increased incomes of poor farm
families: -  Rubber farmers            Rp. 5,300 per manday                 Rp 26, 220 per manday
-  Coconut farmers             Rp. 4,500 per manday                 Rp.28,312 per manday
2. Testing ways of lowering support costs       NA                              Partially achieved
for more rapid and spontaneous expansion of
planting with improved vafieties
3. Improved DGE's supervision of                NA                               Parlially achieved
smalholder program activites
4.Further development by Govemment of           NA                               Partially achieved
sustainable financing procedures for
smaliholder tree crop program
Output Indicators:
l .New Planting:  - Rubber                  75,000 ha                            70,769 ha
- Coconut               40,000 ha                            41,036 ha
2. Maintenance of new plantngs:
- Rubber                 75,000 ha                            70,769 ha
- Coconut                40,000 ha                            41,038 ha
3. Maintenance of ongoing plantngs:
- Rubber                 61,500 ha                            59,565 ha
- Coconut                13,000 ha                            13,304 ha
4. Self-help Plantings:  - Rubber            4,000 ha                              2,258 ha
- Coconut                3,000 ha                             1,356 ha
5. Infrastuctures: - Provincial offices          3 units                              3 units
- PMU offices                    28 units                             23 units
-Warehouses                      16 units                             15 units
- Staff houses                   80 units                             85 units
-Village tracks                1,250 km                             1,151 km
-Wooden bridges                 250 m                                259 m
-Concrete bridges               250 m                                263 m
- Culverts                     2,000 pcs                            2,220 pcs
6. Vehicles:    -4 wheel drive                  36 units                             16 units
- Motorcycles                  510 units                            549 units
- Motor boats                    6 units                              2 units
7. Training:   - Staff                      43,300 persondays                     30,267 persondays
- Fafmers                  136,918 persondays                    389,081 persondays
8. Village rubber budwood nurseries            100 ha                                96 ha
9. Rubber replanting & wood utilization        400 ha                               400 ha
10. Additonal supplying for immature
plantings: - Rubber                     12,000 ha                             9,019 ha
- Coconut                      5,000 ha                             6,256 ha
11.Foodintercropsin: - Rubber               15,000 ha                             4,250 ha
- Coconut              24,150 ha                             22,992 ha
12. Rattan undercropping in old rubber        200 ha                                195 ha
13. Tech. AssistancelConsultants             335 manmonths                         335 manmonths
14. Pilot processing unit for brown sugar and  10 units                               9 units
nata de coco
15. Land titing for new plantings          115,000 ha                             22,650 ha
End of project
- 37 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
1. Farm level activities :
- New plantings and existing plantings         | 98.40    |        124.50   |126
- Self-help scheme                                   0.50            0.50           100
- Fann access tracks                                 4.70            5.20           110
- Farmers training & demonstration                   0.90            1.90           211
2. Project Management:
- Buildings, land, vehicles, equipment               4.80            3.20            67
- Stafftraining                                      1.60            1.30            81
- Incremental operating expenditures                13.40           10.30            77
3. Tree Crop Program Support:
- Technical assistance                               3.40            2.25            66
- Inspection services                                1.20            0.30            25
- Studies                                            0.50            0.05            10
Total Baseline Cost                                  129.40          149.50
Physical Contingencies                                4.00
Price Confingencies                                  21.10
Total Project Costs             154.50          149.50
Total Financing Required             154.50          149.50
Project Costs b Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal EsUmate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                      0.00          6.40          0.00         0.00          640
(0.00)        (5.70)       (0.00)         0.00)       (5.70)
2. Goods                      8.80         35.00         31.50         2.60         77.90
______________________ | (7.80)           (31.60)       (27.70)       (0.00)       (67.10)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          5.60         2.40          8.00
Consultants, studies &       (0.00)        (0.00)        (5.30)        (0.00)       (5 30)
land titling services
4. Training of project staff  0.00          0.00          0.70          1.70         2.40
and farmers
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.70)        (0.00)       (0.70)
5. Farm family and nursery    0.00          0.00          0.00         44.80        44.80
labor                        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        0.00)
6. Incremental operating      0.00          0.00         15.00         0.00         15.00
costs                        (0.00)        (0.00)        (8.80)   1   (0.00)    L  (8.80)
Total                      8.80          41.40        52.80         51.50        154.50
(7.80)       (37.30)      (42.50)_       (0.00)       (87.60)
Note: NBF for Consultants, Studies and Training are financed by Japanese Grant.
- 38 -



Proiect Costs by^ Procurement Arrangofnentb ActuaULatest Estimate) (US$ mfillion equivalent)
1. Workes                        0.00      |     5.40           0.00           0.00           5.40
_                       ~~~~~~~~~~(0.00)  (4.90)       (0.00)         (0.00)         (4.9'0
2. Goods                         11.60          48.00          29.40           1.70          90.70
(7.20)        (29.60)         (18.20)        (0.00)        (55.00)
3. Services                      0.00            0.00           2.50            1.40          3.90
Consultants, studies &           (0.00)         (0.00)         (2.30)          (0.00)        (2.30)
land titling services
4. Training of project staff      0.00           0.00           0.90           2.30           3.20
and fanmers
(0.00)         (0.00)         (.90           (0.00)         (0.90)
5. Farm family and nursery       0.00            0.00           0.00           36.00         36.00
labor                            (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Incremental operating         0.00            0.00           10.30          0.00           10.30
costs                            (0.00)         (0.00)         (5.30)          (0.00)        (5.30)
Total                         11.60          53.40           43.10          41.40         149.50
_ __  (7.20)        (34.50)        (26.70)         (0.00)        (68.40)
Note: NBF for Consultants, Studies and Training are financed by Japanese Grant.
"' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
v Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Pro ect Financin by Com onent (In US$ mllilon e uivalent)
1. Farm level activities:                                                                0.0    0.0    0.0
- New plantings and       67.30     29.40      23.10     55.10      33.50      35.90    81.9   113.9  155.4
existing plantings
-Self-belp scheme         0.60       0.20      0.50       0.30       0.10      0.10     50.0   50.0   20.0
-Farm access tracks       4.60       0.50                 4.70       0.50               102.2  100.0   0.0
-Farmers training &       0.40                 0.30       0.60                 1.30    150.0   0.0   433.3
demonstration
2. Project Management:                                                                   0.0    0.0    0.0
-Buildings, land, vehicles,    2.50  2.90                 1.30       1.90               52.0   65.5   0.0
equipment
-Staff training           0.30                 1.40       0.30                  1.00    100.0   0.0    71.4
-Incremental operating    8.80       6.20                 5.30       5.00               60.2   80.6   0.0
expenditures
3. Tree Crop Program                                                                     0.0    0.0    0.0
Support
-Technical assistance     2.00                 2.40       0.50       0.40      1.40     25.0    0.0   58.3
-Inspection services      0.90                            0.30                          33.3    0.0    0.0
-Studies                  0.20                                                           0.0    0.0    0.0
- 39 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
(US$ million in 1998 constant terms unless otherwise stated)
Present Value of Flows
_____________________  Economic Analysis            Financial Analysis
Appraisal    Latest Estimates    Appraisal    Latest Estimates
Rate of Return %             14.0 %           21.0 %          25.0 %           30.0 %
Net Benefits                 485.721          902.817                          __    _
Costs                        154.500          149.466
Net Present Value @ 10%      144.674          39.182
Return to labor                I_Rp. 5,000/md *   Rp. 27,000/md
Note: *=Rp. 5,000/md in 1991 terms as in SAR is equal to Rp. 12,000/md in 1998 terms.
-40 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Stay Of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation      Development
monthlYear    Count       Specialty                       Progress         Objectve
Identificatfon/Preparation
11/86                        8   FA, E(3), TCS(3), Ag.
09/88                        8   FA, E(3), TCS(3), CE
Appraisal/Negotiation
09/88 - Appraisal             7   FA, E(2), TCS(3), Tr.S
09/91 - Re-Appraisal         4   FA, TCS(2), Ag.
02/92 - Negotiations         4   FA, L, Disb.Spec., TCS
Supervision
08/92                         4  FA, TCS(3)                           S                 S
05/93                         4  FA, TCS(2), Ag.                      S                 S
12/93                         4  FA, TCS(2), Ag.                      S                 S
05/94                         3  FA, TCS, Ag.                         S                 S
09/94                         3  FA, TCS, Ag.                         S                 S
07/95                         3  TCS(2), Ag.                          S                 S
08/95 (MTR)                   2  FA, E                                S                 s
07/96                         2  E, Ag                                S                 S
09/96                         2  E, Ag                                S                 S
07/97                         2  E, Ag                               HS                 S
03/98                         2  E, Ag.                               S                 S
02/99                         2  E, Ag                                S                 S
ICR
05/00 ICR Mission            3   TCS, E, Ag.
Note: Ag. = Agriculturist; CE = Civil Engineer; E = Economist/Agric.Economist; FA = Financial Analyst;
L = Lawyer/Legal Specialist; TCS = Tree Crop Specialist; Tr.S = Training/Institution Specialist.
(b) Staff:
Stage. of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff Weeks             US$ (P00)
Identification/Preparation              95.9                       255.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                  143.2                       417.6
Supervision                            220.7                       638.0
ICR                                    *13.4                      **55.0
Total                                 *473.2                   **1,365.8
* = includes 8.4 SWs FAO;    ** = includes FAO budget of US$ 40,000
-41 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                       O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Ol Sector Policies                     O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Ol Physical                            OH  OSUOM  ON  ONA
El Financial                           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Institutional Development            0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                        O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction             O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Gender                         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Private sector development           0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Public sector management            0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
-42 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfctory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
M Lending                                           OHS OS *U OHU
OL Supervision                                      OHS OS  OU  OHU
L Overall                                           OHS OS   * u  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
LI Preparation                                      OHS OS  OU  O HU
LI Government implementation performance            0 HS OS  0 U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 0 HS * S   0 U  0 HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS * u O HU
-43 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Staff Appraisal Report: Indonesia - Tree Crop Smallholder Development Project, World Bank,
March 27, 1992
2. Aide-Memoire of the ICR Mission
3. Appendix 1: Full Key Indicators
4. Appendix 2: Agricultural and Project Design Aspects
5. Appendix 3: Economic, Financial and Social Aspects of the Project.
6. Final Evaluation Report on TCSDP (by Directorate General of Estate Crops, March 2000)
7. Post Loan Period Operations (by Directorate General of Estate Crops, March 2000)
-44 -



MAP SECTION






!__________,,_,::   :  j    ,9  ...................... q rsj                                                                                                         IBRD 23392
INDONESIA
TREE CROP SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
2414 4444                         .       ~~COCONUT
,1;.n   A H'   U,,>@   -             <                                                ~ ~~~~~~~~~* RUBBER
.BE PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
od4Iop            '                                                                                            -l               INTERNATIONAL SOUNDARIES             7                       AirSM2 didi    13 Tombno
3 Dime.b.    15 Kota Bunan
Burtia Aceh                -        ~        TAIN)Soth Chin  Se                                                                                                                              4 Uikupqang     16 Boloang
I                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Kooditon  17 Ldak
2   du                                                                                                                         6 Bitung        1a ?lalgar
*'    *r>_ .                   .\                \k             B2  ang| Jaya                                                                                                                 7 Tobukan Utare 19 Uruboto
DI.`ACE4 Tanah Putih                                                        IRuao atjya                         8R                                                                        Tombauion    20 Tib'.n
Nbidu(>an          2 MALAYSIA                                                )                                                 \9 3 Am7n1wlg nf  *  7 Datc   Toaolul  9 Tumpolan  21 Suwcao
MALAYSIA              4- Ti'i K                                                                                   1n. A  IDolo   7 T4tgonu             10 Taambarti    22 Bmtudnla
; 8                     it                                                                 2P.440lo0n    8 Toboli               11 reango 1     23 K;an; ang
8 ftttgl(9t1;Kuras I. Sa;ggo. L.d
*   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~4                   ='             ASsk3T k                                                                            9 U,144ii              12 Tengo II     24 Tamornto        CI'v
M;tl' a n            .2 lanju=lluju  --       n)~r.   T                           BoangTe'a n                              Lg5ngSulu   7 won      5 ta |       to xbOng   10 AmW    Tote
eg Jayqlolai /                        vrngSiSolok        s 9Sntang                             I A                                             Anipona Tete 5s4
.t .bilan -  _N_go  Pinoh,                                                                 6A apibotb;   12 , Lolo
,*:              '        I    u                                                                                                       13 l!torno
.2                                                                                               KAL o   X14.1'g  IMANTAN   I M
-k                                                                                                                                                         4EHALJAHERA
A3  KAUMANTAN BARATSo,odSUWSIAA
K   A   L
GKIL                                                           KALIMANTANA TENGAH                                                                               I
'6                                                                               II   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~so LWIENGR
114N                                                          13~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Su.   f lOf(Tnti'
o Pematong 904gong     Mbo     S.JKRA7Wlag~it                                                                                  ln   dn           330P~d
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~ (ESItttflO Ta,,n   SA~T  A  ALUK
wofahgtm       16~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~P0200                                                     1P~                            edriI                            
"kcA                                                          J~~~~~~~~~~~~~ av,    ,4o6                ~      12o.d                                    lr' sp                  KGiotu
~~44~~~40 IOIO04  Yagygko  JAWA TIMUR                                                                                 -~~~~~~~~~~~0   2   roai
Iq-  plusoft               1-
.2  a "l0440 iltIDANOEA                                                                              U   Tqf3R                 2TP4GR   TIMLnR                            3 Ob4CRTMIR44 
& $~,ngkai Sktlan  Th40 nqp Ho   ~ onafo' Tho WoOdOo~4C 2 4 'eiOng.o, 4 44. Irai                                                     4' '00
4 Pootdg fggon                        IWTA K9 S o                                                              mgoongo 5Ufib                                                              se
It V&Y Hittith                                                               4T.Hu~~~~~~~~~~~~~'4424bondn staff.ng 6,. thi
5Nnmm                                                          7~~~~~~~~~~14 4 44 24  4 0140 4  4
24) ~,lnig~ngTet'~                                24044 0,,kOaon 04e  4dom  I4  I__________________
"0*1 p                           Bwd.                                         6so~~~~~~~~~~~~o,o .04,r4 ow.O,aao  44, 02na.p_2!I44 O
ton,    LOW42 I4.4444444p4p40ol4 2ng0
I Kofiondo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~BEMB   94



