Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
(Tree Crop Smallholder Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by the
GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN
Dated December 18, 1990
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 18, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the 
Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) 
acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds provided by JAPAN (Japan).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between Japan and 
the Bank, Japan has requested the Bank, and the Bank has agreed, to administer grant 
funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects 
supported by the Bank in accordance with the provisions of such letter agreement;
WHEREAS (B) the Recipient has requested and Japan has agreed to make available 
in two tranches a grant (the Grant) out of said grant funds to finance the cost of 
carrying out the technical assistance described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the 
Technical Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS (C) the Recipient has requested the Bank to carry out Part A of the 
Technical Assistance and the Bank has agreed to carry out said Part A on the terms and 
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Definitions; the Grant
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the Recitals to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein    set forth and the following additional terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
"Japanese Grant Special Account" means the special deposit account 
referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
"Tranche A" means the tranche of the Grant referred to in Section 1.02 
Page  2
(a) of this Agreement;
(c)
"Tranche B" means the tranche of the Grant referred to in Section 1.02 
(b) of this Agreement; and
(d)
"Yen" and "¥" mean the currency of Japan.
Section 1.02. The Grant shall be made available for the Technical Assistance on 
the terms and conditions herein set forth or referred to and shall consist of the 
following two tranches:
(a)
one tranche in an amount of seventy million yen (¥70,000,000) to be 
utilized to finance certain expenditures for services required for Part A of the 
Technical Assistance, as hereinafter provided; and
(b)
one tranche in an amount of five hundred thirty-seven million five 
hundred thousand yen (¥537,500,000) to be utilized to finance certain expenditures for 
services required for Part B of the Technical Assistance as hereinafter provided.
ARTICLE II
Part A of the Technical Assistance
Section 2.01. Wherever used in this Article, the term "Consultants" means 
individual consultants as well as any consulting firm that provides any of the experts 
referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Part A of the Technical Assistance and associated purchases of 
goods and services shall be undertaken by consultants who shall, as far as 
practicable, include consultants with expertise in the following areas: development 
administration, economics, finance, banking and agriculture. Certain of the 
Consultants are expected to commence their services on December 1, 1990 and to provide 
a total of about 18 man-months of service between that time and about December 31, 
1992.
(b)
The Administrator shall make reasonable efforts to secure the services of 
the Consultants.
(c)
The Administrator shall utilize the proceeds of Tranche A of the Grant to 
finance on a grant basis the following expenditures in connection with the services of 
the Consultants:
      (i)
remuneration, per diem and other allowances;
     (ii)
international and local travel expenses;
    (iii)
out-of-pocket expenses, including communications and reports, 
incurred by the Consultants in foreign and local currency in the 
performance of their services; and
(iv)
goods and services needed to facilitate the overall objectives of 
the technical assistance.
(d)
The recruitment, engagement and supervision of the Consultants shall be 
the responsibility solely of the Administrator and shall be done according to the 
Administrator's applicable procedures.
Section 2.03. (a) The Recipient shall cooperate with the Administrator and the 
Consultants to ensure that Part A of the Technical Assistance is carried out promptly 
and effectively and, for this purpose, shall issue appropriate instructions to its 
officials, agents and representatives.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
make arrangements for all personnel of the       Consultants 
assigned to Part A of the Technical Assistance (other than 
nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the 
Recipient's territories) and all dependents of such personnel 
promptly to be provided with any necessary entry and exit visas, 
residence and work permits, exchange documents and travel 
documents required for their stay in the Recipient's territories 
during the duration of said Part A;
Page  3
     (ii)
facilitate clearance through its customs of any equipment, 
materials and supplies required for Part A of the Technical 
Assistance and any personal effects of the personnel of the 
Consultants assigned to said Part A (other than nationals of the 
Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient's territories) 
and the dependents of such personnel;
    (iii)
permit the Consultants to bring into, and withdraw from, the 
Recipient's territories reasonable amounts of foreign currency for 
purposes related to Part A of the Technical Assistance;
     (iv)
permit the personnel of the Consultants assigned to Part A of the 
Technical Assistance (other 
than nationals of the Recipient or 
permanent residents of the Recipient's territories) and the 
dependents of such personnel to bring into, and withdraw from, the 
Recipient's territories reasonable amounts of foreign currency for 
their personal use; and
      (v) 
exempt the Consultants and the personnel of the Consultants 
assigned to Part A of the Technical Assistance from (or the 
Recipient shall pay on behalf of the Consultants and such 
personnel) any taxes, duties, fees, levies and other impositions 
imposed under the laws and regulations in effect in the 
Recipient's territories on the Consultants and such personnel in 
respect of:
(A)
any payments whatsoever made to the Con-sultants and such 
personnel (other than nationals of the Recipient or 
permanent residents of the Recipient's territories) in 
connection with the carrying out of Part A of the Technical 
Assistance;
(B)
any equipment, materials and supplies brought into the 
Recipient's territories by the Consultants for the purpose 
of carrying out Part A of the Technical Assistance and 
which, after having been brought into such territories, will 
be subsequently withdrawn therefrom by them;
(C)
any equipment, material and supplies brought into the 
Recipient's territories by the Con-sultants for the purpose 
of carrying out Part A of the Technical Assistance and which 
will be consumed therein or become the property of the 
Recipient; and
(D)
any property brought into the Recipient's territories by the 
Consultants or such personnel (other than nationals of the 
Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient's 
territories) or the dependents of such personnel for their 
personal use and which will be consumed therein or 
subsequently withdrawn therefrom by them upon their 
respective departure from the Recipient's territories, 
provided that the Consultants, such personnel and their 
dependents shall follow the usual customs procedures of the 
Recipient in importing property into the Recipient's 
territories.
(c)
The Recipient shall be responsible for dealing with any claims arising 
out of, or resulting from, Part A of the Technical Assistance that may be brought by 
third parties against the Administrator. The Recipient shall indemnify the 
Administrator against any costs, claims, damages or liabilities arising out of, or 
resulting from, any acts or omissions in connection with the Technical Assistance.
(d)
For purposes of carrying out Part A of the Technical Assistance, the 
Recipient shall make available to the Consultants, free of charge, the data, services, 
facilities, equipment and counterpart personnel, as required, all as reasonably 
required to carry out Part A of the Technical Assistance.
Section 2.04. The Recipient and the Administrator shall, from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on Part A of the Technical Assistance and 
consult on any reports prepared by the Consultants and the implementation of any 
recommendations made in those reports.
Page  4
Section 2.05. The Administrator may use any reports prepared by the Consultants 
for any purpose that the Administrator may consider appropriate but those reports may 
not be made public except by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator.
Section 2.06. The Recipient may at any time request the Administrator in writing 
to terminate Part A of the Technical Assistance. Whether or not the Recipient has made 
such a request, the Administrator may at any time suspend or, after consultation with 
the Recipient, terminate said Part A, if any circumstances arise that, in the opinion 
of the Administrator, interfere or threaten to interfere with the successful 
implementation of said Part A, the accomplishment of its purposes, or the execution of 
said Part A in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Section 2.07. If Part A of the Technical Assistance is suspended or terminated, 
the Recipient and the Administrator shall consult with each other concerning any 
further action that may be necessary or desirable.
Section 2.08. The Administrator is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient 
and shall not have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall 
have no right to any proceeds of Tranche A of the Grant that are not expended by the 
Administrator pursuant to this Article.
ARTICLE III
Part B of the Technical Assistance
Section 3.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Article, subject, however, to the following modifications thereto:
(a)
the term "Bank," wherever used in the General Condi-tions, other than in 
Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof, means the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development acting as Administrator of the Grant pursuant to the 
letter agreement between Japan and the Bank referred to in Recital (A) of this 
Agreement, except that in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting in its own capacity;
(b)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General Con-ditions, means the 
Recipient;
(c)
the term "Loan Agreement," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
Article III of this Agreement;
(d)
the term "Loan," wherever used in the General Condi-tions, means Tranche 
B of the Grant;
(e)
the term "Loan Account," wherever used in the General Conditions, shall 
be amended to read the Tranche B Grant Account;
(f)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, means Part B 
of the Technical Assistance;
(g) 
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Tranche B of the Grant Account shall be made in 
yen; provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of Tranche B of the Grant have been paid or are payable in another 
currency, the Administrator shall, at the request of the Recipient, purchase 
such currency with the proceeds of such withdrawal.";
(h)
Sections 2.01 (5), (7), (12), (13), (14), (15), (16), (17) and (19), 
3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.05, 4.06, 4.07, 4.08, 4.10, 6.02 (a)(i), 
6.02 (g), 6.02 (h), 6.05, 6.07, 7.01, 8.01 (a), 9.01 (b), 9.02, 9.03, 10.02, 12.01, 
12.02, 12.03, 12.04 and 12.05 are deleted;
(i)
The second and third sentences of Section 4.09 are deleted; and
(j)
All references to "the Guarantor," wherever such term is used in the 
General Conditions, shall not apply to this Article.
Section 3.02. Wherever used in this Article, unless the con-text otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
Page  5
Section 3.03. (a) The amount of Tranche B of the Grant may be withdrawn from the 
Tranche B Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the 
Recipient and the Administrator.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of Part B of the Technical 
Assistance, open and maintain in yen a Japanese grant special deposit account in Bank 
Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator. Deposits into, 
and payments out of, the Japanese Grant Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date.
Section 3.04. (a) The Recipient shall carry out Part B of  the Technical 
Assistance with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required therefor.
Section 3.05. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the consultants' services required for       Part B of the Technical Assistance and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of Tranche B of the Grant shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.06. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part B of the Technical 
Assistance of the departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying 
out said Part B or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Japanese Grant Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator;
    (ii) 
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than nine months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
   (iii) 
furnish to the Administrator such other informa-tion concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.07. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient shall be the 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Sec-tion 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination; Notices
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties hereto.
Section 4.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations 
hereunder.
Section 4.03. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to 
have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, 
cable, telex, or radiogram to the party to which it is required or per-mitted to be 
given or made at such party's address as such party shall have designated by notice to 
the party giving such notice or making such request:
For the Recipient:
Page  6
Minister of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P.O. Box 139
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
Telex:
FINMINISTRY
44319 DEPKEU-IA
Jakarta
45799 DJMLM-IA
For the Administrator:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
      248423 (RCA)
                   64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
               REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
         By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
            AND DEVELOPMENT
         as Administrator of the Grant
   By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Description of Technical Assistance
The objective of the Technical Assistance and associated purchases of goods and 
services is to assist the Recipient in:
(a)
increasing production and exports, and raising the income of smallholders 
by assisting them in establishing high-yielding varieties of coconut and rubber, 
upgrading management of holdings and improving copra processing;
(b)
strengthening the project management organization, improving its 
coordination with Bank Rakyat Indonesia and/or       other agencies providing credit 
or finance to smallholders, and establishing an effective and sustainable system for 
delivering finance (in cash or in kind) to smallholders for tree crop establishment, 
and for cost recovery; and
(c)
generally strengthening efficiency of the tree crop subsector and 
Page  7
capacity for inspection of field plantings and environmental monitoring.
The Technical Assistance will consist of the following Parts:
Part A:
Carrying out of high priority technical assistance and provision of related 
goods and services in the areas of planning, studies, investigations, project 
preparation, supervision of start-up and implementation activities that are of an 
urgent nature and cannot be provided in a timely manner under Part B hereof, or will 
fill a gap in the assistance expected to be supplied under Part B. It is expected that 
the activities under this Part will include approximately 18 months of consultant 
services (primarily inter- national), as well as providing related training and 
equipment.
Part B:
Carrying out of technical assistance, and provision of related goods and 
services, all in a manner and in accordance with programs satisfactory to the 
Administrator, to assist:
(a)
Bank Rakyat Indonesia in improving and developing its systems and staff 
training as part of a project for administration and valuation of existing tree crop 
credit;
(b)
other agency or agencies which would be involved in delivery of finance 
for smallholder tree crops and in the administration of cost or credit recovery;
(c)
the Directorate General of Estates (DGE) for inspection services, 
preparation of a pilot dispersed smallholder component, a study for a tree crop 
classification system, for assisting DGE staff and farmers in improving skills in 
training, agronomy, and project and financial management;
(d)
the Board for Financial and Development Control (BPKP) in improving its 
capabilities for tree crops audits; and
(e)
the National Land Affairs Board (BPN) in training and developing staff 
involved in land titling in tree crops areas.
*     *    *     *
The Technical Assistance is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.
SCHEDULE 2
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of Tranche B of the Grant
1.
The amount of Tranche B of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account for 
amounts paid (or if the Administrator shall so agree to be paid) by the Recipient for 
consultants' services    for Part B of the Technical Assistance to meet 100% of 
expenditures for each such consultants' services contract, and associated expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expendi-tures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
SCHEDULE 3
Consultants' Services for Part B
of the Technical Assistance
In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out Part B of the Technical 
Assistance, the Recipient shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience 
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Administrator. 
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Administrator on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Administrator in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Page  8
Japanese Grant Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable services required for Part B of the Technical Assistance and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement; and
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount       equivalent to 
¥50,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Tranche B Grant Account and deposited into the 
Japanese Grant Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Japanese Grant Special Account shall be exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Japanese Grant Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Japanese Grant Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request 
or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
Tranche B Grant Account and deposit in the Japanese Grant Special Account such amount 
or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Japanese Grant Special Account, the 
Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits 
into the Japanese Grant Special Account at such intervals as the 
Administrator shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Tranche B Grant Account and 
deposit into the Japanese Grant Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Japanese Grant Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Tranche 
B Grant Account in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Japanese Grant Special 
Account, the Recipient shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that 
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sche-dule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Japanese Grant 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Tranche B Grant Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Tranche B of the Grant less the 
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the Administrator 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Tranche 
B Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of Tranche B of the Grant shall 
follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Japanese Grant Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
Page  9
out of the Japanese Grant Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an 
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Administrator: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Administrator may request; or (B) deposit into the Japanese Grant 
Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request, refund to the 
Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof 
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Administrator into the Japanese Grant Special Account shall be 
made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Japanese Grant Special Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Japanese Grant Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to para-graph 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Tranche B Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancella-tion in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
