                 Document of
               The World Bank




                                                Report No:26071

      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                  (SCL-41900)

                     ON A

                    LOAN

       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 9.6 MILLION

            TO THE STATE OF CEARÁ

        FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                   FOR THE

CEARÁ WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PILOT PROJECT




                   06/04/2003

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective April, 1997)

                                  Currency Unit = Real (R$)
                                        R$ 1.05 = US$ 1.00
                                       US$ 0.95 = R$ 1.00
                             Rate at completion R$ 3.02 = US$ 1.00

                            Weights and Measures at Metric System
                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                  January, 1    December, 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
COGERH ­ Ceará Water Resources Management Company

FMR ­ Fortaleza Metropolitan Region

FUNCEME ­ Climatological and Meteorological Foundation of Ceará

GED ­ System for Electronic Document Management

IMF ­ International Monetary Fund

INCRA ­ National Institute for Agrarian Settlement and Reform

O&M - Operation and Maintenance

PAD ­ Project Appraisal Document

PLANERH ­ State of Ceará Water Resources Master Plan

PROAGUA ­ Federal Water Resources Management Project

PRODHAM - Micro-watershed Management Pilot Program

PROGERIRH ­ Ceará Integrated Water Resource Management Project

PROURB ­Urban Development and Water Management Project

SDU ­ Secretariat for Urban Development

SEAIN ­ Secretariat for International Affairs at the Ministry of Planning

SIGERH ­ Ceará Water Resources Management System

SOHIDRA ­ Ceará Hydraulics Works Company

SRH ­ Secretariat for Water Resources

UGPE ­ Special Projects Management Unit


                                 Vice President:     David de Ferranti
                     Country Manager/Director:       Vinod Thomas
                      Sector Manager/Director:       John Redwood
               Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Luiz Gabriel T. Azevedo

                                           BRAZIL
                     Ceara Water Resources Management Pilot Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            2
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            25

Project ID: P046052                                                      Project Name: Ceara Water Pilot Project
Team Leader: Luiz Gabriel Azevedo                                        TL Unit: LCSES
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 4, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Ceara Water Pilot Project                                L/C/TF Number: SCL-41900
   Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                             Region: Latin America and
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: General water/sanitation/flood protection sector (85%); Central
                            government administration (15%)
                  Theme: Water resource management (P); Environmental policies and
                            institutions (P); Natural disaster management (S); Rural services and
                            infrastructure (S); Land management (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    10/24/1996                                        Effective: 02/20/1998              02/20/1998
   Appraisal:    01/30/1997                                            MTR:
    Approval:    06/12/1997                                         Closing: 06/30/2000               06/30/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          STATE OF CEARÁ/SECRETARIAT OF WATER RESOURCES
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            David de Ferranti                                   Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:          Vinod Thomas                                        Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:            John Redwood                                        Constance Bernard
Team Leader at ICR:        Luiz Gabriel T. Azevedo                             Larry D. Simpson
ICR Primary Author(s): Luiz Gabriel T. Azevedo; Manuel
                           F. Rego; Lilian P. Pereira


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:H

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Ceará Water Pilot Project provided funding for the preparation of the proposed Ceará Water
Resource Management Project (PROGERIRH) and for institutional capacity development within
the state government. Project objectives were to: (a) achieve a high level of quality at entry for
the proposed PROGERIRH project, including the evaluation and refinement of the rationale and
composition of the PROGERIRH project; (b) develop and refine methodologies, institutional
framework and strategies to be used in the implementation and sustainable operation and
maintenance of the PROGERIRH project; (c) evaluate a new small trans-basin diversion project
to be built as part of the ongoing Ceará Urban Development and Water Resources Management
(PROURB) project (Ln 3789 -BR) to test and refine participatory conflict resolution, and
political, social, legal and water allocation mechanisms for integrated basin management; and (d)
evaluate an appropriate institutional framework for the development and operation of a
hydro-meteorological network and technical support system for integrated water resource
management in the State of Ceará.

3.2 Revised Objective:
No revisions were made to the projects objectives, which remained clear and unchanged
throughout the life of the project.

3.3 Original Components:
The project comprised the following five components: (i) Fortaleza Metropolitan Basin Study; (ii)
Jaguaribe/Icapui Basin Project; (iii) Ibiapaba/Acarau Inter-basin System; (iv) PROGERIRH
Preparation, and (v) Institutional Development of the SRH.
3.4 Revised Components:
It was agreed between the state and the Bank, that the Jaguaribe/Icapui basin project component
would be financed by PROURB (ln 3789-BR), and that funds originally marked for this
component would instead be used for developing additional studies on small to intermediate
reservoir systems, as part the PROGERIRH preparation component.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Ceará Water Pilot Project was fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy for
Brazil, supporting the Bank's assistance strategy for environmental management and rural poverty
alleviation through the development of a system for the integrated management of water
resources, at state and local levels, to meet the demands of competing uses. The objective was to
alleviate the impact of annual and cyclical droughts and water shortages on the rural and urban
poor through increases in water supply reliability, associated economic stability and job creation,
and by means of improved participatory mechanisms for more efficient and decentralized resource
management. The Pilot Technical Assistance project was initial groundwork for the much larger
investment operation now under implementation. Overall Quality at Entry is assessed as
Satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The Ceará Water Pilot Project, as intended by the state of Ceará and the World Bank, was to
provide performance evaluations of the state's use of PROURB Water Resources through the



                                                  - 2 -

implementation of the Ceará Water Resource Management System (SIGERH). The idea was to
draw lessons from previous successful efforts and to identify real improvements in water resource
management, with the intention of drawing up, both policy frameworks, and a larger program for
their effective implementation. In this regard, the objectives of the Ceará Water Pilot Project have
been fully met, as its resulting studies, knowledge-base and engineering designs have paved the
way for the approval of the much larger investment operation, also financed by the Bank, the
Ceará Integrated Water Resources Management Project - PROGERIRH, Ln 4531-BR. The
Project has also contributed greatly to improving the implementation of both the state's Water
Resources Master Plan, and the integration of its river basins. Together, they form a key
component of the comprehensive water resources policy, and are one of the main supports for
Ceará's Sustainable Development Plan.

Through the Ceará Water Pilot Project, great progress was made in terms of promoting the
integration of government agencies and the participation of civil society, although additional
progress is still needed. The Project initiated some extremely important efforts, such as: enhancing
water user participation in the management of water resources; raising the awareness of the local
population regarding environmental themes, particularly among those living near, or that make
use of water sources; and also of the need for the development of funding and tariffs systems for
the sustainable administration, operation and maintenance of the state's integrated water
management effort.

The Project has also contributed toward the improved governance and management of water and
other natural resources. Some of the benefits are listed below:

·       Quality preparation of the PROGERIRH project, a fundamental tool to assure the
continued development and implementation of state water resources policies and to support
sustainable development;
·       Preparation of an integrated water resources activities program, including efforts to
preserve the environment and/or mitigate environmental impacts, with broad participation by local
communities and water user organizations;
·       Institution-strengthening, leading to clear role definitions for SRH, its subordinate
organizations and other related agencies, and the resulting opportunity for the State of Ceará to
improve its management of scarce and critically important water resources.
Decision-making processes for water resources management and water infrastructure investment
planning were studied very extensively, resulting in more successful interventions.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Assessments of the project's physical and institutional performances are given below:


4.2.1 Fortaleza Metropolitan Basin Study

This component was designed to carry out an assessment and performance evaluation of the
state's water resources management efforts, focusing on the Fortaleza Metropolitan Region
(FMR) Basin. The FMR Basin was chosen as a benchmark due to the focus of COGERH's key



                                                  - 3 -

activities within this area, home to almost half of the state's population. Studies and assessments
looked at numerous aspects, in particular the analysis of water charging policies, together with: an
analysis of the Metropolitan System's operations and monitoring mechanisms; an environmental
assessment; and an analysis of the state's institutional and legal framework for water resources
management. These studies have also contributed toward the development of a proposal for a
larger assessment of institutional related issues.

This component also included an important study of water demand in the Fortaleza Metropolitan
Region, which in turn supported the design of PROGERIRH's key integration system ­ the water
conveyance and integration system from the Jaguaribe River Basin, originally at Castanhão
reservoir, to the Fortaleza Metropolitan Region. A detailed analysis of alternatives for the
provision of a reliable water supply system to the RMF, showed the Castanhão ­ FMR
conveyance system to be the best solution. This system supplies a region with substantial urban,
industrial and agricultural water needs, and will greatly augment the ability of the economic center
of the state to withstand the impacts of recurrent and cyclical droughts. The civil works for the
system's first stretch (55 km long) were well advanced as the Borrower's Completion Report for
the Ceará Water Pilot was being drafted.

4.2.2 Jaguaribe/Icapui Basin Project

Originally, the Ceará Water Pilot Project was designed to finance only the development of studies
and plans for the future implementation of the proposed Jaguaribe/Icapuí integration system. As
Ceará Water Pilot Project funds could not be used to finance civil works, their implementation
would require funds from the PROURB Water Component. However, in order to optimize the
use of funds and to effectively utilize available contractors and consultants, an agreement was
reached between the World Bank and the State of Ceará for the studies to be funded by
PROURB's Water Resources Component, with certain critical public works being carried out by
PROGERIRH.

The basic objective of this small integration system was to garner preliminary experience
regarding the carrying out of civil works for river basin integration, with the intention of
establishing procedures to be followed in other PROGERIRH river basin integration systems,
especially with regard to water allocation and inter-basin water transfers.

From an operational point of view, feasibility and final design studies were prepared for this
integration system. However, they were not detailed enough to enable the works to be carried
out. This resulted from the following obstacles and situations, encountered during the studies:

a)      The feasibility studies were primarily based on potential demands, which raised many
doubts as to the sustainability of such efforts. Although small and medium scale fruit farmers have
created a real demand for irrigation, they tend to be satisfied with less expensive ground water,
despite its low quality. Farmers interviewed during the study never refused outright to pay for the
use of water supplies, but never clearly indicated that they would do so either. An exception was
three INCRA resettlements located on good quality soils where water is scarce, as were the three
large companies that planned to begin high-efficiency, irrigation-fed agricultural production.



                                                  - 4 -

Project feasibility therefore depends on whether or not the assumptions made regarding potential
demand, in fact become reality.
b)      For the program, as a whole, to become a reality, numerous government agencies would
have to work together to integrate sector policy, particularly in the case of the irrigation sector.
Negotiations among these entities would therefore be necessary, and all such agencies would have
to confirm their investments in the planned projects, requiring a previously unheard of level of
interagency cooperation.
c)      The planned river basin integration system would primarily meet agricultural demand, with
smaller demand from urban and industrial users, meaning that cross-subsidies, within the project,
from industrial or urban users to support farming irrigation, would not be an option. As such, this
would probably lead to higher rates for water than farmers can either afford or are willing to pay.

By shifting costs for Jaguaribe ­ Icapuí integration system studies, from the Ceará Water Pilot
Project to PROURB, project funds could thus be targeted for the preparation of studies for small
to intermediate scale reservoirs, thus allowing PROGERIRH funds to be concentrated on major
inter-basin water transfers.


4.2.3 Ibiapaba/Acarau Inter-basin System

This integration system is considered to be far more complex because it covers three river basins,
one of which being an interstate basin. This integration system includes the construction of large
reservoirs, canals and a mini-hydropower plant. The feasibility studies, based on regional
development plans, became a tri-river basin project. The study is considered to be both valid and
important because it defines the investments required to ensure a proper balance between water
supply and demand in the future. In this sense, the study provides valuable information for
decisions regarding public and private investments. Studies of potential demand and the
sustainability of project procedures also provided important input for decision-making.

A number of meetings were held between users and interested parties, when the need to balance
demands was identified. Nevertheless, stakeholder participation during the study was restricted,
as these watersheds had not yet been extensively targeted by COGERH (in terms of organizing
users and their committees and/or associations) and because no water infrastructure had, as yet,
been constructed within them. On the other hand, the technology and practice of using irrigation
are relatively new to this region, when compared to the Jaguaribe river basin. As a result, most
demand is still only potential, real demand being negligible. However, Ceará state officials feel
that this fact should not prevent the building of dams or other water works, since in semi-arid
regions farming activities do not begin until reservoirs can guarantee water all year round. The
state has indicated a desire to more fully develop the water resources available within this region
in order to alleviate the high levels of poverty in this area of the state. This project could also
increase the reliability and sustainability of a large, high technology, federal irrigation project
previously funded by the Bank (Ln 3170 BR).

Furthermore, this component was implemented in accordance with the project design. The
process provided the State of Ceará with information required for decision-making regarding



                                                   - 5 -

investments, the proper use of water infrastructure, and the irrigated agricultural potential of a
region. It also provided the state with an opportunity to initiate discussions and negotiations with
the downstream riparian State of Piaui with regard to the upstream transbasin diversion of flows
from the Parnaiba River System, a federal interstate river. If successful, these discussions could
lead to one of the first compacts for the apportionment of interstate waters in Brazil.

4.2.4 PROGERIRH Preparation

A number of studies and documents prepared for PROGERIRH drew primarily on expertise
acquired by PROURB through its water resources component, and through the Ceará Water Pilot
Project, it was possible to incorporate the lessons learned from PROURB into the design of
PROGERIRH.

As a result, proven concepts formed the backbone of the new Project, leading, in turn, to the
incorporation and evolution of strategies, improvements to water policy mechanisms and the
introduction of other important instruments, such as inter-basin water transfers.

The experience acquired during the PROURB water resources component not only increased the
scope of PROGERIH components, but also led to enhanced social and environmental efforts. One
good example was the design and inclusion, within PROGERIRH, of the PRODHAM subproject
through the funding of the Ceará Water Pilot. This project involves close cooperation with local
communities to introduce watershed management activities that will restore soils, vegetation and
enhance the water retention of micro-catchments affected by human activity.

Even though the revised SIGERH program study has not yet been concluded, the PROGERIRH
preparation process gave it full consideration, including numerous descriptions of institutional
responsibilities. This eliminated conflicts, or overlapping responsibilities, among government
agencies, especially with regard to the SRH and associated agencies.

COGERH's management of the state's bulk water resources system has been improved by the
methods introduced in the PROURB water resources component, which were further enhanced by
the diagnostic studies carried out within the Ceará Water Pilot Project, and also by the
introduction of improved water management tools.

When the Ceará Water Pilot Project ended, more complex studies, begun during project
implementation, were transferred to PROGERIRH for subsequent conclusion, among them:

·       The definition and implementation of a policy to establish charges for bulk water in the
State of Ceará;
·       The development of an Electronic Document Management System (GED) and the
creation of a specialized data base on water resources;
·       The analysis, revision, consolidation and development of SIGERH - The Water Resources
Integrated Management System;
·       The updating of PLANERH - the State of Ceará's Water Resources Master Plan;
·       The preparation of studies to meet the water demands of the Fortaleza Metropolitan



                                                 - 6 -

Region; and
·       The Project for Management and Monitoring Groundwater for Strategic Micro-areas in
the Fortaleza Metropolitan Region.


The objectives of this component have, therefore, been fully achieved. PROGERIRH was
designed to enhance SIGERH and guarantee its continuity, thus improving water resources policy
and supporting sustainable development efforts in the State of Ceará. Full achievement of
component objectives is indicated by the conclusion of PROGERIRH's project preparation phase,
and the fact that World Bank funding was made available via Loan Agreement 4531-BR sooner
than had originally been expected.

4.2.5 Institutional strengthening of SRH and COGERH

PROURB was instrumental in the formation of COGERH, the state bulk water management
agency. With the conclusion of PROURB's water resource component, there was still a need for
continued institutional development in COGERH. In addition, the SRH, as shown by the
redundancies and lack of cooperation among its various project implementation teams, was in dire
need of institutional strengthening and reorganization. This was necessary in order for both
COGERH and the SRH to obtain the capacity to implement the PROGERIRH project and
manage the water resources developed, as well as effectively operate and maintain the complex
infrastructure involved. This institutional strengthening was accomplished by means of a series of
seminars, instructional meetings and technical study visits sponsored by the Ceará Water Pilot
Project. The effect on PROGERIRH implementation has been highly satisfactory during its initial
years, and COGERH is now putting together the institutional and technical competence necessary
to undertake the O&M of the project when completed. In addition to seminars held in Ceará, key
SRH, FUNCEME and COGERH personnel made a series of technical visits both within Brazil
and to the United States, to learn from successful examples of water resources management,
operation and maintenance. These included visits to Colorado, Arizona and California in the US
and to the states of Bahia and Rio Grande do Norte in Brazil. The SRH was also reorganized to
centralize the management of several Bank projects, and other efforts regarding multi-lateral
financing, within one unit called the UGPE, with other technical areas of the SRH providing
support for this unit. A system of project tracking was established within this unit using critical
path scheduling software to follow project progress and expenditures. In addition, seminars and
one-on-one training were carried out within Ceará by Bank procurement and disbursement
specialists in order to build knowledge of Bank procurement and disbursement procedures among
the personnel of the SRH. This greatly reduced the number of problems associated with
procurement processing by the state and expedited both procurement and disbursement processes
for the various Bank projects under implementation.

The institutional strengthening component also included a complete re-evaluation of the state's
hydro-meteorological database and archiving system. This led to the design of a modern
computer-based system that is accessible on a real-time basis, using the internet, from anywhere in
Brazil or the World. Information available includes water rights data, real-time river flows,
real-time precipitation and reservoir water levels and storage volumes. This accomplishment,



                                                  - 7 -

funded through the Ceará Water Pilot Project, provides Ceará with one of the most sophisticated
management tools for SIGERH management in Brazil. The advanced technology used makes it
as good as any system in the World.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A. Although the Ceará Water Pilot Project's loan instrument has been classified as an
investment loan, this project only prepared studies and methodologies, as part of the preparatory
work for the larger PROGERIRH. It should have been classified as a Technical Assistance Loan.
Net Present Value, and Economic Rate of Return, weren't calculated for the Ceará Water Pilot
Project. However, given the value added by this project in the form of higher quality and detailed
preparation for the PROGERIRH, its benefits that assuredly outweighed its costs to a significant
extent.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A. Same as above.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Water Resources Secretariat was, for all practical purposes, the primary executing agency for
all activities under the Ceará Water Pilot Project, with the exception of the supervision of a few
small studies, the responsibility of subordinate institutions, among which figured COGERH,
SOHIDRA and FUNCEME.

During project preparation a team was set up for this purpose, using mainly consultants. This
team worked very well, and good preparation led to a contract for World Bank funding.
Nevertheless, during the implementation phase, administrative and bureaucratic problems did
emerge due to the team's lack of expertise regarding the correct procedures to be followed in
obtaining government clearances. During PROGERIRH negotiations, the State of Ceará and the
World Bank decided that such problems showed the need to centralize the project's
implementation actions (PROURB, PROGERIRH and PROAGUA) in the hands of one
management unit to be called UGPE ­Special SRH Projects Management Unit. This unit drew on
the experience of the team that had managed the implementation of PROURB's Water
Component and used them as coordinators. These coordinators had done a highly satisfactory job
during the PROURB project, handling a number of unforeseen events, while also responsible for
other projects.

The SRH had already worked with the World Bank as the executing agency for the water
resources component of PROURB. It was however through the preparation of the Ceará Water
Pilot that it built up its own capability to prepare and negotiate major required funding for
PROGERIRH.

Regardless of the delay in implementing the Ceará Water Pilot Project, resulting in two extensions
to the closing date, key Project objectives were still completed during the originally established
implementation period. This came about due to the priority given to activities under the
PROGERIRH preparation component, resulting in a well-prepared World Bank investment
project. After PROGERIRH was made effective, Ceará Water Pilot Project activities were
handled in such a way as to ensure that original targets could be speedily attained and remaining



                                                  - 8 -

financial resources (since the Brazilian Real currency devaluation) be adjusted to permit the
inclusion of additional targets, already identified as important to facilitate PROGERIRH's
implementation.

Because the SRH has a relatively small number of staff, and has been involved with the
implementation of the PROURB water component as well as other state projects, it would have
been very hard for the SRH to prepare the proposal for PROGERIRH if the Ceará Water Pilot
Project had not existed, especially given the quality of the end results and the timeframes
involved. The Ceará Water Pilot Project enabled the institutional and legal management activities
for ongoing water resources projects to be very carefully assessed, as well as changes in direction
and advances that have enhanced the implementation of the State Water Resources Plan since its
inclusion within the SRH and addition to the PROGERIRH project.

The Ceará Water Pilot Project resulted in sufficient time savings during PROGERIRH preparation
to enable the state to initiate the implementation of the primary water sustainability project in
Ceará, the Castanhão/FMR Integration System, a well-planned and carefully designed program.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
·       In 1998 and 1999 Brazil faced balance of payments problems, affecting its ability to
produce the primary surpluses required by its agreement with the IMF. These difficulties led to
delays in the disbursement of various loans, including the Ceará Water Pilot Project, resulting in
slippage in its implementation schedule;
·       The 2000-2001 drought forced the state government to shift its priorities to funding
emergency programs, reducing the amount of counterpart funds allocated for the Ceará Water
Pilot Project;
·       Requests for World Bank loan extensions require SEAIN authorization. The lengthy
negotiation process involved caused delays in project implementation;
·       Brazil's currency devaluation meant that more local funds were available, requiring
adjustments to the original targets.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
·       Insufficient allocation of counterpart funds during project implementation affected
outcomes on several occasions. Several state agencies, among them the Government, Planning
and Finance Secretariats, delayed budget and financial disbursements, usually during the first
quarter of each year. This problem was exacerbated by the fact that budgeted funds were
occasionally cut to provide fiscal relief, usually at the end of each year.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
·       A team of consultants was initially put together for Ceará Water Pilot Project preparation
and implementation. However, being consultants their lack of expertise in dealing with
government red tape and administration caused serious problems. In addition, the extensive use
of consultants resulted in a significant loss of institutional memory as they left at the end of
project implementation. Many of these consultants were subsequently rehired to assist in the
implementation of PROGERIRH in an effort to reacquire this lost asset.



                                                     - 9 -

 ·      Independent competing teams were originally set up to manage the PROURB, Ceará
Water Pilot Project and PROÁGUA programs, all funded by the World Bank under the SRH.
This led to a number of problems and overlapping activities. Subsequent consolidation of these
management functions resolved most of these problems and redundancies.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The Ceará Water Pilot Project cost estimates totaled US$ 12.0 million, with US$ 9.6 million, or
80%, to be funded by the World Bank with the rest coming from the State of Ceará (US$ 2.4
million or 20%). Of this total, US$ 10.5 million were disbursed by June 2002, representing 87.8%
of total project funds. Of the money spent, US$ 8.4 million came from the World Bank and US$
2.1 million from the state government, approximately equivalent to the proportions that had been
respectively established with 80% from the Bank and 20% from state funds. At the end of project
implementation an undisbursed balance of approximately US$ 1.1 million remained in the Project
account.

Component 4 ­ Support for PROGERIRH Preparation was the component that used most of the
money spent, totaling 57.1% of project funds, which was 62.2% higher than had originally been
expected. Instead of costing US$ 3.7 million, the component spent a little over US$ 6.0 million.
Part of this additional cost has generated savings in PROGERIRH by advancing studies and
improving knowledge. All the other components spent less money than initially programmed.

In the case of Component 2, the Jaguaribe/Icapuí Basin Project, the studies were carried out with
funds from the PROURB/Water Component and no funding was disbursed through the Ceará
Water Pilot Project.

With respect to expenditures categories, the disbursements focused primarily on consultancy
services and training, which used up 97.0% of total funding for the project. This was 4.4% more
than had been estimated. Given the nature of the project activities and objectives, the large
concentration of disbursements in this category is considered consistent.

The relation between estimated funds for disbursement and actual funds allocated
(allocated/estimated), by the project per year, reached 27.6% in 1997; 27.8% in 1998; and 38.4%
in 1999. The remaining disbursement occurred during the project's extension period, totaling US$
8,4 million, between 1997 and 2002. The funds allocated in 1997 covered retroactive expenses,
and were disbursed in the beginning of 1998, since the project was signed in December, 1997, and
only became effective in February, 1998. Disbursement delays during the first years of project
implementation led to the extension of the closing date. The main cause of the delays was the
priority given to the PROGERIRH Preparation Component during the first years of the project, as
the effective start up of studies under this component required time to allow for the satisfactory
development of terms of reference and the hiring of consultants. Of the US$ 3.1 million allocated
to the Ceará Water Pilot Project (between 1997 and 1999), representing 32.5% of the project's
total cost of US$ 12 million, about US$ 2.6 million were allocated for the PROGERIRGH
Preparation Component.

The studies covering the Jaguaribe/Icapuí Basin Project were another component that advanced
significantly during the first years of project implementation. However, as noted before, funding



                                                 - 10 -

for these studies came from outside project budgets; to be more exact, from PROURB funds.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The Ceará Water Pilot Project sustainability is rated as likely.

As already mentioned in this report, PROGERIRH was designed around the experience gained
during the implementation of PLANERH, part of the PROURB Water Component. As a result,
PROGERIRH Project proposals were no longer mere theoretical concepts but real-life situations,
where a number of tools were being tested and where difficulties, needs or suitable choices were
constantly being identified to complement or redirect the program. For this reason, PROGERIRH
absorbed experience from previous projects and included new definitions, affording it greater
sustainability than the PROURB Water Component itself. These include:

Cost recovery and tariff procedures ­ Cost recovery and tariff procedures developed by
PROURB, and refined and extended by the Ceará Water Pilot Project, were aimed at developing
sustainable O&M methods for the management system. Critical factors for the sustainability of
both the Ceará Water Pilot Project and PROGERIRH were: (i) the adoption and enforcement of
sustainable cost recovery practices, compatible with the minimization of adverse impacts on the
poor, (ii) the implementation of sustainable operation and management practices to assure stable
water resource supplies during cyclical hydrologic conditions, and (iii) increased water user and
stakeholder participation in the analysis and determination of appropriate water tariffs.

Decision Support Systems ­ The evaluation of PROURB's Water Component execution and
additional new studies have provided SIGERH's partner agencies with a substantial amount of
information, increasing the chances of their adopting well-chosen decisions.

More care regarding environmental issues ­ The greatest concerns raised during the
implementation of PROURB's Water Component involved water infrastructure and management
implementation activities. During the implementation phase it became clear that environmental
issues required greater attention. This question was brought up and assessed during the
PROGERIRH preparatory studies within the Ceará Water Pilot Project, and this new Project
includes environmental approaches that are more suited to the sector's needs.

Greater stakeholder participation by local communities ­ Ceará Water Pilot Project studies
greatly advanced awareness regarding the need to ensure grassroots participation, particularly by
working closely with local watershed committees throughout all the decision-making on
investments and water resources management. It became clear that much of the planning and
management would only be successful with such participation. The formation of basin and
sub-basin water committees comprised of stakeholders and water users was greatly advanced
during the course of the Ceará Water Pilot Project.

Decentralized decision-making ­ Decentralized decision-making regarding fiscal or investment
issues involving state and local governments should ensure more flexible and efficient project
management.



                                               - 11 -

Greater access to management tools ­ The Ceará Water Pilot Project studies, particularly the
PROGERIRH Preparation Component, allowed the new program to identify and incorporate new
management tools, increasing the SIGERH agencies' capacity to manage the contracting and
construction of the major investments for PROGERIRH and to also control water resources
supply and demand.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Ceará Water Pilot Project was a technical assistance operation tailored to pilot concepts, to
foster new ideas, and to prepare or anticipate early activities of the larger PROGERIRH
Investment Project. As such, the sustainability of the Ceará Water Pilot Project is validated by the
sustainability of its follow-on PROGERIRH operation, currently being implemented.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
During the project's identification phase, the Bank took into account the water resources
development strategy of Ceará's Government and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. The
Bank also considered the experiences gained from the PROURB project. Several missions visited
the state of Ceará during the preparation, pre-appraisal and appraisal phases, complemented by
several missions by the borrower to Bank headquarters in Washington D.C. A high quality
multidisciplinary team with large experience in water resources projects conducted the appraisal.
The Bank's lending performance is rated satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision during Project execution was quite effective, particularly given the fact that the
same borrower, using the same team, was executing another project in the water resources field -
the PROURB project - while also preparing PROGERIRH in parallel.

During the period 1998-2002, some ten missions supervised the Ceará Water Pilot Project. Other
Bank missions took advantage of their supervision visits to their projects in Ceará (primarily
linked to specific areas such as environment, resettlement, and community participation) to
monitor the Project implementation team and their development activities. There was only one
brief period, in 2000, when Bank supervision was not fully present due to operational budget
limitations for project supervision.

The quality and effectiveness of these missions were considered to satisfactory, as all means
required to improve project implementation were authorized. The Bank's supervision effort is
rated satisfactory. Overall Bank's performance is rated as satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
It is felt that the World Bank's role during Ceará Water Pilot Project implementation was quite
satisfactory, both in terms of oversight and focus, and in its efforts to assist the borrower to meet
Project objectives. Two extensions to the loan closing date, as well as modifications to targets,
were negotiated without any difficulty with the Bank. This was due to the fact that the Bank's
team was monitoring the project closely, in a systematic effort to keep abreast of project



                                                  - 12 -

implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Ceará's Secretariat for Water Resources was in charge of project preparation, and a team was set
up for this specific purpose, made up mainly of independent consultants. The team worked very
well, and proper preparation resulted in a contract for World Bank funding. The borrower's
performance during implementation is rated satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government of the State of Ceará, the borrower, gave all due priority to the project's
development during its entire execution phase, given the importance of the state's objectives to
continue with and succeed in the state's water resources policies. All requests by the executing
agency were met within the limits permitted by the economic situation at the time, both at national
and state levels. High priority was attached to organizing the implementation team, and state
government officials worked very hard to obtain approval from national agencies when Ceará
Water Pilot Project time extensions were requested. However, as mentioned above, with regard
to counterpart funds delays did occur, sometimes caused by factors beyond state government
control.

Specifically for the development of the PROGERIRH Preparation Component, and to ensure that
things would move forward as speedily as possible, the state mobilized and made available its
team of technical specialists, mainly from the Secretariat for Finance, Planning and Administration
and from the Office of the State Attorney General.

As the Ceará Water Pilot Project involved liaison between PROURB's Water Resources
Component and PROGERIRH, including the review and improvement of PROURB during
PROGERIRH's preparation and enhancement (in an effort to give continuity to state water
resources policy), the Borrower attached all possible priority to the Pilot project.

In light of difficulties with counterpart funds, borrower's performance is rated as marginally
satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency was Ceará's Secretariat for Water Resources (SRH), through its Unit
for the Management of Special Projects (UGPE). The SRH was prepared during Ceará Water
Pilot Project preparation and was shown, during PROGERIRH project implementation, to be fully
capable of conducting its execution in a satisfactory manner. The capacity of the SRH was built
up for preparation of the PROGERIRH, which is currently under implementation. The technical
competence and proactive attitudes of SRH staff and management, resulted in satisfactory project
implementation, despite the occurrence of circumstances beyond the implementing agency's
control. As such the implementing agency's performance is rated as satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. The government and its
implementation agency have worked hard to ensure that the Ceará Water Pilot would achieve its
objective. In addition, the main objective of preparing PROGERIRH was successfully achieved as


                                                 - 13 -

this project is now under implementation. Overall Bank's performance is rated as satisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned

A number of lessons were learned during the implementation of the Ceará Water Pilot Project.
These lessons, which reinforced the scope of the objectives proposed under this Project, include
the following:

·       Integration Systems Sustainability: Project implementation gave a general overview of
a river basin integration system. It also gave a realistic view of the challenges involved in the
implementation of an integration system, showing that financial sustainability will only be
guaranteed by substantial urban and industrial demand, irrigation water demand alone being
insufficient.

·       Operations and Maintenance Plans: Revealed the need to attach much more priority to
the administration, operation and maintenance of hydraulic infrastructures, including the adoption
of sustainable funding procedures for O&M through an appropriate tariff system that fully
recovers both fixed and variable costs;

·       Sector Policies Integration: It also showed that activities carried out by the SRH,
involving water resources management and the implementation of priority works, require similar
state sector policies;

·       Social Organization: It revealed the need for a permanent core group to organize
meetings with river basin users and committees as a way of guaranteeing democratic access to
information and to enrich discussions in terms of the most feasible alternatives for activity
implementation;

·       Infrastructure Management: It clearly demonstrated the need to renovate, maintain and
properly manage existing infrastructure, including access to information regarding the condition,
safety and operational strategy of existing systems;

·       Planning: The project cleared demonstrated that a careful and participatory planning
process offers a solid foundation and should be a requirement for the implementation of water
resources infrastructure;

·       Water Resources Management: Integrated water resources management involves a
complex set of actions focusing on structural and non-structural (soft) activities to balance supply
and demand and to manage conflicts, especially in situations where water is scarce; and

·       Social-environmental Concerns: Greater attention must be paid to social and
environmental issues as a means of guaranteeing the sustainability and effective use of water
resources systems.




                                                 - 14 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The success achieved by the Ceará Water Pilot Project, in all its aspects, revealed that the
Secretariat for Water Resources was moving in the right direction when its technical team was
acting together, and moreover, that this success was due to the Bank's remarkable participative
actions. The Bank was able to guide the borrower in a harmonious and didactic way, acting
decisively, accurately, and using highly qualified personnel. In this manner the project objectives
could be achieved with a high performance.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

N/A




                                                - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                        1
                Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR         Actual/Latest Estimate
Comprehensive evaluation of the proposed       1                             1
PROGERIRH project with designs,
environmental evaluations and economic
analyses for the components. (study)
Detailed analysis of conservation              1                             1
mechanisms for the Littoral Coastal
Groundwater in the Metropolitan Basin.
(study)
In-depth evaluation and refinement of          1                             1
methodologies and strategies to be used in
the integrated management of the river
basins of the State. (study)
Evaluation and refinement of operational and 1                               1
decision support models being developed by
the ongoing PROURB project. (study)
Participatory development of the institutional 1                             1
system, cost recovery system and inter-basin
water rights allocation system for the
Jaguaribe/Icapui Transbasin Diversion
scheme to be constructed as a part of the
ongoing PROURB Project. (study)
Design and pilot implementation of a           1                             1
real-time hydro-meteorological information
system and sustainable technological support
institution to support the integrated
management of the river basins in Ceará.
(study)
Development of an experienced and              1                             1
well-trained implementation team to pursue
the major project along with the development
and training in procurement procedures
compatible with Bank Procurement
Guidelines. (unit)


Output Indicators:
                                                                        1
                Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR         Actual/Latest Estimate
Adoption of bulk rate and tariff regulations.  100                           100
(Fortaleza Metropolitan Basin) - %
Cooperative agreement between COGERH,          1                             0
FUNCEME and SRH re hydro-meteorological
information system. (Fortaleza Metropolitan
Basin) - unit
Adoption of sustainable financial plan and     1                             0
tariff for hydro-met information. (Fortaleza
Metropolitan Basin) - unit
Inter-agency agreement on decision-support 1                                 1
system (Fortaleza Metropolitan Basin) - unit
NGO and Governmental acceptance of             1                             0
Littoral Zone preservation and development
plan. (Fortaleza Metropolitan Basin) - unit
Acceptance and adoption of a conflict          100                           50
resolution process for inter-basin water
allocation and mitigation by the State and the
basin user associations. (Jaguaribe/Icapuí) -
%
Development of an acceptable resource          100                           50




                                                          - 16 -

prioritization methodology for allocation of the
resource during periods of shortage.
(Jaguaribe/Icapuí) - %
Formation of a users' association that          1                0
represents all levels of users.
(Jaguaribe/Icapuí) - unit
Adoption of rates and tariffs that reflect full 100              0
cost recovery. (Jaguaribe/Icapuí) - %
Adoption of a fair for-water-use rights         100              0
allocation process that reflects both
commercial and small user demands.
(Jaguaribe/Icapuí) - %
Agreement between basin of origin users, the 1                   0
State and Recipient Basin Users on water
allocation and mitigation package.
(Ibiapaba/Acarau) - unit
Inter-state and Federal agreemnent on           1                0
trans-basin diversion of water from a Federal
River to a State river basin. (Ibiapaba/Acarau)
- unit
Completion of executive design plans and        100              100
favorable economic analysis.
(Ibiapaba/Acarau) - %
Completion of adequate environmental and        100              100
social assessment and mitigation plans.
(Ibiapaba/Acarau) - %
Development of an acceptable resource           100              100
prioritization methodology for allocation of the
resource during periods of shortage.
(Ibiapaba/Acarau) - %
Prioritization PROGERIRH Components on          100              100
the basis of objective criteria. (PROGERIRH)
- %
Environmental evaluation of PROGERIRH           100              100
Components. (PROGERIRH) - %
Executive level design of components for the 100                 100
initial two years of implementation of
PROGERIRH. (PROGERIRH) - %
Development and training of implementation      100              100
team and procedures for PROGERIRH.
(PROGERIRH) - %

1End of project




                                                       - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Fortaleza Metropolitan Basin Study                           3.36             2.93            87.2
Jaguaribe/Icapui Basin Project                               0.92             0.00               0
Ibiapaba/Acarau Inter-basin System                           2.91             1.58            54.3
PROGERIRH Preparation                                        3.23             6.02           186.3

Total Baseline Cost                                         10.42           10.53
 Physical Contingencies                                      1.58
                        Total Project Costs                 12.00           10.53
                  Total Financing Required                  12.00           10.53


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                         N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.25              0.38         0.13          0.00         0.76
                                  (0.20)           (0.30)      (0.10)          (0.00)       (0.60)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         9.75          0.00         9.75
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (7.80)          (0.00)       (7.80)
4. Incremental recurrent          0.00              0.00         0.38          0.00         0.38
costs
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.30)          (0.00)       (0.30)
5. Unallocated                    0.00              1.13         0.00          0.00         1.13
                                  (0.00)           (0.90)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.90)
   Total                          0.25              1.51        10.26          0.00         12.02
                                  (0.20)           (1.20)      (8.20)          (0.00)       (9.60)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00             0.00         0.27           0.00        0.27
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       5.07             1.50         3.47           0.00        10.04
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Incremental recurrent          0.00             0.00         0.02           0.00        0.02
costs



                                                - 18 -

                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Unallocated                          0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                5.07               1.50              3.76             0.00             10.33
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Not included travel expenses and
    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Fortaleza Metropolitan         2.00         1.36                     2.34         0.59                  117.0     43.4
Basin Study
Jaguaribe/Icapui Basin         0.92         0.00                     0.00         0.00                   0.0      0.0
Project
Ibiapaba/Acarau                2.00         0.91                     1.26         0.32                  63.0      35.2
Inter-basin System
PROGERIRH Preparation          2.68         0.55                     4.80         1.22                  179.1    221.8




                                                          - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               03/20/1996                2    1 Water Resources Engineer            S               S
                                              (Task Manager), 1 Water
                                              Resources Engineer
               07/22/1996                1    Water Resources Engineer              S               S
               08/21/1996                2    1 Water Resources Engineer            S               S
                                              (Task Manager), 1 Water
                                              Resources Engineer

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               11/04/1996                1    Water Resources Engineer              S               S
               11/11/1996                2    1 Water Resources Engineer, 1         S               S
                                              Procurement Specialist
               10/11/1997                1    Water Resources Engineer              S               S

 Supervision
                                                                                    S               S
               05/19/1998                 1   Sr. Water Resources Specialist        S               S
               04/26/1998                 1   Sr. Water Resources Engineer          S               S
               10/14/1998                 1   Sr. Water Resources Engineer          S               S
               10/25/1998                 1   Water Resources Engineer (Task        S               S
                                              Manager)
               03/15/1999                 1   Water Resources Engineer              S               S
               06/01/2000                 1   Procurement Specialist                S               S
               02/21/2001                 1   Water Resources Engineer              S               S
               09/11/2001                 4   1 Water Resources Engineer            S               S
                                              (Task Manager), 1 Water
                                              Resources Engineer, 1
                                              Operations Analyst, 1 Senior
                                              Anthropologist
               11/13/2001                 1   Procurement Specialist                S               S
               02/25/2002                 1   Operations Analyst                    S               S
               09/16/2002                 5   1 Water Resources Engineer            S               S
                                              (Task Manager), 3 Water
                                              Resources Engineer, 1
                                              Operations Analyst

 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               N/A                             N/A



                                               - 21 -

Appraisal/Negotiation    N/A         N/A
Supervision              N/A         N/A
ICR                        6         35.0
Total                    N/A         N/A




                           - 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.   Loan Agreement;
2.   Project Appraisal Document;
3.   Biannual Reports on the Physical and Financial Execution of the Project;
4.   Aides Memoire;
5.   No Objections;
6.   Independent Auditors Reports;
7.   Important correspondence between the SRH/UGPE and the World Bank; and
8.    Borrowers Completion Report.




                                          - 25 -

- 26 -

