Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4190-BR
Loan Agreement
(Ceará Water Pilot Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF CEARÁ
Dated December 12, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4190-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 12, 1997 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF CEARÁ (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee certain obligations 
of the Borrower in respect of the Loan as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Page  2
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that 
an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with 
respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have 
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an 
amount 
of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such 
amount.  Upon 
the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be 
cancelled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Banco Central" means Banco Central do Brasil, the Guarantor’s Central 
Bank;
(b)
"PIU" means the unit for the implementation of the Project established 
within SWR (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to Portaria No. 201, dated May 7, 1997 of 
the Borrower’s Secretary of SWR (as hereinafter defined);
(c)
"PROGERIRH Project" means the proposed State-wide integrated water 
resource management project in the territory of the Borrower that is being prepared, 
inter alia, by the activities to be carried out under the Project;
(d)
"Project Monitoring Letter" means the letter dated May 16,1997 from the 
Borrower’s Secretary of SWR (as hereinafter defined) to the Bank, setting forth the 
indicators and benchmarks to be used in monitoring the progress in the implementation 
of the Project and in evaluating its results;
(e)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(f)
"SWR" means Secretaria de Recursos Hídricos, the Borrower’s Secretariat 
of Water Resources.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to nine 
million six hundred thousand Dollars ($9,600,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, services and incremental recurrent expenses required for the Project described 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor 
Page  3
of such later date.
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears 
semiannually on May 15, and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Secretary of SWR, and the person or persons designated in 
writing by such Secretary, are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through SWR, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, environmental and water resource management 
practices, and substantially in accordance with the benchmarks set forth in the 
Project Monitoring Letter, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of assisting SWR in the carrying out of the Project, the 
Borrower shall maintain until the completion of the Project the PIU with 
responsibilities, structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, and with staff in 
adequate numbers and with adequate qualifications.
Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
 Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Sections 9.01 (a) and 
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
in the months of July and January of each year during Project 
implementation, furnish to the Bank reports of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request on the progress in the implementation of the Project 
during the previous six months, such progress to be measured on the basis of the 
benchmarks and indicators set forth in the Project Monitoring Letter; and
(b)
in the months of February and August of each year during Project 
implementation, hold reviews jointlywith the Bank based on the reports referred to in 
paragraph (a) above and, thereafter, take or cause to be taken all such action which 
shall have been agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank, during the reviews referred 
to in this paragraph, as necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or the 
achievement of its objectives, such action to be taken in the manner and within the 
timetable agreed upon during such reviews.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, of the 
departments and agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
Page  4
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and the records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank monthly certified statements of the Special 
Account; and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco 
Central. Central Bankof Brazil
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Loan Agreement has been duly 
registered by Banco CentralCentral Bank of Brazil.
Section 5.03. The date March 12, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the 
Secretary of SWR is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
Page  5
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Secretaria dos Recursos Hídricos 
 do Estado do Ceará
Rua Antonio Augusto, 555 - Praia de Iracema
60.110-370 Fortaleza - Ceará
Brazil
Telex:
(85) 2797
With copy to:
Ministério do Planejamento e Orçamento
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5º andar
70040-906, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
611146
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Fortaleza, Ceará, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Authorized Representative
STATE OF CEARÁ
By /s/ Tasso Ribeiro Jeissarati
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
     % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed 
(1)
Goods
   600,000
80%
(2)
Consultants’  7,800,000
80%
Page  6
Services and 
training activities
(3)
Incremental Recurrent300,000
100% of expenditures
Costs
up to an aggregate
amount of $150,000;
thereafter 60% of
expenditures up to an 
aggregate amount of
$300,000
(4) Unallocated
   900,000
TOTAL
 9,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Incremental Recurrent Costs" means 
the cost of insurance, utilities, rents, repair and maintenance, office supplies and 
travel for the execution of Project activities by the PIU. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $960,000, may be made in 
respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on 
account of payments made within the twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement 
but after May 1, 1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent; (b) services of consulting firms costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent; and (c) services of individual consultants costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the preparation of the PROGERIRH 
Project.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
PART A:
Management of the Water Basin of Metropolitan Fortaleza
Provision of technical assistance with respect to the following for the 
management of the water basin of Metropolitan Fortaleza:
(1)
institutional evaluation of the Borrower’s agencies involved in the management 
of the basin; 
(2)
evaluation of the decision-making support system for the operation of the 
basin’s hydraulic infrastructure;
(3)
preparation of an environmental study of the coastal zone development area;
(4)
evaluation of an integrated operations plan for hydraulic infrastructure within 
the basin; 
(5)
evaluation of the system for bulk water use charges and of the tariff system and 
its effectiveness; 
(6)
an evaluation of the system of water use rights within the basin;
(7)
an evaluation of the technical training program for water operation and 
maintenance personnel;
(8)
development of a hydrometeorological information system, including its 
institutional support; and 
(9)
development of refined methodologies for water basin management.
Page  7
PART B:
Jaguaribe - Icapuí Basin Integration
Provision of technical assistance with respect to the following for the 
integration of the Jaguaribe - Icapuí basins:
(1)
evaluation and adoption of a management model; 
(2)
evaluation of current methodologies and studies for environmental and social 
impact evaluation; 
(3)
testing and refinement of water allocation methodologies for the Jaguaribe and 
Icapuí basins;
(4)
development and refinement of education, public information and community 
participation programs for basin users and other interested parties;
(5)
development and refinement of conflict resolution methods with respect to water 
allocations in the basins;
(6)
development and refinement of sustainable water use tariffs; and
(7)
development and refinement of training activities for  managers of water user 
organizations.
PART C:
Ibiapaba - Acaraú Basin Integration
Provision of technical assistance with respect to the following for the 
integration of the Ibiapaba and Acaraú basins: 
(1)
reconnaissance of the affected area, including the collection of social, 
economic and hydrological data;
(2)
evaluation of alternative projects;
(3)
preparation of basic studies and preliminary project design;
(4)
detailed evaluation of economic viability;
(5)
environmental and social impact evaluation;
(6)
preparation of studies on conflict resolution methods for the Ibiapaba - Acaraú 
basin integration; 
(7)
preparation of a general plan for the public participation process;
(8)
preparation of environmental and social impact mitigation plans; and
(9)
development of a management model for the implementation of the integration of 
the basins.
PART D:
Direct Support for the Preparation of the PROGERIRH Project
Provision of assistance, including technical assistance, with respect to the 
following for  the preparation of the PROGERIRH Project:
(1)
preparation of planning studies;
(2)
preparation of studies for the prioritization of project activities;
(3)
environmental and social impact evaluation;
(4)
analysis of the economic viability of the different components and of the whole 
project;
(5)
preparation of the preliminary activities for the execution of the proposed 
PROGERIRH project; and
(6)
traning of personnel involved in the preparation of the PROGERIRH Project, 
including managers, technical staff and beneficiaries.
*   *   *
Page  8
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
(b)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
"Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn.
B.
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
"Libor Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
"Libor Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered 
rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in 
respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions 
thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Page  9
Interest Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
"Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
"Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; 
plus
(iii)
the Bank’s risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total 
Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, 
promptly upon the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Guarantor 
and the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry 
of the notice period unless the Guarantor or the Borrower notifies the Bank during 
said period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply 
to the Loan.
C.
Repayment
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
May15 and November 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after November 15, 2012, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed 
Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
Page  10
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
In the procurement of goods under this Part B, the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 
and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto (preference for domestically 
manufactured goods) shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the 
Guarantor.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more per contract, but less than 
$350,000 per contract, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of 
goods under this Part C.1, bidding documents in a standardized form for the Project 
shall be used.
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods to be undertaken 
pursuant to this Part C.1:
(a)
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to 
be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for 
such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;
(b)
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil;
(c)
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank 
in each case;
(d)
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and
(e)
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank’s prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or 
other terms and conditions of sale.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Page  11
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Part E:
Other
For purposes of the Guidelines, the term custom duties and other import taxes 
includes the Guarantor’s Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine 
(Adicional ao Frete para a Renovação da Marinha Mercante - AFRMM), established 
pursuant to the Guarantor’s Decree-Law No. 1142 of December 30, 1970, as amended on 
December 31, 1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of 
the Bank, may substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by 
the Bank for the use of its borrowers, with such modifications thereto as shall have 
been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000, or such other amount as the Bank shall establish, to be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $400,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
Page  12
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered nto 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Page  13
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
