Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4738-IRN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Ahwaz and Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Page  2
-2-
Dated July 17, 2004 
 
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 4738-IRN 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 17, 2004 between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) 
Parts A.1, A.2, B.1, C.1 and D.2(a) of the Project will be carried out, 
with the Borrower’s assistance, by the Ahwaz Water and Wastewater Company (the 
Ahwaz Water Company), a company established and operating under the laws of the 
Borrower; and Parts A.3, A.4, B.2, C.2 and D.2(b) of the Project will be carried out, with 
the Borrower’s assistance, by the Shiraz Water and Wastewater Company (the Shiraz 
Water Company), a company established and operating under the laws of the Borrower; 
(C) 
as part of its assistance to the Ahwaz Water Company and the Shiraz 
Water Company, the Borrower will make portions of the proceeds of the loan provided 
for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to the Ahwaz Water Company 
and the Shiraz Water Company, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the following agreements of even date herewith between the Bank and 
the Ahwaz Water Company (the Ahwaz Project Agreement) and between the Bank and 
the Shiraz Water Company (the Shiraz Project Agreement); 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Ahwaz Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
the Ahwaz Water Company of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Ahwaz Project Agreement; 
Page  4
-2-
(b) 
“Ahwaz Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b)(ii) of this Agreement; 
 (c) 
“Ahwaz Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and the Ahwaz Water Company pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) 
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules to the Ahwaz Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
(d) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Environmental 
Management Plan furnished to the Bank in April, 2004, setting forth, 
inter alia
,
the 
measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to offset or 
reduce adverse environmental impact, including water pollution, industrial pollution and 
wastewater effluents, to levels acceptable to the Bank, as the same may be amended from 
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank; 
(e) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Land Acquisition Plan” means, collectively, the Abbreviated Land 
Acquisition and Compensation Plans for the cities of Ahwaz and Shiraz furnished to the 
Bank in December, 2003, describing the status and procedures of land acquisition under 
the Project; 
 
(g) 
“MPO” means the Borrower’s Management and Planning Organization;  
(h) 
“NWWEC” means the National Water and Wastewater Engineering 
Company, a company wholly-owned by the Borrower, established and operating under 
the Borrower’s laws; 
(i) 
“NWWEC Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 
3.06 of this Agreement;  
(j) 
“NWWEC Special Account” means the account referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) (i) of this Agreement; 
(k) 
“Parts of the Project” means, with respect to the Ahwaz Water Company, 
Parts A.1, A.2, B.1, C.1 and D.2(a) of the Project, and, with respect to the Shiraz Water 
Company, Parts A.3, A.4, B.2, C.2 and D.2(b) of the Project; 
(l) 
“Project Agreements” means, collectively, the Ahwaz Project Agreement 
and the Shiraz Project Agreement (as this term is hereinafter defined); 
(m) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Resettlement Policy 
Framework furnished to the Bank in December 2003, which, 
inter alia
,
defines the 
principles, organizational arrangements and design criteria to be applied to any 
involuntary resettlement that may arise in the course of the implementation of the Project;  
(n) 
“Rial” means the lawful currency of the Borrower; 
(o) 
“Shiraz Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
the Shiraz Water Company of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
Page  5
-3-
time to time and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Shiraz Project Agreement; 
(p) 
“Shiraz Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b)(iii) of this Agreement; 
 (q) 
“Shiraz Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and the Shiraz Water Company pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time and such term includes 
all schedules to the Shiraz Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
(r) 
“Special Accounts” means, collectively, the NWWEC Special Account, 
the Ahwaz Special Accounts and the Shiraz Special Accounts; 
(s) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means, collectively, the Ahwaz 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Shiraz Subsidiary Loan Agreement;  
(t) 
“TSU” means either of the two (2) technical support units to be 
established, and thereafter maintained, pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 (c) of 
this Agreement; and 
(u) 
“Water Companies” means, collectively, the Ahwaz Water Company and 
the Shiraz Water Company; each a “Water Company”. 
 Section 1.03.  Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to each of the Water Companies. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred seventy nine million United States Dollars (US$279,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars five (5) separate special deposit accounts in a commercial bank, in the names of: 
(i) NWWEC (the NWWEC Special Account); (ii) the Ahwaz Water Company (the 
Ahwaz Special Accounts); and (iii) the Shiraz Water Company (the Shiraz Special 
Accounts), all on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, each 
of the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2009 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Page  6
-4-
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay Commission on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Commission 
Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Commission Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first 
Commission Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the 
initial period, each  period from and including a Commission 
Payment Date to, but excluding the next following Commission 
Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Commission Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Commission Period, the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars 
for value the first day of such Commission Period (or, in the case 
of the initial Commission Period, for value the Commission 
Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of 
such Commission Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Commission Period: (A) 
three fourth of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Commission Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread of each Commission Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the commission rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a 
basis for determining the commission rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided 
Page  7
-5-
in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the commission rates 
applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the 
new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the 
Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Commission and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out Part D.1 of the Project through NWWEC with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and 
financial practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part D.1 of the Project.
 
(b) 
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall cause each of the Water Companies to 
perform, in accordance with the provisions of its respective Project Agreement, all the 
respective obligations of the Water Company therein set forth, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable each of the Water Companies to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
consultants’ services required for Part D.1 of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.  
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the Loan, relend such 
amount, as may be allocated from time to time to Categories (1)(a), (2)(a), (3)(a), (4) (b) 
and (5) (a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,  to the 
Ahwaz Water Company under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Ahwaz Water Company, under financial terms and conditions identical 
to those governing the Loan. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the Loan, relend such amount, 
as may be allocated from time to time to Categories (2)(c), (3)(b), (4)(d) and (5)(b) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to the Shiraz Water 
Company under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
the Shiraz Water Company, under financial terms and conditions identical to those 
governing the Loan.   
Page  8
-6-
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall  make available, through budgetary 
transfers, to the Ahwaz Water Company: (i) such amounts out of the proceeds of the 
Loan as may be allocated from time to time to Categories (1) (b), (2)(b), and (4)(a) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) such amounts 
as may be needed to finance the Borrower
’s contribution to expenditures under Parts A.1, 
A.2, and B.1 of the Project.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall make available through budgetary transfers, to the 
Shiraz Water Company: (i) such amounts out of the proceeds of the Loan as may be 
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) (c), (2)(d), and (4)(c) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) such amounts as may be needed to 
finance the Borrower’s contribution to expenditures under Parts A.3, A.4, and B.2 of the 
Project.  
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive either Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
 
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than the Effective Date until 
completion of the Project, cause NWWEC to open, and thereafter maintain in Rial a 
Project account, in the name of NWWEC. The NWWEC Project Account shall be used 
exclusively by NWWEC to meet the expenditures of Part D.1 of the Project not financed 
from proceeds of the Loan. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause NWWEC, not later than the Effective Date, 
pay into the NWWEC Project Account an initial deposit equivalent to US$100,000 
representing the first six (6) months of the Borrower's contribution to the costs of 
Part D.1 of the Project, and shall thereafter deposit into the NWWEC Project Account, 
not later than March 21 of each calendar year until completion of the Project, the amount 
of the Borrower’s annual contribution to the said costs for such calendar year, as 
determined by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall cause NWWEC to ensure that all amounts deposited 
into the NWWEC Project Account in accordance with the provisions of this Section shall 
be used exclusively to finance the Borrower’s counterpart contribution to the 
expenditures under Part D.1 of the Project not otherwise financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan. 
 
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the continued 
achievement of the objectives of Part D.1 of the Project; and 
Page  9
-7-
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.08. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by each of the Water 
Companies pursuant to Section 2.03 of the respective Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect its 
operations, resources and expenditures related to Part D.1 of the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
related statements) for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to 
by the Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
Page  10
-8-
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the
 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02.  (a) The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial 
monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Part D.1 of the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in the implementation of Part D.1 of 
the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and explains variances between the actual
 
and planned 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under Part D.1 of the Project, 
as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and 
shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project 
through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring 
Report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each subsequent 
calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
either of the Water Companies shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under its respective Project Agreement; 
 
(b) 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that either of the Water Companies will be able to perform its obligations under its 
respective Project Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
any law of the Borrower governing the establishment and operations of 
either Water Company shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Water Company in 
question to perform any of its obligations under its respective Project Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
Page  11
-9-
(a) 
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and 
(b) 
any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Ahwaz Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
the Borrower and the Ahwaz Water Company; 
(b) 
the Shiraz Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of 
the Borrower and the Shiraz Water Company;  
(c) 
a technical support unit has been established within each of the Ahwaz 
Water Company and the Shiraz Water Company with competent staff in adequate 
numbers whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to the Bank; and 
(d) 
NWWEC has employed a Project manager, an engineer, a procurement 
specialist, a financial specialist and an environmental specialist whose qualifications and 
experience are acceptable to the Bank. 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
that each of the Project Agreements has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the respective Water Company, and is legally binding upon said Water Company in 
accordance with its terms; and 
 
(b) 
that each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and the respective Water Company, and is legally binding upon 
the Borrower and said Water Company in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  12
-10-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance 
 
Davar Avenue 
 
Tehran 
Islamic Republic of Iran 
 
Facsimile:  
 
98 21 39 01 033 
 
98
21
39
10 024 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  13
-11-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 
 
By /s/ Safdar Hosseini 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Christiaan Poortman 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  14
-12-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars )
to be Financed
(1) 
Treatment works 
 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 
 
50%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(a) under Part A.1 of 
6,550,000 
 
of the Project 
 
(b) under Part B.1 of 
23,300,000 
 
the Project 
 
(c) under Part B.2 of  
23,510,000 
 
the Project 
 
(2) 
Civil works 
 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures 
 
and 80% of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(a) under Part A.2 of 
22,830,000 
 the 
Project 
 
(b) under Part B.1 of  
50,250,000 
 
 
the Project 
 
(c) under Parts A.3  
17,700,000 
 
and A.4 of the Project 
 
 
(d) under Part B.2 of  
44,970,000 
 
of
the Project 
 
Amount of the 
Page  15
-13-
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars )
to be Financed
(3) 
Goods 
 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
100%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
 
and 80% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(a) under Parts A.1, A.2  
980,000  
 
and C.1 of the Project 
 
(b) under Parts A.3, A.4 
980,000 
 
and C.2 of the Project 
 
(4) 
Consultants’ services 
 
88% of local  
 
and training 
 
expenditures for firms 
 
 
and individuals 
 
domiciled within the 
 
Borrower’s territory 
 
and 95% for foreign 
 
expenditures for 
 
services of other 
 
consultants 
 
(a) under Parts A.1, A.2,   
7,600,000 
 
B.1 and D.2 (a)(i) of the 
 Project 
 
(b) under Part D.2 (a)(ii) of 
2,320,000 
 
the Project 
 
(c) under Parts A.3, A.4, 
6,120,000 
 
 
B.2 and D.2 (b)(i) of the 
 
 
 
Project  
 
 
(d) under Part D.2 (b)(ii) of 
1,620,000 
 
the Project 
 
Page  16
-14-
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars )
to be Financed
(e) under Part D.1 of 
2,760,000 
 
the Project 
 
(5) 
Project Management Costs 
 
90% until December  
 
31,
2005,
and 75% 
 
thereafter 
 
(a) Ahwaz Water Company 
1,660,000 
 
 
(b) Shiraz Water Company 
1,660,000 
 
(6) 
Front-end fee 
2,790,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(7) Unallocated 
61,400,000 
 
 
__________ 
 
279,000,000 
 
TOTAL
 ========= 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c) 
the term “Project Management Costs” means expenditures under the 
Project incurred by the Water Companies in relation to office support, office supplies and 
communications, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding US$10,000,000, may be 
made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 
of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
March 1, 2004. 
Page  17
-15-
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $500,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $5,000,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) for services of individual consultants costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract; (d) for services of consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (e) training; and (f) Project 
Management Costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
Page  18
-16-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (a) improving the 
quality of life in the cities of Ahwaz and Shiraz, particularly in the cities’ poor areas, by: 
(i) improving access to quality water; (ii) increasing coverage of sanitation services; 
(iii) improving the environmental, hygienic and health conditions; and (iv) promoting the 
reuse of treated effluents; (b) strengthening and developing the capacity of the Water 
Companies; (c) assisting the Water Companies in improving their efficiency, 
sustainability and financial autonomy; and (d) initiating sector reforms, particularly with 
respect to institutional arrangements, the regulatory framework, demand management and 
the preparation of  a sanitation strategy. 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Rehabilitation, Improvement and Expansion of Water Systems and Facilities
1. 
Improving the quality of water in Ahwaz through the rehabilitation of an 
emergency water treatment plant, together with two other water treatment plants 
belonging to the Ahwaz Water Company, as well as the expansion of one of the latter 
plants. 
2. 
Increasing the supply of water in Ahwaz through the rehabilitation and expansion 
of water networks, including transmission lines, as well as the construction of new 
reservoirs and new pumping stations. 
3. 
Improving the quality of water in Shiraz through the drilling of seventeen (17) 
new water wells. 
 4. 
Increasing the supply of water in Shiraz through the rehabilitation and expansion 
of water networks, including transmission lines, as well as the construction of new 
reservoirs and new pumping stations. 
Part B
:
Rehabilitation, Improvement and Expansion of Wastewater Systems and 
Facilities
1. 
The improvement of wastewater services in Ahwaz through: (a) the  construction 
of the remaining segments of the eastern and western trunk mains; (b) the improvement 
of laterals and interceptors; (c) the construction of sixteen (16) pumping stations; (d) the 
installation of wastewater connections in about twenty three thousand (23,000) houses;  
(e) the rehabilitation of a wastewater treatment plant in the western part of Ahwaz; and 
(f) the construction of the first module of the wastewater treatment plant in the eastern 
part of Ahwaz. 
2. 
The improvement of wastewater services in Shiraz through: (a) the construction 
of the remaining segments of the emergency zone’s trunk main and the long-term zone’s 
trunk main; (b) the construction of about seven hundred forty (740) kilometers of laterals 
and interceptors; (c) the installation of wastewater connections in about fifty thousand 
Page  19
-17-
(50,000) houses; (d) the rehabilitation of the outfall for the wastewater emergency and 
long-term treatment plants; and (e) the construction of the first and second modules of the 
long-term treatment plant. 
Part C
:
Operation and Maintenance Equipment
1. 
The acquisition of operation and maintenance equipment, and consumer water 
meters, for the Ahwaz Water Company. 
2. 
 The acquisition of operation and maintenance equipment, and consumer water 
meters, for the Shiraz Water Company. 
Part D
:
Institutional and Capacity Building
1. 
Support to NWWEC through the carrying out of studies and the provision of 
expert services and training required for strengthening the technical, institutional and 
financial capabilities of NWWEC. 
2. 
(a) 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Ahwaz Water Company 
through: (i) the provision of equipment, expert services and training required for the 
establishment and operation of a TSU within the Ahwaz Water Company, and the 
carrying out of studies in the areas of engineering design and construction supervision; 
and (ii) the provision of technical advisory services and training for the design and 
implementation of the Environmental Management Plan. 
 
(b) 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Shiraz Water Company 
through: (i) the provision of equipment, expert services and training required for the 
establishment and operation of a TSU within the Shiraz Water Company, and the 
carrying out of studies in the areas of engineering design and construction supervision; 
and (ii) the provision of technical advisory services and training for the design and 
implementation of the Environmental Management Plan. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2009.
Page  20
-18-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)
*
On each January 15 and July 15 
 
beginning January 15, 2010 
 
11,625,000 
through July 15, 2021 
  
11,625,000 
 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as 
provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
Page  21
-19-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement under Part D.1 of the Project 
Section I
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of this Section I. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-Cost 
Selection
Training services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Specialized advisory services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Single-Source 
Selection
In exceptional cases, and wherever justified in the context of the overall interests 
of the Borrower and the Project, single-source selection of consultants for services 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may, with the Bank’s prior 
Page  22
-20-
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (ii) each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants procured under Part C.3 or Part C.4 of this 
Schedule estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  23
-21-
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
A. 
 Project Coordination and Implementation
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall: (i) maintain the Environmental Management 
Plan, the Land Acquisition Plan and the Resettlement Policy Framework in a form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) cause the Water Companies to implement said 
Plans and Framework in accordance with the objectives, policies, procedures, time 
schedules and other provisions set forth therein.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall refrain from taking any action which shall prevent or 
interfere with the implementation of the Environmental Management Plan, the Land 
Acquisition Plan and the Resettlement Policy Framework. 
2. 
The Borrower shall take all necessary action to ensure the adequate provision by 
MPO and/or NWWEC of counterpart funds for Part D.1 of the Project not financed from 
the proceeds of the Loan. 
3. 
The Borrower shall enter into arrangements with NWWEC, satisfactory to the 
Bank, whereby NWWEC shall assist the Water Companies in the carrying out of the 
procurement process, under their respective Parts of the Project, of all goods and works 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan under international competitive bidding 
procedures.  
B. 
Reports and Mid-term Report
1. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 (a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank: (i) commencing March 21, 2005, quarterly reports on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project; and (ii) not later than June 30, 2007, a report, integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
 (c) 
review with the Bank, by September 30, 2007 or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) (ii) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Bank views on the matter. 
Page  24
-22-
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Accounts 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1)(a), (1)(b), (1)(c), 
(2)(a), (2)(b), (2)(c), (2)(d), (3)(a), (3)(b), (4)(a), (4)(b), (4)(c), (4)(d), (4)(e), (5)(a) and 
(5)(b), set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time 
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means in respect of: (i) the NWWEC 
Special Account, an amount equivalent to US$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and deposited into the NWWEC Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of 
this Schedule; provided, however, that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to US$250,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts allocated to 
Category (4)(e), plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of 
amounts allocated to Category (4)(e), shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
US$1,500,000; (ii) the first Ahwaz Special Account, an amount equivalent to 
US$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the first 
Ahwaz Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule; provided, however, 
that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to US$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from 
the Loan Account of amounts allocated to Categories (1)(a), (2)(a), (3)(a), (4)(b) and 
(5)(a), plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of amounts allocated 
to Categories (1)(a), (2)(a), (3)(a), (4)(b) and (5)(a), shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of US$7,000,000; (iii) the second Ahwaz Special Account, an amount 
equivalent to US$4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into 
the second Ahwaz Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule; 
provided, however, that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to US$2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts allocated to Categories (1)(b), (2)(b), and 
(4)(a), plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of amounts allocated 
to Categories (1)(b), (2)(b), and (4)(a), shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
US$15,000,000; (iv) the first Shiraz Special Account, an amount equivalent to 
US$4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the first Shiraz 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; provided, however, that, 
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to US$2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Page  25
-23-
Loan Account of amounts allocated to Categories (1)(c), (2)(d) and 4(c) plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to Categories 
(1)(c), (2)(d) and (4)(c), shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of US$15,000,000; and 
(v) the second Shiraz Special Account, an amount equivalent to US$2,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the second Shiraz Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; provided, however, that, unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
US$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account of 
amounts allocated to Categories (2)(c), (3)(b), (4)(d) and (5)(b), plus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to Categories (2)(c), (3)(b), 4(d)
 
and (5)(b), shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of US$7,000,000.
 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence that a Special Account has been duly 
opened, withdrawals of a Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the said Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the said Special 
Account of an amount or amounts, which in the aggregate do not exceed the said 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of each such request or requests, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the said 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the said Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the said Special Account at such intervals as 
the Bank shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the said Special Account such amount 
as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the said Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. Each such deposit into the said Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the said Special Account’s eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
Page  26
-24-
5. 
Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or  
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
respective Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
Page  27
-25-
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
