                            Islamic Republicof Iran
                              Ministry of Energy
       National Water and WastewaterEngineeringCompany




IRAN WATER SUPPLYAND SANITATIONPROJECT
       -




                  Environmental Assessment
                  Draft ExecutiveSummary




                                January,2004


            ~             ~~




  Lar ConsultingEngineers in collaborationwith    Halcrow GroupLtd.
  No. 23, Sharifi Street                          Vineyard House
  North of Vanak Square
  Vali-asr Avenue                                 44Brook Green
                                                  London W6 7 BY
  Tehran 19699                                    United Kingdom
  IslamicRepublic of Iran

               IRAN WATER SUPPLYAND SANITATIONPROJECT
                       .        ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN

            ENVIRONMENTAL              ASSESSMENT EXECUTIVE .                       SUMMARY

                                     TABLE CONTENTS
                                                 OF

LISTOFTABLES    ..........................................................................              i

ABBREVIATIONS   ........................................................................                ii

INTRODUCTION   ...........................................................................              1

BACKGROUND    ............................................................................              1

PROJECT OBJECTIVES DESCRIPTION
                        AND                       ...........................................           4

POLICY.LEGALAND REGULATORY               FRAMEWORK           .................................          7

                                                                       ........................
   0  ApplicableWorld Bank Policies              ............................................           7
   0  ApplicableIranian Environmental Legislations                                                      9

INSTITUTIONALARRANGEMENT             FOR ENVIRONMENTMANAGEMENT                            ..........   10

ANALYSISOFALTERNATIVESTOTHE PROJECT                      ....................................          11

SIGNIFICANTENVIRONMENTAL            IMPACTS      ...........................................
                                                            .................................          13
                                                             .................................
   0  Potential Positive Impacts of the Project                                                        13
   0  Potential Adverse Impacts of the Project                                                         14

ENVIRONMENTAL    MANAGEMENT (EMP)     PLAN               ....................................          19
                          ...............................................................
   0  Mitigation of Adverse Environmental Impacts                     .........................        19
   0  Monitoring Plan                                                                                  20
                       ..................................................................
  0   Institutional Strengthening        ..................................................            21
  0   Cost Estimate                                                                                    21

PUBLICCONSULTATION DISCLOSURE
                         AND                       ..........................................          31

REFERENCES DOCUMENTSCONSULTED
            AND                                      .......................................           35

ANNEXES
ANNEXA LISTOFEA TEAMMEMBERS
        .                                       ...........................................
ANNEXB . LOCATION                                                                                      38
                                                                                                       40
ANNEX C SHIRAZ
        .AHWAZLOCATION            MAP'    .................................................
                                  MAP AND SITESOF WWTPS                   .....................        42

                       ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
           IRAN
         ENVIRONMENTAL
                 - WATER ASSESSMENT
                            SUPPLY AND SANITATIONPROJECT
                                          - EXECUTIVE   SUMMARY



                             LISTOF TABLES


Table 1   Comparison of Environmental Impacts of Wastewater Treatment
          Processes
Table 2   Influent and Effluent Data for Wastewater Treatment Plants
Table 3   Mitigation Measures during the Construction Phase
Table 4   Mitigation Measures during the Operation Phase of Water Supply
          System
Table 5   Mitigation Measures during the Operation Phase of Wastewater System
Table 6  Monitoring Program for the Construction Phase
Table 7  Monitoring Program during the Operation of the Water Supply System
Table 8  Monitoring Program for the Treated Effluent and Karoun River
Table 9  Monitoring Program for the Wastewater Treated Sludge
Table 10 Monitoring Program for Agricultural Soil
Table 11 Cost Estimate of Environmental Management Plan in Ahwaz
Table 12 Cost Estimate of Environmental Management Plan in Shiraz

Table 13 Key Commentsof Governmental Organizations

Table 14 Key Comments of Non-GovernmentalOrganizations




                                   1

                -      ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
          IRAN WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
        ENVIRONMENTAL       ASSESSMENTEXECUTIVE
                                          -         SUMMARY


                         LISTOFABBREVIATIONS


AWWC     Ahwaz Water and Wastewater Company
BOD      BiochemicalOxygen Demand
CAP      ComplianceAction Plan
CHO      CulturalHeritage Organization
DOE      Department of Environment
EA       EnvironmentalAssessment
EPHC     EnvironmentalProtection High Council
ESO      Environmentaland SafetyOfficer
EMP      EnvironmentalManagementPlan
EU       European Union
FA0      Food and AgricultureOrganization
MOAJ     Ministry of Agriculture Jihad
MOE      Ministry of Energy
MOHME    Ministry of health and Medical Education
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
OP
ss       Operational Policy

swwc     SuspendedSolids
         Shiraz Water and WastewaterCompany
TA       Technical Assistance
TOR      Terms of Reference
TSU      Technical SupportUnit
         Quality Assuranceand Quality Control
WB
QMQc
         World Bank
WHO      World Health Organization
WTP      Water TreatmentPlant
WTPO     Water Treatment Plant Operator
w w c s  Water and WastewaterCompanies
WWTO     WastewaterTreatmentOperator
WWTP     WastewaterTreatmentPlant




                                      ii

                   IRAN    - WATERISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
                                        SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
                                ENVIRONMENTAL           ASSESSMENT



                                     EXECUTIVE       SUMMARY



INTRODUCTION

 1.     This executive summary is aimed at presenting the main findings of the Environmental
Assessment conducted for the Iran - Water Supply and Sanitation Project (the Project). The
objective of the environmental assessment is to examinethe environmental, economic, physical,and
biological impacts in the areas which may be affected by the project, and propose mitigation
measures, as well as construction and operation environmental management and monitoringplans.

2.      This executive summary is intended to be a self-contained, stand-alone document that can
be relied upon to provide major information necessary to understand the environmental and social
sensitivities, potentially significant impacts, and mitigation measures to be undertaken under the
proposed project. The reader is referred to the main body of the two Environmental Assessment
(EA) reports for the cities of Ahwaz and Shiraz for specific information or further details not
presented in depth in this summary, in particular for a description of the existing social and
ecologicalenvironment as well as relevant baselinedata.

3.      The Project is partly financed by the World Bank and as such will have to comply with
World Bank guidelines relative to environmental and social safeguard policies as well as
Government of Islamic Republic of Iran applicablelaws and regulations.

4.      The EA reports were prepared by an Iranian Independent ConsultingFirm (Lar Consulting
Engineers) in collaboration with an international firm (Halcrow Group Ltd.). The names of the
expertsin these firms that participated in the preparation of the EA reports are listed in Annex A.

BACKGROUND
5.      Serious sanitation problems such as the present unreliable water supply systems, the
inconsistent quality of drinking water, the poor performance of water distribution networks and the
lack of adequate wastewater collection and treatment systems coupled with rapid growth of
population and expansion of urban centers has prompted the Government of Iran to consider water
supply and sanitation projects as a high priority. Among others currently under development, the



                                                  1

Iran - Water Supply and SanitationProject is being developed by the Iranian Ministry of Energy to
provide adequatewater supplyand sewerage systemsfor the citiesof Ahwaz and Shiraz.

6.       Ahwuz the capital of Khouzestan province is located at approximately 875 km from Tehran
(see MAP in Annex B). The present population is about 950,000 and is projected to reach 2.2
million by the year 2027. Ahwaz is one of the most important economical centers of the Islamic
Republic of Iran as it is located in an oil-rich region and hosts a number of large industries. The
Karoun River, the largest river in Iran, flows along Ahwaz and divides the city into two separate
drainage zones: the eastern zone and the western zone. At present, 99% and 63%of the population
are connected to public water supply and sanitary sewerage,respectively. Areas without wastewater
either use seepage pits or discharge their wastewater in open channels, rivers or in open grounds
creating wastewater pools, polluting the soil and water resources, and creating health hazards. To
improve the wastewater situation, the existing wastewater treatment plant that was constructed in
 1977has been recently rehabilitatedand put into operation. This treatment plant, which is based on
tertiary activated sludge with nitrification, denitrification and chlorination, serves the Western
drainage zone but can only treat the wastewater generatedby 140,000persons.

7.       The pollution of the Karoun River is a major problem and a priority issue not only for
Ahwaz but for the whole province. The discharge of untreated municipal and industrial effluents,
the drainage from agriculturallands, and the uncontrolled discharge of solid wastes directly into the
River and its tributaries have considerably degraded the water quality of Karoun. Available
treatment facilities have proved to be insufficient to produce adequate drinking water quality. At
present, water from well fields is being transferred around 70 km and blended with the river water
in order to reduce the concentrationof contaminants and make it treatable. However, the maximum
water that can be obtained represents less than 10% of Ahwaz water demand and as such cannot
improve the degraded water quality to acceptable levels. In parallel, the Ahwaz Water and
Wastewater Company (AWWC) is evaluating the provision of additional water treatment
techniques. Consumers are switching to new sources of drinking water (15-20 liter deposit-refund
containers) or taking measures to reduce the contamination of the drinking water (filtering and
boiling tap water).

8.      The poor water quality is largely contributingto high diarrhea prevalence that reaches 50%
during peak months. Out of the total gastro-enteritis cases in Iran during the year 2000, 10% were
reported in Ahwaz, which accounts for only 1.5%of the total population of the Islamic Republic of
Iran but where there is acute pollution of both ground water and surface water. Furthermore,
estimates of water production and consumption rates indicates a very high percentage of
unaccounted for water (around 40%) as-aresult of the poor conditions of the existing distribution
network.




                                                  2

 9.       Shiraz is the capital of Fars province and is located at approximately 925 km to the south of
 Tehran (see MAP in Annex C). The present population is about 1,200,000and is projected to reach
 1,950,000by the year 2027. Shiraz has a rich historical heritage and is close to Persepolis,the most
 important archeologicalsite of the country.

 10.      It is estimatedthat more than 99% of the inhabitants of Shiraz are currentlyconnected to the
 city's water supply network. Water quality monitoring indicates that the water supply is of
 acceptable quality and in compliance with national and WHO standards. Chemical, physical and
 bacteriological analyses are conducted on a daily basis at various points including water sources,
 storage reservoirs and distribution network. The major problem raised by Shiraz Water and
 Wastewater Company (SWWC) is the high percentage of unaccounted for water (around 30%) and
 the need to rehabilitate a considerable portion of the network. Rehabilitation of the network has
 been initiated but is proceeding at a very slow rate due to limited financial resources. Other
 problems identified by SWWCare the relatively low water quality of Alluvial ground water sources
 that have high levels of hardness and nitrates, and the insufficient water pressure in some zones of
 the distributionnetwork.

 11.     Similar to other cities, wastewater collection, treatment and disposal are the main
environmental concern in Shiraz. At present only 8% of the population is connected to the
 wastewater collection system. Due to the high water table and low soil permeability, the use of
existing seepage pits has been unsatisfactory causing groundwater contamination. A great part of
the wastewater is discharged in the seasonal rivers of the city or in open drainage channels that run
along the roads adjacent to the residential areas. During the dry periods, the channels become open
wastewater collectors emitting noxious odors, attracting mosquitoes and affecting the health of the
residents. The wastewater collected by the existing sewers is conveyed along Khoshk River that
divides the city in two parts and ultimately dischargesin MaharlooLake.

12.      The impact of wastewater on public health is considered to be less than that experienced in
other cities yet water related diseases such as cholera and gastro enteritis are being reported by the
health centers of the city and have been attributed mainly to the irrigation of raw eaten vegetables
with untreated wastewater. It was also reported that around 21 wells have been decommissioned
due to contamination, mainly in areas where groundwater is relatively high. In order to improve
public health conditions and to reduce the contamination of the water resources, the Water and
Wastewater Company has started implementinga wastewater system for the whole city.

13.      The execution of the project will have positive environmental impacts in terms of reducing
pollution of natural resources, generation of significant economical, social and public health
benefits, and will facilitate the enforcement of existing environmental regulations and standards by
the government. Although the proposed project will reduce the pollution loads discharged to
Karoun River and Maharloo lake, it will not solve the pollution problem of these two water bodies

 which is primarily due to agricultural drainage and industrial discharges. The management of these
 two pollution sources is outside the scope of the project and should be addressedthrough a national
 environmental managementplan of Karoun River and MaharlooLake.

 14.    Potential negative impacts from the proposed project are mainly related to the construction
phase of the project, and are thus of temporary nature. Other negative impacts that might arise from
the project will be mitigated through appropriate measures. The present report summarizes the
findings of the environmental assessment study that was conducted and the environmental
managementplan (EMP) that will be adopted for the project.

PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION

 15.    The objectives of the Water Supply and SanitationProject are:

        (a)     enhancethe quality of life in the proposedcities ,Ahwaz and Shiraz,particularly in
                poor areas by: (i) improving access to satisfactory water supply and significantly
                increasing coverage of sanitation services; and (ii) improving environmental,
                hygiene and health conditionsas well as promotingreuse of treated effluents;

        (b)     strengthen and develop the capacity of Ahwaz and Shiraz Water and Wastewater
                Companies (WWCs) and assist the latter in improving their efficiency,
                sustainabilityand financialautonomy; and
        (c)     initiate sector reforms, particularly with respect to institutional arrangements, the
                regulatory framework, demand management, as well as prepare a sanitation
                strategy.

16.    For the cities of Ahawaz and Shriaz, the Project of a total cost of US$ 427.91 of which
Bank financingis US$253.32 million will consist of:

            The rehabilitation, improvement and expansion of the water systems and facilities
            (Bankfinancing US$51.6million)

            The rehabilitation,improvementand expansionof the waste water systemsand facilities
            (BankfinancingUS$ 178.01million)

            Provision of Operation and Maintenanceequipment (BankfinancingUS$ 1.73million)

            Technical assistance and consultant services (which include the implementation of
            EMPs (Bank financingUS$ 19.68million)

17.    Long-term development plans have been designed for the extension of water and
wastewater systems and facilities in Ahwaz and Shiraz over the period 2004-2027. These plans are
formulated to serve a population of about 2.2 and 1.9 million respectively in Ahwaz and Shiraz by




                                                 4

 2027. They are scheduled to be implemented in four phases and the project under consideration
 covers works proposed under phase 1.

 18.     The detailed project description is described in the EA reports, below is just a summary of
 the different components for the water supply and waste water rehabilitationfor the cities of Ahwaz
 and Shirazrespectively.

 19.     In Ahwaz: The water component of the project aims at improving the quality of water and
regulating the pressure in the water system. This will be done by rehabilitating the existing water
treatment plants and providing additional treatment to ensure adequate water quality, constructing
new reservoirs and the required pumping stations, and implementing the necessary transmission
lines. Additionally, rehabilitation of the water network and implementation of house connections
will take place where needed throughout the project period. As part of the project the following
works will be executed:

             Repair and rehabilitation of the two existing water treatment plants (WTP 1 and WTP
             2) to meet drinking water quality standards by replacing the single layer filters with
             double layer filters, installing ozonation and powder activated carbon units as well as
             constructinga pre-sedimentation unit;

             Minor rehabilitationto the Emergencytreatment plant;

             Execution of one expansion module of 1.15 m3/s capacity at the existing water
             treatment plant WTP 2;

             Installing transmission pipelines to convey raw water from the new water intake to the
             water treatment plants and fromthe plants to the storagereservoirs;

             Construction of a new pump station to pump water from the intake to WTPl and
             WTP2;
             Constructionof 5 storagereservoirs with a total capacity of 250,000 m3;

             Replacing and expandingthe existing distribution network.

20.      The wastewater component includes the improvement and rehabilitation of the existing
WWTP in the west of Ahwaz (Chouneibeh), the construction of the first two module of a new
treatment plant in the east of Ahwaz, and the implementation of the wastewater collection system
that are planed to connect 750,000persons by 2007. Works to be covered will be as follows:

           Provision of around 23,575 new connections;

      e    Execution of around 266 km of main collectors,lateralsand interceptors;

      e    Constructionof lifting and pumping stations;




                                                  5

           Rehabilitationof existing ChouneibehWWTP and addition of an aeration unit to increase
           the plant treatment capacity to approximately55,000m3/d;

           Construction of two treatment modules with a total capacity of 120,000 m3/d in the
           easternnew WWTP.

 21.    In Shiraz: The water component will finance works that will increase supply capacity and
 regulate the pressure in the water network. This will be achieved by diggingand equipping 17wells,
 constructing four reservoirs, the required pumping stations and pressure reducing valves, laying and
 extension of the transmission and distribution system. Rehabilitation of the water network and
 implementation of house connections will take place where needed throughout the project period.
 As part of the proposed project, the followingworks will be executed:

              Digging and equipping 17 wells in the Karstic aquifer with a total flow of 82,400cubic
              meter per day;

              Constructionof 4 groundreservoirs with a total capacity of 70,500 cubic meter;

             Laying of 44 km transmission mains between reservoirs;

             Construction of 2 pumping stations with a total capacity of 47,500 cubic meters per
             day;
             Extension, replacement and rehabilitation of distribution system: 270 km of pipes with
             diametersbetween 100and 1200mm;

             Installationof 36 pressure reducing valves.

22.     The wastewater component will include works that will extend the collection system in the
city and the construction of the first two modules of a new WWTP. The following wastewater
works will be executed under the project:
             Execution of around 740 km of main collectorsand laterals with diameters between 200
             and 400 mm;
             Execution of around 95 km of trunk mains with diametersbetween 500and 1800mm;
             Construction of two treatment modules with a total capacity of 100,000 m3/d of the
             Long Term WWTP;

             Construction of discharge outfalls for conveying the treated effluent of the Emergency
             and the Long TermWWTPs.

23.      For the wastewater treatment works of the first phase in both cities, it is proposed to apply
the design-build-operate approach in order to optimize the design and to ensure proper operation
and maintenance of completed works in the initial stages of operation while building local capacity
to run the treatment plants. Build-operateand transfer-type of contracts would be considered for the


                                                  6

 subsequent phases. These contracts will increase the involvement of international private sector in
 providing wastewater services,which will ensure sustainableservicedelivery.

 24.     The project also includes the provision of operation and maintenance equipment and
 consumer water meters to WWCs. Capacity building, Technical Assistance (TA), training and
consulting services for institutionaldevelopment and project management,engineering design, leak
detection, environmental management, construction supervision, updating of the wastewater
development program and feasibilitystudies and engineeringdesign for phase 2 investmentswill be
also provided as part of the proposed project.

Other Relevant Development Plans and EnvironmentStudies

25.      The last Section (Referenceand Consulted Documents) of this executive summary contains
a list of studies and documents that were used in the preparation of the EA reports. The Key
documents that were used include:

            Feasibility Studies for Water Supply and Wastewater Collection, Treatment and
            Disposal Facilitiesfor City of Ahwaz; 2003.

            Final Report of Geotechnical Conditions of Wastewater Network for the City of
            Ahwaz; 2002.

            Feasibility Study for water Supply and wastewater Collection Treatment and Disposal
            Facilitiesfor City of Shiraz;2003.
            Economic-Social-Environmental-TechnicalJustification of Shiraz Sewerage Plan by
            Mahabghods Consulting Engineers, prepared for Shiraz Water and Wastewater
            Company; 2002.

POLICY, LEGALAND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK

26.      The Environmental Assessment for the project must meet a number of policy and legal
requirements. The World Bank safeguard policies and the Iranian Decree 138 and detailed
requirements for conducting EA as defined in the Code of Practice of 23/12/1997 have been
complied with during the course of project preparation and will also be complied with during
project implementation.

ApplicableWorld Bank Policies

27.     Operational Policy 4.01 on Environmental Assessment. The World Bank undertakes
environmental screening of each proposed project to determine the appropriate extent and type of
Environmental Assessment (EA). The World Bank classifies any proposed project into one of four
categories (A,B,C,FI),depending on the type, location, sensitivity, and scale of the project and the
nature and magnitude of its potential environmental impacts. A Category `A' project is likely to



                                               7

have significant adverse environmentalimpacts that are sensitive, diverse, or unprecedented. These
impacts may affect an area broader than the sites or facilitiessubject to physical works.

28.      The proposed project in Ahwaz and Shiraz is considered Category A project as the
rehabilitation, improvement and expansion of water and wastewater services will produce impacts
from noise, dust and water quality degradation during construction,water and waste water quality,
sludge and solid waste during operation that could be significant for a number of people living in
the areas. It should be noted that there will also be a number of nominal benefits resulting from
these projects including improved water quality, waste management, access to clean water supply
and sanitation, and most importantlyimprovementof public health.

29.      Operational Policy 4.12 on Znvoluntary Resettlement: This operational policy examines
whether the development project would require any involuntary resettlement and/or land
acquisition. A resettlement action plan and a resettlement framework were prepared as the
operationalpolicy on involuntaryresettlement is triggered.

30.      The implementation of the proposed water works in Ahwaz will not induce any
resettlement. Rehabilitation,additionaltreatment processes and increasein the capacities of the two
existing water treatment plants will be implemented within the land of the existing treatment plants
and within public lands. The construction of ground water reservoirs would require a total of five
hectares of land most of which is in public lands. Small areas falling within private lands are being
expropriated by the Ahwaz Water and Wastewater Company accordingto the land acquisition plan
that has been prepared for the project and in line with the laws of the Islamic Republic of Iran and
the World Bank Operational Policy. The land required for the construction of the eastern WWTP
has been acquired by the Ahwaz Water and Wastewater Company, while lands required for the
extension of the existing wastewater treatment plant in the western zone and for the construction of
pumping stationsare public lands and would not require expropriation.

31.      Similarly, the implementation of the proposed works in the city of Shiraz will not induce
any resettlement. Ground reservoirs and pumping stations will be constructed in public lands
whereas pipelines will be laid along the streets within the right of ways. The land required for the
construction of the Long Term WWTP has been recently acquired by the SWWC. Pipelines will be
laid within the right of way of public streets, while outfalls from both wastewater treatment plants
will be laid within the right of way of the existingdrainage channel.

32.     Operational Policy 4.11 on Cultural Property: This operational policy addresses the
impact on physical cultural properties having archaeological (prehistoric), paleontological,
historical, religious, and unique natural values. The policy aims at ensuring the preservation of
cultural heritage.




                                                   8

 33.     The policy is triggered for the city of Shiraz which has a rich historical heritage and is close
 to Persepolis, the most important archeological site of the country. The implementation of the water
 supply and sanitation project will not require the demolition of any known historical sites,nor will it
 directly affect any known archeological sites. On the contrary, the long term permanent impact of
 the project on the existing archeological sites will therefore be positive due to proper collection of
 wastewater, reduced incidence of flooding,improved amenity and aesthetic quality of the city which
 would outweighany temporary adverse impacts.

 34.     The sitting of the all the project works was selected in close coordination with the Cultural
 Heritage Organization (CHO) following several site visits so as to ensure that these facilities are
 remotely located from the archeological and historical sites as well as from areas where there is
 potential of finding archeological remains. During final design stages, further site inspections will
 be conducted by surveyors and archeologist to check the construction drawings in the field.
 Construction activities that are close to existing archeologicalor historical sites will be identified,
 and special protection and construction procedures will be developed to mitigate any potential
 impact on these sites.      Moreover, during the execution of works if a "chance find              " of
 archaeological significanceoccurs the civil work contract will require the contractorto immediately
 inform the employer and stop further work as this is standard practice in Iran. Employer will in turn
 informthe CHO for furtherinvestigation and action.

Applicable IranianEnvironmentalLegislations

35.      The competent body for EA as defined in Decree 138 of 12/04/1994 is the Iranian
Department of Environment (DOE), under the authority of the Environmental Protection High
Council (EPHC) which is composed of senior representatives of government ministries, senior
academics and advisers to the Iranian government. EA in Iran was enabled by Note 82 of the Law
for the Second StateEconomical, Social and CulturalDevelopment Plan of 1994,amended by Note
105 of the Third Development Plan. EA was approved by the EHC through Decree 138 and
detailed requirements for conducting EA were defined in the Code of Practice of 23/12/1997. The
enabling law requires that large manufacturing and service projects be subject to EIA prior to
implementation at the feasibility and implementation stages, and gives the EPHC power to
determine both the interpretation of what is a large project and the pattern of the assessment. The
EPHC has defined seventeen project types subject to EIA, seven in Decree 138, with a further 10
added in 2000. EPHC may also require an EIA for any other large project. Screeningthresholdsfor
the first seven classified types are defined in the 1997 Code of Practice, together with the
requirements for the pattern of the assessment. Improvement and rehabilitationof water supply and
waste water systemsare not among the 17projects that require the preparation of EA.

36.     Apart from Environmental Assessment, there exist a wide range of regulations regarding
environmental protection including the EnvironmentalProtection Act of 1974and its executive by-
law dated 1975, the Clean Water Act of 1982that was amended in 1994 and the executive by-law


                                                  9

 on the prevention of water pollution (1994), the Air Pollution Abatement Act of 1995 and its
 executive by-law dated 1997,the Game and Fish law of 1957with subsequent amendments made in
 1975and 1996. In addition,there are standards for drinking water, effluent discharges,noise levels
 and ambient air quality.

 37.     The project will adhere to the aforementioned laws and standards. Furthermore,the treated
 effluent will meet WHO guidelines for treated wastewater to be used in Agriculture. These
 guidelines specify a nematode level of less than 1egg per liter and fecal coliform of less than 1000
 MPN per 100ml. With respect to the re-use of sludgeas soil conditioner for agriculture, the project
 will ensure compliance with the EU Directive with respect to toxic elements, the WHO guidelines
 including the limit of less than 1 intestinal nematode egg per lOOgms of dry solids as well as the
 FA0 guidelines for sludgere-use.

 38.     With respect to industries, existing national legislation provides for control of industrial
 discharges,DOE is mandated with the enforcement of the limits for industrial discharges and has
 secured so far a modest record in terms of enforcementof the laws and regulationsagainst polluters
 by issuing warnings, imposing fines and eventually bringing them to courts. This will be reinforced
 in this project and in the Bank-financed Environment Management Support Project. In summary,
 the project will abide by all national laws and standards and will follow internationally accepted
best practices.

INSTITUTIONALARRANGEMENT             FOR ENVIRONMENT       MANAGEMENT

39.      A number of governmentalorganizationshave responsibilities for managing and monitoring
environmental impacts. The Water and Wastewater Companies (WWCs) who are in charge of
water supply as well as wastewater collection and treatment will be in charge of managing,
operating and maintaining the project, Among their duties the WWCs will have responsibility for
ensuring the supply of adequate water quality and quantity. WWCs will also be responsible for
controlling discharges into the wastewater collection system and as such will be responsible for
ensuring that industries pre-treat their wastewater before discharging into the collection network.
WWCs will also monitor the implementation of the compliance action plans (see section on
industrialeffluent below) for polluting industriesthat do not pre-treat their industrialwaste water or
will not be connected to the waste water networks.

40.      The DOE will have the responsibility for monitoring the environmental impacts. It will
monitor construction activities, will check water quality in Karoun River, Maleh stream and
Maharloo Lake and will ensure compliance with effluent standards for industries and wastewater
treatment plants. The DOE will also monitor the quality of treated effluents and sludge to be used
for irrigation and soil conditioning. The regional branch of the DOE will also enforce the
implementation of the CAP, and in case of non compliance will require the relevant municipalities
to suspend their operationalpermit.


                                                 10

 41.      The Ministry of Agriculture Jihad (MOM) has responsibility to supervise and regulate the
 reuse of treated effluents and sludge, while the Ministry of Health and Medical Education
 (MOHME) will be responsible for monitoring water quality and the occurrence of water born
 diseases.

 ANALYSISOFALTERNATIVESTHE PROJECT  TO

42.       The option of continuing with the current water supply system and wastewater disposal
 methods as well as alternativewater supply schemes and wastewater treatment processes have been
 explored and compared in terms of capital costs, operational costs, land requirements, length of
transmission lines, consumed energy, environmental impacts, management needs, reliability of the
process and local conditions.

43.      In the case of no project, households and other users would have to find alternative means
of meeting their needs, essentially by purchasing water from water vendors at high prices and by
investment in storage capacity. The avoidance of such cost is the main benefit of the project.
Secondly, given the advantage of house connection over buying and storing water and the big
difference in cost, the project will allow households to consume a larger volume of water than under
the alternative, which will increase their welfare (their consumer surplus). Thirdly, the WWCs
provide water in much better hygienic conditions than water vendors, which reduces health hazards.

44.      The "no project" option would avoid the temporary environmental impacts of installing
pipelines and constructing treatment plants, however this option is rejected on the ground of
economic cost and adverse long-term environmental and social impacts. It would mean two whole
cities with poor quality water supply and without wastewater collection and treatment, Under such
conditions severe adverse environmental impacts such as pollution, flooding, and poor health
conditions would increaseand the prevailing environmentalconditions will furtherdeteriorate.

45.      Moreover, the economic benefits of the proposed project are greater than the cost of not
implementing it; taking into account revenues from charges for water supply, wastewater, and
treated effluent as an irrigation source, the cost of the degradation of surface and ground water
resources; the cost of treating additional water quantities to compensate for the high unaccounted
for water; the high maintenance cost for the aged water supply system; lost working days due to
water related diseases;cost of medical treatment; costs of wastewaterdisposalby tankers;the use of
raw wastewater for irrigation purposes instead of treated wastewater; and the use of commercial
fertilizerinstead of treated sludge.

46.      Another alternative that has been considered for the water supply system is the possibility
of having two separate distribution systems in Ahwaz: one for drinking water and one for regular
domestic uses. Drinking water would be obtained from well fields located around 70 km from


                                                 11

Ahwaz, while non-potable water would be obtained from Karoun with limited treatment. This
alternativehas been rejected on the grounds of economiccost related mainly to the constructionand
maintenance of two water supply systems as well as other environmental and social considerations
including health risk associated with using the two water types interchangeably.

47.      With respect to wastewater collection and treatment, a number of alternatives have been
considered including on-site sanitation, decentralized treatment and centralized treatment. On-site
sanitation has proved to be difficult to achieve because of the high ground water and the low soil
permeability. People living in areas served with on-site sanitation facilities face severe difficulties
disposing their sewage.     Hence, the option of on-site sanitation is rejected.         Taking into
consideration the environmental limits set by the department of environment regarding the
construction of treatment plants within city limits and the presence of an existing treatment plant
and collectionnetworks in West Ahwaz and the construction of a wastewatertreatment plant for the
Emergency Zone in Shiraz. The option of decentralized treatment was also rejected based on cost,
availability of land and potential adverse environmental impacts. Furthermore, the option of
decentralized treatment could not be adopted for East Ahwaz and the Long-Term Zone in Shiraz
because of higher construction and operation cost as compared to centralized treatment especially
with respect to environmental managementand monitoring.

48.      The proposed activated sludge process and two other processes: lagoons and stabilization
ponds were also evaluated and compared. The comparison between the different alternativestook
into account investment, long-term operation and maintenance costs as well as evaporation and
seepage costs. The activated sludge system was selected in view of reliability, operational
flexibility, and lower construction cost and environmental impacts. A summary of the
environmental impacts of wastewater treatment processes is given in Table 1. Furthermore, since
the lands for the Eastern WWTP and the Long-TermWWTP have already being acquired and since
the plots have limited areas, both the stabilization ponds and the lagoons were rejected as they
would require larger areas.




                                                 12

is the protection of groundwater resources from contamination by untreated sewage. As a result,
economic benefits will occur in terms of increased water volume of good quality, increased tourism
activities, and lower medical costs associated with treating water-borne diseases. There will be
considerablebenefits to the farmers who are presently using polluted water or raw wastewater.

52.      Finally it is worth noting that the design of the WWTPs has taken into consideration the use
of their by-products (treated effluent and generated sludge) with the aim of protecting the
environment and the water resources. This will generate significant economic, social and health
benefits and will enable the Government to enforce the law that prohibits the use of raw wastewater
for irrigation.

Potential Adverse Impactsof the Project

53.      These are summarized below under the following sections and reflected in the EMP:
             Water quality and quantity
             Treated effluentsquality
             Sludgequality
             Industrial Effluent
             Protection of culturalproperty
             Agriculture pollution
             Solid waste
             Other impacts: noise, dust, safety and odor

Drinking Water Quantity and Quality

54.     The total water demand of Ahwaz city is 4.53 m3/sand is expectec.to reach 6.4 m3/s"y the
year 2027. Karoun River is the main source of water for the City of Ahwaz. Over the past 30 years,
average and minimum flows in the river were 700 and 170m3/s,respectively which by far exceeds
the total water demands of the year 2027. Water quality analyses over the past 20 years clearly
show that the river water does not meet potable water standards and requires additional treatment
mainly for eliminatingodor and taste, and reducing dissolved solidsprior to its use. In addition and
to meet the water demand of the year 2027, an increase in the capacity of existing facilities
(treatmentplants, storagereservoirsand distribution network) is needed

55.     At present, the total water demand of Shiraz is 288,600 m3/dayand is expected to reach
474,400 m3/dayby the year 2027. The current water demands are suppliedfrom surface and ground
water resources. Surface water is provided from the Douroudzam dam located 100km north-west
of Shiraz. The quantity of water that is currently transferred from the Dam is about 71,700 m3/day
and is being increased by the Fars RegionalWater Board to reach 155,500m3/dayby the year 2005.
The existing water treatment plant utilizes a conventionalwater treatment scheme which includes:




                                                  14

  Table 1: Comparisonof Environmental Impacts of Wastewater TreatmentProcesses

              Parameter                Activated        Partial Mix             Complete
                                        Sludge             Lagoon          MixLagoon           StabilizationPond

  Surface and ground water quality     Very Low        Negative-Medium     Negative-Low          Negative-High
  Ground water level                   Very low        Negative-Medium     Negative-Low          Negative-High

  Impact on health                    Negative-Low     Negative-Medium          Negative-
                                                                                Medium          Negative-Medium

  Discharge of effluent in water
  bodies                               Very Low        Negative-Medium     Negative-Low          Negative-High


  Reuse of effluent in agriculture    Positive-Low     Positive-Medium          Positive-
                                                                                Medium           Positive-High

  Amount of sludge produced          Negative-High      Negative-Low       Negative-Low            Very Low
  Reuse of sludge in agriculture                                                Positive-
  (amount)                            Positive-High    Positive-Medium          Medium            Positive-Low

 Reuse of sludge in agriculture       Negative-Low     Positive-Medium     Positive-Low          Positive-High
 (quality)
                                                             ~~~              ~~             ~

 Impact on soil                        Very Low        Negative-Medium     Negative-Low          Negative-High
 Odor generation                       Very Low        Negative-Medium     Negative-Low          Negative-High

 Noise generation                  I Negative-High  I   Negative-Low     I      Negative-
                                                                                Medium        I    Very Low




SIGNIFICANTENVIRONMENTALIMPACTS

PotentialPositiveImpactsof the Project

49.      The environmentalassessment reports indicated that the execution of the project will have
positive environmental impacts in terms of reducing pollution of natural resources, will generate
significant economical,social and public health benefits, and will enable the governmentto improve
the enforcement of existingenvironmental regulations and standards.

50.      The project will extend and rehabilitate water networks to ensure 100% water supply
coverage,to provide good quality water on a continuous basis, to cater for population growth and to
reduce unaccounted for water. Thus the project will provide controlled water supply to the
households and will reduce overdraft of the aquifer. It will improve health conditions of the
population by providing them with adequate water quantity and quality from sustainable sources.

51.     The provision of wastewater collection and treatment facilities will have a strong positive
effect on the overall environment and the public health conditions. There will be improvement of
water quality in the streams and rivers that flow throughout the cities. A major benefit of the project


                                                   13

 flocculation, sedimentation,filtration and chlorination.The remaining supply of the city's water is
 provided from 69 ground water wells which supply 261,800m3/day.

 56.     The treated water quantity and quality will meet water demand as well as allowable
 drinking water standards set by the Iranian Government and WHO. Among the parameters of
 concern are the bacteriological contamination of the water, the concentration level of nitrate, the
 presence of nitrite and the concentrationof heavy metals. After construction and commissioning of
 the water supply system, operation and maintenance work will mostly involve routine inspections
 and monitoring. Chlorine will be required for disinfection of both surface and ground water.
 Proper safety procedures will be followed for the transportation and handling of chlorine and other
 chemicals to ensure the safety of operators and workers in accordance with Iranian law and
 internationally accepted Good Practices.

 57.     In order to safeguard public health, regular monitoring of raw and treated water at the
 treatment plants, storage reservoirs and in the distribution network will be implemented to ensure
 that drinking water limits are not exceeded.

 Treated Effluent Quality
58.      Treated effluent should be of acceptable quality so that it can be safely discharged into
water bodies or re-used for irrigation. This means that the effluent quality should meet the
standardsfor discharge into water bodies and the WHO guidelinesfor agriculturere-use. One of the
major parameter of concern is the level of nematodes eggs which should be less than 1egg per liter
for water used in irrigation. The other major concern is the concentration level of nutrients such as
ammonia, nitrate and phosphate which could result in algal growth in the receiving water bodies.
The level of heavy metals is also of concern and could have adverse impacts on agriculture and
water bodies. Regular monitoring of these variables will be required to ensure strict adherenceto the
prevailing standards.

59.      Existing and proposed treatment plants, in both cities, are based on the activated sludge
process plus chlorination. In addition, the existing and proposed wastewater treatments in Ahwaz
are provided with a nitrification-denitrificationprocess. Activated sludge can ensure a treated
effluent of acceptable quality for discharge in receiving water bodies and/or re-use in agriculture.
This process will result in the removal of nematodes to less than one percent of the concentrationin
the raw wastewaterenteringthe treatment plant. Thereforethe presence of nematodes in the treated
effluent will be directlyrelated to their concentrationin the raw wastewater. Analyses conductedon
raw wastewater(ref. Table 2) indicatedthe presence of nematodes but at very low levels. As soon as
the wastewater treatment plants start operating,monitoringof nematodes in the influent and effluent
will be conducted. An allocation for the installation of filters for the removal of nematodes has
been made in case the treated effluent does not meet the required standards with respect to
nematodes.


                                                  15

 60.     Ahwaz: The discharge of treated effluent from Chouneibeh WWTP into Karoon River
occurs mostly in winter. During that period, the treated effluent will not be chlorinated in order to
avoid the formation of halogenated compounds (trihalomethanes) in the river. Moreover, the
existing outfall from the treatment plant will be extended to the inside of the river in order to ensure
proper mixing. By the year 2027, the treatment plant capacity will be 2.36 m3/s, which represents
 1.18 % and 0.34% of the minimum and mean annual flow of Karoon, respectively. Analyses of
water quality before and after discharge of treated effluent indicated that water quality in Karoon
will not be affected by the discharge of treated effluent. During the operation phase, continuous
monitoring of raw wastewater, treated effluent as well as water quality of Karoon river before and
after the discharge point will be undertaken. Under emergency conditions and in case the treated
effluent does not meet the standards for discharge, the effluent will be re-routed and discharged in
the sludge lagoons that will be constructed at 6.5 km from the treatment plant site. An emergency
pipeline connection has been provided fromthe discharge outlet to the station that pumps the sludge
to the lagoons.

61.      Treated effluent from Ahwaz Eastern WWTP will be discharged in a concrete channel that
runs for a distance of 5 km after which it will discharge in Maleh Stream. The channel runs along
agricultural areas and has adequate capacity to accommodate the generated effluent by year 2027.
At present, the channel receives most raw wastewater but once the project is operational, the
channel will only receive the treated wastewaterwhich can be re-used for agriculturalpurposes.

62.      Shiraz: treated effluent from both WWTPs will be discharged into concrete channels that
run along agricultural areas and ultimately discharge into Maharloo Lake which covers an area of
around 200 hectares with an average water depth of 40 cm. The lake water is brackish with high
levels of salts (averageNaCl 188g/l) and metals including iron, cadmiumand lead. Hence, the lake
water will not be affected by the discharge of treated effluent. The discharge of treated effluent to
MaharlooLake will occur mostly in the winter season, since in summer the effluent will be used for
irrigation. In view of the treated effluent quality, which will be in compliance with the prevailing
standards for discharge to water bodies, and the dilution effects of the rainy season, no adverse
impacts are envisaged on the lake. In fact, the environmental state of the lake is expectedto improve
in comparisonto the base conditiondue to improved water quality of the dischargingrivers.

63.     Continuous monitoring of treated effluent, to ensure compliance with standards, and of
receiving water bodies, to detect any deterioration in water quality, will be conducted as part of the
EMP.




                                                  16

  Ahwaz West WWTP:




  Ahwaz East WWTP:




Sludge Quality
64.      Sludge produced from Ahwaz western and eastern WWTPs Ahwaz in 2007 is estimated at
 1540 tons/year and 2570 tons/year, respectively and will reach 6050 tondyear and 8390 tons/year
by year 2027. Sludge produced from Shiraz Emergency treatment plant in the year 2007 is
estimated at 1825 tons/year and will reach 6000 tons/year by year 2027, whereas the sludge
produced at the Long Term treatment plant is estimated at 2000 tondyear in year 2007 and will
reach 12400tondyear by year 2027. For the purpose of long term storage of the sludge, covered
areas have been allocated at each WWTP.

65.      Sludgetreatment is achieved throughblending, thickening,anaerobic digestion,followedby
storage for one year.     The sludge will be treated to achieve WHO guidelines of less than one
nematode egg per 100grams dry solids,as well as FA0 and EU guidelinesfor heavy metals content
including cadmium, chromium, nickel, lead and zinc. Following storage of dried sludge for a one
year period; the sludge will be transported by trucks in closed containers to agriculturalareas where
it will be used as soil conditioner. The use of sludge will be restricted to cereals and in case of non-
compliancewith the required standards,the sludge will be disposed in the existing city landfills.

66.      Moreover, national guidelines for sludge re-use would be developed in coordination with
line ministries (Ministry of Energy, Department of Environment, Ministry of Agriculture Jihad,


                                                  17

 Ministry of health and Medical Education, etc.) and concerned stakeholders. These guidelines
 would set out good standards of practice and monitoring and defineroles and responsibilities.

Industriul Effluents

 67.     The city of Ahwaz is an important industrial center with more than 661 factories operating
 in the urban and rural areas of the City. Out of the total existing industrial facilities,57 facilities are
 located within the project area of which 11 are of significance with respect to their impacts on
 wastewater quality and quantity. Similarly, a number of industrial facilities are also located in
 Shiraz,howeveronly 5 facilities are located within the project area and include: two food industries,
 one electronicindustry,one rubber industryand one medical industry. According to current policy
 that limits the operation of industries to rural areas of the two cities, no further industrial
development within the urban areas of the cities is expected.

68.      Wastewater treatment facilities will provide an opportunity to better control industrial
discharges through pretreatment and connection to the collection system as stipulated in the Iranian
law. In addition, the project will only provide connectionsto industries that do not discharge toxic
substances which may affect the performance of the sewage treatment plant. The project will
ensure that the industrial effluent discharges are pre-treated to levels which comply with the World
Bank's Pollution Prevention and Abatement Handbook, taking into account the treatment efficiency
that can be achieved by the treatment plant for the various parameters of concern. For those
industries for which their industrialwater will not be pre-treated, andor will not be connected to the
network, DOE regional branch will require that each polluting industrial establishmentswill prepare
a compliance action plan (CAP)which will address the major pollutants, the type of pre-treatment
required and the investments, and monitoring costs for the pre-treatment facility. Operational
permits for those industrieswill be subject to the implementation of the CAP as yearly monitored by
the WWCs and enforced by the DOE. This will be reflected in the EMP of the Project.

Culturaland ArcheologicalHeritage

69.      Adverse and positive impactsas well as the proposed mitigating measures were described in
the section on the compliance of cultural property (Para 32 above)and are reflected in the EMP.

AgriculturalPollution

70.     In Ahwaz, the primary sources of irrigation are Karoon River, Maleh stream and raw
wastewater. During the past few years water quality in Karoon River considerably degraded as a
result of agriculture drainage. Agricultural production, especially in the northern and eastern parts
has been limited by water shortage. Agricultural areas are also dispersed within Shiraz with the
majority located outside the urban area.    Present irrigation sources in Shiraz include river water,
wells and springs. However, in view of the limited water sources, an important percentage of the
agriculturalareasare rain fed.


                                                  18

plant operators (operationphase) with supervisionby the WWC. Tables 3, 4 and 5 summarize the
major impacts and the mitigation measuresfor the constructionand operationphases.

77.     The final design process will detail and finalize construction drawings and tender
documents of the project components. This process has incorporated final review of the designs by
environmental specialists to ensure that all required environmental issues are properly addressed
and tender documentsinclude specific provisions concerningenvironment, health, safety as well as
the use of archeological chance find procedures in the event that unknown archeological andor
historical sites are encounteredduringthe course of construction.

78.     In addition, pre-tender conferences will be held to brief pre-qualified contractors on the
effective implementation of mitigation measures. All pre-qualified contractors will be called to a
pre-tender conference at which environmental, health and safety issues will be outlined. Cultural
heritage issues in Shiraz will be also addressed. The contractors will be briefed on: (i) chance find
procedures, (ii) special procedures to be adopted in the vicinity of sites defined as requiring
protection, (iii)penalties for non-compliance, and (iv)coordination with concerned authorities.

79.     Liaison arrangements will be established between the public, contractors, and the Project
ManagementUnit. A procedure will be established to allow the general public to lodge complaints
at the Project Management Unit about excessive disturbance.

80.     The contractorswill provide suitable and reliable equipment for construction,with a formal
maintenance program to ensure efficient operations. The WWCs will develop and establish
appropriate safety procedures for the operation and maintenance of the treatment plants. All
employeesof the contractorsand WWCs will get suitabletraining in occupational health and safety.

Monitoring Plan

81.     Monitoring of construction activities will have to ensure that mitigation measures of
construction impacts are being implemented properly, while monitoring of operation activities is to
ensure that no unforeseen negative impacts are arising. Tables 6 to 10give the proposed monitoring
requirementsduring the constructionand operationalphases.

82.     The Ministry of Energy will have the overall responsibility to ensure that adverse impacts
are maintained to acceptable levels and corrective actions are taken when required. A project
monitoringreport will be prepared on the effectiveness of the EMP once every 6 months and will be
sentto the World Bank after review and approval of DOE.




                                                20

71.      The treated effluents and sludge from the WWTPs will be used for irrigation purpose and
therefore will provide a better irrigation water quality and will increase crop production. Potential
contamination and accumulation of heavy metals in crops and soil will be closely monitored to
ensure compliance with EC, WHO and FA0 standards. Training workshops on re-use of treated
effluent and sludge as well as awareness campaigns will be also provided to all concerned
stakeholders.

Solid Waste
72.      Solid waste generated at the water and wastewater treatment plants as well as screenings
and grit from the inlet works will be collected and disposed by WWCs in the appropriate allocated
spaces in the landfills of the cities. In case of waste contamination,WWCs will ensure that signs
are posted in the landfillsareas notifying of the special waste contaminations.

OtherImpacts
73.     Adverse environmental impacts during construction could be significant,however they are
only temporary. Typical impacts are those of dust, noise, traffic congestion, and disturbance to the
residents of the area. Good construction practices would mitigate most of these temporary impacts
to acceptable levels. Dangerous activities in public areas will be controlled to reduce risk to the
public, traffic and warning signs will be placed at construction sites, trenches will be provided by
fences, or railings. The construction contract document will incorporate all requirements to
minimize disturbance from construction activities which will be monitored by the Supervision
Engineer and the Environment Officer at WWCs to ensure compliance and implementation of the
required provisions by the Contractor.

74.     Odors emissions from the wastewater treatment plants will be minimized by careful
planning and implementation of the plant operation and maintenance procedures. Regular Odor
emissions monitoring from the wastewater treatment plants will be implemented to mitigate any
non-compliance by taking appropriateoperatingmeasures

ENVIRONMENTALMANAGEMENT (EMP)         PLAN
75.     The EMP identifies feasible cost effective meabures that may be used to mitigate any
adverse environmental impacts that might occur during the construction and operation of the
project. The EMP coversmitigation measures, monitoring and institutionalstrengthening.

Mitigation of Adverse EnvironmentalImpacts
76.     Mitigation measures have been identified to ensure that the defined objectives of the project
are achieved whilst preventing and reducing any adverse environmental impacts. The mitigation
measures are to be executed by the construction contractor (construction phase) and the treatment


                                                  19

Znstitutional Strengthening
83.      The institutional arrangement and capacities of the organizations in-charge with the
implementation and management of the proposed project were reviewed with the intention of
providing technical assistance and proposing reinforcementof these organizationsas required.

84.      Training programs as summarized in the EMP, will be designed and implementedwith the
assistance of local and international experts and will include: Treatment Plant Operators,
Municipalities, Khouzestan and Fars DOES, Line Ministries, as well as Staff of Water and
Wastewater Treatment Plants. Workshops and awareness campaigns will be also implemented to
raise awareness of farmers, NGOs and residents of Ahwaz and Shiraz.

85.      Technical assistance will be provided to DOE to set up baseline data on existing
environmental conditions and to develop a quality assurance and a quality monitoring program as
well as an enforcement program for industrial discharges. I'hese activities will be implemented in
close coordination with the on-going World Bank Environmental Management Support Project in
Ahwaz. Similarly,technical assistance will be provided to the MOHME to set up baseline data on
the occurrence of water born diseases and to developa monitoring programfor their occurrence.

Cost Estimate
86.      A total amount of 4.3 million dollars will be allocated for the implementation of the
environmental management plan as detailed in Tables 11 and 12 and will be included in the project
cost. It should be noted that the total cost does not include the following:
     >    Cost of additional treatment incorporated in the design of the project;
     >    Cost of mitigating negative construction impacts (included in the construction contract
          cost);
     >    Cost of mitigation measures and environmental monitoring of the Eastern Wastewater
          Treatment Plant in Ahwaz and the Long-Term Wastewater Treatment Plant in Shiraz
          (included in the constructionand operation and maintenance contract cost);
     >    Cost of setting up a new laboratory at the Eastern Wastewater Treatment Plant and at the
          Long-Term Wastewater Treatment Plant (included in constructioncost).




                                                  21

                    Measures during the Construction :
                                                                           Responsible 0    mization
                                  Mitigation Measures                                      1

                                                                       Performing             QA/QC

                    Restrict work to normal working hours;             Contractor monitored     DOE
                    Use equipment with appropriate silencers;                by ESO
                    Only run equipment when required.

                                                                       Contractor monitored
                    Employ dust suppression measures such as                 by ESO             DOE
                    wetting and dust enclosures.
                                        ~            ~      ~~    ~~




                    Restrict movement of construction vehicles to      Contractor monitored     DOE
                    and from the sites to normal working hours;              by ESO
                    Diversion of traffic through suitable roads to the
                    expected traffic loading;
                    Provision of adequate diversion signs;
                    Minimizing lengths of open trench;
                    Expeditious completion of backfill and
                    reinstatement.

                    Site access roads will be inspected regularly and  Contractor monitored     DOE
                    repairs made where necessary;                            by ESO
                    All roads and streets used for laying pipes will
                    be covered and paved.


                    Application of protection measures in areas close  Contractor monitored   Cultural
                    to existing historical sites;                      by Archeologist and    Heritage
                    Implementation of Chance Find Procedures.                  ESO           Organization

                    Collect and dispose wastes, demolition and         Contractor monitored     DOE
                    excavated materials at appropriate locations;           by ESO
                    Restrict surface runoff from the site.


                    Control access of unauthorized personnel;          Contractor monitored    DOE
                    Provide pedestrian access;                              by ESO
                    Provide safety barriers and signs.

                    Donot bum wastes on site;                          Contractor monitored    DOE
                    Routine maintenance of construction equipment           by ESO
                    md vehicles to minimize exhaust emissions

                    Minimize wastes generated during construction      Zontractor monitored    DOE
                    rid reuse construction wastes where practicable;        by ESO
                    Jse appropriate methods for the storage of waste
                    naterials;


ESO:Environment and Safety Officer at Project -TSU
DOE:Department of Environment




                                                      22

Table 4: MitigationMeasuresduring the OperationPhase of Water Supply System

                                                                          Responsible :ganization
                                                                                         1
    Potential Impacts                 MitigationMeasures
                                                                         Performing        QNQC

Degradation of water          Ensure proper operation and maintenance    WTPO supervised     DOE
quality                       of the water treatment plant.                by ESO


                              treated water as well as water quality at
                              Continuous monitoring of raw water and

                              various locations within the water supply
                              system; avoid cross contamination with
                              sewage;



Reduction in available        Prohibit illegal connections to the        WTPO supervised     DOE
  water supply               network; avoid leakage in the network;        by ESO
                             ensure proper maintenance of the system
                             including treatment plant, pumping
                             stations, pipelines and house connections.


Health and Safety of the      Maintain hygiene and have medical         WTPO supervised      DOE
employees                    surveillance; maintain showers and            by ESO
                             sanitary facilities; provide first aid and
                             have an emergency response plan.

                             Capacity building and training in
                              occupational health and safety procedures
                              and in operation and maintenance of
                              treatment plants.

L
WTPO: Water Treatment P1 toperator
ESO: Environment and Safety OfJicerat TSU
DOE: Department of Environment




                                                        23

Table 5: MitigationMeasuresduring the OperationPhase of WastewaterSystem

                                                                                      Responsible rganization
                                           MitigationMeasures
                                                                                      Performing    QUQc

                            Adequate treatment (retention time) should be provided      WWTO          DOE
                            to control the number of nematode eggs; chlorine will     supervised by
                           be used to disinfect the effluent and for Ahwaz               ESO
                           nitrification and denitrification will be provided to
                           control concentration of nitrogen.

                            Regular monitoring of treated effluent; treated effluent
                           will not be discharged in Karoun river nor will be re-
                           used in irrigation if its quality does not meet the
                           standards.

                            Development of re-use guidelines for treated effluent;

                            Capacity building, training and awareness.

                           Drying beds for one-year storage will be provided to         WWTO          DOE
                           dry and store sludge following de-watering and            supervised by
                           digestion.                                                    ESO

                           Monitoring of nematodes, coliforms and heavy metal
                           content of treated sludge.

                           Transportation of treated sludge in closed containers.

                           Capacity building, training and awareness.

                           Careful planning and implementation of operation and         WWTO          DOE
                          maintenance.                                               supervised by
                                                                                         ESO
                           Providing covers to equipments and containers that are
                          likely to cause odor nuisance.
                                                                                                      DOE
                          Prohibit connections to the sewer networks in case          WWCs and
                           industrial establishments do not have pre-treatment       municipalities

                          Require that each polluting establishment prepare a
                           compliance action plan


                          Maintain hygiene and have medical surveillance;               WWTO         DOE
                          manage wastewater operations to minimize contact of        supervised by
                          personnel with sewzge; maintain showers and sanitary           ESO
                          facilities; provide first aid and have an emergency
                          response plan.

                         Capacity building and training in occupational health
                           and safety procedures and in operation and                --
                        ent Plant Operator                         DOE: Department   'Environment
ESO: Environment and Saj  Of$cer ut TSU                            WWCs: Waterand Wastewater Companies
                                  I




                                                         24

Table6: MonitoringProgramfor the ConstructionPhase

Environmental       Monitoring                                     Responsible rganization
 Parameterto         Location        Frequency      Standard
 be monitored                                                      Performing    QAIQC

      Noise        At construction    Every day     70dB (A)        Supervision   DOE
                        Sites                                        Engineer
                                                                   monitored by
                                                                      ESO


                   At construction                 Working hours   Local police
                        Sites                     and holidays are
                                                     observed


 Air Quality and   At construction    Every day     150ps/m3       Supervision    DOE
      Dust              Sites                                       Engineer
                                                                   monitored by
                                                                      ESO

                                                                  --
Traffic disruption At construction  At peak hours     Traffic      Local police   WWC
                        sites                      regulations



ESO: Environment and Safety Ofherat TSU

DOE: Department of Environment




                                                25

Table 7: Monitoring Program during the Operation of the Water Supply System
                               --
                                                                                     Responsible
                               Monitoring                                            Organization
                                 Location     Frequency       Standard

                                                                              Performing     QAfQc

                                 At Water      Every day    6.5 8.5
                                                                -                WTPO         MHME
                                   sources                  5 NTU            Supervised bj
                                 (treatment                                        ESO
                                plants, dam                 ot100 ml
                                                            01100 ml
                                 and wells)                 01100 ml

                                                           400 pStcm
                                                            0.05 0.5mgA
                                                                 -
                                                            0-45mgA

                                                            25 - 200 mgfl
                                                            0 mgA

                                 At Water     Every Week    1.0mgA               WTPO       MHME
                                  sources                   100mgfl          Supervised bq
                                 (treatment                 30 50 mgfl             ESO
                                plants, dam                 20 150mgll
                                                               --
                                 and wells)                 10-12 mgA
                                                            250mgA
                                                            50 200 mgA
                                                               -

                                 At Water     Every Month  0.1 pgfl              WTPO       MHME
                                  Sources                  0.02 mgA          Supervised by
                                 (treatment,               0.05 mgA                ESO
                               plants, river,               3 mgfl
                                  dam and                  0.003 mgfl
                                   wells)                  0.01 mgfl
                                                           0.001 mgfl

                                                           0.05 0.5mgfl
                                                                 -
                                 At Water     Every day    o1.0mgn
                                                                mgA
                                                                                 WTPO       MHME
                                Reservoirs                 25 -200 mgA       Supervisedby
                                                           0/100ml                ESO
                                                           0/100ml
                                                           01100 ml
                                                           0.2-0.8 mgfl

                               Distribution   Every day                          WTPO         MHME
                                 Network                   Dt100 ml
                                                           D/lOO ml          Supervisedby
                                                           01100ml                ESO
                                                           D.2-0.8 mgfl



                                 At Water     Every week   20-40
                                                           1000                 WTPO           DOE
                                Treatment                  300 400           Supervisedby
                               --  Plants                  750 1200
                                                                --
                                                                 -1750
                                                                                  ESO
                                                           2500 - 4000
                                                           1625

WTPO: WaterTreatment Plant Operator               ESO: Environment and Safety Ojfficer
MHME: Ministry of Health and Medical Education    DOE: Department of Environment



                                                 26

Table 8: Monitoring Programfor the Treated Effluentand KarounRiver


                          Monitoring                                  Responsible kganization
                            Location      Frequency        Standard
                                                                      Performing    QNQc

                                                       25 mgA
                                                       125mgll          WWTO         DOE
                                At                                    Supervised by
                           Wastewater     Every day    6- 9
                                                       10mg/l             ESO
                              Plants                   50 mgA
                                                       10mg P/1
                                                       30 mg N/1
                                                      I 1 eggAiter
                                                       200 MPN/100 ml


                                                       10mgA
                                At
                           Wastewater     Every week   5 mgA
                                                       10mgA            WWTO         DOE

                          Karoun River
                          Plants and in               90 mgA          Supervised by
                                                      20mgA              ESO
                           before and
                              after                   500mgA
                                                       1mgA
                            discharge                 0.2 mg/l
                                                      D.5 mgA




                               At                     3.1 mgA
                           Wastewater                 3.1 mgA           WWTO         DOE
                          Plants and in                               Supervised by
                          Karoun River    Every munth 3.5mgA
                                                       3.5 mgA           ESO
                           before and                  1.1mgA
                              after                    1.1mgA
                           discharge                   1.5mg/l
                                                      2.0 mg/l



                          -  At the       Every week   1.2 mgA          WWTO         DOE
                           discharge                                  Supervised by
                            from the                                     ESO
                          butfall or at 1
                          km from the
                            WWTP

WWTO: Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator
ESO: Environment and Sa$ety Officer
DOE: Department of Environment




                                                   27

Table 9: Monitoring Program for the Wastewater TreatedSludge


     Environmental                                                   Responsible
    Parameterto be        Monitoring    Frequency    Standard       Organization
       Monitored            Location
                                                               Performing    QAfQC

      Nematode eggs             At      Every Batch     c1       WWTO         DOE
    (egg/lOOgmsolids)      Wastewater                           Supervised
      Fecal Coliforms         Plants                             by ESO



Heavy Metals (mg/kg
sludge):
            Cd                 At       Every Batch 20 40
                                                       -         WWTO         DOE
            c u            Wastewater               1000 -1750
                          --- -                                 Supervised
            Ni                Plants                300 -400     by ESO
            Zn
            Pb
                                                    2500 -4000
                                                    750 - 1200

            Cr                                      16 25


WWTO: Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator
ESO: Environment and Safety Oficer
DOE: Department of Environment



Table 10: Monitoring Program for AgriculturalSoil


    Environmental                                                   Responsible
   Parameterto be         Monitoring   P'requency   Standard        Organi tion
      Monitored             Location
                                                               Performing  -QAJQC

      Nematode eggs            At                                MOAJ         DOE
   (egg/100gm solids)      Agriculture                          Supervised
                              land                               by ESO



Heavy Metals (mgkg
soil):
           Cd                  At                                MOAJ         DOE
           c u             Agriculture                          Supervised -
           Ni                 Land                               by ESO
           Zn
           Pb

           Cr


MOJ: Minktty of Agriculture Jihad
ESO: Environment and Safety Oficer
DOE: Department of Environment




                                                28

   Table 11: Cost Estimate of EnvironmentalManagementPlanforAhwaz        - -
                                 Component                                   Quantity     Unit Rate  Total Cost

                                                                                            US$         in
                                                                                                     Thousands
                                                                                                       US$
   AWWC
   Environmental and Safety Officer at Technical Support Unit (TSU)        5 years     12000/year       60
   Short term international environmental consultant to provide technical  10 months   12000/month      120
   assistance to AWWC
   Environmental Monitoring Program for WTP I                                          60 000/year     300
   Environmental Monitoring Program for WTP 2                                          60 000/year     300
   Environmental Monitoring Program for western WWTP                                   75 000/year     375

                                                                                                       1125
  p
  Development of baseline data on water related diseases and a monitoring                               50
  program for the occurrence of these diseases
  Development and implementation of a QNQC monitoring program for
  the proposed project to be implemented by Khouzestan DOE.                                             60

  Development of compliance actions plans (CAP)                            11CAPS       15,000/CAP     165

  Two days workshop to AWWC, Treatment Plant Operators, Ahwaz              2 workshops 7000/workshop
  Municipality and Khouzestan DOE on environmental management,                                          14
  monitoring, analysis and evaluation                                                  7000/workshop
  Two days workshops for AWWC, Municipality, Khouzestan DOE and            2 workshops

  Line Ministries on treated effluent and sludge re-use                                                 14

  One week training workshop to laboratory Staff of Water and              4 workshops 4000/workshop
  Wastewater Treatment Plants on laboratory sampling, analysis,
  environment monitoring and QA/QC                                                                      16

  One day training workshop on occupational health and safety to staff at  4 workshops 1000/workshop
  Water and Wastewater Treatment Plants                                                                 4
  One day workshop for local NGOs, communities and farmers, focusing       4 workshops 1000/workshop
  on public awareness and on re-use of treated wastewater and sludge for
  agricultural purposes.                                                                                4

  Awareness campaigns and pamphlets                                                                     50

                                                                                                       377

                                                                                                       600
  Western WWTP                                                                                         400
                                                                                                    -
lksubtotal                                                                                             1000
11Monitoring  and evaluation at the project level                         !MM              12000       24
11TOTAL                                                                                               2526




                                                           29

     Table 12: Cost Estimateof EnvironmentalManagementPlanfor Shiraz       -                          -
                                   Component                                   Quantity     Unit Rate  Total Cost

                                                                                              US$         in
                                                                                                       Thousands

    -                                                                                                    US$
     swwc
    Environmental and Safety Officer at Technical Support Unit (TSU)         5 years     12000lyear       60
    Short term international environmental consultant to provide technical   10months    12000lmonth      120
    assistance to SWWC
    Short term Archeological consultant for monitoring archeological
    surveys and construction works                                           12months    1 500lmonth      18

    Environmental Monitoring Program for Water Supply System                             600001year      300

    Environmental Monitoring Program for emergency zone WWTP                             75 0001year     300


    Subtotal                                                                                             798

    Studies.Training andAwareness
    Development of baseline data on water related diseases and a monitoring                               50
    program for the occurrence of these diseases
    Development and implementation of a QNQC monitoring program for
    the proposed project to be implemented by Fars DOE                                                    60

    Development of Compliance Action Plan (CAP)                              5 CAPS         60001CAP      30
                                                                             2 workshops 7000/workshop    14
    Municipality and FarsDOE on environmental management, monitoring,
    Two days workshop to SWWC,Treatment Plant Operators, Shiraz

    analysis and evaluation
    Two days workshops for SWWC,Municipality, Fars DOE and Line              2 workshops 7000lworkshop    14

    Ministries on treated effluent and sludge re-use
    One week training workshop to Staff of Water and Wastewater              4 workshops 4000lworkshop    16
    Treatment Plants on laboratory sampling, analysis, environment
    monitoring and QNQC
    One day training workshop on occupational health and safety to staff at  4 workshops 10001workshop    4
    Water and Wastewater Treatment Plants
    One day workshop for local NGOs, communities and farmers, focusing       4 workshops 1000Iworkshop    4
    on public awareness and on re-use of treated wastewater and sludge for
    agricultural purposes.                                                                                50

I11 Awareness campaigns and pamphlets

    Subtotal                                                                                             242
    ;%;tow       EsuiDments
                                                                                                         400
    Emergency zone WWTP                                                                                  300

                                                                                                         700
1111TOTAL                                                                                             -
    Monitoring and evaluation at the project level                          !MM              12000       24

                                                                                                        1764




                                                             30

 PUBLIC   CONSULTATION DISCLOSURE
                              AND

 Public Consultation

 87.     Numerous governmental and non-governmental organizations were consulted at various
 stages of project preparation, as shown in Tables 13 and 14. At the initiation of the project,
 technical,financial, environmental and social issues associated with the project were discussed in
 meetings attended by design consultants, representatives of the City Councils, Municipalities,
 WWCs and various other stakeholders. Terms of reference (TOR) for the EA studies were
 developedand shared with key stakeholders in scoping meetings, which were held on April 2002.

 88.     The purpose of the public consultationmeetings was multifold, namely:

               To disseminate informationabout the nature of the proposed project.

               To raise the awareness of the public regarding the nature and purpose of the
               EnvironmentalImpact Assessmentprocess in simple-to-follow terms.

               To identify a preliminary list of potential environmental and social issues and
               impacts.

               To explore,discuss,and document the issues of concern to the public; which would
               be addressed in the futurephase of impact assessment.

               To disclose to the public how the impacts were determined, the magnitude and
               severityof the impacts, and the proposed mitigation measures.

89.     Upon the completion of the draft EA reports, the executive summary was
translated to Farsi and a public hearing was held in each city for presenting the findings
and recommendationsof the consultantsat the end of the EA process. Public hearings were
held in Ahwaz and Shiraz on October 28th, 2003 and January 4th, 2004, respectively and were
attended by a large number of people including representatives of most ministries, Governors,
MPs, local communities,NGOs, contractors,consultants,university professors and medias.

90.     The public did not have any restriction on the implementation of the project; on the
contrary all presents welcomed the project, requested its initiation the soonest possible, as it
would result in improved health and welfare benefits not only to Ahwaz and Shiraz but for the
whole region and asked for additionalactivities to solvepollution problems.

91.     There was concern about the capacities of the WWCs to implement the project without
technical and financial assistance. Representatives of NGOs expressed their concern about the
pollution of Karoun River and whether the project could improve the conditions of the river
including the absent of marine species that used to live in the river. The Consultant explained
that within the first phase, considerable technical assistance will be provided in various fields to


                                                31

strengthen the capacities of WWCs. Upon completion of the first phase works, pollution loads
discharged to Karoun River will be reduced. However, this will not solve the problem of Karoun
which is mainly due to industrial and agricultural discharges. On the other hand, workshops and
awareness campaigns will be conducted throughout the life of the project to raise awareness of
NGOs, farmers and local communities. AWWC will disseminateregular information and updates
about the project.

92.     The main concern in Shirazwas expressed by NGO and MOE representativesconcerning
the impact of the project on Maharloo Lake, and whether alternative effluent discharge options
are available to avoid these impacts. The Consultantsclarified that the alternative of reusing the
treated effluent in agricultural irrigation is adopted in the project, and therefore the discharge of
effluent in the lake will take place during the wet season only. Furthermore, the treated effluent
of the WWTPs would be in compliance with the national standards for surface water discharge.
Also to evaluate potential effects on the lake, the project includes a comprehensive program for
monitoring the Lake's water quality. Other concerns related to the impact of the project on the
historical buildings of Shiraz and the measures foreseen to mitigate these adverse impacts. The
Consultantsclarified that the design of the project was studied carefully to site all facilities and
align all underground lines away from historical sites; furthermore the project will ensure
compliance with the permit requirements of the SCHO, whose representative will attend the
construction sites near cultural heritage areas. MOAJ requested clarification on how the project
will address the reuse of treated sludge in agriculture. It was clarified that adequate design
provisions have been incorporatedin the sludge treatment process, sludge application, sludge and
soil monitoring to address all the requirementsof the national and internationalstandards.

PublicDisclosure

93.     Complete sets of draft EA reports for the proposedWater supply and SanitationProject in
Ahwaz and Shiraz, including the Farsi Version of this executive summary have been posted for
public disclosurepurposes in the followingplaces accessibleto the public:
       Ministry of Energy -Tehran

       Ahwaz Water and WastewaterCompany

       ShirazWater and wastewater Company
       Department of Environment -Tehran
       Khouzestanand Fars Departmentsof Environment

94.    Moreover, the documents have been also disclosed electronically through the World
Bank Information Center (Infoshop)website (www.worldbank.org/infoshop).




                                                 32

Table 13: Key Commentsof GovernmentalOrganizations

                                             Key Comments
                - Existing systems: water shortage, low pressure, poor quality, old
                network, absence of suitable waste water collection system, need to
                control for spread of disease, need hygienic conditions, current system
                has adverse impact on natural resources
                - New systems: improve efficiency of municipal activities, removal of
                odor would increase land values, improvement to residents welfare and
                livelihoods, sludge should be used instead of fertilizers and irrigation of
                green areas, need educational aspects to inform residents of benefits of
                schemes.
                - Existing systems: bad taste, bad odor, contaminants in water, loa
                pressure, old age of network.
                -New systems: use the sludge instead of fertilizers and irrigation of green

                considered) execute the project as soon as possible
                areas, (negative impact such as disease distribution should be

                - Existing  systems: problems due to water distribution, shortage of water
                ,drinking water not being separated from the sanitary water, absence of
                modem svstems for waste water treatment
                                                           ~

                -New systems: usage of treated sludge for irrigation and improve the
                physical structure of soil, would like schemes implemented as soon as

                - Existing systems: old network, low pressure, existence of leaching pits,
                conduct wastewater to open channels, municipal wastewater dumped
                into to the river, absence of wastewater treatment system
                -New systems: improve the present living conditions, need to consider
                the design of wastewater treatment plant, control of agricultural related
                diseases and diseases in the cattle herds, the training of farmers ,
                scheduling for the continuation project beyond 2027, sludge will need to
                be treated to the level of (B) class in order to use for crops such as grain
                - Existing systems: drop of water pressure, poor quality of water, low
                zfficiencyof network
                -New systems: the new scheme should improve the hygiene of people
                living in the downstream of River Karoun, treated wastewater and sludge
                should be used in agriculture, the welfare and social conditions of the
                Zity should improve, not likely to have direct visual impact, would like
                xoject to commence immediately, construction materials and machinery
                ihould be selected to ensure long period of operation and efficiency




                            33

Table 14: Key Commentsof Non-GovernmentalOrganizations

                                                Key Comments

                  - Ekisting systems: low pressure, offensive odor and unsuitable taste, olc
                  network, entrance of untreated waste water to the river, absence o
                  suitable waste water collection system, insufficient treatment facilitie
                  presently
                  -New systems: consideration should be given to undertaking of public
                  participation, using up to date data and information, monitoring an(
                  comparing the project with national and global standards should forn
                  part of the assessment, using treated sludge instead of fertilizers an(
                  using treated waste water for irrigation is supported, disease should bc
                  reduced and public hygienic conditions improved, would like project tc
                  cotnmence as soon as possible
                  - Existing systems: poor quality of water, local environment destruction
                  inqeasing contaminant factors, socio- economic impacts, effect ot
                  efficiency of the civilians, spread of diseases is a serious problem
                  -New systems: need to consider the local conditions of the region, i
                  should be necessary to provide environmental management plan, neec
                  coordinated management using sludge optimize energy consumption
                  scheme should improve the soil quality, improve the welfare anc
                 livelihood of the residents, decrease in polluting factors, accepting globa
                  standards, not using sludge for short plants, continuous monitoring i!
                 required, rely on experts for managing and monitoring, need to keep tht
                 public informed, should not use sludge for crops that are consumed raw
                 -  Existing systems: low pressure, poor quality of water, old network
                 entrance of municipal raw waste water to Karoun River, absence o
                 proper treatment system, increase of pollutants in water resource, watei
                 born diseases problems, lack of compliance with standards anc
                 regulations
                 -New systems: want scheme implemented as soon as possible
                 educational courses for workers, reuse of treated wastewater, monitoring
                 and control by expert personnel, need to keep the public informed
                 should not use the sludge for crops that are consumed raw
                 .Existing systems: high occurrences of diseases, problems and sanitq
                 :cfsts, water quality has decreased over time, pests have increased, high
                 isk of industrial waste water entering water resources, decrease in
                 igricultural activities, decrease in environmental standards, increase of
                  he salinity of the land has led to unemployment, increase in water born
                 liseases.
                 ~                                                                        ~

                  New systems: using mass media to educate and train, sludge should be
                 ised as soil fertilizer, need to ensure new system does not lead to
                 )#ensive odor and unsuitable taste.




                             34

REFERENCES AND DOCUMENTS          CONSULTED

Ahwaz
  1. First Interim Report- Feasibility Studies for Water Supply and wastewater Collection,
      Treatment and Disposal Facilities for City of Ahwaz; Rey-Ab ConsultingEngineers; Vol
      I; 2002.
  .2 Second InterimReport-Feasibility Studies for Water Supply and wastewater Collection,
      Treatmentand Disposal Facilities for City of Ahwaz; Rey-Ab ConsultingEngineers; Vol
      2; 2002.
  .3 Third Interim Report- Feasibility Studies for Water Supply and wastewater Collection,
      Treatment and Disposal Facilities for City of Ahwaz; Rey-Ab ConsultingEngineers; Vol
      3; 2002.
  .4 Draft Report-FeasibilityStudiesfor Water Supplyand wastewaterCollection,Treatment
      and Disposal Facilities for City of Ahwaz; Rey-AbConsultingEngineers; 2002.
  5. Final Report-FeasibilityStudiesfor Water Supplyand WastewaterCollection,Treatment
      and Disposal Facilities for City of Ahwaz; Rey-Ab ConsultingEngineers; 2003.
  6. Background Reports of Ahwaz Wastewater Plan; Rey-Ab Consulting Engineers and
     Ahwaz water and WastewaterCompany.
  7. Environmental Assessment of the Wide Sheet Calendar Factory; Jaafarzadeh Haghighi
     Fard, N., et al; 2002; Schoolof Health, Ahwaz Medical ScienceUniversity.
  8. Environmental Assessment of Engineering-Sanitary Solid waste landfill of Ahwaz City;
     Jaafarzadeh Zadeh Haghighi Fard, N., et al; 2002; School of Health Ahwaz Science
     Medical University.
  9. History of Ahwaz City Sewage Design Report for Presentingto the World Bank; Ahwaz
     Sewageand Water Organization;Rey-Ab ConsultantEngineers Co.; 2001.
  10.KhouzestanProvince StatisticalYearbook; 2001.
  11.KhouzestanProvince StatisticalYearbook; 2000.
  12.The Results of Analyses in Sewage Laboratory; Exploitation Assistance of Ahwaz
     Sewage and Water Co.; 2001.
  13.TheReport of Karoun Water Qualityin 2000 and 2001;Ahwaz Sewageand Water Co.
  14.Tracing and Determining Studies of Heavy Metals Amount in Karoun Aquatic System;
     1997-2000;JaafarzadehZadeh Haghighi Fard, N., et al; School of health Ahwaz Medical
     Science University; EnvironmentalProtectionOrganization.
  15. Determining the Amounts of Phosphorous Toxins and D.D.T. Isomerouses in Karoun
     Water; 1999; Jaafar Zadeh Haghighi Fard, N., et al; Environmental Protection
     Organization; Organizationof Removing the VegetativePests.
  16.Surveying the Performance of Maleh Stream in Decreasing Some Pollutants; Eskandari
     Makvandi, M.T.; 1999;Thesis of M.S.; Center of Supplementaryresearch and Education
     of Azad University;Ahwaz Center.


                                            35

    17.Expansive Studies of Khouzestan Province Development; Natural Resources;
       Programming and ManagementOrganization;February 1997.
    18.Limnological Survey of Karouq River (Band e Ghir to Khorram Shahr); Safi Khani, H;
       1998;Fisheries ResearchCenter of KhouzestanProvince.
    19.Studies of the Master plan for decreasing the Ahwaz Air Pollution; Jaafar Zadeh
       HaghighiFard, N., et al; 2002; School of Health Ahwaz Medical Science University.
   20. Determination of Sound Level of Central Regions of Ahwaz; Rafi'ei, M.; 2001; School
       of Health Ahwaz Medical ScienkeUniversity.
   21.Flora of Khouzestan; Mozaffarian, V.; 1999;Ministry of Jahad e Sazandegi; Research
       Center of Natural Resourcesand Husbandryof Khouzestan.
   22.A Field Guideto the Mammals of Iran; Zia'ei,H.; 1996;Department of the Environment.
   23. The Birds of Iran; Firouz, E.; 1976;Departmentof the Environment.
   24.Extensive Water Program of the Country (Karoon and Dez Basins); 1988; Jamab
       ConsultingEngineers.
   25. GeotecnicReport of Ahwaz; 1995;SoilResearch Institute.
   26. The Geological Report of Logistics Plan of the Karoon River; 2000; Dezab Consulting
       Engineers.
   27. The HydrologicalReport of LogisticsPlan of the Karoon River; 2000; Dezab Consulting
       Engineers.
   28. The Meteorological Report af Logistics Plan of the Karoon River; 2000; Dezab
       ConsultingEngineers.
   29. Final Report of GeotechnicalConditions of Wastewater Network for the City of Ahwaz;
       2002; Reyab ConsultingEngineers


Shiraz
  1, A Study of Air Pollution in Shiraz; A.Safari, Organization of EnvironmentalProtection,
      Fars Branch, 1999
  2.  A Study of Contamination and Contamination Resources of Water in Shiraz Plain; M.
      Koochmeshkian; Organizationof EnvironmentalProtection,1993
  3. A Study of Ways for Water Table Drawdown in South-east of Shiraz Plain; Parab Fars
      ConsultingEngineers, 1991
  4.  A Synthesis of the Comprehensive Study for Revitalization and Development of
      Agriculture and Natural Resources in Fars Province (Parts 6 and 7); Yekom Consulting
      Engineers,2000
 5.   Agriculture and Natural Resources in Fars Province, Part 19 (Environment); Yekom
      A Synthesis of the Comprehensive Study for Revitalization and Development of

      ConsultingEngineers, 2000
 6.   Contamination of Water and 'soil in Catchment Area of Maharloo Lake; K. Banani,
      Organization for EnvironmentalProtection,Fars Branch, 1996


                                            36

7.  Draft report -Feasibility Study for water Supply and wastewater Collection Treatment
    and Disposal Facilities for City of Shiraz,Iranab ConsultingEngineers, 2002
8.
    ghods ConsultingEngineers,prepared for ShirazWater and Sewage Company,2002
    Economic-Social-Environmental-TechnicalJustificationof ShirazSeweragePlan; Mahab

9.  Environmental Impact Assessments of Shiraz Sewage Treatment Plant during
    Construction and Operation; Z.Saboori; Graduation Paper; School of Environmental
    Studies, University of Tehran, 2001
10. Final Report- Feasibility Study for water Supply and wastewater Collection Treatment
    and Disposal Facilities for City of Shiraz,Iranab ConsultingEngineers;2003
11. First Interim Report- Feasibility Study for Water Supply and Wastewater collection
    Treatment and Disposal for City of Shiraz;IraanabConsulting Engineers;Vol. 1;2002
12. General Census of People and Houses; Iran CensusCenter; 1996
13. Identificationof Iranian Villages; Iran Census Center; 1999
14. Iran Wild Life (Vertebrae);EskandarFirooz; University Press Center,1999
17. Phase 1 Study Report for Rehabilitation of Shins Water network (Parts 1and 2); Iranab
    ConsultingEngineers,2001
18. Plan for Development and Extension of Shiraz (Part 5); Parhas Consulting Engineers,
    prepared for Fars Housing and City Planning Branch Office, 1996
19. Report on Geo-electrical investigation of groundwaterresourcesof Shiraz;Abkav-Tehran
    ConsultingEngineers, 1971
20. Report on Geology of Catchment Area of Shiraz Khoshk River; Parab Fars-Haseb Fars
    ConsultingEngineers,2002
21. Report on Hydrogeology and Water Resources (RehabilitationPlan of Khoshk River in
    Shiraz);ParabFars-HasebFars ConsultingEngineers,2002
22. Report on Morphology of Shiraz Khoshk River; Parab Fars-Haseb Fars Consulting
    Engineers,2002
23. Second Interim Report- Feasibility Study for Water Supply and Wastewater collection
    Treatmentand Disposal for City of Shiraz;Iran Ab ConsultingEngineers; Vol. 2; 2002
24. Soil Study of Shiraz;Center for Investigation of Water and Soil, 1969
25. Study of Contamination of Maharloo Lake Water; Organization for Environmental
    Protection,Fars Branch-Shiraz University, 1998
26. The Birds of Iran, Firooz .E; 1976;Department of the Environment
27. Third Interim Report- Feasibility Study for Water Supply and Wastewater Collection
    Treatment and Disposal for City of Shiraz;Iran Ab ConsultingEngineers; Vol. 3 ;2002
28. Tracing of Heavy Metals in Water, Soil and some Agricultural Products around Khoshk
    River in Shiraz; Moslemi, Jaafar-Zadeh, Abbasi; Organization for Environmental
    Protection, Fars Branch.




                                           37

      ANNEXA
LISTOFEA TEAMMEMBERS




         38

   LISTOF CONSULTANTS THATPARTICIPATED IN THE EA REPORTS OFAHWAZAND
   SHIRAZ

II Mrs.               NAME                          PROFESSION         I
        Aghamohammadi. Nasrin        I Public Health Engineer
                                     I



   Mrs. Anhari, Hamideh                 Biologist
   Mr. Arbabi,Mohsen                    Public Health Engineer
   Mr. Ashrafi,Mohammad                 Environment Engineer
  Dr. Azimi, Ali Akbar                  Sewage Treatment Engineer
  Mr. Bahout,Edward                     EA Expert
%s.     Chitsazan,Zahra                 Environment Management
  Mr. Dadrast,Mohammad Javad            Environment Management




1
I k s . Omidvar,Pegah
  Mrs. Porteus, Louise               II EAExpert
                                        Environment Management

  Mr. Rezayei,Abdolmajid               Geologist
  Mrs. Sabori,Zinat                    EnvironmentManagement
  Mr. Sayari,Mojtaba                   Natural ResourceEngineering
  Mrs. Sabzevari.Farahnaz              EnvironmentManagement
  Mrs. Taban,Parisa                    EnvironmentEngineer
I Mr.  Taghizadeh,Mohammad Mehdi       EnvironmentEngineer
  Mr. Younessi, Mohammad             I MiningEngineer                  I




                                    39

    ANNEX B

AHWAZ LOCATION MAP




       40

i
/

              ANNEX C

SHIRAZ LOCATIONMAP AND SITES OF WWTPs




                42

43


