Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4738-IRN 
 
AHWAZ Project Agreement 
 
(Ahwaz and Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
AHWAZ WATER AND WASTEWATER COMPANY 
 
Dated July 17, 2004 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4738-IRN 
AHWAZ PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated July 17, 2004, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and AHWAZ WATER AND 
WASTEWATER COMPANY (the Ahwaz Water Company). 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Islamic 
Republic of Iran (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make a loan to the 
Borrower in the amount of two hundred seventy-nine million  Dollars (US$279,000,000), 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that 
the Ahwaz Water Company agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are 
set forth in this Agreement; 
(B) 
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and the Ahwaz Water Company, part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the 
Loan Agreement will be made available, as a loan, to the Ahwaz Water Company on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (the Ahwaz Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement); and 
WHEREAS
 the Ahwaz Water Company, in consideration of the Bank’s entering 
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set 
forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional term 
has the following meaning: “Ahwaz Project Account” means the account referred to in 
Section 4.03 (a) of this Agreement. 
Page  3
-2- 
 ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) The Ahwaz Water Company declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out its Parts of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, social 
and public utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the said Parts of the 
Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the Ahwaz Water Company shall otherwise agree, the Ahwaz 
Water Company shall carry out its Parts of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Ahwaz Water Company’s Parts of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) The Ahwaz Water Company shall carry out the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Ahwaz Project 
Agreement. 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Ahwaz Water Company shall: 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after  the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and the Ahwaz Water Company, a plan for the 
future operation of its Parts of the Project;  and 
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Ahwaz Water Company on said plan. 
Section 2.04. The Ahwaz Water Company shall duly perform all its obligations 
under the Ahwaz Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Ahwaz Water Company shall not take or concur in any action which would have the 
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Ahwaz Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Page  4
-3- 
Section 2.05. (a) The Ahwaz Water Company shall, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of its Parts of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Ahwaz Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan. 
(b) 
The Ahwaz Water Company shall promptly inform the Bank of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its Parts of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the performance by the Ahwaz 
Water Company of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Ahwaz Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of the Ahwaz Water Company 
Section 3.01. The Ahwaz Water Company shall carry on its operations and 
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, 
environmental and public utility practices under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
Section 3.02. The Ahwaz Water Company shall at all times operate and maintain 
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as 
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial, environmental and public utility practices. 
Section 3.03. The Ahwaz Water Company shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
 Section 4.01. (a) The Ahwaz Water Company shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to its Parts of the Project. 
(b) 
The Ahwaz Water Company shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
Page  5
-4- 
related statements), as well as its own financial statements, for 
each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), audited, 
in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
Section 4.02.  (a) The Ahwaz Water Company shall prepare and furnish to the 
Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for its Parts of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, showing separately funds provided under the 
Loan, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in the implementation of its 
Parts of the Project, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report, and explains variances between the 
actual
 
and planned implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under its Parts of the 
Project, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter 
after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first 
expenditure under its Parts of the Project through the end of such first calendar 
quarter; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, 
and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
Page  6
-5- 
 
Section 4.03. (a) The Ahwaz Water Company shall, not later than the 
Effective Date until completion of the Project, open, and thereafter maintain, in 
Rial a Project account in the name of the Ahwaz Water Company. The Ahwaz 
Project Account shall be used exclusively by the Ahwaz Water Company to meet 
the expenditures of Parts A.1, A.2, B.1, C.1 and D.2(a) of the Project not financed 
from proceeds of the Loan. 
 
(b) 
The Ahwaz Water Company shall, not later than the Effective 
Date, pay into the Ahwaz Project Account an initial deposit equivalent to 
$500,000 representing the first six (6) months of the Ahwaz Water Company's 
contribution to the costs of Parts A.1, A.2, B.1, C.1 and D.2(a) of the Project; and 
thereafter deposit into the Ahwaz Project Account, not later than March 21 of the 
calendar year until completion of the Project, the amount of the Ahwaz Water 
Comp
any’s annual contribution to the said costs for such calendar year, as 
determined by agreement between the Ahwaz Water Company and the Bank. 
(c) 
The Ahwaz Water Company shall ensure that all amounts deposited into 
the Ahwaz Project Account, in accordance with the provisions of this Section, shall be 
used exclusively to finance the Ahwaz Water Company’s counterpart contribution to the 
expenditures of Parts A.1, A.2, B.1, C.1 and D.2(a) of the Project not otherwise financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan.  
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Ahwaz Water 
Company shall maintain, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on March 
,2005, a ratio of total operating expenses, excluding depreciation and financial charges, to 
total operating revenues, acceptable to the Bank, so as to enable the Ahwaz Water 
Company to achieve, by March 21, 2009, a ratio of total operating expenses, excluding 
depreciation and financial charges, to total operating revenues not higher than 0.75.  
(b) 
Before March 21 in each of its fiscal years, the Ahwaz Water Company 
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by Ahwaz Water Company and satisfactory to the 
Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) above in 
respect of such year and the next following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Bank the 
results of such review upon its completion. 
(c) 
If any such review shows that the Ahwaz Water Company would not 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) above for the Ahwaz Water Company's 
fiscal years covered by such review, the Ahwaz Water Company shall promptly take all 
necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels 
of its rates) in order to meet such requirements. 
(d) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
Page  7
-6- 
(i) 
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related 
to operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for 
depreciation of the average current gross value of the Ahwaz 
Water Company's fixed assets in operation, or other basis 
acceptable to the Bank, but excluding financial charges. 
(ii) 
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to operations. 
(iii) 
The average current gross value of the Ahwaz Water Company 's 
fixed assets in operation shall be calculated as one half of the 
sum of the gross value of the Ahwaz Water Company 's fixed 
assets in operation at the beginning and at the end of the fiscal 
year, as valued from time to time in accordance with sound and 
consistently maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
Section 4.05. The Ahwaz Water Company shall: (a) reduce its accounts 
receivable for water and wastewater sales so that, commencing on March 21, 2009, such 
accounts receivable shall not exceed the sum of the amounts billed by the Ahwaz Water 
Company during the four (4) months immediately preceding the date on which such 
calculation is made; and (b) reduce the level of its unaccounted-for water so that, 
commencing on March 21, 2009, such level shall not exceed 27% of the water supplied 
by the Ahwaz Water Company.   
 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the Ahwaz 
Water Company thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the 
Ahwaz Water Company thereof. 
Section 5.03. All these provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
Page  8
-7- 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For the Ahwaz Water Company: 
 
Post Code: 61335 
West 5
th
 Avenue Kianpars 
Ahwaz, Islamic Republic of Iran 
 
Facsimile: 
 
0611-3336687 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Ahwaz 
Water Company, or by the Ahwaz Water Company on behalf of the Borrower under the 
Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by its Managing Director or such other 
person or persons as the Managing Director shall designate in writing, and the Managing 
Director shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
Page  9
-8- 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran, as of the day and year first above 
written.  
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Christiaan Poortman 
Authorized Representative 
 
AHWAZ WATER AND WASTEWATER COMPANY 
 
By /s/  Safdar Hosseini 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  10
-9- 
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section I.  
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 (a) 
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b) 
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost $5,000,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to 
large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
 
(c) Prequalification
Bidders for work contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000,000 or 
more shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 
of the Guidelines.  
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost 
less than $500,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 
Page  11
-10- 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines and with procedures acceptable to the Bank. 
Said procedures shall  ensure, 
inter alia,
 that: (i) the format of the bidding documents shall 
be consistent with the Bank’s standard bidding documents; (ii) tenders shall be advertised 
in local newspapers of wide circulation with a bid submission deadline of thirty (30) days 
from the date advertisement; (iii) government-owned enterprises shall be subject to the 
same bid and performance security requirements as other bidders and shall not be eligible 
to bid for contracts unless they: (a) are legally and financially autonomous; (b) operate 
under the provisions of the Borrower’s commercial code; and (c) are not selected by the 
supervising or reporting ministry or governmental agency; (iv) all bids shall be submitted in 
sealed envelopes and shall be accepted whether mailed or hand-carried; (v) all bids shall be 
opened at the same time in public; (vi) all bids shall be opened on the day on which the 
deadline for bid submission falls, or very soon thereafter; (vii) prospective bidders may 
submit two (2) envelopes provided said envelopes shall be opened at the same time; 
(viii) all bids shall be evaluated on the basis of price and other criteria disclosed in the bid 
documents, and no provision for preferential treatment for national companies shall apply; 
(ix) contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder; (x) no bidder 
shall be requested or permitted to modify his, her or its bid after the bid’s closing date shall 
have elapsed; and (xi) price negotiations with the lowest evaluated responsive bidder shall 
be prohibited. 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
Works of an emergency nature, and goods of a proprietary nature costing 
$1,000,000 or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
Page  12
-11- 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply with respect to: (i) each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more; (ii) each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $500,000 or more; (iii) the first two (2) contracts for works regardless of the 
value thereof; and (iv) the first contract for goods regardless of the value thereof. 
 
(b) 
Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph 2 (a) of this Part D, 
with respect to the first contract for goods procured in accordance with the procedures 
referred to in paragraph 2 of Part C above, and all contracts for goods and works 
procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph 3 of Part C above, 
the following procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier, or execution of any 
contract, under shopping or direct contracting procedures, the 
Ahwaz Water Company shall provide to the Bank a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping or 
direct contracting procedures, the Ahwaz Water Company shall 
provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II.  
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Page  13
-12- 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shal
l
apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-Cost 
Selection
Training services and supervision services under Parts A.1, A.2 and B.1 of the 
Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Part D.2 (a) of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Specialized advisory services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Single-Source 
Selection
In exceptional cases, and wherever justified in the context of the overall 
interests of the Ahwaz Water Company and the Project, single-source selection of 
consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract 
may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  14
-13- 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (ii) each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants procured under Part C.3 or Part C.4 of Section II of 
this Schedule estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  15
-14- 
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
A. 
 Project Coordination and Implementation
1. 
  (a) 
The Ahwaz Water Company shall: (i) maintain the Environmental 
Management Plan, Land Acquisition Plan and Resettlement Policy Framework in a form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) implement the Environmental 
Management Plan, Land Acquisition Plan and Resettlement Policy Framework in 
accordance with the objectives, policies, procedures, time schedules and other provisions 
set forth therein.  
(b) 
The Ahwaz Water Company shall refrain from taking any action which 
shall prevent or interfere with the implementation of the Environmental Management 
Plan, Land Acquisition Plan and Resettlement Policy Framework. 
B. 
Reports and Mid-term Report
1. 
The Ahwaz Water Company shall: 
 (a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the 
carrying out of its Parts of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
NWWEC for review and submission to the Bank: (i) commencing March 21, 2005, 
quarterly reports on the progress achieved in the carrying out of its Parts of the Project, 
including reports on the implementation of the Environmental Management Plan; and 
(ii) not later than June 30, 2007, a report, integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of its Parts of the Project, including the implementation of the 
Environmental Management Plan, during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of its Parts of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; 
and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by September 30, 2007, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) (ii) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Bank views on the matter. 
 
Page  16
-15- 
 
Seble Berhanu 
M:\legmn\IRAN\Ahwaz & Shiraz Water Supply & Sanitation\AHWAZ PA(Board).doc 
May 21, 2004 11:19 AM 
 
