E869
Volume 1
Islamic Republic of Iran
Ministry of Energy
National Water and Wastewater Engineering Company
SHIRAZ WATER SUPPLY AND WASTEWATER
PROJECT
PHRD NO: TF026482
Environmental Assessment
(Final Report)
Lar Consulting Engineers in collaboration with Iran Ab Consulting
Engineers
No. 23, Sharifi Street                       Tehran
North of Vanak Square                       Islamic Republic of Iran
Vali-asr Avenue
Tehran 19699
Islamic Republic of Iran
March 2004
FILE COPYeZ



t9



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
MINISTRY OF ENERGY
SHIRAZ WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
(FINAL)
March 2004
1



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
SHIRAZ WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT - EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
POLICY, LEGAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENT FOR ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT
BASELINE INFORMATION
IMPACTS OF THE PROJECTS
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)
* Mitigation of Adverse Environmental Impacts
* Monitoring Plan
* Institutional Strengthening
* Cost Estimate
PUBLIC CONSULTATION
2



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
SHIRAZ WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT - EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOD          Biochemical Oxygen Demand
DOE          Department of Environment
EA           Environmental Assessment
EHC          Environmental High Council
ESO          Environmental and Safety Officer
EMP          Environmental Management Plan
EU           European Union
FAO          Food and Agriculture Organization
MOAJ         Ministry of Agriculture Jihad
MOE          Ministry of Energy
MOHME        Ministry of health and Medical Education
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
OP           Operational Policy
PMU          Project Management Unit
QA/QC        Quality Assurance and Quality Control
SWWC         Shiraz Water and Wastewater Company
TOR          Terms of Reference
WB           World Bank
WHO          World Health Organization
WTP          Water Treatment Plant
WTPO         Water Treatment Plant Operator
WWTO         Wastewater Treatment Operator
WWTP         Wastewater Treatment Plant
3



Introduction
Problems such as the present unreliable water supply systems, the inconsistent quality of drinking
water, the poor performance of water distribution networks and the lack of adequate wastewater
collection and treatment systems coupled with rapid growth of population and expansion of urban
centres has prompted the Government of Iran to consider water supply and sanitation projects as a
high priority. Among others currently under development, the Shiraz Water Supply and
Sanitation Project is being developed by the Iranian Ministrv of Energy to provide adequate water
supply and sewerage systems for the city of Shiraz.
Shiraz is the capital of Fars province and is located at approximately 925 km to the south of
Tehran. The present population is about 1,200,000 and is projected to reach 1,950,000 by the
year 2027. Shiraz has a rich historical heritage and is close to Persepolis, the most important
archeological site of the country.
It is estimated that more than 99% of the inhabitants of Shiraz are currently connected to the
city's water supply network. Water quality monitoring indicates that the water supply is of
acceptable quality and in compliance with national and WHO standards. Chemical, physical and
bacteriological analyses are conducted on a daily basis at various points including water sources,
storage reservoirs and distribution network. The major problems raised by the Water and
Wastewater Company is the high percentage of unaccounted for water (around 30%) and the need
to rehabilitate a considerable portion of the network. Rehabilitation of the network has been
initiated but is proceeding at a very slow rate due to limited financial resources. Other problems
identified by the Water and Wastewater Company are the relatively low water quality of Alluvial
ground water sources that have high levels of hardness and nitrates, and the insufficient water
pressure in some zones of the distribution network.
Similar to other cities, wastewater collection, treatment and disposal are the main environmental
concern in Shiraz. At present only 8% of the population is connected to the wastewater collection
system. Due to the high water table and low soil permeability, the use of existing seepage pits
has been unsatisfactory causing groundwater contamination. A great part of the wastewater is
discharged in the seasonal rivers of the city or in open drainage channels that run along the roads
adjacent to the residential areas. During the dry periods, the channels become open wastewater
collectors emitting noxious odors, attracting mosquitoes and affecting the health of the residents.
The wastewater collected by the existing sewers is conveyed along Khoshk River that divides the
city in two parts and ultimately discharges in Maharloo Lake.
The impact of wastewater on public health is considered to be less than that experienced in other
cities yet water related diseases such as cholera and gastro enteritis are being reported by the
health centers of the city and have been attributed mainly to the irrigation of raw eaten vegetables
with untreated wastewater. It was also reported that around 21 wells have been decommissioned
4



due to contamination, mainly in areas where groundwater is relatively high. In order to improve
public health conditions and to reduce the contamination of the water resources, the Water and
Wastewater Company has started implementing a wastewater system for the whole city.
The objectives of the Shiraz Water and Sanitation Project are:
(a) improving access of the residents to adequate water supply;
(b) providing satisfactory wastewater collection and treatment;
(c) improving health conditions of targeted population;
(d) reducing surface and ground water pollution, improving environmental conditions
and promoting reuse of treated effluents;
(e) strengthening and developing the capacity of Shiraz Water and Wastewater Company
(SWWC) into a fully autonomous entity to be operated on a commercial basis.
The execution of the project will have positive environmental impacts in terms of reducing
pollution of natural resources, generation of significant economical, social and public health
benefits, and will facilitate the enforcement of existing environmental regulations and standards
by the government.
Potential negative impacts from the proposed project are mainly related to the construction phase
of the project, and are thus of temporary nature. Other negative impacts that might arise from the
project will be mitigated through appropriate measures. The present report summarizes the
findings of the environmental assessment study that was conducted and the environmental
management plan that will be adopted for the project.
Project Description
The feasibility study for Shiraz water and wastewater management has been prepared to meet the
study area requirements up to the year 2027. The study covered the city boundaries established
by the Shiraz Master Plan with a total area of 22,075 ha (6,760 ha in the Emergency Zone and
15,315 ha in the Long Term Zone) having a forecast total population of 1,944,860 (583,460 in the
Emergency Zone and 1,361,400 in the Long Term Zone) in the year 2027. The required works
for water and wastewater will be completed over three phases, with phase one from year 2003 to
year 2007, phase two from year 2008 to year 2017, and phase three from year 2018 to year 2027.
The Shiraz Water and Sanitation Project will cover works to be included in the first phase defined
by the feasibility (2003 to 2007).
5



Water supply:
At present 99% of the City's population is served by the water supply network. The total water
demand of the city is 288,600 m3/day and is expected to reach 474,400 m3/day by the year 2027.
The current water demands are supplied from surface and ground water resources. Surface water
is provided from the Douroudzam dam located 100 km north-west of Shiraz. The quantity of
water that is currently transferred from the Dam is about 71,700 m3/day, representing 25% of the
present water demand of the city, and is being increased by the Fars Regional Water Board to
reach 155,500 m3/day by the year 2005.  The existing water treatment plant utilizes a
conventional water treatment scheme which includes: flocculation, sedimentation, filtration and
chlorination. The remaining supply of the city's water is provided from 69 ground water wells
which supply 261,800 m3/day. Out of the total number of operating wells, there are 16 wells that
are located in the Alluvium aquifer inside the city while the others are located in the Karstic
aquifer. Wells located in the alluvium aquifer supply only 40,600 m3/day of extremely hard
water and will be soon put out of service. As part of the proposed project, the following water
works will be executed:
*   Drilling and equipping of 17 new wells tapping Kerstin water resources. Total
water abstracted by these wells amounts to 82,000 m3/d;
*   Laying of 34 km GRP transmission pipelines feeding distribution system and
transmitting water from wells to reservoirs. Diameters range between 500-1200
mm;
*   Rehabilitation and extension of the water network including installation of pressure
reducing valves. Diameters range between 200-400 mm with a total length of 235
km of PE pipes;
*   Construction of four concrete reservoirs Sonboleh (7500m3), Abeverdi (300 m3),
R8 (20,000m3), and R20 as well as construction of two pumping stations.
Wastewater:
Shiraz is divided into two major drainage zones, referred to as Emergency Drainage Zone and
Long Term Zone with drainage areas of 6,760 and 15,315 hectares, respectively. The Present
generated wastewater volume is around 206,600 m3 /d (64,500 m3 /d in the emergency zone and
139,100 m3 /d in the long-term zone) and is expected to reach 363,850 m3 /d (115,750 m3 /d in
the emergency zone and 248,100 m3 /d in the long-term zone) by the year 2027.
The wastewater management system has been designed for the year 2027 and includes around
3000 km of collection mains and trunk lines and two secondary treatment plants referred to as the
Emergency plant and the Long Term plant. The necessity for two treatment plants is not related
to the urgency of implementing treatment works, but rather to the fact that the city is divided into
two drainage zones. Both treatment plants are based on the use of activated sludge with effluent
disinfection by chlorination. The Emergency treatment plant has an ultimate capacity of 123,500
6



m3 /d , whereas the Long Term plant has an ultimate capacity of 266,000 m3 /d. Treated effluent
of both plants will be reused for irrigation, whereas the generated sludge of the plants will be re-
used as a fertilizer.
At present trunk lines are being laid in the two drainage zones especially where wastewater is
flowing in open streams. The land for the Emergency treatment plant (75 ha in area) has been
acquired and the construction of the first phase works has commenced. A full EA was not
performed prior to the construction of the Emergency wastewater treatment plant. Consequently
and as part of the EA study of the proposed Shiraz Water and Sanitation Project, a post review
was undertaken with respect to the sitting, engineering design, technical and environmental
performance as well as any potential risks related to the operation of the WWTP. Under the
proposed project, the following wastewater works will be executed:
*   Construction of 95 km of concrete trunk mains in the emergency and long-term
areas. Diameters range between 500- 1200;
*   Construction of 740 km of PE laterals and interceptors. Works under this sub-
component will cover an area of 5496 ha;
*   Construction of 50,000 additional house connections;
*   Construction of two modules with a total capacity of 100,000 m3/d in the long-
term zone. To optimize the efficiency of the treatment plant, each module is
designed to be capable of operation in four independent streams. However, as this
treatment plant is proposed to be built under DBO contract. Its design will be
finalized during the tendering process;
*    Construction of 20 km outfalls to discharge treated effluent for emergency plant
and long-term treatment plants as well as sludge storage site.
The land required for the construction of the Long Term wastewater treatment plant has been
recently acquired by the Shiraz Water and Wastewater Company. Pipelines will be laid within
the right of way of public streets, while outfalls from both wastewater treatment plants will be
laid within the right of way of the existing drainage channel.
The process design of the treatment plants was developed based on influent loads that were
estimated from the long term data acquired at Esfahan and Tehran treatment plants with treated
effluent quality as specified by Iranian standards and World Health Organization (WHO). These
effluent standards include concentration limits for BOD, suspended solids, nitrogen, fecal
coliform and intestinal nematodes. Table 2 presents the design influent and effluent criteria for
both treatment plants. It should be noted that since wastewater reuse is one of the project
objectives, the treated effluent of both plants shall also be in compliance with the National
standards for use of wastewater in agriculture, applicable European Union (EU), World Health
Organization (WHO) and Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) Guidelines of reuse in
7



agriculture. These guidelines and standards include among others, concentration limits of
cadmium, chromium, nickel, lead zinc, and intestinal nematode eggs.
Treated effluent from both treatment plants will be discharged into concrete channels that run
along agricultural areas and ultimately dispose the effluent in Maharloo Lake. The lake has a
surface area of around 200 hectares and an average water depth of 40 cm. The lake water is
brackish with high levels of salts (average NaCl content 188 g/l) and metals including iron,
cadmium and lead.
Sludge treatment is achieved through blending, thickening, and anaerobic digestion, followed by
storage for one year.  Sludge produced from the Emergency treatment plant in year 2007 is
estimated at 1825 tons/year and will reach 6000 tons/year by year 2027, whereas the sludge
produced at the Long Term treatment plant is estimated at 2000 tons/year in year 2007 and will
reach 12400 tons/year by year 2027. For the purpose of long term storage of the sludge, areas of
10 and 20 hectares have been allocated at the Emergency plant and Long-Term treatment plants,
respectively. The sludge will be treated to achieve WHO guidelines of less than one nematode
egg per 100 grams dry solids, as well as FAO and EU guidelines for heavy metals content
including cadmium, chromium, nickel, lead and zinc. Following storage of dried sludge for a one
year period; the sludge will be transported to agricultural areas where it will be used as a soil
conditioner. The use of sludge will be restricted to cereals. Sludge re-use guidelines and a
strategy for the control of heavy metal concentrations in the soil will be developed based on the
FAO and EU guidelines.
Policy, Legal and Regulatory Framework
The competent body for EA as defined in Decree 138 of 12/04/1994 is the Iranian Department of
Environment (DOE), under the authority of the Environmental High Council (EHC) which is
composed of senior representatives of govermment ministries, senior academics and advisers to
the Iranian government. Environmental Assessment (EA) in Iran was enabled by Note 82 of the
Law for the Second State Economical, Social and Cultural Development Plan of 1994, amended
by Note 105 of the Third Development Plan. EA was approved by the EHC through Decree 138
and detailed requirements for conducting EA were defined in the Code of Practice of 23/12/1997.
In addition to the defined project types that are subject to EA, the EHC may also require an EA
for any other large project.
In addition to Environmental Assessment, there exist a wide range of regulations regarding
environmental protection including the Environmental Protection Act of 1974 and its executive
by-law dated 1975, the Clean Water Act of 1982 that was amended in 1994, the executive by-law
on the prevention of water pollution (1994), the Air Pollution Abatement Act of 1995 and its
executive by-law dated 1997, the Game and Fish law of 1957 with subsequent amendments made
in 1975 and 1996. Also, there are standards for drinking water, effluent discharges, noise levels
8



and ambient air quality. The project will adhere to the aforementioned laws and standards.
Furthermore, the treated effluent will meet WHO guidelines for treated wastewater to be used in
Agriculture. These guidelines specify a nematode level of less than I egg per liter and fecal
coliform of less than 1000 MPN per 100 ml. With respect to the re-use of sludge as a soil
conditioner for agriculture, the project will ensure compliance with the EU Directive with respect
to toxic elements, the WHO guidelines including the limit of less than 1 intestinal nematode egg
per lOOgms of dry solids as well as the FAO guidelines for sludge reuse.
With respect to industries, existing national legislation provides for control of industrial
discharges. DOE is mandated with the enforcement of the limits for industrial discharges and has
secured so far an impressive record in terms of enforcement of the laws and regulations against
polluters by issuing warnings, imposing fines and eventually bringing them to courts. Moreover,
the project will only provide connections to industries that do not discharge toxic substances
which may affect the performance of the sewage treatment plants. The project will ensure that
the industrial effluent discharges are pre-treated to levels which comply with the World Bank's
Pollution Prevention and Abatement Handbook, taking into account the treatment efficiency that
can be achieved by the treatment plant for the various parameters of concern. In summary, the
project will abide by all national laws and standards and will follow internationally accepted best
practices.
Institutional Arrangement for Environment Management
A number of governmental organizations have responsibilities for managing and monitoring
environmental impacts. The Shiraz Water and Wastewater Company (SWWC) which is in
charge of water supply as well as wastewater collection and treatment will be in charge of
managing, operating and maintaining the project. Among its duties, the SWWC will have
responsibility for ensuring the supply of adequate water quality and quantity. SWWC will also be
responsible for controlling discharges into the wastewater collection system and as such will be
responsible for ensuring that industries pre-treat their wastewater before discharging it into the
collection network.
The DOE will have the responsibility for monitoring the environmental impacts. It will monitor
construction activities, will check water quality in Maharloo Lake and will ensure compliance
with effluent standards for industries and wastewater treatment plants. The DOE will also
monitor the quality of treated effluents and sludge to be used for irrigation and soil conditioning.
The Ministry of Agriculture Jihad has responsibility to supervise and regulate the reuse of treated
effluents and sludge, while the Ministry of Health and Medical Education will be responsible for
monitoring water quality and the occurrence of water born diseases.
9



Baseline Information
The environmental baseline conditions were investigated within this study area and for adjacent
areas that could potentially be affected by the project. Baseline information has been quantified
within three main topic areas - physical, biological and socio-economic.
The major source of water in Shiraz is groundwater which is primarily used for supplying
drinking water. Groundwater is also used to supply water to industrial facilities and agricultural
areas. There are two groundwater aquifers referred to as Alluvial and Karstic. Alluvial wells are
shallow wells with an average depth of 120 m. During the past few years water quality has
considerably degraded as a result of illegal industrial discharges, agriculture drainage and
untreated wastewater discharges. Consequently, a number of alluvial wells that used to provide
drinking water have been put out of service. The Karstic wells are deeper than the alluvial with
average depths exceeding 200 m. These wells are located in the high regions of the city and are
less susceptible to pollution. The annual yield of the ground water resources is estimated at 16.72
cum/s.
Also, there are two major seasonal rivers: Khoshk River and Soltan Abad River. The annual flow
rates of Khoshk and Soltan Abad rivers are 52.9 MCM and 35.77 MCM, respectively. The two
rivers originate North of Shiraz, flow along the city and discharge into Maharloo Lake. They
receive considerable quantities of untreated municipal and industrial wastewater. According to
the Department to Environment, around 20,000 m3/day of raw wastewater are discharged into
Khoskh River. The consequences of the degradation of surface water quality on the environment
are further amplified by the use of the poor river water quality for irrigation purposes. The levels
of several water quality parameters such as heavy metals and Coliforms exceed the limits set for
agriculture water. The use of polluted water from the rivers has had a number of negative impacts
on agriculture, soil, and health conditions.
Maharloo Lake is located 23 km south-east of Shiraz. During the rainy season, the lake covers an
area of approximately 200 hectares with a water depth varying between 0.4 and 3.0 meters,
however in the summer season most of the water evaporates and the lake is almost dry. The total
annual flows entering the lake through rainfall, runoff and drainage is estimated at 1.6 billion
cubic meters. In the past, the Lake was an important source of table salt, but in view of the
degraded water quality and the high level of heavy metals, salt extraction has ceased. Moreover,
and because of the high water salinity (around 188 g/l), the lake water can not be used for
irrigation purposes.  Similar to the rivers in Shiraz, Maharloo Lake receives considerable
quantities of untreated municipal and industrial wastewater effluents estimated at 19.7 million
cubic meters annually.
One of the important problems in Shiraz is the threat to public health caused by the unsuitable
quality of potable water sourced from the Alluvial wells, the improper discharge of wastewater
10



into surface water, as well as irrigation with poor quality water and raw wastewater. These
conditions have caused the spread of many water-borne infectious diseases such as diarrhea and
dysentery.
Shiraz has a rich cultural heritage with several historical places and is considered among the most
prominent historical cities of the country. A number of the historical places are located in the old
city and are threatened by the high water table and the improper discharge of raw wastewater. A
council for the protection and restoration of cultural and historical monuments in Shiraz was
recently formed.
A number of important industrial facilities are located in Shiraz, however only 5 facilities are
located within the project area and include: two food industries, one electronic industry, one
rubber industry and one medical industry. The volume of wastewater produced by these
industrial facilities is around 2,160 m3/day. According to current policy that limits the operation
of industries to rural areas of the City, no further industrial development within the urban areas of
the City is expected. Furthermore, existing legislation provides for the control of industrial
discharges which are monitored by the Department of Environment.
Agricultural areas are dispersed within Shiraz with the majority located outside the urban area.
Major agriculture crops grown in Shiraz are wheat, barley, corn, alfalfa, potato and vegetables.
Agricultural areas in the vicinity of the emergency treatment plant and the long zone treatment
plant are estimated at 1700 ha and 7250 ha, respectively. Present irrigation sources include river
water, wells and springs. However, in view of the limited water sources, an important percentage
of the agricultural areas are rain fed.
The Emergency wastewater treatment plant, which is under construction, is located in the
southeastern part of Shiraz city at 60 to 65 km from the old city. The nearest residential area is
Torkan village which is located at 2 to 3 km distance from the treatment plant. The surroundings
of the plant are mainly agricultural areas planted with wheat, corn and barley with an important
percentage of rain fed lands.
The Long Term wastewater treatment plant is located on a derelict plot of land at some 20 km
from the old city of Shiraz. The nearest residential area is around 3 km away from the plant site.
The plantations around the site are similar to those surrounding the emergency zone wastewater
treatment plant.
Impacts of the Project
The environmental assessment indicated that the execution of the project will have long term
positive environmental impacts in terms of reducing pollution of natural resources, generation of
11



significant economical, social and public health benefits, and will enable the government to
enforce existing environmental regulations and standards.
The project will extend and rehabilitate water networks to ensure 100% water supply coverage, to
provide good quality water on a continuous basis, to cater for population growth and to reduce
unaccounted for water. Thus, the project will provide controlled water supply to the households
and will reduce overdraft of the aquifer. It will improve health conditions of the population by
providing them with adequate water quantity and quality from sustainable sources.
The provision of wastewater collection and treatment facilities will have a strong long term
positive effect on the overall environment and on public health conditions. There will be
improvement in the water quality in the streams and rivers that flow throughout the city. A major
benefit of the project is the protection of groundwater resources from contamination by untreated
sewage. As a result, economic benefits will occur in terms of increased water volume of good
quality, increased tourism activities, and lower medical costs associated with treating water-bome
diseases. There will be considerable benefits to the farmers who are presently using polluted
water or raw wastewater.
The wastewater treatment facilities will also provide an opportunity to better control industrial
discharges through enforcing pretreatment and connection to the collection system as stipulated in
the Iranian law. Finally it is worth noting that the design of the treatment plants has taken into
consideration the use of their by-products (treated effluent and generated sludge) with the aim of
protecting the environment and the scarce water resources. This will generate significant
economic, social and health benefits and will enable the Government to enforce the law that
prohibits the use of raw wastewater for irrigation.
Major Potential Adverse Impacts of the Project
Drinking Water Quantity and Quality: treated water quantity and quality should meet water
demand as well as allowable drinking water standards set by the Iranian Government and WHO.
Among the parameters of concern are the bacteriological contamination of the water, the
concentration level of nitrate, the presence of nitrite and the concentration of heavy metals. In
order to safeguard public health, it is imperative that regular monitoring of raw and treated water
at the treatment plants, storage reservoirs and in the distribution network be implemented to
ensure that drinking water limits are not exceeded.
Treated Effluent Quality: the treated effluent should be of acceptable quality so that it can be
safely discharged into water bodies or re-used for agriculture. This means that the effluent
quality should meet the standards for discharge into water bodies and the WHO guidelines for
agriculture re-use. One of the major parameter of concern is the level of nematodes eggs which
should be less than 1 egg per liter for water used in irrigation. The other major concern is the
12



concentration level of nutrients such as ammonia, nitrate and phosphate which could result in
algal growth in the receiving water bodies. The level of heavy metals is also of concern and
could have adverse impacts on agriculture and water bodies. Regular monitoring of these
variables will be required to ensure strict adherence to the prevailing standards.
Sludge Quality: dried sludge will be used by farmers as soil conditioner or fertilizer. In such a
case the sludge quality will have to comply with the FAO, EU and WHO guidelines for the use of
sludge in agriculture including the limit of less than one intestinal nematode egg per 100 gm of
dry solids and the limits on the concentration of heavy metals. The adopted treatment processes,
the one year storage period, and the control of industrial discharges to the sewage system would
ensure that the WHO nematode standard and EU and FAO guidelines on the level of toxic
substances would not be exceeded the for the use of sludge in agriculture.
Other Impacts: Adverse environmental impacts during the construction phase might be
significant, however they are only temporary. Typical impacts are those of dust, noise, traffic
congestion, and disturbance to the residents of the area. Good construction practices would
mitigate most of these temporary impacts to acceptable levels. Moreover, the project will have a
positive impact on employment resulting from the increased construction activities.
The project will have no significant long term negative impact on air quality, climate, the
biological environment, the socio-economic conditions, or other development projects.
Furthermore, the construction of the project will not lead to resettlement of people.
In summary, once operational, most of the impacts of the Project will be positive.
Analysis of Alternatives to the Project
The option of continuing with the current water supply system and wastewater disposal methods
as well as alternative water supply schemes and other wastewater treatment processes have heen
explored and compared in terms of capital costs, operational costs, land requirements, length of
transmission lines, consumed energy, environmental impacts, management needs, reliability of
the process and local conditions.
The "no project" option would avoid the temporary environmental impacts of installing pipelines
and constructing treatment plants, however this option is rejected on the grounds of economic
cost and adverse long-term environmental and social impacts. It would mean a whole city with
poor water supply quality and no wastewater collection and treatment. Under such conditions
severe adverse environmental impacts such as pollution, flooding, and poor health conditions
would increase and the prevailing environmental conditions will further deteriorate.
Moreover, the economic benefits of the proposed project are greater than the cost of not
13



implementing it; taking into account revenues from tariffs for water supply, wastewater, and
treated effluent as an irrigation source, the cost of the degradation of surface and ground water
resources; the cost of treating additional water quantities to compensate for the high unaccounted
for water; the high maintenance cost for the aged water supply system; lost working days due to
water related diseases; cost of medical treatment; costs of wastewater disposal by tankers; the use
of raw wastewater for irrigation purposes instead of treated wastewater; and the use of
commercial fertilizer instead of treated sludge.
With respect to wastewater collection and treatment, a number of altematives have been
considered including on-site sanitation, decentralized treatment and centralized treatment. On-
site sanitation in Shiraz has proved to be difficult to achieve because of the high ground water
level. People living in areas served with on-site sanitation facilities face severe difficulties
disposing their sewage. Furthermore, the govemment has already initiated the construction of an
Emergency wastewater treatment plant and various sections of the trunk main are being
implemented, which would offer a more feasible and reliable method for sewage disposal to
house owners. Hence, the option of on-site sanitation is rejected. Taking into consideration the
environmental limits set by the department of environment regarding the construction of
treatment plants within city limits and the construction of a treatment plant for one part of the
city, the option of decentralized treatment for the second part of the city was also rejected based
on cost, availability of land and potential adverse environmental impacts.
The proposed activated sludge process and two other processes: aerated lagoons and stabilization
ponds were also evaluated and compared. Since the plot of land for the long-term wastewater
treatment plant has already been acquired, and since the plot has a limited area of 80 hectares,
both the stabilization ponds and the aerated lagoons were rejected as they would require larger
areas. The activated sludge system was selected in view of reliability and operational flexibility;
furthermore, the energy requirements of the activated sludge process was found to be lower than
that of the aerated lagoons.
Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
The EMP identifies feasible cost effective measures to mitigate any adverse environmental
impacts that might occur during the construction and operation of the project. The EMP covers
mitigation measures, monitoring and institutional strengthening.
Mitigation ofAdverse Environmental Impacts
Mitigation measures have been identified to ensure that the defined objectives of the project are
achieved whilst preventing and reducing any adverse environmental impacts. The mitigation
measures are to be executed by the construction contractor (construction phase) and the treatment
14



plant operators (operation phase) with supervision by the SWWC. Tables 4, 5 and 6 summarize
the major impacts and the mitigation measures for the construction and operation phases.
Water Quantity: Geological and hydrogeological studies, geophysical logging, and test pumping
were undertaken to assess the water quantity of the underground water. Based on these studies,
the safe yield of the ground water was found to be about 1,556,000 cum/d which by far exceed
the projected maximum water demand (664,363 cum/d) for the year 2027.
The water balance for the study area during the first phase was prepared on the basis of the
population figures (1,240,592 for the year 2003 and 1,360,895 for the year 2007), the maximum
water demand (403,644 cum/d and 452,858 cum/d for the years 2003 and 2007 respectively) and
the yield of wells and the treatment plant capacity at Doroudzan dam (see Table 3). The water
balance indicates that the total water resources will by far exceed the water demand of the project
area during the first phase.
Water Quality: Water quality analyses of surface and ground water are summarized in Table 1.
The analyses indicate that the water quality is chemically acceptable. The concentrations of all
chemnical parameters are below the maximum allowable standards set by the Iranian Government,
WHO and CEE. Bacteriological analyses of well water could not be obtained, however available
analysis of water quality in existing storage reservoirs indicates the absence of bacteriological
contamination and confirm the efficiency of the chlorination system. The provision of a
wastewater network for collecting and diverting the generated wastewater to a treatment plant
will certainly minimize potential bacteriological contamination of ground water. Furthermore,
the proposed project will finance the regular monitoring of water quality. During project
implementation, a continuous monitoring program would be implemented to ensure that treated
water will always meet the required standards. The monitonrng program will cover biological and
physical parameters as well as heavy metals and pesticides residues.
Effluent Quality: The proposed secondary treatment level based on activated sludge process plus
chlorination would ensure a treated effluent of acceptable quality for discharge in receiving water
bodies and/or re-use in agriculture. This process will result in the removal of nematodes to less
than one percent of the concentration in the raw wastewater entering the treatment plant.
Therefore the presence of nematodes in the treated effluent will be directly related to their
concentration in the raw wastewater. As soon as the wastewater treatment plants start operating,
monitoring of nematodes in the influent and effluent will be conducted to ensure adherence to the
required standard.
The discharge of the final treated effluent of the two plants via the concrete channels to Maharloo
Lake will occur mostly in the winter season, since in the summer the effluent will be used for
irrigation. In view of the treated effluent quality, which will be in compliance with the prevailing
15



standards for discharge to water bodies, and the dilution effects of the rainy season, no adverse
impacts are envisaged on the lake. In fact, the environmental state of the lake is expected to
improve in comparison to the base condition due to improved water quality of the discharging
rivers. Moreover, the implementation of the project will not cause any changes in the salt balance
of the lake since the wastewater flows represent a very small fraction (around 1%) of the total
flows that enter the lake through rainfall and drainage.
Sludge Quality: The sludge treatment processes of the two treatment plants include: sludge
blending, thickening, anaerobic digestion, and sludge dewatering. These processes will ensure
the elimination of toxics and pollutants in the sludge. For the use of dried sludge in agriculture as
soil conditioner or fertilizer, the project will ensure compliance with FAO, EU and WHO
applicable guidelines including the limit of less than one intestinal nematode egg per 100 gm of
dry solids by monitoring the quality of treated sludge and ensuring a drying period of one year.
Moreover, national guidelines for sludge re-use would be developed in coordination with line
ministries (Ministry of Energy, Department of Environment, Ministry of Agriculture Jihad,
Ministry of health and Medical Education, etc.) and concerned stakeholders. These guidelines
would set out good standards of practice and monitoring and define roles and responsibilities.
Training workshops on re-use of treated sludge will also be provided to all concerned
stakeholders.
Solid Wastes: Generated solid wastes from water and wastewater treatment plants, screening and
grits from the inlet works as well as dried sludge from water treatment plants will be collected
and disposed by the WWCs in the existing landfill sites which are located outside the cities.
Considering, the quality of raw surface water and the water treatment processes, the level of toxic
substances in the sludge generated from water treatment plants can not exceed the EU limits with
respect to the concentration of heavy metals. Nevertheless and as an extra precaution, WWCs
will ensure that dried sludge will not be mixed with other types of waste but will be located in a
specific cell and signs will be posted notifying of the special waste contaminations.
Archeological and Historical Sites: Shiraz has many recorded archeological and historical sites.
The implementation of the water and sanitation project will not require the demolition of any
known historical sites, nor will it directly affect any known archeological sites. On the contrary,
the project will have a positive environmental impact as it will eliminate the uncontrolled flows
and discharges of wastewater adjacent to historical sites.
The sitting of the all the project works was selected in close coordination with the Cultural
Heritage Organization following several site visits so as to ensure that these facilities are remotely
located from the archeological and historical sites as well as from areas where there is potential of
finding archeological remains. During final design stages, further site inspections will be
16



conducted by surveyors and archeologist to check the construction drawings in the field.
Construction activities that are close to existing archeological or historical sites will be identified,
and special protection and construction procedures will be developed to mitigate any potential
impact on these sites. Moreover, chance find procedures were developed and will be used by the
WWC, Cultural Heritage Organization, contractors and supervision engineers in case
unanticipated archeological materials are encountered during the course of the construction
activities.
During construction, there are potential indirect impacts on existing archeological sites due to
vibration from drilling and compacting equipment; loss of amenity due to dust, noise and visual
intrusion. Good construction practices, including special procedures to be adopted in areas in
close proximity to archeological sites would mitigate most impacts to acceptable levels.
The long term permanent impact of the project on the existing archeological sites will therefore
be positive due to proper collection of wastewater, reduced incidence of flooding, improved
amenity and aesthetic quality of the city which would outweigh any temporary adverse impacts.
Industrial Discharges: The discharge of untreated industrial effluents can affect the performance
of the wastewater treatment plants, resulting in a lower quality treated effluent. The project will
only provide connections to those industries that do not discharge toxics that affect the
performance of the wastewater treatment plants. The discharge of industrial effluents will be
subject to the approval of both the Director of the treatment plant and the director of the DOE.
The project will ensure that the industrial effluent discharges are pretreated to levels which
comply with the World Bank Environmental Guidelines stated in the "Pollution Prevention and
Abatement Handbook", taking into consideration the achievable reductions at the treatment plants
for all important parameters of concern. For those industries for which their industrial effluents
will not be pre-treated, and/or will not be connected to the network, the DOE will require that
each polluting industrial establishment will prepare a compliance action plan (CAP), which will
address the pollutants of concem, the type of pre-treatment required and the investments and
monitoring costs of the pre-treatment facility. Operational permits for these industries will be
subject to the implementation of the CAP as yearly monitored by the SWWC and enforced by the
DOE.
Moreover, under the World Bank funded sewage project for Tehran, standards for industrial
effluent discharge into sewage systems are being developed in close coordination with DOE and
other concerned line ministries. These standards include the following industrial sectors: food,
textiles, tanneries, pulp and paper, metal, pharmaceutical and electronic industries as well as
general standards for the remaining industrial sector. Also, the DOE has promulgated standards
for industrial discharges to surface waters. The project will ensure compliance with all these
17



standards, where applicable and the promulgation of a national law for the discharge of industrial
effluents to sewage networks.
Other Issues: The general disruption during construction will be mitigated by coordinated
planning of construction activities. This will include coordination with all concerned authorities
prior to the start of the construction activities. Other adverse impacts due to construction
activities will be mitigated through the adoption of Good Environmental Practice Procedures. For
instance noisy construction activities can be limited to normal working hours and providing
muffler to minimize noise nuisance. Dust emissions can be avoided by using dust suppression
measures such as periodically sprinkling water in certain areas, providing appropriate covers and
removal of excess material from the site. Dangerous activities in public areas will be controlled
to reduce risk to the public, traffic and warning signs will be placed at construction sites, trenches
will be provided by fences, or railings. The construction contract document will incorporate all
requirements to minimize disturbance from construction activities which will be monitored by the
Supervision Engineer and the Environment Officer of SWWC to ensure compliance and
implementation of the required provisions by the Contractor.
The final design process will detail and finalize construction drawings and tender documents of
the project components. This process has incorporated final review of the designs by
environmental specialists to ensure that all required environmental issues are properly addressed
and tender documents include specific provisions concerning environment, health, safety as well
as the use of archeological chance find procedures in the event that unknown archeological and/or
historical sites are encountered in the course of construction.
Furthermore, pre-tender conferences will be held to brief pre-qualified contractors on the
effective implementation of mitigation measures. All pre-qualified contractors will be called to a
pre-tender conference at which environmental, health and safety issues will be outlined. Cultural
heritage issues in Shiraz will be also addressed. The contractors will be briefed on: (i) chance
find procedures, (ii) special procedures to be adopted in the vicinity of sites defined as requiring
protection, (iii) penalties for non-compliance, and (iv) coordination with concerned authorities.
Liaison arrangements will be established between the public, contractors, and the Project
Management Unit. A procedure will be established to allow the general public to lodge
complaints at the Project Management Unit about excessive disturbance.
The contractors will provide suitable and reliable equipment for construction, with a formal
maintenance program to ensure efficient operations. SWWC will develop and establish
appropriate safety procedures for the operation and maintenance of the water and wastewater
treatment plants. All employees of the contractors and SWWC will get suitable training in
18



occupational health, safety, and emergency preparedness procedures for earthquakes. Safety
equipment will also be provided.
Odors emissions from the wastewater treatment plants will be minimized by careful planning and
implementation of the plant operation and maintenance procedures. Regular Odor emissions
monitoring from the wastewater treatment plants will be implemented to mitigate any non-
compliance by taking appropriate operating measures.
Solid waste generated at the wastewater treatment plants will be properly collected and disposed
of in an environmentally acceptable manner. Screenings and grit from the inlet works will be
disposed in the landfill of the city.
The SWWC will develop and implement monitoring programs for raw water, treated water,
surface water, raw wastewater, treated effluent and sludge and industrial discharges to the
sewage. SWWC will also provide advisory services to industries.
The DOE will establish formal programs for monitoring discharges to the environment from the
wastewater treatment plants and industries, treated sludge, surface water, and soil including
actions to be taken in case of non-compliance. It will develop a system of controls on discharges
to Lake Mahraloo, Khosk and Soltan Abad rivers. DOE will also develop a system for the
enforcement of standards related to industrial discharges.
The Ministry of Health and Medical Education will establish a program for monitoring drinking
water quality and the occurrence of water-borne diseases. A public hygiene education campaign
will be also conducted by the Ministry including video tapes, TV programs and distribution of
leaflets.
The Ministry of Agriculture Jihad will establish and implement formal programs for monitoring
the quality of soil and agricultural products on a pilot area located in eastern Shiraz including
actions to be taken in case of deterioration in quality. The Ministry will develop educational
programs and will develop awareness campaigns on best agricultural and irrigation practices.
Monitoring Plan
Monitoring of construction activities will have to ensure that mitigation measures of construction
impacts are being implemented properly, while monitoring of operation activities is to ensure that
no unforeseen negative impacts are arising. Tables 7 to 11 give the proposed monitoring
requirements during the construction and operational phases.
During construction, the monitoring program will include dust and noise. Monitoring of the
water supply will include biological, physical and chemical parameters as well as heavy metals
19



and pesticides residues. During the operation of the wastewater system, monitoring will include
data on BOD, COD, suspended solids, phosphates, nitrates, salinity, heavy metals, fecal coliform
and nematodes eggs. Water quality monitoring in Maharloo Lake will include data on BOD,
suspended solids, pH, phosphates, nitrates, salinity, and heavy metals. The treated sludge will be
monitored for nematodes, coliforms and toxic metals. Soil and agricultural products will be
monitored for significant pollutant levels including heavy metals, Coliforms and nematodes. The
Ministry of Health will monitor the occurrence of water born diseases and the Ministry of
Agriculture Jihad will monitor soil and agricultural products. The DOE will develop and
implement its own monitoring program for Quality Assurance and Quality Control and will
generate and issue periodic review reports.
If significant adverse impacts are identified by the concerned responsible organizations,
appropriate mitigation measures will be taken and arrangements for amendments of the
environmental management plan will be made. The Ministry of Energy will have the overall
responsibility to ensure that adverse impacts are maintained to acceptable levels and corrective
actions are taken when required.
A project monitoring report will be prepared on the effectiveness of the EMP once every 6
months and will be sent to the World Bank after review and approval of DOE.
Institutional Strengthening
The institutional arrangement and capacities of the organizations in-charge with the
implementation and management of the proposed project were reviewed with the intention of
providing technical assistance and proposing reinforcement of these organizations as required.
Training programs will be designed and implemented with the assistance of local and
international experts and will include:
> SWWC, Treatment Plant Operators, Shiraz Municipality and Fars DOE: At the initiation of
the project, a training workshop will be provided to the staff of the SWWC, Ministry of
Energy, Shiraz Municipality and DOE to raise environmental awareness and to clarify the
specific environmental requirements related to the project. A two day workshop will then be
provided and will cover the following topics:
-  Effective implementation of mitigation measures
- Project supervision
- Sampling and analysis
- Monitoring and evaluation
> SWWC, Municipality, Fars DOE and Line Ministries: A two day workshop will be provided
to the staff of SWWC, Municipality, and representatives of line ministries to strengthen
capacities in the application of treated effluent and sludge re-use.
20



Laboratory Staff of Water and Wastewater Treatment Plants: A one week training workshop
will be provided to strengthen capacities in sampling and analysis methods, environmental
monitoring, quality assurance and quality control as well as safety procedures.
' Staff at Water and Wastewater Treatment Plants: A one day training workshop on
occupational health, safety and earthquake emergency preparedness procedures will be
provided.
Workshops and awareness campaigns will be also implemented to raise awareness of farmers,
NGOs and residents of Shiraz; these would include:
>  Local NGOs, communities andfarmers: Training would be provided through 1 or 2 days
workshop for local NGOs, communities and farmers, focusing on public awareness and
on re-use of treated wastewater and sludge for agricultural purposes.
> Awareness campaign and pamphlets: two awareness campaigns will be conducted;
pamphlets in Farsi will be distributed to all farmers highlighting the adverse health and
public safety impacts resulting from the use of untreated effluents; and measures to be
taken when using treated effluent and sludge. A public hygiene education campaign will
be also conducted by the Ministry of Education.
An assessment of analytical capacities of the laboratories at the SWWC and at the emergency
wastewater treatment plant has been conducted; additional required equipments were also
identified and will be supplied as part of the proposed project. For the Long-term zone
Wastewater Treatment Plant, a fully equipped laboratory will be provided as part of the
construction contract.
Technical assistance will be provided to the DOE to set up baseline data on existing
environmental conditions and to develop a quality assurance and a quality monitoring program as
well as an enforcement program for industrial discharges. Similarly, technical assistance will be
provided to the Ministry of Health and Medical Education to set up baseline data on the
occurrence of water bom diseases and to develop a monitoring program for their occurrence.
Cost Estimate
The cost of the Environmental Management Plan during construction (mitigation measures
including additional treatment and monitoring) will be borne mostly by the contractor
(construction phase) and the Supervision Engineer who will make the necessary provision as part
of their contracts for this project.
During the operation phase, mitigation measures and monitoring activities will be implemented
by the operator of each plant. Doroudzan existing water treatment plant and the emergency
wastewater treatment plant will be operated by the Fars Water Board and the SWWC,
21



respectively.  Hence, the required mitigation measures and monitoring activities will be
implemented by Fars Water Board and the SWWC as part of their mandates. For the Long-temn
Zone wastewater treatment plant, cost of mitigation measures and monitoring requirements will
be bome by the contractor who will include the necessary provisions as part of his construction
and two years operation and maintenance cost. The contractor will also allocate a provisional
cost for the construction of filters in case the treated effluent does not meet the standards with
respect to nematodes.
A total amount of 1.764 million dollars will be allocated for the implementation of the
environmental management plan as detailed in Table 12 and will be included in the project cost.
It should be noted that the total cost does not include the following:
> Cost of additional treatment incorporated in the design of the project;
> Cost of mitigating negative construction impacts (included in the construction contract
cost);
i Cost of mitigation measures and environmental monitoring of the Long-term zone
wastewater treatment (included in the construction and operation and maintenance
contract cost);
> Cost of setting up a new laboratory at the Long-Term zone wastewater treatment plant
(included in construction cost).
> Cost of Environment and Safety Officer at TSU (included in TSU cost).
22



Table 1: Water Quality Analyses for Surface and Groundwater Resources in Shiraz
Analysis            Raw Surface        Treated        Karstic         Standards
Water       Surface Water       Wells    _
pH                                 7.8             7.8           7.50      CEE 6.5 - 8.5
Turbidity (NTU)                    4               2                         Iranian ST 5-25
Calcium (mg/I)                     50              49             92            WHO 100
Magnesium (mg/I)                   17              25             45             CEE 30
Sodium (mg/I)                      50              31             41            WHO 200
Potassium (mg/I)                   2              1.39            2.2            CEE 12
Chlorides (mg/I)                   58              41             70            WHO 250
Sulfates (mg/I)                    32              30             161           WHO 250
Nitrites (mg/I)                    0               0               0             WHO 0
Nitrates (mg/I)                    4.7            7.79            17            WHO 50
Ammonium (mg/I)                   0.08              -            0.06       Iranian ST.055-0.5
Hardness (mg/I)                   215              90            410          Iranian ST 500-
Alkalinity (mg/I)                  185             172            228
TDS (mg/I)                        327             360             575          WHO 1000
Electrical                        486             460             900
Conductivity(pmho/cm)       I
Total Coliforms (MPN/100 ml)        8               0              -             WHO 0
Table 2: Influent and Effluent Design Data for Wastewater Treatment Plants
Parameter                 Unit       Raw Wastewater         Treated
Wastewater
Emergency Zone Treatment Plant:
BOD                                 mg/l             250                <25
SS                                  mg/l             315                <40
Total Coliforms                  MPN/100 ml         5 x l0o            < 1000
Nematodes                         I egg/liter        <10                 <1
Long-Term Zone Treatment Plant:
BOD                                 mg/l             250                <25
SS                                  mg/l             300                < 40
Total Coliforms                  MPN/100 ml         5 x 105            < 1000
Nematodes                         I egg/liter        <10                 <1
23



Table 3: Shiraz Water Balance durin the First Planning Period
Pressure        Population        Maximum Water              Water Quantity 2003                      Water Quantity 2007                Water Balance
Zones and                         Demands (m3/day)
sub-zones      2003      2007      2003      2007       Alluvial      Karstic     Surface   Alluvial    Karstic wells    Surface Water   2003       2007
200    207      20          07          wells        wells      Water      wells203                                                07
1       2472      2712       804       902
2       3744      4107      1218       1367                                                       18662 m3/day
3       6969      6548      1942       2179                                                     (existing wells) &
I      4        8028      8806      2612      2930         ---          18662                            501I m3/day                      -1902      +602
5       15880     17420     5167       5797                     m3/day                             (new well)
6       8491      9314      2763       3099
7       18620     20426     6058       6797
TOTAL     63204     69333     20564      23071
8       39709     43559     12920     14495
9       52092     57144     16949     19015
10      21625     23722      7036      7894                                                                           72000
11      15332     16819      4988      5597                                                       187228 m3/day       m3/day
12      21052     23093      6849      7685                                                      (existing wells) &   from
13      117586    128989    38258      42923       40522        187228       72000      ---          77415          water TP &     -57176    +5575
2      14      20357     22331      6623      7431        m3/day       m3/day      mn3/day             m3/day(new wells)     84000
15        0         0         0          0                                                                            m3/dayv
16      154671    169669    50324      56460                                                      Transfer 3088    from increase
17      54274     46894      T0r 56605             Transfer                                     m3/day to zones 4      in TP
17o 42# 748  46894  /3909      15605    2182 m3/day                                           &5             capacity
18      386746    424250    125833    141175      to zone 4
19      218380    239557    71053      79716
TOTAL    1090298   1196027    354744    397996
20       2474      2714      805        903         2182
4      21       5984      6565      1947      2184      m3/day from            ---             ---      3088m3/day from        ---        -570         0
TOTAL      8458      9278      2752      3088        zone 2                                            zone 2
22       3771      4136      1227      1376                                                        4840 m3/dav
23      38171     41872     12419      13934         ---         4840         ---       ---      (existing wells) &     ---        -11938       0
5      24       9626     10559      3132      3514                     m3/day                            13984 m3/day
TOTAL     51567     56568     16778      18824                                                      (from zone 2)
103688             ---            103688 m3/day        ---         +1562      +488
3      25      27065     29690      8806      9880                     m3/day
GTAND       1240592   1360895    403644    452858       40522        221098       72000      ---          303524           156000       -70025    + 6665
24



Table 4: Environmental Mitigation Measures during the Construction Phase
Responsible Organization
Potential Impacts               Mitigation Measures                               Org   _t
Performing        QA/QC
Noise generation         Restrict work to normal working hours;      Contractor monitored    DOE
Use equipment with appropriate silencers;         by ESO
Only run equipment when required.
Contractor monitored
Generation of dust       Employ dust suppression measures such as          by ESO            DOE
wetting and dust enclosures.
Traffic congestion       Restrict movement of construction vehicles to  Contractor monitored  DOE
and from the sites to normal working hours;       by ESO
Diversion of traffic through suitable roads to the
expected traffic loading;
Provision of adequate diversion signs;
Minimizing lengths of open trench;
Expeditious completion of backfill and
reinstatement.
Damage to access roads   Site access roads will be inspected regularly and  Contractor monitored  DOE
and streets             repairs made where necessary;                      by ESO
All roads and streets used for laying pipes will
be covered and paved.
Damage to archeological  Application of protection measures in areas close  Contractor monitored  Cultural
remains                 to existing historical sites;                 by Archeologist and   Heritage
Implementation of Chance Find Procedures.           ESO           Organizatio
n
Water pollution          Collect and dispose wastes, demolition and   Contractor monitored    DOE
excavated materials at appropriate locations;     by ESO
Restrict surface runoff from the site.
Public safety and site   Control access of unauthorized personnel;    Contractor monitored    DOE
security                 Provide pedestrian access;                        by ESO
Provide safety barriers and signs.
Air pollution            Do not bum wastes on site;                   Contractor monitored    DOE
Routine maintenance of construction equipment      by ESO
and vehicles to minimize exhaust emissions
Generation of wastes     Minimize wastes generated during construction  Contractor monitored  DOE
and reuse construction wastes where practicable;   by ESO
Use appropriate methods for the storage of waste
materials;
I Dispose of wastes to an appropriate site.
ESO: Environment and Safety Officer at Project - PMU
DOE: Department of Environment
25



Table 5: Environmental Mitigation Measures during the Operation Phase of Water Supply
System
Responsible Organization
Potential Impacts              Mitigation Measures                     P           g
Performing          QA/QC
Degradation of water          Ensure proper operation and maintenance  Water Operator    . DOE
quality                      of the water treatment plant.            supervised by
ESO
* Continuous monitoring of raw water and
treated water as well as water quality at
various locations within the water supply
system; avoid cross contamination with
sewage;
* Disposal of dried sludge resulting from
water treatment plants in a separate cell in
the city's landfill site
Reduction in available      * Prohibit illegal connections to the    Water Operator        DOE
water supply               network; avoid leakage in the network;  supervised by
ensure proper maintenance of the system      ESO
including treatment plant, pumping
stations, pipelines and house connections.
Health and Safety           * Maintain hygiene and have medical      Water Operator        DOE
surveillance; maintain showers and       supervised by
sanitary facilities; provide first aid and   ESO
have an emergency response plan.
* Capacity building and training in
occupational health, safety and
earthquake emergency preparedness
procedures and in operation and
maintenance of treatment plants.
* Monitoring of earthquake occurrence,
intensity and associated impacts.
26



Table 6: Environmental Mitigation Measures during the Operation Phase of Wastewater
System
Responsible Organization
Potential Impacts               Mitigation Measures        .      _
Performing      QA/QC
Health and              * Adequate treatment (retention time) should be  WWTO            DOE
environmental risks      provided to control the number of nematode   supervised by
associated with          eggs; chlorine will be used to disinfect the    ESO
discharge and re-use of   effluent.
treated effluent for
irrigation              ' Regular monitoring of treated effluent; treated
effluent will not be reused in irrigation if its
quality does not meet the standards.
* Development of re-use guidelines for treated
effluent;
* Capacity building, training and awareness.
Sludge quality and the  * Drying beds for one-year storage will be      WWTO             DOE
risk of public and       provided to dry and store sludge following de-  supervised by
farmers acquiring        watering and digestion.                          ESO
infection
* Monitoring of nematodes, coliforms and heavy
metal content of treated sludge.
* Transportation of treated sludge in closed
containers.
* Capacity building, training and awareness.
Odor generation from the  * Careful planning and implementation of       WWTO             DOE
wastewater treatment      operation and maintenance.                   supervised by
plant                                                                      ESO
* Providing covers to equipments and containers
that are likely to cause odor nuisance.
Health and Safety of the  * Maintain hygiene and have medical            WWTO             DOE
employees                 surveillance; manage wastewater operations to  supervised by
minimize contact of personnel with sewage;      ESO
maintain showers and sanitary facilities; provide
first aid and have an emergency response plan.
* Capacity building and training in occupational
health, safety and earthquake emergency
preparedness procedures and in operation and
maintenance of treatment plants.
WWTO: Wastewater Treatment Operator
27



Table 7: Environmental Monitoring Program for the Construction Phase
Environmental                                                  Responsible
Parameter to    Monitoring      Frequency     Standard        Organization
be monitored                                 _______     Performing    QA/QC
Noise       At construction  Every day     70 dB (A)  Supervision   DOE
Sites                                  Engineer
monitored by
________    ESO      _ _  _ _
Air Quality and  At construction  Every day   150 pg/m3   Supervision   DOE
Dust            Sites                                  Engineer
monitored by
ESO
ESO: Environment and Safety Officer at Project - PMU
DOE: Department of Environment
28



Table 8: Environmental Monitoring Program during the Operation of the Water Supply
System
Environmental                                                              Responsible
Parameter to be        Monitoring      Frequency       Standard            Organization
Location
monitored                                                          Performing     QA/QC
pH                         At Water        Every day    6.5 - 8.5           Water        MHME
Turbidity                   Sources                     5 NTU              Operator
Coliforms               (treatment plant,               0/100 ml        Supervised by
Fecal coliforms          dam and wells)                 0/100 ml            ESO
Fecal Streptocoques                                     0/100 ml
Conductivity                                            400 pS/cm
Ammonium                                                0.05 - 0.5 mg/il
Nitrates                                                0 - 45 mg/I
Nitrites                                                0 mg/I
Chlorides                                               25 - 200 mg/l
Phosphates                 At Water                     1.0 mg/l
Calcium                     Sources                     100 mg/l
Magnesium                (treatment plant,  Every Week  30 - 50 mg/l        Water      MHME
Sodium                   dam and wells)                 20 - 150 mg/I      Operator
Potassium                                               10 -12 mg/l      Supervised by
Sulfates                                                250 mg/I             ESO
Iron                                                    50 - 200 mg/I
Herbicide and Pesticides   At Water       Every Month   0.1 ,Ig/l           Water      MHME
Ni                          Sources                     0.02 mg/l          Operator
Cr                      (treatment plant,               0.05 mg/I        Supervised by
Zn                       dam and wells)                 3 mg/l               ESO
Cd                                                      0.003 mg/I
Pb                                                      0.01 mg/l
Hg                                                      0.001 mg/l
Ammonium                                                0.05 - 0.5 mg/l
Phosphates                                              1.0 mg/l
Nitrites                    At Water     Every day      0 mg/I              Water      MHME
Chlorides                  Reservoirs                   25 - 200 mg/l      Operator
Total coliforms                                         0/100 ml         Supervised by
Fecal coliforms                                         0/100 ml             ESO
Fecal streptocoques                                     0/100 ml
Residual chlorine                                       0.2-0.8 mgtl
Total coliforms          At Distribution  Every day     0/100 ml            Water        MHME
Fecal coliforms             Network                     0/100 ml           Operator
Fecal streptocoques                                     0/100 ml         Supervised by
Residual chlorine                                       0.2-0.8 mg/l         ESO
MHME: Ministry of Health and Medical Education
29



Table 9: Environmental Monitoring Program for the Treated Effluent
Environmental        Monitoring                                    Responsible Organization
Parameter to be       Location      Frequency       Standard
monitored                       ____           _____             Performing      QAIQC
BOD                                                 25 mg/l
COD                                                 125 mg/l             WWTO           DOE
PH                          At                      6 - 9             Supervised by
Oil and grease          Wastewater    Every day     10 mg/I               ESO
TSS                        Plants                   50 mg/l
Total Phosphorus                                    10 mg P/I
Total Nitrogen                                      30 mg N/I
Nematode eggs                                       <1 egg/liter
Fecal coliform.                                     200 MPN/100 ml
Heavy metals                                        10 mg/I
Phosphate                   At                      5 mg/Il
Ammonia                  Wastewater   Every week    10 mg/I              WWTO           DOE
Nitrate                 Plants and in               90 mg/I           Supervised by
Fluoride                  drainage                  20 mg/I               ESO
Sulfate                 channel after               500 mg/l
Sulfide                  discharge                  I mg/l
Chlorine, total residual                            0.2 mg/l
Phenols                                             0.5 mg/I
TDS
Cadmium                     At                      0.1 mg/l
Chromium                 Wastewater                 0.1 mg/l             WWTO           DOE
Copper                   Plants and                 0.5 mg/l          Supervised by
Iron                      drainage    Every month   3.5 mg/I              ESO
Lead                    channel after               0.1 mg/I
Selenium                 discharge                  0.1 mg/I
Silver                                              0.5 mg/I
Zinc                                                2.0 mg/I
Chlorine                   At the     Every week    0.2 mg/I             WWTO           DOE
discharge                                    Supervised by
from the                                        ESO
outfall or at I
km from the
WWTP                                                       .      -
WWTO: Wastewater Treatment Operator
ESO: Environment and Safety Officer
DOE: Department of Environment
30



Table 10: Environmental Monitoring Program for the Treated Sludge
Environmental                                                  Responsible
Parameter to be     Monitoring   Frequency     Standard        Organization
Location
Monitored                                  _______      Performing   QA/QC
Nematode eggs          At       Every Batch      <I        WWTO         DOE
(egg/100gm solids)   Wastewater                             Supervised
Fecal Califorms      Plants                                byESO
Heavy Metals (mg/kg
sludge):
Cd                At       Every Batch  20 - 40       WWTO         DOE
Cu            Wastewater                1000- 1750   Supervised
Ni              Plants                 300 - 400      by ESO
Pb                                     750- 1200
Zn                                      2500 -4000
Cr                                      1625
WWTO: Wastewater Treatment Operator
DOE: Department of Environment
Table 11: Environmental Monitoring Program for Agricultural Soil
Environmental                                                  Responsible
Parameter to be     Monitoring   Frequency     Standard        Organization
Monitored         Location                              Performing   QA/QC
Nematode eggs          At         Every 6        <I         MOJ     |   DOE
(egg/lOOgm solids)   Agriculture   months                   Supervised
land                                 byESO
Heavy Metals (mg/kg
soil):
Cd                At         Every 6    0.15            MOJ        DOE
Cu            Agriculture    months     12           Supervised
Ni               Land                   3             by ESO
Pb                                      i5
Zn                                      30
Cr                                      3
MOJ: Ministry of Agriculture Jihad
ESO: Environment Safety Officer
DOE: Department of Environment
31



Table 12: Cost Estimate of Environmental Management Plan
Component                                  Quantity       Unit Rate       Total Cost in
Thousands US$
SWWC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
Swwc
Intemational environmental consultant to provide technical assistance to  14 months  12000/month         168
SWWC                                                                12 months      1 500/month           18
Short term Archeological consultant for monitoring archeological surveys and
construction works
Environmental Monitoring Program for Water Supply System                          60 000/year            300
Environmental Monitoring Program for emergency zone WWTP                           75 000/year           300
Subtotal                                                                                                 786
Studies, Training and Awareness
Development of baseline data on water related diseases and a monitoring                                  50
program for the occurrence of these diseases
Development and implementation of a QA/QC monitoring program for the                                      0
proposed project to be implemented by Fars DOE                                                           6
Development of earthquake emergency preparedness plan                                  12000              12
Development of Compliance Action Plan (CAP)                          5 CAPs          6000/CAP            30
Two days workshop to SWWC, Treatment Plant Operators, Shiraz
Municipality and Fars DOE on environmental management, monitoring,   2 workshops   7000/workshop         14
analysis and evaluation
Two days workshops for SWWC, Municipality, Fars DOE and Line
Ministries on treated effluent and sludge re-use                     2 workshops   7000/workshop         14
One week training workshop to Staff of Water and Wastewater Treatment
Plants on laboratory sampling, analysis, environment monitoring and QA/QC  4 workshops  4000/workshop    16
One day training workshop on occupational health and safety to staff at Water
and Wastewater Treatment Plants                                      4 workshops   1000/workshop          4
One day workshop for local NGOs, communities and farmers, focusing on
public awareness and on re-use of treated wastewater and sludge for
agricultural purposes.                                               4 workshops    1000/workshop         4
Awareness campaigns and pamphlets                                                                        50
Subtotal                                                                                                 254
Laboratory Equipment
SWWC                                                                                                     400
Emergency zone WWTP                                                                                      300
Subtotal                                                                                                 700
Monitoring and evaluation at the project level                      2MM                 12000             24
TOTAL                                                                                                   1764
32



I



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project          Environmental Assessment Report
Table of Contents
1     Introduction                                                      1-1
1.1   Overview                                                          1-1
1.2   Terms of Reference                                                1-2
1.3   Objectives of the Environmental Assessment                        1-2
2      Project description                                              2-1
2.1    Project Location and Setting                                     2-1
2.2    Project Outline                                                  2-2
2.3    Water Supply                                                     2-4
2.3.1  Current status                                                   2-5
2.3.2  Objective of Water Supply Plan                                  2-12
2.3.3  Proposed Water Supply Plan Phasing                              2-12
2.3.4  Summary of Water Supply Components                              2-19
2.3.5  Pre-Construction Activities                                     2-20
2.3.6  Construction Activities                                         2-22
2.3.7  Post-Construction activities                                    2-22
2.3.8  Projected costs                                                 2-23
2.4    Wastewater collection, treatment and disposal                   2-23
2.4.1  Overview                                                        2-23
2.4.2  Drainage Zones                                                  2-24
2.5    Existing Facilities                                             2-24
2.5.1  Sewage Wells                                                    2-24
2.5.2  Discharge to Surface Water & On-land Disposal                   2-25
2.5.3  Decentralized Treatment Systems                                 2-25
2.5.4  Existing Network                                                2-25
2.5.5  Emergency Zone Wastewater Treatment Plant (E WWTP)              2-26
2.6    Objective of Sanitation Plan                                    2-29
2.6.1  Proposed Sanitation Plan Phasing                                2-30
2.7    Project Components                                              2-31
2.8    Long-Term Wastewater Treatment Plant                            2-32
2.8.1  Plant Site                                                      2-32
2.8.2  Outfall                                                         2-33
2.8.3  Treatment process                                               2-33
2.8.4  Effluent quality                                                2-34
2.8.5  Treated sludge                                                  2-34
2.8.6  Chemical and Energy Consumption                                 2-34
2.9    Effluent and Sludge Reuse in Agriculture                        2-35
2.9.1  Agricultural Areas                                              2-35
2.9.2  Volume of Effluent to be used                                   2-35
2.9.3  Irrigation Water Supply                                         2-35
2.9.4  Crop Pattem and Irrigation Methods                              2-36
2.9.5  Extent of irrigation Potential                                  2-36
2.9.6  Treated effluent for Reuse                                      2-36
2.9.7  Sludge Use in Agriculture                                       2-37
2.9.8  Quantity of Sludge Available for Reuse                          2-38
2.9.9  Sludge Application Rate                                         2-38
2.9.10 Compliance with Prevailing Standards                            2-38
2.9.11 Sludge Quality Monitoring and Application Requirements          2-39
2.10   Pre Construction Activities                                     2-39
i



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project          Environmental Assessment Report
2.11   Construction Activities                                         240
2.12   Post-Construction Activities                                    2-40
2.13   Wastewater project projected costs                              2-41
3      Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework                       3-1
3.1    Policy Framework                                                 3-1
3.1.1  National Policies                                                3-1
3.1.2  International Cooperation                                        3-2
3.2    Legal Framework                                                  3-3
3.2.1  Environmental Laws                                               3-3
3.2.1.1 Regulations for the Control of Air and Noise Pollution          3-5
3.2.1.2 Surface and Groundwater Quality                                 3-5
3.2.1.3 Discharges of Wastewater                                        3-7
3.2.1.4 Disposal and Reuse of Sludge                                    3-8
3.2.1.5 Disposal of Solid Waste and Industrial Wastewater               3-9
3.2.1.6 Pollution Abatement                                             3-9
3.2.1.7 Protected Areas and Natural Habitats                           3-10
3.2.1.8 Archaeological and Cultural Heritage                           3-12
3.2.1.9 Environmental Assessment                                       3-13
3.2.2  Standards                                                       3-15
3.2.2.1 Existing Iranian Standards                                     3-15
3.2.2.2 Standards Proposed in this EIA                                 3-17
3.2.2.3 Comparison of Relevant Standards                               3-18
3.3    Administrative Framework                                        3-19
3.3.1  Key Government Organizations                                    3-19
3.3.2  Other Government Organizations                                  3-24
3.3.3  Overall Environmental Management                                3-28
3.4    Conclusion                                                      3-29
4      Baseline Environmental Data                                      4-1
4.1   Introduction                                                      4-1
4.2    Physical Environment                                             4-1
4.2.1  Topography                                                       4-1
4.2.2  Climate                                                          4-1
4.2.3  Air Quality                                                      4-3
4.2.4  Noise Pollution                                                  4-4
4.2.5  Geology                                                          44
4.3    Biological Environments                                         4-22
4.3.1  Terrestrial Ecosystems                                          4-22
4.3.2  Aquatic Ecosystems                                              4-23
4.3.3  Sensitive Habitats                                              4-24
4.4    Socio-Economic Environment                                      4-25
4.4.1  Population Characteristics                                      4-25
4.4.2  Social- Cultural                                                4-29
4.4.3  Employment Situation                                            4-29
4.4.4  Health                                                          4-31
4.4.5  Land Use                                                        4-33
4.4.6  Infrastructure Services                                         4-37
4.4.7  Tourism                                                         440
4.4.8  Cultural Heritage                                               4-41
4.4.9  Planned Developments                                            4-44
4.4.10 Townscape                                                       4-46



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project           Environmental Assessment Report
5      Potential Environmental Impacts                                   5-1
5.1   Impacts on the Geophysical Environment                             5-1
5.1.1  Changes ofLand Use                                                5-1
5.1.2  Relocation of People                                              5-1
5.1.3  Disturbance During construction                                   5-2
5.1.4  Noise and Vibration                                               5-3
5.1.5  Odor                                                              54
5.1.6  Visual Impact                                                     5-5
5.1.7  Impacts on Traffic and Transportation                             5-6
5.2   Impacts on the Social and economic Environment                     5-7
5.2.1  Impacts on Population                                             5-7
5.2.2  Impacts on Employment and Income distribution                     5-8
5.2.3  Urban Development                                                 5-8
5.3   Impacts on the Cultural Environment                                5-8
5.3.1  Impacts on Archaeological and Historical Sites                    5-8
5.3.2  Impacts on Public Attitudes                                       5-9
5.4   Impacts on Surface Waters                                         5-10
5.4.1  Impacts on River Water Quality                                   5-10
5.4.2  Impacts on River Water Quantities                                5-10
5.4.3  Impacts Relating to Industrial Discharges                        5-11
5.4.4  Impacts on Maharloo Lake                                         5-11
5.4.5  Impacts on Surface Water Supplies                                5-12
5.5   Impacts on Ground Water                                           5-13
5.5.1  Impacts on Ground Water Quality                                  5-13
5.5.2  Impacts on Ground Water during Construction                      5-13
5.5.3  Impacts on Ground Water Due to Sewer Connections                 5-13
5.5.4  Impacts on Ground Water Resources                                5-13
5.6   Impacts on Agriculture                                            5-14
5.6.1  Impact on Crop Production                                        5-14
5.6.2  Impact on Fertilizer Consumption                                 5-14
5.6.3  Impact on Soil Quality                                           5-15
5.6.4  Impact on Crop Quality                                           5-15
5.6.5  Impact on Agricultural Practices                                 5-16
5.6.6  Impact on Agricultural Workers                                   5-16
5.6.7  Impact on Supply of Irrigation Water                             5-16
5.7   Impacts on Health                                                 5-17
5.7.1  Improvements in Public Health                                    5-17
5.7.2  Adverse Impact on Drinking Water Quantity and Quality            5-17
5.7.3  Adverse Impacts Due to Agricultural Use of Treated Effluent      5-18
5.7.4  Adverse Impacts Due to Agricultural Use of Sewage Sludge         5-19
5.7.5  Adverse Impacts Due to Chlorination                              5-19
5.7.6  Adverse Impacts Due to Operation of the Sewage Treatment Plant   5-21
5.7.7  Adverse Impacts Due to Pests                                     5-21
5.7.7  Adverse Impacts Due to Asbestos Cement Piping                    5-22
5.8   Impacts on Climate                                                5-22
5.9   Impacts on the Biological Environment                             5-23
5.9.1  Impact on Habitats                                               5-23
5.9.2  Impact on protected species and habitats                         5-23
5.9.3  Disturbance to Fauna                                             5-24
5.9.4  Indirect Ecological Effects Due to Improvements in Surface Water Quality  5-24
5.10   Impacts on Other Planned Developments                            5-24
5.10.1 Plan for Management of Khoshk River                              5-24
5.10.2 Plan for the development of Maharloo Lake Surroundings           5-24
5.10.3 Urban Subway System:                                             5-24
iii



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project          Environmental Assessment Report
5.10.4 The Gharebagh Water Transfer Plan:                              5-25
5.10.5 The Water Supply Plan to Sarvestan Plain:                       5-25
5.10.6 The Shiraz Industrial Zones                                     5-25
5.10.7 The Animal Husbandry Complex:                                   5-25
5.11   Impacts due to Seismic Activities                               5-25
5.12   Summary of Environmental Impacts                                5-26
5.13   Major Adverse Impacts of the Project                            5-29
6      Analysis of Alternatives to the Proposed Project                 6-1
6.1    Water Supply                                                     6-1
6.1.1  Option 1: No Project                                             6-1
6.1.1.1 Water Resources                                                 6-1
6.1.1.2 Water Supply System Reliability                                 6-1
6.1.1.3 Public Health                                                   6-2
6.1.1.4 Indirect Environmental Impacts                                  6-2
6.1.1.5 Construction Impacts                                            6-2
6.1.1.6 Management and Monitoring                                       6-2
6.1.1.7 Economic Analysis                                               6-2
6.1.2  Option 2: Shiraz Water Supply Project                            6-4
6.1.2.1 Water Resources                                                 6-4
6.1.2.2 Water Supply System Reliability                                 6-4
6.1.2.3 Water Supply Quality                                            6-4
6.1.2.4 Public Health                                                   6-4
6.1.2.5 Construction Impacts                                            6-4
6.1.3  Conclusions                                                      6-4
6.2    Wastewater Collection and Treatment                              6-5
6.2.1  Option 1: No Project                                             6-5
6.2.1.1 Surface Water Pollution                                         6-5
6.2.1.2 Groundwater                                                     6-6
6.2.1.3 Agriculture                                                     6-6
6.2.1.4 Health                                                          6-7
6.2.1.5 Construction Impacts                                            6-7
6.2.1.6 Management and Monitoring                                       6-7
6.2.1.7 Economic Analysis                                               6-7
6.2.1.8 Conclusions                                                     6-8
6.3    Altemative Treatment Processes                                   6-9
6.3.1  Complete Mix Activated Sludge Plant                              6-9
6.3.1.1  System Design                                                 6-10
6.3.1.2  Proposed Site and Ground Conditions                           6-11
6.3.1.3  Power                                                         6-11
6.3.1.4  Quantities of Treated Sludge for Disposal                     6-11
6.3.1.5  Materials                                                     6-11
6.3.1.6  Staffing                                                      6-11
6.3.1.7  Schedule                                                      6-12
6.3.1.8  Impact on Local Population                                    6-12
6.3.1.9  Impacts on the Cultural Environment                           6-12
6.3.1.10 Impacts on Surface Waters                                     6-12
6.3.1.11 Impacts on Groundwater                                        6-12
6.3.1.12 Impacts on Agriculture                                        6-12
6.3.1.13 Impacts on Health                                             6-13
6.3.1.14 Impacts on Climate                                            6-13
6.3.1.15 Impacts on the Biological Environment                         6-13
6.3.1.16 Construction and Operational Costs                            6-13
6.3.2  Sewage Treatment Using Waste Stabilization Ponds                6-13
iv



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project         Environmental Assessment Report
6.3.2.1  System Design                                               6-14
6.3.2.2  Proposed Site                                               6-14
6.3.2.3  Pathogen Removal                                            6-14
6.3.2.4  Power                                                       6-15
6.3.2.5  Evaporation from Waste Stabilization Ponds                  6-15
6.3.2.6  Quantities of Treated Sludge for Disposal                   6-15
6.3.2.7  Materials                                                   6-15
6.3.2.8  Schedule                                                    6-16
6.3.2.9  Impact on Local Population                                  6-16
6.3.2.10 Impacts on the Cultural Environment                         6-16
6.3.2.11 Impacts on Surface Waters                                   6-16
6.3.2.12 Impacts on Groundwater                                      6-17
6.3.2.13 Impacts on Agriculture                                      6-17
6.3.2.14 Impact on Health                                            6-17
6.3.2.15 Impacts on Climate                                          6-17
6.3.2.16 Impacts on the Biological Environment                       6-17
6.3.2.17 Technical Performance                                       6-18
6.3.2.18 Land use                                                    6-18
6.3.2.19 Visual Impact & landscape structure                         6-18
6.3.2.20 Costs                                                       6-18
6.3.3  Sewage Treatment Using Aerated Lagoons                        6-18
6.3.3.1  System Desigr.                                              6-19
6.3.3.2  Proposed Site                                               6-19
6.3.3.3  Power                                                       6-19
6.3.3.4  Evaporation and Seepage from Aerated Lagoons                6-20
6.3.3.5  Quantities of Treated Sludge for Disposal                   6-20
6.3.3.6  Materials                                                   6-20
6.1.1.1  Staffing                                                    6-20
6.3.3.7  Schedule                                                    6-21
6.3.3.8  Impact on Local Population                                  6-21
6.3.3.9  Impacts on the Cultural Environment                         6-21
6.3.3.10 Impacts on Surface Waters                                   6-21
6.3.3.11 Impacts on Groundwater                                      6-21
6.3.3.12 Impacts on Agriculture                                      6-21
6.3.3.13 Impacts on Health                                           6-21
6.3.3.14 Impacts on Climate                                          6-22
6.3.3.15 Impacts on the Biological Environment                       6-22
6.3.3.16 Technical Performance                                       6-22
6.3.3.17 Land use                                                    6-22
6.3.3.18 Visual Impact & landscape structure                         6-22
6.3.3.19 Costs                                                       6-22
6.3.4  Dual Power Multi Cellular Lagoon System (DPMC)                6-23
6.3.4.1  System Design                                               6-23
6.3.4.2  Proposed Site and Ground Conditions                         6-24
6.3.4.3  Power                                                       6-24
6.3.4.4  Evaporation from Aerated Lagoons                            6-24
6.3.4.5  Quantities of Treated Sludge for Disposal                    6-24
6.3.4.6  Materials                                                   6-24
6.3.4.7  Staffing                                                     6-24
6.3.4.8  Schedule                                                    6-25
6.3.4.9  Impact on Local Population                                  6-25
6.3.4.10 Impacts on the Cultural Environment                         6-25
6.3.4.11 Impacts on Surface Waters                                   6-25
6.3.4.12 Impacts on Groundwater                                       6-25
6.3.4.13 Impacts on Agriculture                                       6-25
v



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project           Environmental Assessment Report
6.3.4.14 Impacts on Health                                              6-25
6.3.4.15  Impacts on Climate                                            6-26
6.3.4.16 Impacts on the Biological Environment                          6-26
6.3.4.17 Technical Performance                                          6-26
6.3.4.18 Land use                                                       6-26
6.3.4.19 Visual Impact                                                  6-26
6.3.4.20 Costs                                                          6-26
6.3.5  Comparison of Sewage Treatment Process Altematives               6-27
6.4    Other Altematives Explored                                       6-28
7.     Environmental Management Plan                                     7-1
7.1    Objectives of the Environmental Management Plan                   7-1
7.2    Mitigation Measures                                               7-2
7.2.1  Construction Phase                                                7-2
7.2.2  Operation Phase                                                  7-12
7.2.2.1 Water Project                                                   7-13
7.2.2.2 Wastewater Project                                              7-17
7.3    Monitoring Program                                               7-24
7.3.1  Construction Phase                                               7-25
7.3.2  Operation Phase                                                  7-25
7.3.2.1 Water Supply System                                             7-25
7.3.2.2 Wastewater Systems                                              7-26
7.4    Management Requirements                                          7-30
7.4.1  Overview of Responsibilities                                     7-30
7.4.2  Technical Support Unit                                           7-31
7.5   Institutional Strengthening                                       7-32
7.6    Cost Estimate                                                    7-34
8      Post Environmental Review of Emergency WWTP                       8-1
8.1    Evaluation ofWWTP Site                                            8-1
8.2    Design Basis                                                      8-3
8.2.1  Influent loads                                                    8-3
8.2.2  Treatment plant load Progression                                  8-4
8.2.3  Effluent Quality Design Criteria                                  8-4
8.3    Emergency WWTP -First Phase Process Design                        8-5
8.3.1  Raw wastewater pumping station                                    8-6
8.3.2  Screening                                                         8-6
8.3.3  Grit and grease removal                                           8-7
8.3.4  Flow meter                                                        8-7
8.3.5  Primary settling tanks (PSTs)                                     8-7
8.3.6  Anaerobic selectors                                               8-7
8.3.7  Aeration tanks                                                    8-8
8.3.8  Secondary settling tanks                                          8-8
8.3.9  The effluent disinfection system                                  8-8
8.3.10 Sludge blending tanks                                             8-9
8.3.11 Sludge thickeners                                                 8-9
8.3.12 Anaerobic digesters                                               8-9
8.3.13 Biogas storage tank                                               8-9
8.3.14 Sludge dewatering                                                8-10
8.3.15 Emergency by - pass system                                       8-10
8.4    Buildings and other facilities in the plant                      8-10
8.4.1  Guardhouse                                                       8-10
8.4.2  Administration Building                                          8-10
vi



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project          Environmental Assessment Report
8.4.3  Power Supply Building                                           8-10
8.4.4  The Chlorination Building                                       8-11
8.4.5  Workshop                                                        8-11
8.4.6  Laboratory                                                      8-11
8.4.7  Landscaping                                                     8-11
8.4.8  Power Supply & Equipment Controls                               8-11
8.4.9  Utility Services                                                8-11
8.4.10 Safety and Occupational Health                                  8-12
8.5    Review of the Design and Environmental Performance of the Emergency
WWTP                                                            8-12
8.5.1  Effluent Quality and Design Appraisal                           8-12
8.5.2  Solids Production and Quality Requirements                      8-13
8.5.3  Power                                                           8-14
8.5.4  Chemical Usage                                                  8-15
8.5.5  Review of Engineering Aspects                                   8-15
8.6    Evaluation of Effluent Discharge Impact on Maharloo Lake        8-17
8.6.1  Maharloo Lake Environmental condition                           8-17
8.6.2  Treated Effluent Loads                                          8-17
8.6.3  Iranian Standards of Discharge to Surface Water Bodies          8-18
8.6.4  Standards of Discharge to Surface Water Bodies                  8-19
8.6.5  Evaluation of Effluent Impact                                   8-19
9      Public Involvement                                               9-1
9.1   Information Dissemination                                         9-1
9.2   Information Solicitation                                          9-1
9.3    Public Consultation                                              9-2
9.3.1  Ministry of Health and Medical Education                         9-2
9.3.2  Ministry of Agriculture Jihad                                    9-2
9.3.3  Non-Govemmental Organizations                                    9-3
9.3.4  Farmers                                                          9-4
9.3.5  Public Meeting                                                   9-4
9.4    Summary
10    List of References                                               10-1
vii



Shiraz Water Suppiv and Sanitation Project           Environmental Assessment Report
List of Tables
Table 2-1 Population and Demand Growth Levels                             24
Table 2-2- Doroudzan Dam Water Quality                                    2-7
Table 2-3- Well Water Quality                                             2-8
Table 2-4 Population Estimates, Available Resources and Water Balance (year 2003)  2-15
Table 2-5 Water Supply Quality Projection According to Pressure Zones    2-18
Table 2-6 Water Supply Works Projected Costs                             2-23
Table 2-7- Existing Wastewater Collection Network Pipeline Components    2-26
Table 2-8 Chemical and Energy requirements of the Emergency WWTP         2-28
Table 2-9 Sanitation Facilities Service Level Development                2-31
Table 2-10 Chemical and Energy requirements of the Long Term WWTP        2-35
Table 2-11 Wastewater Works Projected Costs                              2-41
Table 3-1 The Organizations related to the Preservation of Cultural Heritage  3-27
Table 4-1: Heavy Metal Levels in the Soil Around Khoshk River             4-7
Table 4-2: Average Amount of Heavy Metal in Maharloo Lake (ppm)           4-9
Table 4-3: Analysis of Physical, Chemical and Biological Parameters of Maharloo Lake 4-9
Table 4-4: Seasonal variations of Khoshk River Discharge at Baghe Safa Bridge  4-10
Table 4-5: Level of Heavy Metals in Khoshk River                         4-11
Table 4-6: Water Quality Measurements at Khoshk River and Comparison with
Relevant Standards.                                            4-12
Table 4-7: Pollution Sources and Estimated Discharge Volumes in Khoshk River  4-14
Table 4-8: Water Quality Measurements at Soltanabad River and Comparison with
Relevant Standards.                                            4-15
Table 4-9: Heavy Metals Levels in Soltanabad River                       4-16
Table 4-10: Number and Capacities of Ground Water Resources (well, qanats, springs) 4-19
Table 4-11: Water Balance of Groundwater Resources in the Project Area   4-20
Table 4-12: Water Demands of Different Sectors and the Sources of Supply  4-20
Table 4-13: Heavy Metals and Coliform Measurements in 50 selected Wells  4-21
Table 4-14: Population and Growth Rate of Shiraz (1957-1997)             4-25
Table 4-15: Population Projection Throughout the Project Life (1997-2027)  4-25
Table 4-16: Population Density Distribution in Shiraz                    4-26
Table 4-17: Immigration Projection (1997-2027) in Shiraz                 4-27
Table 4-18: Educational Level in Shiraz 2003                             4-28
viii



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project           Environmental Assessment Report
Table 4-19: Population Data of Villages around the Treatment Plant       4-28
Table 4-20: Relative Distribution of Religious Groups in Shiraz          4-29
Table 4-21: Employment Level in Major Economic Activities (1997)         4-30
Table 4-22: Distribution of Employment in Different Economic Sectors in Shiraz  4-30
Table 4-23: Employment State in Shiraz year 1997                         4-31
Table 4-24: Water Bome Diseases 2001                                     4-32
Table 4-25: Average Cost of Diarrhoeal and in Dysentery Treatment in Shiraz  4-32
Table 4-26: Number of Hospitals and Beds in Shiraz in 2000               4-33
Table 4-27: Agricultural Data in Villages adjacent to the Emergency Plant in
1990 (hectares)                                                4-36
Table 4-28: Consumptive Use of Major Crops in Shiraz Valley              4-36
Table 4-29: Farming Condition in Gharebagh                               4-37
Table 4-30: Tour Agencies in Shiraz and Number of Tourists (1986 - 1999)  4-40
Table 4-31: Number of Hotels and Guests in Shiraz (1987 - 1995 - 1999)   4-41
Table 4-32: Number of Rooms and Guests in Shiraz Guesthouses             4-41
Table 5-1 Summary of environmental impacts (Part A)                      5-27
Table 5-1 Summary of environmental impacts (Part B)                      5-27
Table 5-1 Summary of environmental impacts (Part C)                      5-28
Table 6-1 Summary of costs of not implementing the proposed water supply project  6-3
Table 6-2 Summary of costs of not implementing the proposed sanitation project  6-9
Table 6-3 Summary of Financial Analysis of Options in Sewage Treatment   6-27
Table 7-1: Environmental Mitigation Measures during the Construction Phase  7-12
Table 7-2: Environmental Mitigation Measures during the Operation Phase of Water
Supply System                                                   7-17
Table 7-3: Environmental Mitigation Measures during the Operation Phase of
Wastewater System                                               7-23
Table 7-4: Environmental Monitoring Program for the Construction Phase   7-25
Table 7-5: Environmental Monitoring Program during the Operation Phase of the
Water Supply System                                             7-26
Table 7-6: Environmental Monitoring Program of the Wastewater Treatment Centre
at the Operation Phase                                          7-27
Table 7-7: Environmental Monitoring Program for the Treated Effluent     7-28
Table 7-8: Environmental Monitoring Program for the Treated Sludge       7-29
Table 7-9: Environmental Monitoring Program for Agricultural Soil        7-29
ix



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project             Environmental Assessment Report
Table 7-10: Cost Estimate of Environment Management Plan                    7-35
Table 8-1   Emergency WWTP Design Loads                                      8-4
Table 8-2   Emergency WWTP Load Progression                                  84
Table 8-3  Emergency WWTP Effluent Quality Design Criteria & Comparison with
Prevailing Standards                                             8-5
Table 84   Emergency WWTP Solids Production                                 8-14
Table 8-5   Emergency WWTP Chemical Consumption Rates                       8-15
Table 8-6  Emergency WWTP Effluent Quality & Comparison with Iranian Standards8-18
x



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project           Environmental Assessment Report
List of Figures
Figure No.      Title                                                 Page/Annex
Figure 2-1      The Study Area of EIA for Shiraz Sanitation Project   Annex A
Figure 2-3      Major Pressure Zones of Shiraz Water supply Network for Annex A
Year 2027
Figure 2-4      Reservoirs Feeding Shiraz Water Supply System at First Annex A
Phase (2007)
Figure 2-5      Reservoirs Feeding Shiraz Water Supply System at Third  Annex A
Phase (2027)
Figure 2-6      Shiraz Wastewater Project Collection System Emergency &  Annex A
Long Term Zones
Figure 2-7      Shiraz Wastewater Collection Basin                    Annex A
Figure 4-1      Wind Magnitude & Direction                            4-3
Figure 4-10     Shiraz Metro Development Project                      Annex C
Figure 4-11     Maharloo Lake, Khoshk River and Industrial Pollution  Annex C
Locations
Figure 4-13     Agricultural Lands and Villages Locations             Annex C
Figure 4-14     Geological Map                                        Annex C
Figure 4-2      Potential of Earthquakes in Shiraz                    Annex C
Figure 4-3      Wilcox Diagram of Khoshk River                        4-13
Figure 4-4      Wilcox Diagram of Soltanabad River                    4-17
Figure 4-5      Population Density in Shiraz (2027)                   Annex C
Figure 4-6      Population Density in Shiraz (1997)                   Annex C
Figure 4-7      Age Pyramid (1997)                                    4-27
Map 1           Shiraz Township Location                              Annex A
SWWC-IR-1       Shiraz Sewage Project Collection System Emergency & Long  Annex A
Term Zones
SWWC-IR-2       Shiraz Sewage Project Collection System Executed Pipes  Annex A
SWWC-IR-3       Shiraz Sewage Project Collection System  Executed and  Annex A
Under Construction Areas.
SWWC-IR-38      Emergency Treatment Plant-Location Plan               Annex C
SWWC-IR-40      Long-Term Treatment Plant-Location Plan               Annex C
SWWC-IR-42      Shiraz Historical and Religious Places                Annex C
SWWC-IR-43      WWTP Outfall Layout & Location                        Annex A
xi



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project        Environmental Assessment Report
List of Annexes
Annex-A: Figures of Project Description Chapter
Annex-B: Review of Policy, Legal and Administrative Chapter
Annex-C: Baseline Environmental Data
Annex-D: Institutional Capacities
Annex-E: List of EIA Preparers
Annex-F: Public Consultations
Annex-G: Project Exhibits
xii



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project             Environmental Assessment Report
List of Abbreviations
BOD           Biochemical Oxygen Demand
DOE           Department of Environment
EA            Environmental Assessment
EHC           Environrnental High Council
ESO           Environmental and Safety Officer
EMP           Environmental Management Plan
EU            European Union
FAO           Food and Agriculture Organization
MOAJ          Ministry of Agriculture Jihad
MOE           Ministry of Energy
MOHME         Ministry of health and Medical Education
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
OP            Operational Policy
QA/QC         Quality Assurance and Quality Control
SWWC          Shiraz Water and Wastewater Company
TOR           Terms of Reference
TSU           Technical Support Unit
WB            World Bank
WHO           World Health Organization
WTP           Water Treatment Plant
WTPO          Water Treatment Plant Operator
WWTO          Wastewater Treatment Operator
WWTP          Wastewater Treatment Plant
xiii






Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project           Environmental Assessment Report
1   Introduction
1.1 Overview
The Ministry of Energy of the Islamic Republic of Iran has commissioned Lar Consulting
Engineers to conduct an Environmental Assessment Study (EA) for the Shiraz Water Supply
and Sanitation Project. The EA study is a component of Project Feasibility Study required for
appraisal by the World Bank.
Shiraz is the capital of Fars province and is located at approximately 925 km to the south of
Tehran. The present population is about 1,200,000 and is projected to reach 1,950,000 by the
year 2027. Shiraz has a rich historical heritage and is close to Persepolis, the most important
archaeological site of the country.
The existing water supply network provides potable water for more than 99% of the
inhabitants of Shiraz. Potable water is supplied from ground and surface water resources.
Surface water is provided through the Doroudzan Dam and ground water is provided from the
Alluvial and Karstic wells in the city. The water supply is of acceptable quality and in
compliance with national and WHO standards. The major problems raised by the Water and
Wastewater Company is the high percentage of unaccounted for water (around 30%) and the
need to rehabilitate a considerable portion of the network. Rehabilitation of the network has
been initiated but is proceeding at a very slow rate due to limited financial resources. Other
problems identified by the Shiraz Water and Wastewater Company are the relatively low
water quality of Alluvial ground water sources that have high levels of hardness and nitrates,
and the insufficient water pressure in some zones of the distribution network.
Wastewater collection, treatment and disposal are the main environmental concem in Shiraz.
The most common method of wastewater disposal in Shiraz is through seepage pits. Only 8%
of the population is connected to the wastewater collection system. Due to the high water
table and low soil permeability, the use of seepage pits has been unsatisfactory causing
groundwater contamination. Due to the lack of a proper wastewater management system, a
great part of the wastewater is discharged in the seasonal rivers of the city or in open drainage
channels that run along the roads adjacent to the residential areas. During the dry periods, the
channels become open wastewater collectors emitting noxious odours, attracting mosquitoes
and affecting the health of the residents. The wastewater collected by the existing sewers is
conveyed along Khoshk River that divides the city in two parts and ultimately discharges in
Maharloo Lake at xx km from the city. Thus, the uncontrolled discharge of sewage is causing
severe environmental damage and serious health hazards to the inhabitants of the city.
The Ministry of Energy is developing this project to provide adequate and reliable water
supply and wastewater management systems.



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project           Environmental Assessment Report
1.2 Terms of Reference
The Terms of Reference for this study are issued by the World Bank document entitled
"Environmental Assessment of Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project ".
In preparing this Environmental Assessment, reference has been made to the requirements of
the World Bank Operational Directive OD 4.01 of October 1991entitled 'Environmental
Assessment of the Investment Projects and Programme, Scope and Process' by J.A.N Wallis,
published by the Economic Development Institute of the World Bank in December 1989,
'Environmental Assessment Sourcebook' published by the World Bank Environment
Department in 1999, and the requirements for Environmental Assessment within the Islamic
Republic of Iran.
The project is classified as Category A in accordance with World Bank classification system,
and would therefore require a full EA study.
1.3  Objectives of the Environmental Assessment
The objective of this environmental assessment study is to identify the Project's potential
positive and negative environmental effects, and to recommend adequate measures to
mitigate the predicted negative impacts of the project.
The ELA study will first describe the project in terms of the proposed project components, the
current and future needs, the development phases of the project, and the project costs. It will
establish the environmental baseline conditions. It will evaluate the potential impact of the
project in terms of the biological, physical, and socio-economic environments. It will provide
recommendations for mitigating the predicted impacts during the construction and operational
phase of the project.



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project         Environmental Assessment Report
2 Project description
2.1  Project Location and Setting
Covering an area of approximately 133,299 km2, Fars is one of the more important
provinces in Iran, accounting for 8.1% of the country's total area. Located in the southem
region of Iran and neighbouring the provinces of Isfahan, Yazd, Bushehr, Kohkilooyeh
and Booyer Ahmed, Hormozgan and Kerman, Fars consists of 19 townships, 62 districts,
57 towns, 185 rural divisions and 4378 inhabited villages.
The Shiraz Township, the provincial centre of Fars, is composed of 6 districts, 23 rural
districts and 812 villages, spanning an area of 10,531 km2. The location of the project
area is shown on figure 2-1 in Annex A. The township includes the towns of Shiraz,
Kharameh, Zargan, Sarvestan and Kowar. Map 1 (Annex A) shows the location of Shiraz
Township relative to neighbouring towns.
The town of Shiraz is located on a large plain, 120 km long and 15 km wide. The plain
constitutes the "Area of Influence" of the project, which geographically define the extent
of the environmental effects of the project. The average altitude in the plain is
approximately 1,540m above sea level and the average elevation is approximately
1,490m. The topography is such that the low grounds are located in the south and the
southeast regions of the town. It is considered an enclosed area due to the mountain
chains surrounding the area. The north of the township is met by the Baba Koohi heights,
in the east the Shah Ghaib heights, in the south the Ghare Bagh (Sabzpooshan) hills and
in the west the Barfi and Aramoo heights. The town is also limited in the southeast by the
natural salt lake of Maharloo.
Shiraz is the most important historical city in Iran. Sites such as Persepolis, Pasargadae,
the mausoleums of Hafiz and Sa'adi and the Shah Cheragh Mosque in and around the
city have transformed Shiraz into a major tourist site, attracting many domestic and
foreign visitors each year.
During the Karim Khan era, the construction of a barrier dam diverted the Khoshk River
course slightly to the north. Thereafter, the northem boundaries of the town expanded
from the Khan School towards the Koran Gateway. Shiraz lost its initial development
momentum during the Qajjar Dynasty, but recently, the old town's walls and ditches
were replaced by roads, with contemporary road construction tearing up the town's old
2-1



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project          Environmental Assessment Report
pattern. With the advance of modern civil works, the expansion of Shiraz to the west has
been vigorous and is still continuing today. The growth of the population and the
continued civil works over the course of the last three decades has given the town a dual
image, to the extent that the old and new patterns are quite distinguishable.
The Old Town (Consists of two sections):
The historical part of the town of Shiraz covers an area of 360 hectares and includes the
early town nucleus. The urban pattern in this area is characterized by low-rise, antiquated
and dilapidated buildings and high population density. The transport network is weak and
lacks the necessary efficiency. The presence of desolate and neglected construction in
this area has resulted in low sanitation and has affected the quality of life of the old
town's inhabitants.
The town centre also includes areas which expanded after 1941 and consists of the central
parts of the town of Shiraz, excluding historical sites. It is characterized by densely built
high rise buildings along the main roads. Roads and infrastructure are insufficient with
respect to the intensity of urban activities of central Shiraz.
The New Town
The newer areas of Shiraz developed around the central and older neighbourhoods, and
are characterized by modern urban development such as large boulevards and wide roads.
With the influx of migrants, new neighbourhoods and suburbs have grown around the
town, especially in proximity to the southern perimeter, which are outside the town's
approved master plan boundaries. Furthermore, the low income of the inhabitants has led
to small sized properties and low quality of construction, exasperated by high population
density. With the availability of large tracts of unutilized and arable lands in this area,
further increased urban expansion is expected in the future.
2.2 Project Outline
The feasibility study for Shiraz water and wastewater management has been prepared to
meet the study area requirements up to the year 2027. The study covered the city
boundaries established by the Shiraz Master Plan with a total area of 22,075 ha having a
forecast population of 1,944,860 in the year 2027. In accordance with feasibility study,
the project area can be divided to two identified drainage zones: (1) the Emergency Zone
2-2



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project         Environmental Assessment Report
having an area of 6,760 ha with a forecast total population of 583,460 for year 2027 and
(2) the Long Term Zone having an area of 15,315 ha with a forecast total population of
1,361,400 in the year 2027 (See figure 2-6 in annex A)
The required water and wastewater works will be completed over three phases. The first
phase is expected to be carried out between the years 2003-2007; the second phase will
commence in 2008 and continue until 2017; and finally, the third phase will begin in
2018, ending with the project's completion in 2027.
The Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project will cover works to be included in the
first phase defined by the feasibility (2003 to 2007).These works can be described by the
following:
Water Supply Component
* Development of new ground water sources to meet the increased water demands
* Expansion of the city's water reservoirs capacity to meet seasonal and daily storage
requirements.
* Expansion and upgrading of the water supply network
* Construction of pumping facilities for network system pressure
* Replacement and rehabilitation of existing distribution system
* Installation of pressure reducing valves for modulating the pressure in various parts
of the network
Wastewater Supply Component
* Construction of main collectors and laterals with diameters between 200 and 400 mm;
* Construction of trunk mains with diameters between 500 and 1800 mm;
*  Construction of two treatment modules of the Long Term Wastewater Treatment
Plant
* Construction of the discharge outfalls for conveying the treated effluent of the
Emergency and the Long Term treatment plants to the end disposal point.
The following table presents a summary of the population growth, anticipated connection
rate, corresponding water demand levels and generated wastewater flows that were used
for the development of the feasibility study.
2-3



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project           Environmental Assessment Report
Table 2-1 Population and Demand Growth Levels
Item  Description                                  Priect period
I___________________________     2003       2007      201 7      2027
l I  _______________           _ Population  1,240,592  1,360,895  1,668,362  1,944,858
WATER SUPPLY
2       Population connected to water  1,234,761  1,356,268  1,668,362  1,944,858
l        ~~~distribution network
3        Total water demand (lit/s)  3,337      3,744     4,673      5,492
WASTEWATER
4    Population connected to collection
system in Emergency Zone     85,500    183,721   375,381   583,457
5   Total wastewater flow in Emergency
Zone (lit/s)            172       394       841       1339
6    Population connected to collection
system in Long-Term Zone     40,500    238,157   759,105   1,361,401
7    Total wastewater flow in the Long-
Term Zone (lit/s)         74        466       1560       2872
2.3 Water Supply
Shiraz is one of the first towns in which a water supply network was constructed, with the
installation of a pipeline network initiated in 1945 through the efforts of the late
Mohammad Namazi (entrepreneur and philanthropist).
The first phase of the water supply project became operational in 1952 and supplied
piped water to 6,000 connections. The system's capacity expanded gradually in parallel
to urban development and the town's increasing water demands.
Currently, the extent of water supply and wastewater service coverage is divided into four
districts administrated by Shiraz Water and Wastewater Company consisting of 25
pressure zone for water supply and two separate wastewater collection networks (Long
term and Emergency).
24



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project          Environmental Assessment Report
2.3.1 Current status
2.3.1.1 Water Supply Resources
Water is currently supplied to Shiraz from surface and ground water resources.
Approximately 75 % percent, or the majority of the city's water demands, is supplied
from deep wells within the city limits and the surrounding hills, and the remaining supply
is transferred from the Doroudzan Dam on the Kor River.
2.3.1.1.1 Surface Water Resources
The Doroudzan Dam was constructed on the Kor River, located northwest of Shiraz, and
currently provides approximately 72,000 m3 per day of water to Shiraz. The installations
currently operational in the transfer of water from the Dam to Shiraz, are:
*  Intake Water Tower
*  Pumping Station No. 1: Located at a distance of 15 km from the dam and equipped
with 4 electro-pumps
*  Water Treatment Plant: Located on Koohe Sabz hill, at a distance of 40.5 km from
the dam, and consists of the following treatment processes:
o Pre-chlorination
o Destabilization
o Flocculation
o Sedimentation
o Rapid gravity filter
o Post chlorination
o Treated water reservoir
o  43 Sludge drying beds, having a total area of 11,000 m2 for drying the sludge
generated at the treatment plant.
*  Pumping station No. 2: Located on Koohe Sabz hill and equipped with three electro-
pumps
*  Pumping Station No. 3: Located along the Shiraz-Marvdasht Road at a distance of 25
km from the dam and equipped with 3 electro-pumps
*  A 120 km transfer line from the Doroudzan Dam to the city's reservoirs made of steel
pipes, per following schedule:
2-5



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project         Environmental Assessment Report
o  DN 1400 from Doroudzan Dam to Pumping Station No. I
o  DN 1000 from Pumping Station No. 1 to the WTP
o  DN 1000 from WTP to Pumping Station No. 3
o  DN 1000 from Pumping Station No. 3 to an elevated tank
o DN 1000 from the elevated tank to the Isfahan-Shiraz Police Station
o  DN 750 from the Isfahan-Shiraz Police Station to the Pressure Breaking
Reservoir and on to the Ebiverdi Tank inside the city
o  DN 750 from the Isfahan-Shiraz Police Station to the Moali Abad Tank inside the
city
The sludge resulting from the treatment plant operations, mainly from the sedimentation
basins, is applied to drying beds. The sludge is left to dewater for a certain number of
days, wherein the solids concentration in the sludge will increase from approximately 1%
to a minimum concentration of 15%. Following dewatering, the sludge is hauled to
Shiraz landfill for ultimate disposal. Presently, it is estimated that 1900 tons per year of
dewatered sludge at 15% concentration are hauled to the landfill, and it is forecasted that
this quantity will increase to 4200 ton when the plant capacity will be increased to
156,000 m3/day.
2.3.1.1.2 Groundwater resources
The majority of the Shiraz potable water demand is supplied from the groundwater
resources in the Shiraz plains. These resources have always been the traditional, main
sources of water supply.
They are divided into two main groups relative to their geological structure; the alluvial
wells, and the Karstic wells.
Alluvial wells
Thirty four wells are situated in the alluvial formations within the city limits. These wells
are located in zone 3. Of the thirty four wells, only 16 are currently operational, with
water pumped to the network after chlorination.
Based on available data, the amount of water produced by the 16 wells in 2003 amounted
to 469 lit/sec. However, due to high concentration of salts, the hardness of the water
produced, and contamination by household wastewater, the remaining decommissioned
eighteen wells have either been taken out of the circuit, or handed over to the
municipality for irrigating green spaces.
2-6



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project           Environmental Assessment Report
Thirteen out of the sixteen operating wells deliver water to the network directly by
pumping. The remaining wells transfer the water to the reservoirs.
Karstic Wells
Another major source of groundwater supply is the Karstic wells, which have been drilled
on limestone anticlines around Shiraz. According to year 2003 data, 52 out of a total of
69 Karstic wells are currently operational. Ten wells have been bored recently, but still
have not entered the circuit; and seven were taken out of service.
The distribution of the town's Karstic wells, their operating status, and output capacity is
shown in the following table.
Zone        Name/Location         Total No. of  No. of Operational  Total Capacity,
Wells           Wells             I/s
I   north-eastern heights of Shiraz  38             34              1,460
2    Derak Wells                    17              14               614
4    Sabzpooshan Region             9               4                269
5   northern region of Shiraz       5               5                216
Total Capacity of operating Karstic Wells             2,559
2.3.1.2 Water Supply Quality
Water supplied from the Doroudzan Dam has a high and consistent quality compared
with ground water quality. Table 2.2 provides the water quality of Doroudzan Dam, and a
comparison with WHO standards
Table 2-2- Doroudzan Dam Water Quality
Parameters              RAW           Treated     W.H.O
|BOD (mng/1)                0.30         0.00
LCOD (mg/1)                 1.40         0.00
pH                          7.88         7.80        6.5-8.5
Salinity as TDS (mg/l)      327         360.10        1000
Alkalinity (mg/l)           172         177.47          -
Conductivity (qs/cn2)       486         460.07
| Ammonia (mg/I)            0.08                       1.5
2-7



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project            Environmental Assessment Report
Parameters              RAW           Treated      W.H.O
Nitrates (mg/I)              4.7          4.5           50
Nitrites (mg/i)             0.01          0.00           3
Chlorides (mg/i)             58          41.59         250
Calcium (mg/i)              49.60        48.55           -
Magnesium (mg/i)            17.28         25.71         0.1
Sodium (mg/l)                50          31.11         200
Potassium (mg/I)              2           1.39           -
Sulphates (mg/i)             32          30.00         250
Iron (mg/i)                   -           0.58          0.3
Total coliforms               8            0           ND
Fecal coliforms              <2            0           ND
Fecal streptococcus          <2            0           ND
Turbidity (NTU)               4            <2           5
ND: Not detected in 100ml sample
In contrast, the quality of the groundwater in Shiraz has been inconsistent for a long
period of time, with high level of salts concentration. Due to the shallow water table and
the unregulated construction of cess pits, raw wastewater has infiltrated the alluvial
aquifer, resulting in the deterioration of its water quality. Consequently a number of wells
were taken out of service. The amount of salt concentration and the hardness of water
differ from well to well, but, in general, remains within the limits set by potable water
standards.
Based on a series of water quality tests conducted for the operational wells (Annex C),
the average quality of well water was calculated, and is indicated in the table below.
Table 2-3- Well Water QualitY
GROUND WATER                         l
ParametersW.O                                              I
Alluvial       Karstic
BOD (mg/1)                   ---l---
COD (mg/i)                   1.70          2.05
pH                           7.16           7.50        6.5-8.5
T.D.S. (mg/l)               823.00        573.97         1000
Alkalinity (mg/i)           379.74        925.40
2-8



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project           Environmental Assessment Report
Parameters            GROUND WATER               W.H.O
Alluvial       Karstic
Conductivity (ms/cm2)      1244.00       903.01          -
Ammonium (mg/i) NH4+        0.10           0.06         1.5
Nitrates (mg/i)            24.31          17.32         50
Nitrites (mg/i)             0.00          0.00           3
Chlorides (mg/i)           85.80          69.47         250
Calcium (mg/i)             148.20         92.42          -
Magnesium (mg/i)           64.81          45.97         0.1
Sodium (mg/i)              46.74          40.87         200
Potassium (mg/i)            2.38           2.24          -
Sulphates (mg/1)           221.74         161.58        250
Iron(mg/l)                  0.82          0.06          0.3
2.3.1.3 Water distribution network
The Shiraz water distribution network was created in various stages over the last fifty
years and was expanded in parallel to need and urban development. The approximate
length of the Shiraz main water distribution network, which includes pipes of over 100
mm in diameter, is estimated to be 1,015 km.
The material used in pipes in the network include cast-iron and ductile iron for large
pipes, asbestos cement for pipes of 80 to 450mm in size, polyethylene for 63-160 mm
laterals, and finally 1"-4" galvanized pipes.
The majority of the town's main pipes are ordinary cast-iron type and were installed over
45 years ago in old streets and roads in the town centre. Considering service age, most
pipes in the network are corroded, causing a high rate of Unaccounted for Water (UFW)
in the network, which is estimated at 30%.
The town's topographic layout creates a large difference in heights along the various
points of the Shiraz Water Supply Network. The difference in altitude between the
highest and lowest built-up area within the city limits (excluding the Golestan area) is
approximately 220m. If the new expansion zone in the north western parts of Shiraz is
considered, the total difference would reach up to 400m.
2-9



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project                 Environmental Assessment Report
Despite the large differences in altitude, the current water supply network is devoid of
pressure zoning, resulting in variable water pressure. In some areas, water pressure is
high, resulting in high leakage rates, while in other areas the situation is quite the reverse
and intensifies during the summer season.
Currently 1,234,761 individuals, representing 99.53% of the total population are serviced
by the Shiraz Water Supply Network. The remainder of the population obtain their water
from other resources.
2-10



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project           Environmental Assessment Report
2.3.1.4 Storage Reservoirs
A number of reservoirs and pressure stabilizing reservoirs are operational in various areas
of Shiraz. Moreover, two new reservoirs have recently been completed, but are still not in
service. Due to the topography and the natural slope of the town, all reservoirs in Shiraz
are of the ground type.
As previously mentioned, the water supply network lacks principle zoning and reservoir
tanks' capacities have not been able to provide the storage requirements commensurate
with the network's expansion. Pumping facilities at the reservoirs lack reliability, since
no standby power generation is provided. This has frequently resulted in water supply
interruptions due to power outage.
The present capacity of operational water reservoirs totals 103,500 m3, which is
equivalent to approximately 31% of the total daily volume of water produced from
existing resources.
The current water supply system has serious shortcomings which can be summarized by
the following:
1. With the exception of Ebiverdi and Moali Abad reservoirs, which are fed water from
the Doroudzan Dam installations, the storage tank capacities are not commensurate
with water demand requirements of their zone. As a result, the reservoirs do not serve
their purpose for storage, but rather function as break tanks for the associated
pumping facilities.
2. The water quality in parts of the supply network remains inconsistent, due to alluvial
well water. Attempts to improve the water quality in these parts of the network by
blending Karstic and alluvial well water with the dam water failed, due to technical
difficulties.
3. Many wells are connected directly to the distribution system without intermediate
storage. This has often led to excessive pressure build up causing leakage, and water
supply interruptions.
2-11



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project          Environmental Assessment Report
2.3.2 Objective of Water Supply Plan
Due to the major shortfalls described in the preceding section, the current water supply
problems will intensify and aggravate in view of the anticipated increase in population
growth and associated urban development.
The objectives of the Shiraz water and wastewater Plan are to address these problems by
expanding the Shiraz potable water network and upgrading the water supply facilities to
achieve the following:
* Provide water supply quantities up to the year 2027 and
* Provide water quality in accordance with prevailing drinking water quality standards
In order to achieve these objectives, the plan attempts to accomplish the following:
1. Increase the number of surface and ground resources to guarantee the required supply
of water to meet the demand at various stages of the plan;
2. Stabilize water pressure in various points by dividing the city into suitable pressure
zones and improving access to water;
3. Increase water storage capacity in Shiraz through the construction of suitably
designed storage reservoirs to meet peak water demands and to eliminate excessive
pressure build up through direct pumping into the network;
4. Rehabilitate the network, and replace worn-out pipes to reduce UFW to acceptable
standard levels.
5. Expand the current work by the construction of new transmission mains.
2.3.3 Proposed Water Supply Plan Phasing
The target year 2027 was selected for the Plan for Expansion of Shiraz Water
Distribution Network based on the results of studies conducted on existing facilities,
projected limits on the physical expansion of the city, the current and-identified resources
of potable water supply and finally, the Ministry of Energy directive, concerning this
region's water supply requirements.
To achieve the objectives set for the year 2027, the project was subdivided into the
following three phases:
* Phase I, 2003 - 2007
2-12



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project         Environmental Assessment Report
* Phase II, 2008 - 2017
* Phase III, 2018 - 2027
2.3.3.1 Upgrading Works for Distribution Network
In order to meet the increased demand, the plan proposes to install new transmission
lines. The plan includes for the construction of 230 km of transmission mains, with sizes
100 to 1200 mm diameter in phase 1, and 160 km of pipe sizes 100 to 700 mm in phase 3.
Due to the 400 m elevation difference within the city, and to comply with the allowed
system pressure for the urban water network, the proposed plan divides Shiraz into 25
pressure sub-zones, connected to each other by pressure reducing valves. These sub-
zones will make up five main networks, determined by water supply point, location of
reservoirs and urban zoning. The location of pressure zones is shown on figure 2-3 in
Annex A. The plan proposes the installation of 72 pressure reducing valves in 36
locations in phase 1, and 4 pressure reducing valves in two locations in phase 3.
To improve the condition of the current water network and to reduce the high level of
UFW, the plan proposes the gradual replacement of worn-out pipes. During Phase I,
approximately 36 km of pipeline will be replaced. In phase 2 and phase 3, 120 km and
257 km of pipeline will be replaced respectively. These works will include replacing
pipes of 100-450mm in diameter.
2.3.3.2 Upgrading Water Supply Resources
Shiraz water supply resources need to be upgraded throughout the plan duration in order
to provide sufficient water quantities meeting the water demand according to the
population growth.
According to available data, the Fars Regional Water Board is currently expanding the
capacity of the water treatment plant near the Doroudzan Dam, as well as the water
transmission lines to the city. It anticipated that by the end of the first phase, in 2007, this
capacity will be increased to156,000 m3/d. The balance of the water requirement will be
supplied through wells to be bored in different areas. For this purpose one well, with an
average discharge rate of 58 lit/sec will be drilled in Zone 5 (Do Koohak) and 16 others,
with an average flow rate of 56 lit/sec, will be drilled in Zone 4 (Sabzpooshan) in an
attempt to meet maximum water demands during the first phase.
2-13



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project          Environmental Assessment Report
According to the plan, in phase 2 there will be 20 wells of approximately 56 I/sec in
capacity, and in phase 3, 23 wells of approximately 56 lit/sec in capacity will be needed.
Due to the reasons stated previously, no new alluvial wells are proposed in the supply
plan. However, if appropriate measures are taken to protect the alluvial wells from
pollution and to improve their water quality, they could still be considered as a potential
source of water supply.
Total population coverage and the water demand, water supply, and water balance are
presented in table 2-4, while table 2-5 projects the expected quality of water in the city's
main zones during the three phases of the project.
Based on table 2-4 the total volume of drinking water that will be available by the end of
the first phase (year 2007) is 459,500 m3/day (156,000 m3/day from surface water and
303,500 m3/day from groundwater) which exceeds the total water demand for the year
2007 of 452,900 m3/day.
It should be noted that new water sources developed, and existing sources for that matter,
will be chlorinated for disinfection. Proper safety procedures will be followed for the
transportation and handling of chlorine and other chemicals to ensure the safety of
operators and workers in accordance with Iranian law and internationally accepted Good
Practices.
2-14



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project               Environmental Assessment Report
Table 24 Population Estimates, Available Resources and Water Balance (year 2003)
MAXIMUM
MAJOR        SUB-      POPULATION     DWATER             WATER QUANTITY(m3/day)              Water
MAJOSRE    PESUB-      POUAIN          DEMANDS                      2003                     Balance
ZONES       ZONES                     (m3/day)
2003          2003     ALLUVIAL        KARSTIC       SURFACE      2003
1           2472          804
2           3744          1218
3           5969          1942
4           8028          2612
1 _       _                           .--- 18662                                   -1902
S          15880          5167
6           8491          2763
7          18620         6058
TOTAL         63204         20564
8          39709         12920
9          52092         16949
10          21625         7036
11          15332         4988
40522
12          21052         6849
13         117586        38258
2           14         20357          6623                      187228         72000      -57176
15            0            0
16         154671        50324
17          42748         13909    TRANSFER
2182
18         386746        125833        TO
19         218380        71053      ZONE "4"
TOTAL        1090298       354744
20          2474           805         2182
4           21     |    5984          1947        FROM            ----          ----       -570
TOTAL          8458         2752       ZONE "2"
22          3771          1227
23          38171         12419                       4840
TOA24         9626          3132                     EX. WELLS                  -11938
|TOTAL     i   51567         16778
3     j     25          27065    |    8806           .      10368 EX WELLS        ..       1562
GRAND TOTAL            1240592       403644       40522          221098         72000      -70024
2-15



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project            Environmental Assessment Report
Table 2-4 Cont'd Population Estimates, Available Resources and Water Balance (year 2007)
MAXIMU
MAJOR   SUB-      POPULATION     M WATER           WATER QUANTITY(m3/day)           Water
MAJOR       PRESSURE                   DEMANDS                     2007                   Balance
ZONES        ZONES                     (m3/day)
2007         2007      ALLUVIAL      KARSTIC      SURFACE     2007
__________        _________     WELLS        WELLS        WATER
1           2712          902
2           4107          1367
18662
3           6548         2179                    FROM EX.
4           8806         2930                     WELLS
&             _       +602
5           17420         5797                      5011
6           9314          3099                  FROM 1 NEW
WELL
7           20426         6797
TOTAL         69333        23071
8           43559        14495
9           57144        19015
7894             ~~~~187228
10          23722         7894                    FROM EX
11          16819         5597                     WELLS        72000
&        FROM EX
12          23093         7685                     77415       TR PLANT
13          128989       42923                  FROM\ 16 NEW      S
2            14          22331         7431                     WELLS        84000     +5575
FROM
15            0             0                                  EXTENSIO
16          169669       56460                                    N
________           ~~TRNSER        OF TR.
17          46894         15605                     3088        PLANT
18          424250       141175                 TO ZONE"4" &
19     |    239557        79716                     13984
TOTAL        1196027       397996
20     j     2714          903                      3088
4            21           6565         2184                     FROM            .         0
TOTAL    i     9278         3088                    ZONE"2"
91                                   F      EX
22           4136     1   1376                      4840
5   1    ~23     |    41872     |  13934                   FROM EX 
5  ~      2            172       _____WELLS                                           0
24           10559        3514                     & 13984
t   J                 ~~~~FROM
TOTAL         56568     1   18824    __________     ZONE"2"
3            25          29690         9880                    10368WEXL       ....     +488
_       ~~WELLS    |     ..    |+8
GRAND TOTAL             1360895       452858                    303524       156000     +666
2-16



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project              Environmental Assessment Report
Table 2-4 Cont'd Population Estimates, Available Resources and Water Balance (year 2027)
MAXIMUM
MAJOR  SUB-   POPULATION      WATER             WATER QUANTITY(m3/day)             Water
MAJOR         SUB-      POPULATION     DEMANDS                       2027                   Balance
ZONES        ZONES                       m3/day)
2027          2027      ALLUVIAL       KARSTIC      SURFACE       2027
WELLS         WELLS        WATER        2
1           11627         3972                      23673
2          30434          10396                    FROM EX.
3      |   64290          21961                    WELLS &
3    64290         21961                      65146
4           52539         17947                  FROM 13 NEW
5          39251          13408                      WELL                    +5458
6           13140         4489                    TRANSFER
7           31791         10860                       328
TOTAL         243071        83033                   TO ZONE"4"
8           43972         15021
9           57932         19789
264643
10          28395          9700                    FROM EX.
11          21681          7406                     WELLS
12          37473         12801                      145152
13          174196        59505                  FROM 30 NEW
WELLS         156000
2            14         32073          10956          _                        FROM         0
15          14323          4893                                  TR.PLANT
16         299301         102241                   TRANSFER
17          52647         17984                       3051
_________                               ~~~~~~~~TO ZONE"4" &
18         545277         186267                    16042 TO
19         292997         100088                    ZONE"5"
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   &   51  T O
TOTAL        1600267        546651                    ZONE"3"
20           2808          959                        328
FROM
4           21          7082          2419                     ZONE"1.                     0
& 3051
TOTAL          9890          3379                      FROM
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ ._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ._        _ _ _ _ _ .ZO  N E"2"
22           4461          1524                       4840
FROM EX
5           23          45461          15529                     WELLS                      0
24          11207          3828                     & 16042
FROM
TOTAL         61129     |   20882                     ZONE"2"
10368 EX
3           25          30501          10419                     WELLS            .         0
& 51FROAf 
i__ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ ___   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ZO N E   "2"  .
GRAND TOTAL         |   1944858        664363                     513822        156000  | +5458
2-17



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                           Environmental Assessment Report
Table 2-5 Water Supply Quality Projection According to Pressure Zones
Iranian
Zone 1          Zone 2          Zone 3          Zone 4          Zone 5       Standards
PARAMETERS
2007    2027    2007    2027    2007    2027    2007    2027    2007    2027
BOD (mg/l)              ---     ---
COD (mg/I)           2.05    2.05    1.26    1.47    2.05    2.05    2.05    2.05    2.05    2.05
pH                   7.50    7.50    7.62    7.59    7.50    7.50    7.50    7.50    7.50    7.50    6.5-9.5
T D. S. (mg/l)       573.97  573.97  491.67  513.10  573.97  573.97  573.97  573.97  573.97  573.97  1500
Alkalinity (mg/l)    925.40  925.40  637.58  712.54  925.40  925.40  925.40  925.40  925.40  925.40
Conductivity (ms/cm2)  903.01  903.01  732.56  776.95  903.01  903.01  903.01  903.01  903.01  903.01
Ammonium (mg/l)      0.06    0.06    0.04    0.05    0.06    0.06    0.06    0.06    0.06    0.06    0.5
Nitrates (mg/lI)     17.32   17.32   13.65   14.61   17.32   17.32   17.32   17.32   17.32   17.32   45
Nitrites (mg/l)      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.004
Chlorides (mg/l)     69.47   69.47   58.74   61.54   69.47   69.47   69.47   69.47   69.47   69.47   600
Phosphates           ---    ---     ---      ---     ---     ---     ---     ---
Calcium (mg/l)       92.42   92.42   75.54   79.93   92.42   92.42   92.42   92.42   92.42   92.42   200
Magnesium (mg/l)     45.97   45.97   38.17   40.20   45.97   45.97   45.97   45.97   45.97   45.97   150
Sodium (mg/l)        40.87   40.87   37.11   38.09   40.87   40.87   40.87   40.87   40.87   40.87   200
Potassium (mg/l)     2.24    2.24    1.91    2.00    2.24    2.24    2.24    2.24    2.24    2.24
Sulphates (mg/l)     161.58  161.58  110.95  124.13  161.58  161.58  161.58  161.58  161.58  161.58  400
Iron (mg/l)          0.06    0.06    0.26    0.21    0.06    0.06    0.06    0.06    0.06    0.06    1.00
Heavy metals        ---     ---     ---     ---     ---      ---     ---     ---
Herbicide and Pesticides  ---  ---     ---     ---     ---     ---     ---     ---
Total coliforms                         t
Fecal coliforms        _                       .   .
Fecal streptococcus
2-18



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project         Environmental Assessment Report
2.3.3.3 Expansion of Storage Facilities
Storage reservoirs of adequate capacity need to be constructed to meet daily and hourly
peak water consumption rates. The proposed additional reservoirs will be fed from
ground sources, as such; their volume was calculated based on the wells pumping
capacity and the daily demand variation. The peak daily demand accounted for in these
calculations was estimated at 1.4 times the average daily demand during the year. The
minimum volume required for proposed reservoirs was calculated to be equivalent to
50% (12 hours) of the maximum daily water demand at the end of each phase of the plan.
Six new reservoirs with a total capacity of 115,500 m3 are proposed for the first phase.
The Fars Regional Water Board has accepted the commission to build two of these
reservoirs at a total capacity of 45,000 m3. The layout of the reservoirs for the year 2007
is shown on figure 2-4 in Annex A. In the second phase (year 2017), four reservoirs of
40,000 m3 in total capacity will be constructed, and in the third phase (2027) three
reservoirs of 45,000 m3 in total capacity will be constructed. Total storage capacity in
2027 will be 344,000 m3. The layout of the reservoirs for the year 2027 is shown on
figure 2-5 in Annex A. Problems of land acquisition are not anticipated as the sites
proposed for the construction of the reservoirs are either owned by SWWC or fall within
public sector areas.
As previously mentioned, the storage reservoirs will be supplied mainly with water
pumped from deep wells. As boring wells around each reservoir to supply it with water
(as a result of existing limitations) is not possible, appropriate measures are required to
connect the reservoirs to each other by means of a transmission line. The plan, therefore,
proposes the construction of 35 km of transmission lines during the first phase and 10 km
of transmission lines during the second phase.
2.3.4 Summary of Water Supply Components
The works to be undertaken in the planned expansion and rehabilitation of the Shiraz
water supply system throughout the three phases are as follows:
1. Phase 1 (2003 - 2007)
* Replacing 36 km of pipeline with 100 to 300mm diameter pipes to rehabilitate the
network
2-19



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project          Environmental Assessment Report
*  Execution of 230 km of pipeline with pipes of 100 to 1,200 mm in size to transfer
water from reservoirs and expand the network
* Drilling 17 Karstic wells
* Construction of 4 reservoir tanks and a pumping break tank with a total capacity of
70,500 m3
* Construction of 35 km of transmission lines between reservoirs
*  Construction of two pumping stations with a total capacity of 47,500 m3/day
* Installing 72 pressure-reducing valves in 36 locations to divide up the network into
appropriate pressure zones
2. Phase 11 (2008 - 2017)
* Drilling 20 Karstic wells
*  Construction of 4 reservoir tanks with a total capacity of 40,000 m3
* Execution of 10 km of transmission lines between reservoirs
*  Increasing the capacity of pumping stations by 1,500 m3/day
3. Phase III (2018 - 2027)
*  Replacing 257 km of pipeline with pipes of 100 to 450 mm in diameter to rehabilitate
the network
* Execution of 160 km of pipeline with pipes of 100 to 700 mm in size to transfer water
from reservoirs and expand the network
* Drilling 23 Karstic wells
*  Construction of 3 reservoir tanks with a total capacity of 45,000 m3
*  Increasing the capacity of pumping stations by 1,500 m3/day
* Installing 4 pressure-reducing valves in 2 locations to separate the new expansion
zones
2.3.5 Pre-Construction Activities
The most important initiatives required before commencing the execution of the planned
water project are:
1- Land Acquisition
1-1 Land acquisition for main pipelines and laterals
2-20



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project           Environmental Assessment Report
All the water distribution pipes will be constructed in the city's streets, and therefore
there is no need for land acquisition.
1-2 Land acquisition for reservoirs
The reservoirs will be constructed in public or land already owned by SWWC, therefore
new land acquisition is not required.
1-3 Land acquisition for pumping stations
The construction and equipping of the two pumping stations and their related works can
be undertaken within the perimeters of land already purchased for the construction of
reservoirs; therefore further acquisition of new property is not required or anticipated.
1-4 Land acquisition for the expansion of the Doroudzan Dam
The expansion of Doroudzan Dam water supply facilities is not part of this project, and
falls within the responsibilities of the Fars Regional Water Board, which would address
the acquisition of new properties for this purpose. However, space availability within the
existing treatment site should be checked, before initiation of any action pertaining to
land acquisition for expanding Doroudzan Water Treatment Plant.
2- Resettlement of People
No resettlement of people will be necessary for the construction activities in the project.
3- Planning and Liaison
The construction of the water supply network and the other works of the project will
require that construction activities are carefully planned to minimize disruption and that
good liaison is maintained with other authorities.
The planning and liaison process should commence during the design of the project. At
this stage, consultations with municipality, police traffic department, and various utility
companies are conducted to ensure minimal disturbance to the population, and avoidance
of possible conflict with other utility services.
Of particular importance, is the planning of the works in the historical quarters of the
city. Consultations concerning the project works in these areas will concern all
2-21



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project           Environmental Assessment Report
stakeholders and particularly the Cultural Heritage Organization. Issues that will be
discussed are planning of works, mitigation measures, and chance find procedures to
ensure that potential impacts of the project are minimized. This subject is discussed
further in Chapter 5 and Chapter 7.
4- Public Consultations
Considering the scale of this project, it is inevitable that the public will suffer in the short
term from construction disturbances. It is therefore imperative that public awareness of
the long term benefits of the project be raised at the commencement of the project.
Consultations during the planning phase, as well as other phases, will assist in the smooth
running of the project. The subject of public consultation is further discussed in Chapter
9.
2.3.6 Construction Activities
Construction of the project is to be carried out under several contracts. It is planned that
several contracts be made, covering the first phase works, for the different components
the project. A preliminary schedule of the contracts is as follows:
*  One contract for the four water reservoirs
* Three contracts for the transmission lines
* One Contract for rehabilitation the existing pipelines
* Three contracts for well drilling
* Multiple contracts for the expansion works
* Two contacts for the pumping stations
2.3.7 Post-Construction activities
Following construction and commissioning of the works, operation and maintenance
activities will comprise mostly of inspections, routine maintenance, and monitoring.
Regular maintenance and inspections of all the projects components will be conducted in
accordance with an agreed maintenance plan. The maintenance and inspection activities
will include among others, physical status of the network, illegal connections, operating
conditions of all the works, and periodic maintenance jobs.
2-22



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project           Environmental Assessment Report
Monitoring activities will be conducted for raw and treated water quality in all the
components of the supply system to ensure full compliance with Iranian and other
applicable Standards for potable water. Details on this subject are provided in Chapter 7.
2.3.8 Projected costs
The cost estimate of the water supply project throughout its phases is as follows (figures
are in US Dollars):
Table 2-6 Water Supply Works Projected Costs
2003-2007    2008-2012  1 2013-2017     2018-2027
Description                      First Phase        Second Phase         Third Phase
Water project                     24,660,000     9,697,500    10,026,250   16,148,225
Contingency @10%                   2,466,000      969,750      1,002,625    1,614,823
Subtotal                          27,126,000    10,667,250    11,028,875   17,763,048
Engineering and construction                1
supervision @7%                    1,898,820      746,708       772,021     1,243,413
Total                             29,024,820    11,413,958    11,800,896   19,006,461
Grand Total                                                               71,246,135
2.4 Wastewater collection, treatment and disposal
2.4.1 Overview
Similar to many urban areas in Iran, Shiraz wastewater management facilities are way
underdeveloped and lack the basic components of a proper wastewater management
system. Presently these facilities comprise mostly of onsite sanitation systems, which
proved throughout the years to be inappropriate, and have led to serious environmental
problems. Due to high ground water levels in the city, the effluent of these systems has
infiltrated the alluvial aquifer, causing its contamination. In many instances during heavy
rains the high water table have caused back flow in these systems to cause flooding inside
dwellings. In view of these conditions, which are causing health hazards, and serious
repercussions on the city's development, the implementation of the Shiraz Sanitation
Project has become a high priority.
2-23



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project         Environmental Assessment Report
2.4.2 Drainage Zones
Shiraz is divided in two distinguished drainage zones due to the natural topography in the
project area. These zones are called the 'Emergency' and the 'Long Term' zones and are
separated by the Khoshk River, which forms the natural drainage course of the two zones.
The Emergency zone, located to the north east of the river, covers an area of 6,760
hectares. The Long Term zone, located to the south east of the river, covers an area of
15,315 hectares. The location and geographical limits of the two zones are shown on
Drawing SWWS-IR-1 in Annex A. The two zones are further subdivided to twelve
drainage zones; A to L as shown on Figure 2-7 of Annex A.
It should be stated that the terms Emergency and Long term are somewhat confusing, as
under the current project, the works in the Emergency zone do not have a priority over
the works for the Long Term zone. The Emergency zone was simply called that way,
since drainage works commenced initially there.
2.5 Existing Facilities
2.5.1 Sewage Wells
As discussed in the previous paragraph sewage wells or cess pits are the major treatment
and disposal method in Shiraz. The cesspits vary in depth from 5 to 15 m, depending on
the local soil conditions. Under normal operating conditions, sewage entering the cesspits
is allowed to settle, and then to percolate through the soil to get treated by the soil's
adsorptive and filtering capacity. The settled material, termed sludge, is allowed to digest
by the naturally occurring bacteria. As the sludge builds up with time, the cesspits would
require emptying, which normally takes place every few years.
The study of the geological formations in Shiraz plain has revealed that the groundwater
hydraulic gradient moves the water from the north and west to the south east towards
Maharloo Lake, where the water table is highest and reaches 2-3 m below ground levels,
and in heavy rains can reach up to the surface.
In view of the above, the operation of the cesspits has caused serious contamination to the
aquifer by infiltration. Moreover in the older areas of the town, where toilet facilities are
located below ground levels, the groundwater fills the wells and backflows to the toilets
under heavy rains.
2-24



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project         Environmental Assessment Report
2.5.2 Discharge to Surface Water & On-land Disposal
As the sewage well system has proved inappropriate, and in the absence of central
collection systems, a growing number of buildings, hotels, and hospitals are discharging
their wastewater either in the two rivers that run through the city, or in the city's storm
water canals, or on land in the Fassa Bridge area. This situation, therefore, is causing
severe environmental damage to ground and surface waters, and serious health and
amenity problems to the local inhabitants.
2.5.3 Decentralized Treatment Systems
A number of the newer towns, certain institutions, hospitals, hotels and industrial centres
have installed various wastewater collection and treatment systems. However, most are
still not fully operational due to technical and other difficulties. Therefore, even centres
with potential infrastructure discharge their wastewater to adjacent culverts and rivers, to
make the deteriorating environmental situation even worse.
2.5.4 Existing Network
In an attempt to reduce, to a relative extent, the pollution in the Khoshk and Soltanabad
rivers, which had been turned into main canals for collection and discharge of wastewater
from adjacent areas, the faculty of engineering in association with the Department of the
Environment in Fars proposed a plan to create two main wastewater pipelines with
laterals, of an approximate length of 20 km along the course of Khoshk River. The
pipelines begin at the Moali Abad region and end at the current location of the
Emergency zone WWTP, located to the east of Torkan Village.
This plan has been partially implemented by constructing asbestos cement pipelines of
400 to 1000 mm diameters beginning upstream of Hafiz hospital and ending at Khoshk
River downstream of the Electricity and Electronic College. The network has now been
extended using 1,000, 1,200 and 1,400 mm pipes to reach the Emergency WWTP
location.
Table 2-7 presents the length and size of pipes in the present Shiraz wastewater network:
2-25



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project           Environmental Assessment Report
Table 2-7- Existing Wastewater Collection Network Pipeline Components
Pipe Diameter Emergency Zone Long term Zone
mm                  m                      m
200               67,996                 85,786
250               24,742                46,048
300               10,141                 16,415
350                6,200                 8,168
400               18,162                  795
500               11,914                 9,197
600                6,552                 9,445
800                2,195                 8,924
1,000              2,566                 2,159
1,200              3,170                 4,771
1,400              4,688                  700
Total             158,326               205,390
Grand Total j                363,716 meters
The table above indicates that around 66 km of trunk mains and 297 km of secondary
collection lines have been constructed, representing 14% of the total required Shiraz
wastewater collection lines. Thus far, 25,000 individual wastewater connections have
been provided, of which 16,000 are in the Emergency zone and 9000 in the Long Term
zone. Drawing SWWS-IR-3 in Annex A shows existing wastewater network and the
current lines under construction.
2.5.5 Emergency Zone Wastewater Treatment Plant (E WWTP)
The design of the plant began at the same time the works on the wastewater network
started. The plant is comprised of two modules; the first of which is nearing completion.
According to the timetable proposed in the feasibility study, the module should be ready
for operation in 2004. As shown in Drawing SWWS-IR-2 (Annex A), the main
wastewater collection line has been extended to almost reach the Emergency WWTP.
The treatment plant specifications can be summarized by the following:
2-26



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project          Environmental Assessment Report
Capacity and influent loads
Average    BODs     TSS
Phase   Design    No of Modules    Population      Flow      load     Load
year                       Equivalent
l________  _______________   _______________  m 3/d    K g/d    K g/d
1     2020           1            435,000        87,500   22.000   27,500
2      2027          2             583,000      118,300   28,400   37,000
Effluent Oualitv
BOD5: 20 mg/l
TSS: 30 mg/l
pH: 6.5-8
Total Coliform: 400/100 ml
Sludge Oualitv
50 % organic matter content
Dry solids content: 25%
Treatment Scheme
The liquid phase is comprised of preliminary treatment by screening and grit removal.
This is followed by primary treatment. Secondary treatment is achieved by conventional
activated sludge with inclusion of anaerobic selector tanks. Finally the treatment process
includes disinfection by chlorination.
The solids treatment phase for the primary and secondary sludge generated is comprised
of sludge blending, gravity thickening, primary and secondary digestion, and dewatering.
Arrangement
The first module is comprised of multiple units. All process units are duplicated, except
for the activated sludge plant and the secondary clarifiers wherein four units are provided.
2-27



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project            Environmental Assessment Report
Sludge Production
The estimated sludge quantity for the first phase (year 2007) is 1825 tons per year. At
year 2027, the estimated sludge quantity is 6000 ton per year.
Effluent discharge method
The effluent of the plant discharges to an existing earth channel which in turn conveys
the effluent for discharge at Maharloo Lake. (See exhibit 1 in annex G)
The effluent quality of the above plant is in compliance with Iranian standard for
discharge to surface water bodies or for reuse in irrigation.
Chemical and Energ Consumption
The chemical and energy consumption of the treatment plant for each module is
summarized in the table below.
Table 2-8 Chemical and Energy requirements of the Emergency WWTP
Partial Module  Module 1, Year  Module 2. Year  Total for
Description      1, Year 2007       2020           2027       Module 1&2
Treatment plant
capacity (m3/day)       34,000         87,500          31,000        118,500
Total energy             1001504015
requirement (Kw)         1,000          1,500           450           1950
Total Chlorine
requirement               120           237.25           85          322.11
(tons/year)
Total lime
requirement              1100           2149            825           2974
(tons/year)
Total Poly-electrolyte
requirement               13            24.6            9.12          33.72
(tons/year)
A detail review of the plant's environmental and technical performance is undertaken in
Chapter 8. However, for the purpose of the discussion in this chapter the following points
summarize the shortcomings of the plant in the context of this project:
The initial load progression estimated by the design consultant of the plant was over
estimated. Therefore, the plant will have to be operated in partial capacity to match the
2-28



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project          Environmental Assessment Report
incoming loads so that the process is successful. For the year 2007, it is envisaged that
only two of the four activated sludge plants will be operated.
The earth canal that will be used for discharging the final effluent is not suitable as it may
lead to ground water infiltration. Furthermore the canal conveys surface run off as well, it
may not be of adequate capacity to handle all the discharged flows, which would result in
effluent overflowing onto adjacent lands in an uncontrolled manner. A concrete structure
should be constructed in its place. The new canal will be 8 km in length, having a
trapezoidal section, with 1.5 m width at its bottom, and 2.5 m in width at its top. Drawing
number SWWS-IR-43 in annex A, shows the layout and routing of the outfall.
The treated sludge would not comply with WHO standards of one nematode egg per 100
gm, without the provision of long term storage. Therefore an area of 10 hectares will be
allocated within the present site boundary for this purpose.
Further issues relating to effluent and sludge reuse in agriculture are addressed in section
3.6.
2.6 Objective of Sanitation Plan
Due to the major shortfalls described in the preceding section, the current sanitation
problems will intensify and aggravate in view of the anticipated increase in population
growth and associated urban development.
The objectives of the Shiraz Water and Wastewater Project are to address these problems
by expanding the wastewater collection network and developing the required treatment
facilities to achieve the following:
*  Improving  public health conditions by providing  the required  wastewater
management facilities
*  Protection of ground and surface water sources from pollution, thereby improving
environmental conditions
*  Promoting the reuse of treated effluent to conserve water resources and to improve
agricultural practices
*  Promote the reuse of sludge to achieve environmentally sound disposal methods and
achieve economic benefits
*  Achieving short and long-term economic, social and sanitary advantages for the
region
2-29



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project          Environmental Assessment Report
In order to achieve these objectives, the plan attempts to accomplish the following:
* Expand the existing collection network to provide full coverage of the project area up
to year 2027
*  Construct a treatment plant in the long term drainage zone and construct the second
module of the emergency treatment plant
* Construct the effluent outfall structure from both treatment plants to the lake for safe
disposal.
2.6.1 Proposed Sanitation Plan Phasing
The target year 2027 was selected for development of the Shiraz Sanitation plan based on
the results of studies conducted on existing facilities, projected limits on the physical
expansion of the city, and the current wastewater generation rates.
To achieve the objectives set for the year 2027, the project was subdivided into the
following three phases:
* Phase I, 2003 - 2007
* Phase II, 2008 - 2017
* Phase III, 2018 - 2027
Based on this plan, the number of population served by the end of phase 1 is 421,878
representing 31% of the total population, and generating 76,359 m3/day of wastewater.
By the end of the third phase, there will be full coverage for the whole project area, with
1,944,858 people served generating 365,961 m3/day of sewage. Table 2-9, shows the
population progression, the service level, and the wastewater collected and treated.
2-30



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project                      Environmental Assessment Report
Table 2-9 Sanitation Facilities Service Level Development
Description                 Phase I               1      Phase 11      I      Phase III
____________n |!2004      2005   1 2000 || 2007       2 2012    21017       2022      2027
|_________                           Emergency Zone                                          .
Population     380,890  389,807  398,932   408,269   454,623   500,509    543,458    583,457
Population
connected        30       35       40        45        60        75         88         100
(%)              I-.                                                .
Population
connected to a  114,267  136,432  159,573  183,721   272,774   375,381    475,526    583,457
collection
system        ._11
Total
wastewater      22,045   26,247   30,920   35,945    53,827     74,627     96,194    117,673
flow (m3/day)
-          ,:. ,lon T        Zoner .j4
Population    888,744  909,549  930,842  952,627   1,060,787  1,167,853  1,268,068  1,361,401
Population             _                         I _         _          i
connected      10       15       20       25        45         65         84        100
1(% )        !                   !   .  . II
Population
connected to a  88874   136432   186,168   238,157   477,354   759,105    1,065,177  1,361,401
collection
system
Total
wastewater    14,376   22,280   30,981    40,414    83,284    134,932    192,943    248,288
flow (m3/day)
-7-                       >,- 7.77      -oect-Air
_Population_                  l         ojc 1,360,896 A  _ _ 1,668,362             1 ,944,858
Population  ' 
connected                                  31                   68                   100
connectdhton a      l                  421,878              1,134,486            1,944,858
|, .sy.s,tem     .    |
wastewater  |        l        l        | 76,359               209,559               365,961
|flow (m3/day)|
2.7 Project Components
According to the timetable proposed by the consultant in the feasibility report, all trunk
mains need to be in place during the first phase, as well as the construction of the two
modules for the Long-Term WWTP. As the situation currently stands, the first module of
this plant will be operational by 2006, but works on the second module will only begin in
the middle of 2004, and will continue until the end of 2008. This schedule means that
2-31



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project         Environmental Assessment Report
construction of the second module of the Long-Term WWTP will begin in the first phase,
but completion and operation will occur only after this phase has ended.
The following lists the works in the Shiraz wastewater project that will be undertaken
during the first phase:
*  Installation of approximately 785 km of main collectors and laterals, using pipes of
200 to 400 mm in size, of which 373 km will be installed in the Emergency zone and
412 km in the Long-Term zone
*  Delivering 75,473 connections, 32,867 connections in the Emergency zone and
42,606 connections in the Long-Term zone
*  Installation of approximately 377 km of pipelines using pipes of 160 mm in size, with
164 km of pipeline extended in the Emergency zone and 213 km in the Long-Term
zone
*  Execution of 91 km of main trunks, 23 km in the Emergency zone and 68 km in the
Long-Term zone
*  Construction of the two modules of the Long-Term WWTP, with a total capacity of
100,000 m3/day
*  Construction and rehabilitation of 18 km of outfalls for discharging treated effluents
from the Emergency and Long-Term WWTP to Maharloo Lake
2.8 Long-Term Wastewater Treatment Plant
The Long-Term WWTP is comprised of five treatment modules, with a capacity of
50,000 m3/day per module. Each module is comprised of five streams to allow for
flexibility in the plant's operation. According to the predicted load progression one
module will be operated by year 2007, two modules and three streams by year 2017, and
all five modules by year 2027.
2.8.1 Plant Site
The Long-Term WWTP is located on a plot of land covering 80 hectares (See exhibit 2 in
Annex G). It is bounded from all sides by agricultural fields, which are currently
uncultivated. The prevailing winds are north and north - westerly. The total built up area,
including the treatment works amount to 10 ha. The site has a flat terrain with a minor
slope in the southwest direction. Presently the site is covered with shrubs. There is no
valuable vegetation or special wildlife habitats on adjacent plot of lands.
2-32



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project           Environmental Assessment Report
The advantage of the site is that the agricultural fields around it offer a perfect
opportunity for the disposal of the effluent as well as for sludge reuse.
The geographical location of the site permits gravity conveyance of the Long Term Zone
sewage flows due to the lower elevation of site with respect to the drainage area. Thus
investment and operational cost of pumping stations are saved.
The size of the plot is properly chosen, as adequate space is available for the plant's
future expansion, and for the long-term storage of sludge and temporary storage of
screenings and grit.
2.8.2 Outfall
The treated effluent will discharge to an existing earth channel leading to Maharloo Lake.
The canal requires rehabilitation and concreting. The existence of this canal precludes
any need for acquisition of new land for the outfall purpose.
A trapezoidal canal measuring 11 km in length, 1.5 m wide at the bottom and 3 m wide at
the top is proposed for rehabilitation of this earthen canal. Drawing number SWWS-IR-
43 in annex A, shows the layout and routing of the outfall.
2.8.3 Treatment process
The proposed treatment process for the Long Term WWTP is based on the conventional
activated sludge system, which includes the following treatment units:
1- Distribution channel
2- Aerated grit chamber
3- Primary settling tanks
4- Anaerobic selectors
5- Aeration tanks
6- Final settling tanks
7- Chlorination basin
8- Chlorination building
9- Parshall flume
10- Primary sludge pump station
11- Scum sludge pump station
12- Return and excess sludge pump station
2-33



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project          Environmental Assessment Report
13- Sludge blending tank
14- Thickeners
15- Thickened sludge pump station
16- Digesters
17- Gas storage tank
18- Gas flare
19- Digested sludge pump station
20- Sludge conditioning and dewatering
21 - Long term sludge storage area
22- Blowers
Other facilities provided at the plant include:
23- Power distribution building
24- Transformer, emergency power plant and main HV & LV distribution panel building
25- Administration building
26- Store and workshop
27- Guard room
28- Canteen
2.8.4 Effluent quality
The effluent produced at the wastewater treatment plant will conform to the WHO
microbiological standards of nematode eggs and fecal coliforms. The relevant WHO
standards are listed in annex B of this report.
2.8.5 Treated sludge
The sludge production is estimated at 2,000 tons per year at 2007 and 12,400 tons per
year at 2027.
2.8.6 Chemical and Energy Consumption
The chemical and energy consumption of the treatment plant at the end of phase 1 and 3
are summarized in the table below.
2-34



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project          Environmental Assessment Report
Table 2-10 Chemical and Energy requirements of the Long Term WWTP
Descri tion     i    At year 2007           At year 2027
Treatment plant capacity     50,000                 250,000
Total energy requirement      620                    3100
(Kw)                 j        6
Total Chlorine                                                      l
requirement (tons/year)       135                    677
Total lime requirement        1222                   6110
(tons/year)
Total Poly-electrolyte        14                     71.4
requirement (tons/year)  I  _I
2.9 Effluent and Sludge Reuse in Agriculture
Since effluent and sludge reuse in agriculture are considered to be one of the main
objectives of this project, this section will provide an initial assessment of the reuse
potential. Proceeding Chapters will provide further insight on the agricultural conditions
in the project area, potential impacts of reuse, and mitigation and monitoring measures.
2.9.1 Agricultural Areas
The total agricultural lands identified as available for effluent reuse in the areas of the
Long Term Treatment Plant and Emergency Treatment Plant are 7260 ha and 1700 ha
respectively, which amount to a total of 8960 ha.
2.9.2 Volume of Effluent to be used
The volume of treated effluent will be increasing each year as connections are made. By
the year 2027, the available volume for reuse will reach 118,250 m3/day from the
Emergency WWTP and 250,000 m3/day from the Long Term WWTP.
2.9.3 Irrigation Water Supply
In the area of the Long Term Treatment Plant, irrigation water is being sourced from
local wells and raw wastewater to irrigate an agricultural area of 5160 ha. Irrigation with
raw wastewater accounts for 1000 ha, whereas rain fed lands amount to 2100 ha.
Therefore the potential area for irrigation by the treated effluent at the Long Term
WWTP is 3100 ha.
2-35



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project          Environmental Assessment Report
As for the emergency WWTP, the sources of irrigation in the identified agricultural lands
downstream of the plant include the Khoshk River and ground water supplies. The main
source of water in these lands is the groundwater since the river is seasonal. The annual
estimated quantity of irrigation water provided from each source is 1.0 million m3 for the
river and 3.8 million m3 from groundwater. These sources account for irrigating 450 ha.
Therefore, the balance agricultural area of 1260 ha can potentially be irrigated with
effluent of the Emergency WWTP.
2.9.4 Crop Pattern and Irrigation Methods
The crops cultivated in the potential reuse area comprise of wheat, barley, beans, as well
as green vegetables. The predominant method of irrigation is by surface methods.
2.9.5 Extent of irrigation Potential
Based on the year 2027 effluent flow rates stated in the preceding paragraphs and an
application rate of 84 m3/day per hectare, the area that can be irrigated by the Emergency
Treatment Plant is calculated to be 1260 ha, which constitutes all the potential area
available for irrigation. As for the Long Term WWTP, the total area that can be irrigated
is calculated to be 2870 ha.
In summary, out of the 8960 ha of agricultural lands available near both treatment plants,
the potential area that can be irrigated is 4130 ha at year 2027.
2.9.6 Treated effluent for Reuse
The requirements for reuse in agriculture are governed by several standards as follows:
1- Microbiological standards: less than one nematode egg per litre according to WHO
standards
2- Fecal Coliforms: less than 400/100 ml according to Iranian standard and less than
23/100 ml according to EPA standard for surface irrigation and foods eaten raw
(unrestricted irrigation)
3- BOD5: Less than 25 mg/l according to EC directive and less than 30 mg/l according
to EPA standards
4- TSS: Less than 35 mg/l according to EC directive and less than 30 mg/I according to
EPA standards
2-36



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project           Environmental Assessment Report
5- FAO standards for potentially toxic elements (PTE), setting limits for sodium, boron,
etc.
With regard to the WHO standard for nematode, studies for activated sludge plants in the
Tehran area have shown that the effluent level of one nematode per litre was consistently
attained and that the established removal rate of nematodes by this process is 99%. It is
envisaged that compliance with this standard will be met as long as the influent level of
nematodes remains less than 100/ litre, which has been verified by the Teheran studies.
Therefore, it is recommended that continuous monitoring of plant influent and effluent be
exercised to ensure strict adherence with this standard.
As for the effluent levels of BOD, TSS, and fecal Coliforms the current processes are
adequately designed to meet the requirements of the various standards. The chlorination
facilities included are suitably designed to attain the lower level of 23 FC/100 ml required
by EPA standards.
With respect to the FAO standard for PTE, the concentration level of these parameters is
not influenced by the level or type of sewage treatment. Therefore careful monitoring of
the plant influent and control of potential discharge of PTE at source has to be made to
ensure compliance with FAO standard.
In summary the treatment plant's effluent will meet the requirements of the various
standards for reuse of effluent in agriculture; however, careful monitoring of the influent
and effluent should be conducted to ensure strict adherence.
2.9.7 Sludge Use in Agriculture
The proximity of agricultural areas to the plant, provides a useful outlet for the sludge
generated. The advantages of using sludge in agriculture are considerable and can be
summarized by:
*  Its ability as a fertilizer to provide most nutrients and micronutrients needed for crops
*  It broadly facilitates adjusting the ratio between the principle nutrients, nitrogen and
phosphorus
* Its high organic content, which can be of value as a soil conditioner in arid zone soils.
2-37



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project          Environmental Assessment Report
2.9.8 Quantity of Sludge Available for Reuse
At the ultimate capacity of the two plants projected for the year 2027, the available
sludge for reuse on agricultural land amount to 18,400 ton per year; 12,400 tons from the
Long Term WWTP and 6000 ton from the Emergency WWTP.
2.9.9 Sludge Application Rate
The sludge will be applied at a rate of 8 tons per hectare per year, the lowest rate which is
considered practicable. Therefore, at the ultimate plants' capacity the area which will
benefit from sludge application is approximately 2300 hectares. This approximates to 56
% of the potential area for irrigation. It is proposed that the sludge application on the
identified area be rotated each year, so that a particular field will receive sludge every 2.4
years. In this instance the quantity of sludge would be sufficient for an area of up to 5,800
hectares.
This will ensure that over a long period of time, the sludge would be applied uniformly to
all the land to minimize the application per hectare of potentially toxic elements.
2.9.10 Compliance with Prevailing Standards
The sludge treated by the plant will comply with WHO standard of less than 1 nematode
egg per 100 gm by the provision of long term storage area of 10 hectares at the
Emergency WWTP and 20 hectares at the Long Term WWTP, which will ensure a
sludge storage time of one year.
Other standards for sludge are the EC standards for heavy metal content. As stated
earlier, considering the industrial situation in Shiraz, it is not envisaged that these
standards be exceeded. Nonetheless, monitoring and the application of a sludge
management scheme should be implemented to ensure the success of the application
program, and the compliance with the standards as discussed in the proceeding
paragraph.
2-38



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project          Environmental Assessment Report
2.9.11 Sludge Quality Monitoring and Application Requirements
The sludge applied shall comply with EC directives for reuse and will be subject to the
restrictions attached to its use as outlined in chapter 5 (type of crop, application
frequency, physical contact, etc).
Another consideration is the use of pesticides in agriculture, which through surface run
off can find their way into the treatment plant to end up in the WWTP sludge. This would
make the sludge hazardous and unsafe for use. Standards have also been established in
Europe and North America for organic pollutants (egg. PCB <10 mg / kg of dry weight).
This issue could be of significance in Shiraz, since the plant is located in an agricultural
area, and the pesticides can infiltrate to the treatment plant due to the high water table.
Therefore close monitoring for pesticides content in the sludge should be carried out at
least initially.
To sum up the monitoring of heavy metals, nematode eggs, and pesticides is required to
ensure compliance with required standards.
2.10 Pre Construction activities
1- Land Acquisition
* Land acquisition for main pipes and laterals
Wastewater pipes are usually installed on the right side of roads (public property), and
therefore land acquisition will not be required. Location and routing of the pipes however
will be coordinated with the authorities responsible for other utility services, such as, the
Electricity Board, the Regional Water Board, the Gas Company and the Communications
Department.
* Land acquisition for treatment plants
Currently the formalities related to the purchase of land required for the construction of
Emergency WWTP have been completed and works on the construction of the first
treatment module are already in progress. The land for the proposed site of the Long-
Term WWTP has already been acquired.
2-39



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project           Environmental Assessment Report
* Land Acquisition for outfalls
At present there are two dirt channels from the WWTP sites to the Maharloo Lake. In the
proposed plan, the same channels will be used as outfalls of the treatment plants after
modifying their dimensions and providing concrete lining.
2- Coordination with the Department of Environment and the Ministry of Industry to
identify potential industrial users of the sanitary network and to ensure that pre-treatment
of industrial effluents is being affected.
Other pre-construction activities will be the same as those discussed in section 2.3.5
2.11 Construction Activities
Construction of the project is to be carried out under several contracts. It is planned that
several contracts be made, covering the first phase works, for the different components
the project. A preliminary schedule of the contracts is as follows:
*  One contract for each module of the Long Term WWTP (total two contracts)
*  One contract for each treatment plant outfall (total two contracts)
*  Three contracts for the Emergency zone trunk mains
*  Five contracts for the Long Term zone trunk mains
*  Multiple contracts for the house connections
*  Six contacts for the lateral pipelines.
2.12 Post-Construction activities
Following construction and commissioning of the works, operation and maintenance
activities will comprise mostly of inspections, routine maintenance, and monitoring.
Regular maintenance and inspections of all the projects components will be conducted in
accordance with agreed maintenance plan. The maintenance and inspection activities will
include among others, physical status of the network, illegal connections, operating
conditions of all the works, and periodic maintenance jobs.
Monitoring at the treatment plant will comprise of process monitoring for ensuring that
process parameters are optimized as well as environmental monitoring for mitigation of
adverse potential impacts. In this instance, monitoring activities will be conducted for
raw and treated wastewater quality, treated sludge quality, soil and agricultural products
240



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project            Environmental Assessment Report
that are subject to reuse applications, and receiving water bodies. Monitoring activities
will be required to ensure full compliance with Iranian and other applicable Standards
governing reuse in agriculture or discharge to a water course.
Post construction activities will also include capacity building activities. These topics are
all discussed in detail in Chapter 7.
2.13 Wastewater project projected costs
The estimated costs for the wastewater project throughout the planning and
implementation periods are as follows:
Table 2-11 Wastewater Works Projected Costs
2003-2007    2008-2012   ! 2013-2017     2018-2027
Description                       First Phase        Second Phase          Third Phase
Wastewater project                120,712,375    36,812,500    40,062,500   68,737,500
Contingency o10%                   12,071,237     3,681,250     4,006,250    6,873,750
Subtotal                          132,783,612    40,493,750    44,068,750   75,611,250
Engineering and construction
supervision @7%                    9,294,853     2,834,563  3,084,813     5,292,788
Total                             142,078,465    43,328,313    47,153,563   80,904,036
Grand Total                                                               313,464,377
241






Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
3     Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework
In order to successfully implement and operate the proposed water supply and
sanitation project for the City of Shiraz, it is essential to have, on the one hand, an
adequate legal and regulatory framework, and, on the other hand, an efficient
institutional and organizational framework to enforce the related legislation, policies
and standards and effectively manage the project.
The construction and operation of the proposed Project will be governed and affected
by the existing legislation and other regulatory controls that are specific to the Project
and the local, regional and national environment.
In this context, this chapter presents the relevant existing policy and legislative
framework as well as the organizational and institutional framework.
3.1   Policy Framework
3.1.1 National Policies
Macro Environmental Policies
The Third Five-Year Economic, Social and Cultural Development Plan of the Islamic
Republic of Iran:
Article 104
In order to protect the environment and achieve sustainable utilization of the natural
resources of the country, the enforcement of the following regulations is necessary:
The utilization of the country's natural resources must pay attention to the
potential of these resources. In order to achieve this, the Government is
obliged not only to preserve the rate of increase in the country's production
and to make sustainable use of these resources, but also to take appropriate
measures to preserve the balance of the natural environment in executing
projects such as preserving pastures for livestock, protecting forest reserves,
protecting important cultural assets migrating tribes, and the villagers,
achieving   harmonious management of       essential resources, and
institutionalizing the participation of people in planning, decision making,
and project execution.
The executive regulations of this section include the environmental rules developed
by the Department of Environment in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture
Jihad and ratified by Cabinet.
3-1



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project      Environmental Assessment Report
I. In order to reduce the sources of environmental pollution, especially the
pollution of natural resources and the water resources of the country,
productive industrial units are obliged to ensure their technical systems are
capable of complying with environmental regulations and are to take
appropriate measures to reduce the risk of polluting the environment. The
expenses of these pollution control devices are considered as acceptable
outlays for these units. Industrial units which do not follow these regulations
and whose activities damage and pollute the environment are fined in
proportion to the damage that they have inflicted on the environment.
Financial penalties gained in this way are placed in public funds, which are
used, in a yearly budget for environmental improvement projects. The
regulations of this section, including the amount of fines and the conditions
and methods of collecting and spending them, are proposed by the
Department of Environment to be ratified by Cabinet Committee.
Article 105
All the massive plans and projects for productive units must be studied prior to
construction and evaluated to stand the test of the regulations proposed by the
Environmental High Council and ratified by the Ministers' Committee. Observing the
standards is obligatory for the designers and executors of these plans and projects. It
is the duty of the Organization of Planning and Budget to supervise the proper
execution of this article. The Department of Environment is obliged to provide the
practical and executive methods for the construction and place such projects under
environmental protection. As such if environmental articles and standards are
observed, the construction and development projects are pernitted to continue - if
not the projects are stopped.
3.1.2 International Cooperation
International, regional and bilateral cooperation have been important priorities for the
Islamic Republic of Iran in all fields and particularly in areas related to sustainable
development and the environment. Iran is a committed signatory member of most
environmental conventions. The Iranian government has ratified a large number of
international environmental treaties, among which the followings are of importance.
* The Convention on Wetlands of International Importance, Especially waterfowl
Habitats, RAMSAR, 1971.
*  The Convention for the Protection of the World Cultural Heritage, 1972.
* The Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes
and Other Matters.
3-2



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
* The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Flora and Fauna
(CITES) 1973.
* The Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer, 1985.
* The Basel Convention on the Control of Trans-boundary Movement of Hazardous
Wastes and their Disposal, 1989.
* The Convention on Biological Diversity, 1992.
* The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, 1992.
* The United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification, 1994.
* The Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, 1987.
* The Kyoto Protocol on the Control of Greenhouse Gases, 1997.
* The Kuwait Regional Convention for Cooperation on the Protection of the Marine
Environment form Pollution, 1978.
* The Kuwait Protocol on the Protection of Marine Environment from Land Base
pollution, 1990.
In addition, the Islamic Republic of Iran is a member in several international
organizations and committees, among which are:
* The Commission on Sustainable Development.
* The United Nations Environment Program.
* The International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources
(IUCN).
* The International Water- fowl Research Bureau.
*  The Regional Organization for the Protection of Marine Environment (ROPME).
* The South Asian Countries' Environment Program (SACEP).
3.2   Legal Framework
3.2.1 Environmental Laws
The protection of environment finds its highest legal importance in the fiftieth article
of the Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran, according to which:
In the Islamic Republic, the protection of the environment, in which the present
and the following generations should have a social life of constant development,
is a public responsibility. As a result, every economic or other forms of activity,
3-3



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
the execution of which necessitates the pollution or the irretrievable destruction
of the environment is forbidden.
The list of existing Environmental Laws and Legislation in the Islamic Republic of
Iran is presented in Annex B-I.
The environmental laws that are of relevance to this project include:
*  Environmental Protection & Enhancement Act, 1974 and its amendment of
1992.
* Game and Fish Law, 1974 and its amendment approval of 1996.
* The clauses number 81, 82, and 83 on the Laws of the Second Five-Year
Economic, Social, and Cultural Development Plan, 1994.
* The Law of Islamic Punishment, 1996 with amendments of 1997.
* The Law of Just Distribution of Water, 1982.
* The Law for Protection and Utilization of Aquatic Life Resources, 1995.
* The Law of the Amendment of the Fifth Article of the Law of the
Protection and Proper Utilization of the Forests and Pastures of Iran, 1975.
* The Law for Reclaimed Coastal Lands, 1975.
* The Law for Protection and Preserving the Natural Resources and Forest
Regions of the Country, 1992.
* The Law on Establishment of Water & Wastewater Companies, 1990.
* The Law of Preserving the Efficiency of the Agricultural Lands and
Gardens, 1995.
* Air Pollution Act, 1995.
* Regulations for prevention of water pollution. These regulations, ratified in
May 7th, 1994, are presented in Annex B-II.
The most relevant executive by-laws and the ratified parliamentary approvals related
to the environment are:
* The Executive By-law for the Prevention of Water Pollution, 1994.
* The Executive By-law of Air Pollution Act, 2000,
* The Executive By-law for Noise Pollution Control, 1999,
* The Executive Bylaw for Environmental Health, 1992,
* The Executive Bylaw for Environmental Protection & Enhancement Act,
1975,
34



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
* The Regulations for the Proper Utilization of the Lands and Construction of
Buildings and Establishments Outside the Legal Boundaries of the Cities,
1976 and its amendment of 1994,
* The Criteria for Sitting of Industries (approval of the Cabinet) 1999,
* The ratified approval number 138 of the Environmental High Council about
those Projects that should be subject to Environmental Impact Assessment,
* The regulations for Environmental Impact Assessment, as approved by the
Environmental High Council on their meeting of December 22nd, 1997.
These are presented in Annex B-III of this Report.
3.2.1.1 Regulations for the Control of Air and Noise Pollution
The Islamic Consultative Assembly ratified the law for the prevention of Air Pollution
in 1995. This law is organized in six chapters and has 36 articles and 14 comments.
According to the law, sources of air pollution are divided into the following three
groups:
* The motorized vehicles.
* The factories, workshop, and power plants.
* The commercial, domestic, and other sources.
According to the law, spreading pollutants above their permissible amount from any
of the above sources is forbidden and will result in legal prosecutions for delinquent
person or organization.
The Department of Environment in collaboration with other related organizations are
responsible to prepare and compile the necessary regulations for the execution of this
law. Based on this law, various standards to control the pollution emitted from mobile
(automobiles) and immobile sources have been compiled and announced.
Furthermore, the standards of ambient air concerning the permissible density of the
classic polluting factors, including S02, NOx, SPM, and CO, have been introduced
and announced.
According to Article 27 of this law, it is forbidden to pollute the environment with
irritating noise. The regulations and the standards for the control of noise pollution
have been compiled and issued by the Department of Environment.
3.2.1.2 Surface and Groundwater Quality
Other than the 1973 Regulations of the Department of Environment, there are no
specific laws regarding the groundwater quality.
3-5



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
The organization responsible to control the water pollution in Iran is the Department
of Environment.
The Department of Environment evaluates the water quality according to the
regulations stipulated in the 1975 Environmental Protection and Enhancement Act.
In order to set compatible laws and regulations the Department of Environment as
well as the Ministry of Energy were given authority to classify various water
resources depending on their usage potential. These are as follows:
*  Class 1, Potable supply
*  Class 2, Fisheries and animal life
*  Class 3, Irrigation
*  Class 4. Industry
*  Class 5, Recreation
*  Class 6, Small rivers and road ditches not covered under classes 1 to 5
When water pollution issues are being investigated within Environmental Assessment
studies, all waters are considered as Class 2, unless other classifications are
determined.
The discharge of any waste to any of the above classes of water requires a special
license from the DOE or other related authorities.
The Regulations for the discharge of wastes to any of the above-mentioned classes of
water are mainly related to the conditions of the receiving bodies of water, such as:
*  For Classes 1 to 5 waters, these conditions encompass increases in temperature,
suspended solids (SS) and chemical substances; reductions in dissolved oxygen;
and limits on pH.
*  For Classes 1, 2, and 5 waters there are additional conditions for toxic substances,
limits on settleable solids and exclusion of pathogenic organisms.
*  For Class I waters, there is an additional condition on biochemical oxygen
demand (BOD5). Also, the storage of rubbish and waste materials on riverbanks is
prohibited.
*  For Class 6 waters, there is an additional condition, which prohibits the discharge
of wastes containing feces or wastes of industrial or agricultural origin into drains
of public roads, although such discharges are allowed under certain conditions
when the disposal to a public sewer or to underground strata is impossible.
* The effluents shall not emit objectionable odors nor contain organisms.
3-6



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project         Environmental Assessment Report
* The settleable solids content of the effluent shall not exceed a certain limit.
* Effluents containing industrial or agricultural wastes shall not exceed certain
limits regarding temperature and pH.
* Effluents shall be free of fuels, including petrol and lubricating oil.
The above-mentioned classification does not contain standards, and, as such, the
Japanese surface water quality standards are used. Thus, for the purpose of this EIA,
the Japanese standards are used to indicate the river water quality that can be used for
the water supply treatment plants. These are presented in Section 3.2.2 (Standards) of
this Chapter.
Conditions for the discharge of industrial wastewater into public sewers are also
covered in the Regulations. Permission is required by license from the appropriate
authority for the discharge of all such effluents and in considering an application for a
discharge, the authority is required to consider the protection of sewers and
wastewater treatment works, the safety of health of personnel, and the cost of
treatment.
Industries are required to construct their own treatment plants but in special
circumstances they may allowed to directly discharge their wastewater in the
sewerage system for treatment elsewhere.
General conditions for the issue of licenses to discharge industrial wastewater are
given in the Regulations and these include limits on temperature, pH values,
suspended solids, oil and grease, and size of particles. They also prohibit certain
inflammable and toxic substances. Industries must provide sampling chambers and, if
required by the designated authority, flow measurement facilities. In addition, the
designated authority shall be allowed to take samples of wastewater and
measurements of flow.
3.2.1.3 Discharges of Wastewater
In order to discharge any waste to any of the above classes of water, a special license
must be acquired from the Ministry of Energy.
The regulations that exist for various polluting factors are mainly related to the
condition of receiving water bodies. For Class 1 to Class 5 waters, the environmental
conditions are primarily temperature, suspended solids, chemical substances, and
reduction in dissolved oxygen and pH changes. For the Class 1 waters there is an
additional condition on Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD). There are also
conditions related to toxic substances that could be examined for waters categorized
under Classes 1, 2 and 5.
3-7



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
The conditions set for wastewater discharge to the waters categorized under Classes 1,
2 and 5 include limits on suspended solids and exclusion of pathogenic organisms.
They also prohibit storage of rubbish and waste materials on riverbanks for Class 1
waters. These regulations prohibit the discharge of waste containing feces or
agricultural or industrial wastes into the Class 6 waters, unless disposal to public
sewer or underground strata is impossible and in cases that effluents do not emit
offensive odor. In order to discharge these wastewaters a special license must be
obtained through the Department of Environment or its local offices. The Department
is required to consider the protection of sewers, safety and health of personnel and
cost of treatment.
Industries may be requested to construct their own treatment plant but in special cases
direct discharge to water bodies is permitted. Generally, the waste being discharged
has to qualify certain limits on pH, temperature, suspended solids, fat or grease and
size of particles. Discharges of toxic and inflammable substances are also prohibited.
The designated authority shall have the permission to take samples of the wastewater
to measure its quality and quantity.
Other than the above-mentioned regulations, the Department of Environment (DO)
has published separate standards in 1973 entitled "Maximum Permissible Discharge
of Pollutants to the Environment".
The Clean Water Act 1982 placed new responsibilities for the owners of water wells
and subterranean canals. This Act requires them to control the water pollution within
heir ability and, in cases beyond their ability, to consult with the relevant government
organizations. One major initiative of the Clean Water Act is to require institutions
using water for various purposes to ensure their wastewater is treated. Issues of both
water quantity and quality are of concem. The reuse of wastewater is one of the main
options being considered as a new source of water in regions where water is scarce.
The standards required for the safe use of wastewater and the amount and type of
wastewater treatment needed are contentious. Many organizations have been involved
in devising standards for the use of treated wastewater in agriculture.
3.2.1.4 Disposal and Reuse of Sludge
At present, there is no law regarding the disposal and reuse of sludge except what was
included in the Regulations for the Prevention of Water Pollution (May, 1994),
whereby it is stipulated that the sludge or other solid materials generated by
wastewater treatment works must be properly treated before their final disposal,
which should not cause any pollution to the environment.
3-8



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
3.2.1.5 Disposal of Solid Waste and Industrial Wastewater
The following articles are taken from the Regulations for the Prevention of Water
Pollution that was ratified on May 7th, 1994 and presented in Annex BII.
Article 7
The Department of Environment is obliged to collect samples of the sewage and the
solid waste materials, according to the previously prepared program, in order to
determine the kind and the rate of pollution related to each source. If the severity of
pollution in any of these sources of pollution exceeds the standard limits of article (5)
of the present paper of regulations, the Department will warn the responsible person
to take measures in stopping the pollution. In this warning, the type of pollution and
its rate will be specified, and with respect to the potentials and equipment available,
the deadline to prevent from spreading the pollution will be determined and directly
stated.
Note: Considering the industrial complexes and towns which possess their own public
sewer system, the Department will collect samples from the sewers of the
industrial and non-industrial parts of the towns and complexes and will take the
appropriate measures in stopping the pollution with the responsibility of the
company or complex.
If the units established in these towns and complexes have industrial sewage
containing poisonous substances of heavy metals, which cannot be controlled through
the municipal sewer system, according to the decision of the Department of
Environment, that unit will be asked to construct a system of sewage works.
3.2.1.6 Pollution Abatement
The following articles are taken from the Islamic Penal Code - TAAZIRAT-
Approved on 1996.05.23
Article 688
Any act constituting a threat to public health, including the contamination of drinking
water, or distribution of contaminated drinking water, unsanitary disposal of human of
animal feces and wastes, pouring poisonous materials into rivers, disposing of trash
on the streets, unlawful slaughtering of animals, illegal use of raw sewage or waste
water from sewage treatment plants for agricultural purposes is prohibited, and
should offenders not be liable to stricter penalty under other laws, they shall be
sentenced to imprisonment of up to 1 year.
Note 1: The task of identifying whether the committing of any one of the offenses
mentioned above constitutes a threat to public health or it is merely the pollution of
3-9



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
the environment shall lie between the Ministry of Health and Medical Education and
the Department of the Environment.
Note 2: Pollution of the Environment is construed as the mixing or scattering of
foreign materials in water, free air, soil or ground to the extent that their physical,
chemical and biological characteristics are changed in such ways as to become
harnful to human, living animals and plants, or damaging to structures and buildings.
Note 83 of Law of the second five-year economic, social, and cultural development
plan of Islamic Republic of Iran:
Note 83: To prevent and eliminate the pollution of water resources caused by
industrial effluents, industries and factories located in cities and industrial townships
are required to establish and operate facilities for the collection and conveying of
effluents and set up industrial waste water treatment installations based on the
standards of the Department of the Environment and with the collaboration and/or
the supervision of water and sewage companies of Provinces.
3.2.1.7 Protected Areas and Natural Habitats
The 1975 Environmental Protection and Enhancement Act, outlines the designation
and protection of the National Monuments and Wildlife Refuges. Presently there are
eight National Parks, forty-six protected regions and fifteen protected rivers in Iran,
which cover a total area of 7.6 million hectares.
Wildlife regulations are being introduced by the Department of Environment, to
protect endangered species, such as Persian fallow deer, Caspian tiger, bear, cheetah,
crocodile, great bustard and Caucasian black grouse.
Some of the most important Regulations Governing about National Parks, national
Nature monuments, Wildlife Refuges and Protected Areas are:
Executive By-Law on the Environmental Protection and Enhancement Act
(Approved by the Council of Ministers on 1975.02.20 with Subsequent Amendments
Thereof)
Article 8
Grazing animals, felling trees, uprooting shrubs, encroachment upon or the
destruction of the environment and , in general , any action that causes damage to and
destruction of vegetation or leads to any form of alteration of ecosystems in the
National Parks and national Nature Monuments shall be prohibited, except for cases
arising from the necessity of protection forest wildlife, improving National Parks and
National nature Monuments or conducting allowed scientific and geological studies in
conformity with the provisions of the Law of the Protection and Exploitation of
3-10



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project         Environmental Assessment Report
Forests and Ranges, where such actions are executed by the country's Forest and
Range Organization, or by the Department of the Environment, or by other authorized
organizations or persons.(l)
Note: Domestic animals entering National Parks and National Nature Monuments
shall be driven out from these areas by the functionaries of the " Department " and
violator(s) shall be prosecuted according to the provisions of the Law.i
Article 10
Entering and passing through areas referred to in Section 3 part (a) of the
Environmental Protection and Enhancement Act, with the exception of areas where
public roads exist, shall be according to the regulations enacted by the "Department".
Article 11
Felling trees, uprooting shrubs, encroachment upon and destruction of the living
environment, cutting thistles, burning wood into charcoal and, in general, any action
that may lead to the eradication of vegetation and alteration of ecosystems in the
wildlife refuges and protected areas that constitute land belonging to the government
shall be prohibited without acquiring needed permits.(1)
Note 1: Implementing approved industrial and mining projects in the wildlife refuges
and protected areas, in conformity with existing regulations, shall be exempted from
the provisions of this Article.
Note 2: Grazing of animals, in reference to the amount and quality of grazed
material, in wildlife refuges and protected areas shall conform to the agreement
between the Forest and Range Organization and the " Department " and regulations
prepared thereof.
Note 3: Herding animals into and grazing in wildlife refuges and protected areas
without permits or in excess of quantities indicated in the permits issued, which are
contrary to the provisions of this Article, shall be prohibited. The functionaries of the
"Department " shall drive out the animals, and violator(s) shall be prosecuted
according to regulations thereof.(2)
Note 4: Hunting or fishing in wildlife refuges and protected areas and rivers shall
require special permits issued by the "Department." (3)
1- Amendment approved by the Council of Ministers on 19.04.1995.
2- Amendment approved by the Council of Ministers on 19.04.1995.
1- Amendment approved by the Council of Ministers on 19.04.1995.
2- Amendment approved by the Council of Ministers on 19.04.1995.
3- Amendment approved by the Council of Ministers on 19.04.1995.
3-11



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project         Environmental Assessment Report
Article 12
Ministries and governmental institutes and firms, with prior approval from the
"Department", can conduct their intended studies, investigations and operations in
protected areas and wildlife refuges within the framework of their legal authorities.
Article 14
Designation of areas referred to in Section 19 of the Environmental Protection and
Enhancement Act shall be subject to the fulfillment of at least one of the following
requirements and criteria:
Existence of one or more sources in the area polluting or threatening the pollution of
the environment.
Human activities in industry, agriculture, trade or the like adversely affecting the
environment or causing changes in the natural conditions of the area or threatening
the area with environmental changes.
Existence of large centers of population in the area and the necessity of adopting
precautionary measures to prevent pollutions harmful to human health.
Existence of one or more national parks, national nature monuments, wildlife
refuges or protected areas in the vicinity or within the boundaries of the region, and
the necessity of preventing changes or the degradation of the natural conditions in
these four mentioned areas.
3.2.1.8 Archaeological and Cultural Heritage
The first rule in regard to protection of the cultural inheritance goes to 1930. In this
year 10 legal articles were approved. Some of these important articles are:
In Article 83 of the Iranian Constitution it is stated that:
Buildings and governments properties which are recognized as national heritage
cannot be transferred to others unless by approval of the Islamic Parliament, and if
they are not recognized as having special heritage value.
According to a legal article, approved in 1979, any excavation for antique relics is
prohibited.
Preservation of the Cultural Heritage is considered important in the Islamic laws and
regulations. In Article 558 of these regulations it is stated that:
Any body who damages to some or all buildings lands, yards, or collection of
religious, historical and cultural which are recorded in the list of national Iranian
3-12



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project        Environmental Assessment Report
relics, in addition to compensation, the perpetrator (s) will be sentenced to prison
from I to 10 years.
The law has identified specific punishments for those who do not respect the laws and
regulations related to the preservation of Cultural Heritage.
According to Article 563 of these regulations anybody, who affects the integrity of
areas of religious and historical lands which are recorded in the list of national Iranian
relics that have not got any private owner, can be sentenced to prison from 6 months
to 2 years.
In addition, according to Regional Urban laws and regulations that were approved in
1987, it was requested that the Urban Land Development Organization and the
Ministry of Housing should be committed to the preservation of the Cultural Heritage
in urban development projects.
3.2.1.9 Environmental Assessment
The Department of Environment is familiar with the environmental impact assessment
concept and has established a special office for following up on the EA issue.
Based on the Environmental High Council (EHC) approval No. 138 of April 13th
1994, the undertaking of environmental assessment for the following projects became
legally mandatory:
1. Petrochemical Plants.
2. Refineries.
3. Power Plants (more than 100 MW capacities).
4. Steel Mills.
5. Dams and other water constructions (man-made lakes, water and irrigation
projects etc.).
6. Industrial Estates (more than 100 hectares).
7. Airports.
Based on consequent approvals of EHC, other development projects were added to
this list as follows:
8. Major road projects
9. Major railroad projects
10. Agro-Industry units,
11. Industrial slaughter houses,
3-13



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
12. Sitting of urban solid waste landfills for cities with more than 200,000
population,
13. Solid waste recycling or compost units
14. Eco-tourism projects
15. Gas and oil transmission lines projects,
16. Sea oil platform projects
17. Oil storing projects
As previously mentioned, the Environmental High Council ratified the general pattern
of evaluating the environmental impact proposed by the Department of Environment
during its meeting on December 22nd, 1997. According to this pattern, the
environmental assessment of construction projects is carried out in two stages; first
briefly and generally and then in detail. The text of the country's policy for
environmental assessment is given in Annex B-III of this Report.
The policy for environmental assessment called, "the Criteria for the Environmental
Assessments for the Seven Kinds of Projects" has been prepared by the Organization
of Planning and Budget and the Department of Environment.
According to Article 1 of the Regulations concerning environmental impacts, ratified
by the Environmental High Council on 22nd December, 1997, the executors of these
seven kinds of projects and plans, while preparing their report for finding and
evaluating the location, should prepare an environmental assessment compatible with
the regulatory outline and guidelines.
According to this policy, the executors of the plans and projects should present a brief
report to the Department of Environment, after proper examination of the case, within
one month, to highlight the critical environmental factors that should be considered.
The executors of the plans will then prepare an environmental assessment report
based on the points announced by the Department of Environment.
The environmental assessment for construction and operation are to be prepared
separately and the experts responsible for preparing the assessment have to indicate
the main activities carried out to reduce the detrimental impacts on the environment as
well as their related costs.
The experts preparing the report on the environmental assessment express their
findings in one of the following three ways:
d The execution of the project without special activities.
3-14



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
* The execution of the project with special activities to reduce the negative impacts
(expenses of the activities included)
* The non-execution of the project due to the severity and wide extent of its
negative impacts on the environment.
The Department of Environment, on the basis of the above-mentioned regulations,
announces its final opinion within a three-month period.
A committee that consists of experts and academic authorities, representatives of the
Management & Planning Organization, Forest & Rangelands Organization, the
Standard Institution and Industrial Studies as well as a representative of the ministry
or the organization proposing the plan is formed and is headed by Department of the
Environment,
The examination of the reports on the environmental assessments is undertaken in the
headquarters of the Department of the Environment within the Environmental Impact
Assessment Bureau.
3.2.2 Standards
3.2.2.1 Existing Iranian Standards
The existing standards in the Islamic Republic of Iran, which are presented here
below, have been prepared according to articles 3 and 5 of the Regulations for the
Prevention of Water Pollution (1994), in collaboration with the Ministries of
Hygiene, Health and Medical Education, Power (presently Ministry of Energy),
Industries, Mines and Metals, Interior Affairs, and Agriculture Jihad by the
Department of Environment. These are presented in Annex B-IV and include the
following:
* Drinking water standard of the Institute of Standards and Industrial Research
of Iran (Annex B-IV-1).
*  Sewage Effluent Standard of the Department of the Environment (Annex B-
IV-2).
* Industrial Discharge Into Sewage Collection System Standard of the Ministry
of Industry (Annex B-IV-3).
* Outdoors Noise Standard of the Department of the Environment (Annex B-
IV-4).
* Air Pollution Standard of the Department of the Environment (Annex B-IV-
5).
3-15



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project        Environmental Assessment Report
Drinking Water Standard (Annex B-IV-1)
The Management and Planning Organization published the full list of Drinking Water
standards (1992, No 116-3, 1992). But the Water and Wastewater Company no longer
use these standards; instead, the WHO drinking water standards are used. However,
the formal drinking water standard that must be used (June 1997, No 1053) is the one
developed by Institute of Standards and Industrial Research of Iran (ISMRI).
The drinking water standard includes:
*  Maximum permissible and desirable levels for different physical parameters, such
as, turbidity, color, odor, pH, taste and oil.
* Maximum permissible limits for toxic metals (e.g., As, Pb, Cr...).
*  Maximum permissible limits for toxic organics (e.g., DDT, lindane, THMs...).
*  Maximum permissible limits for inorganic substances (e.g., TDS; NO3; NO2;
NH3; Al; Zn . ).
*  Maximum permissible limits for microbial parameters will be according to WHO
standards.
Sewage Effluent Standard (Annex B-IV-2)
The sewage effluent standard includes a long list of contaminants whereby the
maximum permissible limits are indicated for the quality of wastewater before its
discharge into (i) surface water bodies; (ii) absorbing wells and (iii) irrigation canals
for agriculture use.
Since the standard covers the wastewater effluent re-use issue, it also sets limits to
microbial pollution; namely, Fecal Coliform No/lOOml; Total Coliform No/lOOml
(MPN) and Nematode egg.
Industrial Discharge Into Sewage Collection System Standard (Annex B-IV-3)
The industrial effluent quality, which is set by the Ministry of Industry, includes a list
of contaminants with their corresponding threshold limit values. These limits shall be
respected by the industries that wish to connect to the sewerage system.
The list of contaminants includes the following parameters: Temperature; PH; Total
oil & grease; Sulphates; Suspended solids (SS); BOD5; Phenol and creosol; heavy
metals; and radioactivity. However, the list does not include the required level for
COD.
Outdoors Noise Standard (Annex B-IV-4)
3-16



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
The outdoors noise standard set limits for different types of zoning and differentiates
between: Residential area; Residential- commercial area; Commercial area;
Residential-Industrial area; and Industrial area. It also differentiate between noise
levels during day and night time.
Air Pollution Standard (Annex B-IV-5)
The air pollution standard covers major air pollutants, such as, carbon monoxide,
sulfur dioxide, Non-Methane Hydrocarbons, nitrogen dioxide... and sets limits for
each pollutant on the basis of:
* Annual average levels.
* Maximum 8-hour concentration levels.
* Maximum 1-hour concentration levels.
3.2.2.2 Standards Proposed in this EIA
For the purpose of this EIA, the following standards are proposed to be used, applied
and enforced for the proposed Project:
* Iranian drinking water standard (Annex B-IV-1), which have been developed
by the Iranian Institution of Standards and Industrial Research. This standard
will be supplemented with the Japanese water standards (Annex B-IV-6);
namely, those related to the following:
o  Conservation of the Living Environment in rivers.
o  Conservation of the Natural Environment and Uses of rivers.
o  Environmental Quality Standards for Water Pollutants Regarding
Human Health (annual mean values for different pollutants).
o  Monitoring Substances and Guideline Values.
* Sewage Effluent Standards of the Department of the Enviromnent (Iran)
(Annex B-IV-2). The standard's part that deals with the use of treated
wastewater in irrigation, will be supplemented with the following:
o FAO Guidelines for Maximum Permissible Concentration of Elements
in Water Used for Irrigation (Annex B-IV-7).
o WHO Guidelines (1989) for the Recommended Microbiological
Quality for Wastewater Use in Agriculture (Annex B-IV-8).
*  Industrial Discharge Into Sewage Collection System Standard of the Ministry
of Industry (Annex B-IV-3). The World Bank Pollution Prevention and
Abatement Handbook, which sets the limits for the different types of
industries, will supplement the Iranian Ministry of Industry standard
3-17



Shiraz Water Supplv and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
(Induistrial effluent discharges are to be pre-treated to levels that comply with
the limits prescribed in this handbook before their discharge in the wastewater
collection system).
* Outdoors Noise Standards of the Department of the Environment (Annex B-
IV-4).
*  Air Pollution Standards of the Department of the Environment (Annex B-IV-
5).
* Since no Iranian standards are available for sludge utilization in agriculture,
the WHO and European Directive (Annex B-IV-9) will be used.
The above-mentioned standards and limits will therefore be used to monitor the
quality of drinking water, wastewater effluent and sludge in this Project. These limits
are also presented in the monitoring program described in Chapter 7 of this Report.
3.2.2.3 Comparison of Relevant Standards
The assessment of the different environmental parameters relevant to the proposed
Project, led to the undertaking of a comparison between the international
environmental standards and those applicable in I.R Iran. In most cases, the higher
standards have been used to indicate the severity of an environmental problem
(surface and ground water pollution) or to ensure the attainment of hygienic quality
(for example in drinking water).
For instance, comparing the WHO drinking water quality Standard with that of the
Iranian; it was found that the former is less stringent on nitrate concentration than the
latter. Both standards compare equally on turbidity, chromium, mercury and nickel,
while for parameters such as total coliforms, TDS, chloride, sulphate, zinc, cadmium
and lead the WHO standard is more stringent than the national one. Thus, since the
WHO standard is more complete and stringent on the majority of the parameters, and
especially on those that have a direct negative impact on health, it is proposed to use
this standard for evaluating the quality of the water.
So far, and as mentioned earlier, there are no standards in the I.R. Iran regarding
surface water quality and sludge use in agriculture. In the absence of such standards,
and for the purpose of this EIA, it is proposed, to supplement the Iranian standards by
using the following standards:
* The Japanese surface water quality standards (Annex B-IV-6) related to the
following:
o Conservation of the living environment in rivers (Refer to table below)
o Uses of river water (Refer to table below)
3-18



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
*  The  European  Union   (EU) Directive  on  "Sludge  in  Agriculture"
(86/278/EEC). This directive indicates the maximum permissible
concentration limits of potentially toxic elements (PTEs) in the sludge to be
applied to agricultural land and the receptive soil. These concentrations are
shown in the table presented further in this Chapter.
As previously mentioned, the reuse of wastewater effluent and sludge in agriculture
are to comply with the applicable European Union (EU), World Health Organization
(WHO) and Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) Guidelines, including
concentrations of cadmium, chromium, nickel, led and zinc.
In addition the World Health Organization (WHO) have three different approaches for
establishing guidelines for the microbiological quality of treated wastewater for reuse
in agriculture. These approaches have different objectives as their outcomes: the
absence of fecal indicator organisms in the wastewater, the absence of a measurable
excess of cases of enteric disease in the exposed population and a model-generated
estimated risk below a defined acceptable risk. The guideline limit for intestinal
nematode eggs is less than 1 per 100 grams dry weight of sludge.
3.3   Administrative Framework
3.3.1 Key Government Organizations
A. The Ministry of Enerav:
The Ministry of Energy oversees major portions of the country's development and
resource exploitation activities. This Ministry is responsible for: generating &
distributing energy for light and heavy industry consumption, supply and
improvement of energy consumption, supply and distribution of water to all sectors of
society, urban sewage system control, quantitative and qualitative protection of water
resources, and implementing river and coastal development plan.
Whilst the Ministry of Energy is the lead entity with overall responsibility for the
implementation of the proposed Project, there are a number of other ministries, local
government departments and service agencies with direct involvement in the
environment. If the Project is to be constructed and operated successfully it is vital
that the actions of these various ministries, organizations and bodies are adequately
coordinated.
B. Department of the Environment:
The Department of Environment (DOE) has the responsibility of protecting the
environment and controlling the pollution in the I.R. Iran. In addition, the DOE is
3-19



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
responsible to a policy making board called the Environmental High Council,
consisting of representatives from various Ministries.
The DOE is responsible for all aspects of environmental protection, including water
pollution control, effluent discharge standards, and wildlife conservation.
The responsibilities of the Department of Environment with respect to water and
wastewater issues include:
* Conducting economic and scientific research and studies concerning
environmental protection and enhancement.
*  Preparing plans for the elimination or reduction of pollution in any area or
province.
*  Monitoring and enforcing the regulations.
*  Controlling pollution and preventing any disturbance in environmental
balance, by:
o Controlling of any such alterations in the biological, chemical or
physical condition of land, water and air caused by various physical
developments as may induce changes in the natural conditions,
including alteration and degradation of river-beds, degradation of
forests and rangelands, marine ecological changes, disturbance in the
natural drainage of waters and modification in and destruction of
wetlands;
o  Recommending standards and criteria for purposes of controlling and
preventing the pollution of water, air and land; discharge of refuse,
including garbage and industrial waste matter; and other issues
affecting the environment.
C. The Ministry of Agriculture Jihad:
During the last decade, the Ministry of Agriculture Jihad (established in 2001 by
merging two ministries together; the Ministry of Agriculture and that of Jihad
Sazandegi) focused its actions for the protection of the environment and sustainable
development. Among the most important measures taken for achieving environmental
protection and economic growth, the Ministry attempted to reduce the consumption of
chemical fertilizers and poisonous pesticides and proposed plans to replace the old
methods of pest control with new techniques. According to the decisions and ratified
criteria of this Ministry (1) no hazardous high-risk pesticide can be imported and used
and (2) the subsidy for buying agricultural chemicals are to be gradually omitted and
(3) additional consumption of additives will be gradually adjusted to the specific need
of the land and the product efficiency.
3-20



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project          Environmental Assessment Report
The Cabinet meeting on 2nd February, 1994, has set some objectives to the Ministry of
Agriculture Jihad that are directly related to the utilization of water resources. These
were:
* Conducting scientific and economic experiments and studies on different
fields of Agriculture Jihad (including studies concerning proper exploitation
of water resources) and publishing their results.
* Conducting any research or taking any executive and supervisory measures in
order to improve the general knowledge for proper exploitation of water, land,
etc.
* Conducting research studies concerning the water and the soil inside the
specific fields, including correction and renovation of old irrigation systems
and sewage as well as constructing tributary irrigation systems, irrigation
channels, etc.
* Improving the efficiency of irrigation through proper selection of
development projects and by changing inappropriate methods of irrigation.
* Conducting research studies planning and exercising small projects for
developing water resources (subject to approval of Ministry of Energy).
* Fulfilling the responsibilities of executing the law of Just Distribution of
Water
According to the general laws of the country some of the responsibilities concerning
the protection and proper utilization of water and aquatic life resources as well as
forest and pasture resources that were under the responsibility of the Ministry of
Jihad, and were lately transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture Jihad, are as follows:
* Conducting comprehensive research studies on the water resource of the
country and presenting plans for proper exploitation of the lands.
* Developing policies and taking the required measures to preserve, renovate,
develop, expand, and put into proper use all the water and aquatic life
resources.
* Policy-making, planning, constructing, developing, and maintaining the
systems of potable water (provision, treatment, transmission, and distribution)
in villages as well as the proper disposal of the wastewater.
3-21



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project                                                                                                Environmental Assessment Report
Organizational Chart Of the Department of the Environment
Secretariat of Naltional Irainian                   Head
( onnuttee  on   Sustainable                                                                            College of thc EIl iromoeot
DcNvloprlent                                       t( Nti l'rtsideiit, t Ihe Rtelptblic)
Ensironniental                       Ofrice of the Flead of        1ielrl
Security                             Monitoring        &                   t  Departne.                 oI'  Putblic  Relatiois   &
it               o
Control D)irectorate                                               lnterniatioiial Affairs
Dcputy Head|                         Deputy Head                                         Deputy Head                           Deputy Heatd
Administrative           &            .jducation & Planning                               Natural   linvironnient  &            tinat Fmionnent
Parliamentarian Aftairs                                                                   Biological D)iversit
)irectorate  of   I.egal  &          En Fironmental l ducation                            'rotected Arieas &  Ilabilati |ix |       on mental       Inipac |
Pai lianientarian Affairs            D)irectoratc                                         D |irectoit                          As,esSntent )ircrtoi ate
I ictrt  flnaiicc             public Participation                                 Wildli ic &- A(qUatics A,\iiis        r   l'oltioll DoCI )irCia
Plann)ir nItorate                                  IN)itrt cto;atc   u  r                 Wat'l & Soil P  lti
[)itcto-atol Adilinitratall   Plannling & Inlormnatiolt                         Nattim flinbtors Nlustini             Wa|  & I); l Pollttc
| I)il-cbtorats             l                                                 | D)rector3tc                 1'irectorate  Directoiate
BUdILget &  rganizatioinal  ]                                                              Marine        Enri ~iron ntcent      Central L abojatit s
Dir ctorat                                                                                  r rcctorate
3-22



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
D. Shiraz Water and Wastewater ComPan':
The Shareholders General Assembly is the supreme decision and major policymaking
body at the Shiraz Water and Wastewater Company. The Company's General
Assembly holds the legal responsibilities of the Board of Directors and in fact, acts as
the Board of Directors.
* The Managing Director is elected by the Board as the head of the company
and is responsible for supervising the performance of WWC.
* Six directors work directly under the supervision of the Managing Director
and are in charge of the following:
o  Director of Contracts and Legal Affairs
o  Director of Security and Confidential Affairs
o  Director of Public Relations and Training
o  Director of the Monitoring Group and Financial, Economical and
Administrative Evaluation
o  Director of Urban Units
o  Director of Safety Issues
* Five deputies are in charge of the following departments and work under
direct supervision of the Managing Director:
o  Department of Water and Wastewater Operations
o  Department of Planning and Improving Management
o  Department of Engineering and Development
o  Department of Revenues and Customer Affairs
o  Department of Finance and Logistics
* All executive managers listed in the chart are under the supervision of the
Managing Director's Deputies.
3.3.2 Other Government Organizations
A. The Ministry of Health and Medical Education:
The articles and the comments of the Regulations conceming the environmental
health ratified by the Cabinets in 1992 not only defined the term "potable water" and
explained its various kinds of pollution but also gave the responsibility of constant
supervision on the quality of potable water to the Ministry of Health. According to the
second section of the third article, govemmental and private companies and
3-23



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
institutions, which provide potable water, have to observe all the hygienic conditions,
rules, and standards demanded by the Ministry of Health and Medical Education.
According to article number four of this executive bylaw, a Committee for the
Protection of Potable Water Resources has been formed in each province and is
headed by the Province Governor General and the membership of provincial
managers and director generals of the Ministry of Health & Medical Education,
Department of Environment, Regional Water Organization of the province,
Organization of Agriculture Jihad, Management & Planning Organization and Water
& Sewage Company. The committee is to examine possible causes of water pollution
and ways for treatment and protection of water resources.
The Ministry of Health is therefore responsible for public health, control of foodstuff,
drinking water and medical care. The Ministry of Health has an important role in
monitoring the effectiveness of the proposed Project in terms of public health
improvements and in the establishment of public health education programs.
B. Ministry of Housing and Urban Development:
The Ministry of Housing and Urban Development is responsible for the control of
land-use, town planning and building regulations. As such, the Ministry has an
important role in ensuring that the capacity of existing and proposed water and
sewerage facilities has been addressed in the future land-use plans of the city.
Regarding its building regulation responsibilities, the Ministry has to ensure that new
developments make the needed adequate provision for connecting to the public sewer.
C. Ministry of Industries and Mines:
The Ministry of Industries and Mines is responsible for industrial development in
Iran. Thus, it has an important role in the control of industrial effluent discharges to
public sewers and watercourses.
The Ministry also provides training and advice to industrialists and financial
assistance for upgrading or installing treatment facilities. On the other hand, and
whenever necessary, the Ministry enforces relocation of industries.
D. Institute of Standard and Industrial Research:
Affiliated to the Ministry of Industries and Mines, this institute is responsible for
settling and publishing national (official) standards.
3-24



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project         Environmental Assessment Report
E. Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs:
The Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs is responsible for labor affairs and for
establishing and enforcing occupational safety regulations.
This Ministry will monitor and enforce the application of the occupational safety
regulations during construction and operation of the Project.
F. Universities and Research Institutes:
There are different universities in Iran conducting different environmental activities
including environmental sciences, environmental planning & management,
environmental engineering (water and wastewater, air), natural resources...
Many universities have joint projects with related Ministries in different
environmental fields through their research centers especially for wastewater
management projects. Thus, these universities may play a consultative role and
conduct particular researches regarding special issues such as wastewater and sludge
reuse.
G. City Councils and Municipalities:
City councils are responsible for planning of city management at the macro level and
enforce the plans through related municipalities.
The Municipalities are engaged with environmental issues within cities based on
Section 20 of Article 50 of Municipalities Act of 1955 and are bound to notify any
developer of a new urban development project of the requirements of the DOE
regulations.
The municipalities are supposed to play their role in monitoring the implementation of
the Project.
H. Cultural Heritace Organization:
According to the laws and regulations the Cultural Heritage Organization has the
following responsibilities:
*  Prepare and regulate the ancients' relics research programs in the country.
*  Study and recognize of precincts, hills buildings and historical collections and
prepare a list of maps.
*  Implement all the legal affairs related to cultural heritage and pursue all the
penal claims against the infringers as claimants.
3-25



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project            Environmental Assessment Report
*  Take the necessary action to recognize and reclamation of Iranian cultural
properties.
* Prepare and perform necessary plans to secure and safeguarding, repairing and
revival of master pieces
*  Encourage the people to participate in all activities related to recognition, to
save and revival of the cultural heritage.
The Cultural Heritage Organization as well as the Ministry of Research, Science and
Technology are responsible for Archaeological and Cultural Heritage. The Cultural
Heritage Organization is directly responsible for the preservation of the cultural and
historical monuments and artifacts. Cultural Heritage includes ancient relics which
depict the historical development of the human race.
The organizations whose work is related to the preservation of the Cultural Heritage
are set out in Table 3-1.
Table 3-1: The Organizations related to the Preservation of Cultural Heritage
No. Institutions          Responsibilities
- Prepare and regulate to carry out researching program about
the remaining the ancients relics
- Prepare and perform   necessary plans to secure and
safeguarding, repairing and revival of master pieces.
The Cultural Heritage  - Studying and recognition of precincts, hills buildings and
Organization         historical collections and preparation list of maps of them
- Exclusive the implementation of all the legal affairs related to
cultural inheritance and pursuing all the penal claims against the
| infringers as claimants.
Preservation of cultural and historical monuments in urban
2  Municipalities     development projects; necessary consultation with the Cultural
2  Municipalities     Heritage Organization  in case of finding  any historical
monument or artifact
In charge of punishment of those who do not respect the laws
3    The Judicial Court   and regulations related to the preservation of the cultural
_______________   _  ||heritage.
Preservation of cultural and historical monuments and artifacts
4  IThe  Ministry   of 1 
4     Heusing         of while implementing urban development projects; necessary
Housing              consultation with the Cultural Heritage Organization
The   Urban   Land   Preservation of the cultural and historical monuments and
5    Development          artifacts
l_ || Organization        __
3-26



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
3.3.3 Overall Environmental Management
The construction phase of the project will be monitored by the Environment and
Safety Officer (ESO) in the Technical Support Unit (TSU) as part of his contract.
The Department of the Environment (DOE) will be responsible for the control of
water pollution. Thus, the DOE will monitor the:
* Water quality in the Khoshk and Soltanabad Rivers and Maharloo Lake.
* The quality of the discharged effluents in the environment (whether it is a
public river or water course...).
and control its compliance with the applicable related standards.
The Ministry of Agriculture Jihad will be responsible for monitoring the use of sludge
and treated wastewater in agriculture under the supervision of the DOE. The qualified
and skillful staff of the Ministry will perform the monitoring program. An evaluation
of responsibilities and capabilities of organizations to fulfill these responsibilities is
provided in Chapter 7 of this Report.
The AWWC however, will have the responsibility for controlling the quality of the
discharged effluents in the wastewater collection network. As such, the AWWC will
be responsible for ensuring that industries treat their wastewater before discharging it
in the collection system or the natural environment.
The rehabilitation of the existing and the construction of both the water network and
sewerage throughout the City will have significant impacts on traffic. The
Municipality will need to be closely involved in the development of traffic mitigation
measures during the implementation of the project.
Monthly monitoring reports will be presented to Shiraz Water and Wastewater
Company (AWWC) during the construction and operation phases of the Project. The
reports will highlight environmental issues, describe the applied mitigation measures
(as proposed in the Environmental Management Plan) and propose corrective actions
and improvements.
An overall project coordination committee needs to be established to ensure proper
coordination among the different representatives of the diverse ministries and
organization involved in the Project.
3-27



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project         Environmental Assessment Report
3.4    Conclusion
The Islamic Republic of Iran has standards and regulations governing the likely key
environmental parameters for this Project - particularly with regard to:
*  water quality (potable water standards and effluent standards;
*  air quality;
*  protection of rare and endangered species and habitats;
*  noise and vibration;
*  preservation of cultural heritage.
Iran also has strict policies to protect the environment and to assess significant
development projects through the EIA process. These policies have been enshrined
with new laws, policies and standards, which compare favorably with international
standards.
The only exception is in regard to standards for sludge and surface water where Iran's
standards have not yet been established. In this regard, and for the purpose of this EIA
the use of WHO and EU standards for sludge and Japanese standards for surface
water quality. On the other hand, whenever an existing standard is unclear or outdated
or less stringent than those internationally recognized, it is proposed to use the latter.
Since there are many ministries and governmental agencies, which have managing
and monitoring responsibilities and prerogatives on the issues raised by the proposed
Project, it is recommended to establish an overall project coordination committee to
ensure proper coordination among the different representatives of the various players.
3-28






Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
4 Baseline Environmental Data
4.1  Introduction
In this section the environmental baseline data for the study area of Shiraz Water
Supply and Sanitation Project shall be examined under three headings: Physical,
Biological, and Socio-Economic. Since the project effects extend beyond the city of
Shiraz, the environmental conditions of the outlying area in Shiraz plain shall also be
studied. This outlying area is termed the "Area of Influence" and is 120 km long by
15 km wide.
The City of Shiraz, N 290 37' and E 52 32', with a total area of 220 km2, is located in
the Shiraz plain. This plain is surrounded by the Babakoohi, Kaftarak and Posht-e-
moleh heights in the north, the Qarebaq (Sabz Pooshan) and Soltan Abad heights in
the south, the Derak and Tange Sorkh hills in the west and southwest, and the
Maharloo Lake in the east. The location of the project area is shown on figure 2-1
Annex A.
4.2 Physical Environment
4.2.1 Topography
Shiraz plain slopes gently in the eastem and southeastem parts. However, in the
northem and westem parts of the city the topography changes and is characterized by
steep slopes. The highest point in Shiraz is situated in the northwest of the city
reaching an altitude of 1700 m above sea level and the lowest point is in the
southeastem sections with a minimum altitude of 1490 m. With regard to Shiraz
Plain, it has an average altitude of 1540 m, with a maximum of 3100 m in the west
and the minimum of 1400 m on the banks of Maharloo Lake, located 23 km southeast
of the city center.
4.2.2 Climate
4.2.2.1 Temperature
Shiraz climate can be described as dry and warm in general, with climate changes to
fall, winter, and spring conditions. The average minimum temperature recorded over a
twenty-five years period (1975-2000) was 10.44 C while the average maximum
temperature recorded over the same period was 25.27 'C. The Mean average
temperature of Shiraz is 18.5 'C.
4-1



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
The highest temperature recorded in Shiraz was 43.2 'C in July 1997, while the lowest
recorded temperature was -9.6 'C in January of 1992. The cold season in Shiraz starts
in mid November and lasts until the end of March. The freezing period lasts for an
average of 36 days per year. The longest freezing period recorded is 59 days, which
took place in 1983.
4.2.2.2 Precipitation
The weather fronts from the Indian Ocean and the Persian Gulf have an important
effect on the winter and spring precipitation of Shiraz. The Mediterranean and the
Polar fronts are the main sources of precipitation during winter. The average
precipitation in Shiraz is 368.3 mm. Records of rainfall for thirty five years (1966 -
2001), indicate that most of the rainfall occurs from November to the end of March,
with 45% of the total precipitation falling between January and February.
4.2.2.3 Relative Humidity
Shiraz has a higher relative humidity than the areas in its vicinity, due to its
surrounding mountains, the Maharloo Lake and the gardens in Ghasroldasht (west of
the city). The average humidity is 38.67% based on twenty five year records (1975-
200). The maximum humidity recorded is 72% in November of 1992 and January of
1984. The minimum relative humidity of 13% was recorded in July 1979 and 1980.
The relative humidity is higher in winter than in summer.
4.2.2.4 Wind
Wind is an important factor because it affects the rate of evaporation and
consequently the amount of water. The dominant winds blow from west and
northwest. The annual average wind velocity is 13.2 km/br, and the maximum wind
speed recorded is 86.4 km/hr in February 1994 and March 1996. The prevailing wind
directions are shown in Figure 4-1.
4-2



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
Figure 4-1: Wind Magnitude and Direction
4.2.2.5 Evaporation
The average annual evaporation rate in Shiraz Meteorological Station is 2284 mm,
with a recorded maximum rate of 540.1 mm/month during June 1985 and 1986 and a
minimum rate of 138 mm/month recorded during December 1982-83.
4.2.3 Air Quality
Shiraz is one of the seven most polluted cities of Iran. The extension of the pollution
generated in the city has covered all the Shiraz Plain. The concentration of industrial
institutions in the northwest section of Shiraz and the presence of large industrial
plants such as the Cement Factory, vegetable Oil, Dena Tire, communications
industries, etc have caused considerable pollution in the city. Moreover, the recent
development of residential buildings in areas used to be old gardens and public parks
in the western parts have had a compounded adverse effect on air quality.
Vehicles account for 70 to 80 percent of air pollution in Shiraz. It is estimated that
some 96,000 cars and 49,000 motorbikes consume up to 749,000 liters (1988
estimate) of petrol a day. This amount of fuel releases 262 tons of carbon monoxide,
47 tons of hydro-carburant, 101 tons of nitrogen dioxide, 10 tons of sulfur dioxide and
approximately 1 ton of suspended particles in the atmosphere per day.
4-3



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
4.2.4 Noise Pollution
The movement of all types of vehicles, the proximity of Shiraz airport to the city and
the electricity power plant station in Shiraz are the main sources of noise pollution.
The other noise pollution sources are the industries and the urban construction
development activities.
4.2.5 Geology
The project area is located on the Zagros fault, where Paleozoic, Mesozoic and the
Triassic strata are deposited on top of each other on a single slope. The geological
map of Shiraz plain and Khoshk River Watershed is presented in Figure 4-14 of
Annex C.
4.2.5.1 The Regional Formations
The order of appearance of the regional formations is:
1- The Sachoon Formation (SA): From a lithological point of view this formation has
a very diverse composition and is made up of red marls, white and grey gypsum
and yellow dolomites. It dates back to early Eocene period. It is not an appropriate
basin for water, and in fact reduces the quality of nearby surface and ground
resources, by imparting magnesium carbonate, thus increasing hardness of the
water. It extends to the Bamoo and Kaftarak anticlines in the project area.
2- The Jahrom Formation (JA): From a lithological point of view it is composed of
dolomite and includes caves, crevices and surface Karens. Due to its thickness,
crevices and cracks it has many large water basins and many springs. The wells
dug in this formation usually produce good quality water. The formation is spread
throughout the region.
3- The Asmari Formation (As): This formation is composed of light to dark brown
limestone. It was formed from the Oligocene to early Miocene periods. This
limestone formation has crevices, caves and surface karens. Due to its thickness
and high permeability, it has many water basins. A considerable number of
springs and wells can be observed in this formation, and they produce good
quality water. This formation is sporadically dispersed throughout the region.
4- The Razak Formation (Rz): This formation is composed of red to green and grey
marls with secondary layers of silt-limes. It dates back to early Miocene. Due to
its high permeability, it does not have any water basin and has a negative impact
on the quality of surface and ground water resources, caused by imparting very
fine particles to the water. This formation is widely spread throughout the area.
4-4



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
5- The Aghajari Formation (Aj): From a lithological point of view this formation is
made up of calcareous sandstone of brown - grey color, gypsum veins, red marl
and siltstone. It dates back to the upper Miocene and Paleocene period. This
formation cannot hold underground water basin, and through many soluble
substances it will impart dissolved solids, and thus have a negative impact on
groundwater resources. This formation is widely spread in the project area.
6- The Bakhtiari Formnation (Bk): It is formed from cherty limestone conglomerates,
which occur intermittently in sandstones. They are usually hard, compact and
folded. This formation is dispersed in the project area.
7- Quaternary deposits: The most recent and most widespread deposits are the
Quaternary era deposits, which are either the result of mountain erosions caused
by seasonal floods and winds or taking shape.
There are two types of sediments in Shiraz Plain: large grains on the foot of the
mountains and the fine granular deposits on the banks of Maharloo Lake. The
sediments in the north and northwest are mostly large grains such as sand, gravel and
pebbles resulting form the erosion of limestone in the mountains (Asmari Jahrom
formations) and conglomerates (the Bakhtiari formation). In the central areas of the
Plain the grains are medium sized and consist of sand and gravel and a mixture of clay
and silt. In the western and southwestem regions the deposits are mostly fine resulting
form the Razak-Aghajari (Fars Group) formations. In the east and southeast and
around the Maharloo Lake the sediments become gradually finer, consisting of clay,
silt, gypsum and marshland or lake sludge. The thickness of alluvial sediments
increases in the southeast and east of the basin reaching to over 300 mm around the
Lake.
The geological formations in the project area are of alluvial deposit type dating back
to the Quaternary era. They are made up of sand, gravel and silt and have a high
potential to contain ground aquifers. As they are of shallow depths, these aquifers are
subject to contamination by illicit discharges and subject to salt accumulation, which
makes them of inferior quality to the deeper Karstic formation aquifers.
4.2.5.2 Seismology
Fars Province is located an active seismic region of Iran. There are many faults in the
region such as the Sarvestan, Rorandeh (northeastem side of the Kohhe Ghare), Kohe
Ahmadi, Kohe Kaftarak, Baba Koohi, Kohe Sabz Pooshan and the Chenar Rahdar.
Shiraz is part of the seismic region of the Zagros chains, with strong and frequent
earthquakes. In the past year alone, Jahroum city, located at 200 km from Shiraz
experienced four earthquakes measuring more than 4 on the Richter scale. According
to data collected over the past hundred years, the eastern parts of Shiraz are subject to
4-5



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
Shiraz are subject to more frequent occurrence of earthquakes and are thus considered
higher risk zones. Figure 4-2 in Annex C, classifies the areas in Shiraz according to
the risk of seismic activity. The nearest fault to the study area is located at a distance
of 9 km south of the project area. The second nearest is located at a distance of. 27.5
km to the north of the project area. More than 350 earthquakes of magnitude greater
than 4 on the Richter scale have been recorded in Fars province; the most devastating
in Shiraz was in 1824 and 1825 causing hundreds of deaths and extensive damage to
buildings. The most recent and important earthquakes in the Province are the
following:
Lar city, at 330 km to the south east of Shiraz, experienced an earthquake in 1961
which measured 6.1-6.9 on the Richter scale
Ghir city, at 200 km to the south of Shiraz, experienced an earthquake in 1972 which
measured 6.9-7.1 on the Richter scale
Zanjiran region, at 100 km to the south of Shiraz, experienced an earthquake in 1994
which measured 6.1 on the Richter scale, and resulted in two deaths and more than
100 injured.
Khohmareh Sorkhi region, south of central Zargos mountains, experienced an
earthquake in 1999 which measured 6.5 on the Richter scale, and resulted in twenty
two deaths, more than 100 injured, and twenty thousand people displaced.
4.2.5.3 Soil
The soil in Shiraz is made up of sediments, which are composed of materials eroded
from the mountains and carried by rivers, floods and irrigation waters deposited in
and around the area. Some areas at the foot of the mountains have alternating layers of
gravel and soil. Most of the soil profiles are well developed and have brown colour.
Lime is quite prominent in Shiraz, but calcareous crystals have also been observed in
the southern fields of Shiraz plain. The salt affected soils are located at a distance of
10 km south of Shiraz and extend to the banks of Maharloo Lake in the south east and
to the inner limits of the Plain near Soltanabad to the southwest. In most places the
land is covered with salt crystals and salt mounds.
Soil composition ranges from clay loam to silty clay, clay, and silty clay loam. Most
of the soils are deep and quite suitable for agriculture. Most areas of the Plain are flat
or have a very gentle slope. Except for the eastern parts, the soil has a very low
salinity and a pH range of 7.3 to 7.9.
4-6



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project         Environmental Assessment Report
In the low lands of Maharloo Lake, the soil is deep with heavy to very heavy texture
with high salinity and alkalinity. Groundwater table is high and due the very high
salinity, vegetation is scarce and is limited to plants like Salsola and Salicorina.
Along the banks of Maharloo Lake the presence of Low Humic Gley and
accumulation of lime and salt can be attributed to the high to medium humidity levels.
Topsoil, which comes under the Histosol classification, can also be observed in the
region. Soil in the Shiraz Plain is alluvial, colluvial and brown whereas in the
Maharloo region it is saline, saline gypsiperous and sodic.
Soil specifications in the site of Emergency and Lon z Term Wastewater Treatment Plants
The soil around the Emergency Wastewater Treatment Plant has a loamy texture
consisting of clay, with average conductivity of 8-16 millimohs/cm. The soil erosion
is low due to the gentle slope of the region. Generally the treatment plant's underlying
soil is a layer of fine grain soil made up of silt or silty clay. Crops in the area of the
emergency WWTP are limited to barely, wheat, alfalfa.
The soil properties at the Long Term Wastewater Treatment Plant has better quality
soil then the Emergency WWTP in terms of agricultural use, because soil salinity
ranges from 3 to 8 millimohs, which is suitable for cultivating beans, corn, and
vegetables.
Soil Qualitv
Water from Khoshk River in the downstream eastern reaches of the river is used for
irrigation. However, some industries discharge their effluents in the river causing the
soil and agricultural products to be contaminated with heavy metals, as clearly proven
by the samples of agricultural lands around the Khoshk River. Table 4-1 shows the
level of heavy metals (microgram per gram) in the contaminated soils around Khoshk
River.
Table 4-1: Heavy Metal Levels in the Soil Around Khoshk River
Metal    AAmount of heavy metal  Standards
| __________ .  (micro  gr. /gr.)
Zinc              33               50
Nickel             57               40
Iron             383.3                    l
Lead             13.3              10
Copper             15               20
Silver             4                       l
Manganese           220               150
Chrome            32.4              100
Cobalt            8.4                      l
Cadmium            2.57              0.06
Ref. General Department of Environment Province of Fars (1997)
4-7



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
It can be seen from above table that the soil concentration levels of nickel, lead,
manganese and cadmium exceed the permissible levels quoted in the DOE standards.
4.2.6 Water Resources
4.2.6.1 Surface Water Resources
The Maharloo Lake
Maharloo Lake is located at a distance of 23 km southeast of Shiraz and oriented
parallel to the general direction of Zagros fault (NW-SE). The Lake's largest
dimensions occur in the rainy season of December, January, and February; reaching
31 km in length, and 11 km in width. The lake's water is saline with an average salt
concentration of 188 g/l in June.
The average depth of the lake is 40 cm and the deepest point when the lake is full is 3
m. Around 1.625 billion m3/year of rainwater enters the Maharloo Lake's aquifer. Out
of the 1.625 billion mi3, the lake receives 40 million m3 from the ground resources and
230 million mi3 from surface resources (a total of 270 million) annually. The seasonal
rivers of Khoshk, Soltanabad, Nazarabad, the floodways and the drains in the
Sarvestan Plains are the main sources for water replenishment of Maharloo Lake.
Salt formations such as Hormoz, Sachoon and Razak are the main sources of salinity
that enter the lake by being dissolved in surface and ground flows. A salt layer of I to
60 cm in thickness can be seen covering the lake bottom. The cations of Mg', Ca',
K+ and Na+ and the anions of Cl-, So4-- and HC03- enter the lake through seasonal
rivers.
The Lake has an economical significance, since annually around 150 thousand tons of
industrial salts are extracted from the Lake's waters. In the past years between 15 to3O
thousand tons of edible salt used to be extracted from the lake. However, this is no
longer possible due to the lake's contamination by heavy metals (especially iron, lead
and cadmium), persistent pesticides used in agriculture and organic matters. In Table
4-2 the average concentration of heavy metals in four samples taken from different
areas of Maharloo Lake in 1994 and one sample taken in 1997 is compared with
Iranian standards and the International Codex (affiliated to FAO/WHO) for metal
content in salts.
4-8



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project          Environmental Assessment Report
Table 4-2: Average Amount of Heavv Metal in Maharloo Lake (ppm)
I  I                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iranian  International
Element  Sample   Sample              ple   Dry salt   standards   standard
1    2       3        4 Sample    1998  on edible    Coe
1  2                sample        ~~~~  ~   ~~~~~~~saltCox
Fe_   r 7.53    7.49     7.23  j 7.12       8.4        0.5         0.5
Cu      0.96    0.64     0.61    0.53       0.4        0.5          2
Pb       5.8 |[ 5.57     5.35    5.17       3.4         5           2
As      2.35    2.18     2.1     1.85   _    _0.5                  0.5
Cd       1.3     1.6     1.2      1.8       1.00        -          0.5
0.001   0.002    0.002   0.003      0.00                   0.1
Ref. General Department of Environment (1999)
As shown in the table the levels of Fe and Cd in the dry salt sample from the
Maharloo Lake exceed the levels required by the prevailing standards.
Currently, all the urban, industrial and agricultural wastewaters from Shiraz are
conveyed to the lake by surface and ground waters, causing severe pollution (See
Exhibits 3 in Annex G) However considering that the lake's water is highly saline,
total and fecal coliforms do not represent a concern. Table 4-3 shows the physical,
chemical and biological parameters in the Maharloo Lake obtained from two series of
test samples. The first (high water season) concerns the results of sampling from 20
stations in various locations in the Lake in January 1999 and the second (low water
season) is the result of sampling from 11 stations in April 1999.
Table 4-3: Analysis of Physical, Chemical and Biological Parameters of Maharloo Lake
Parameter              Average                AverageReak
Concentrations, Jan 99  Concentrations, April 99  Remarks
Salinity g/         198                    319
EC micromoles/cm    158,500                312,200
pH                  6.78 - 7.14            6.6 - 7.18
BOD mg/l            6.8 - 10               4.6 - 10.7
DO mg/l             1.28-2.72 (14)-(30)    3.20-6.4 (35)-(71)      1
Total coliforms     90-46000               4-930                   2
M PN/lIOOM L__          _  _  _ _  _  _ _   _ _  _  _ _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _
Fecal coliforms     0-24000                0-230                   3
MPN/1OOML
N03 mg/l            8.00 - 12.8            7.00 - 87.5             4
Cd (ppm)            0.3 - 0.49             0.23 - 01.156           5
Pb (ppm)            0.56 -0.82             0.22 - 0.49             6
Cr (ppm)            0.30 -0.50             0.11 -0.28
Cu (ppm)            0.2 - 0.38             0.032-0.041
Fe (ppm)            1.03 - 2.35            2.240-3.13
Ni (ppm)            0.32 - 0.40            0.42-0.65               7
Zn (ppm)            0.22 - 0.36            0.20 - 0.63
4-9



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project                  Environmental Assessment Report
Ref General Department of Enviromnent, Province of Fars (1999)
1 - Figures in bracket show the ratio of saturation in relation to limit of saturation under normal conditions (9 mg/I)
2 and 3 -The high figures of salinity in Maharloo Lake, which destroys the Coliforms, are recorded at the
beginning of the lake (estuary of Khoshk River), gradually decreasing towards the centre.
4- The nitrate level is at its maximum at the estuary of Khoshk River, showing the latter's role in transporting
nitrates to the Lake
5,6 and 7- The level of heavy metals Cd, Pb, and Ni is at its maximum during the high season in the central parts
of the Lake as well as its northeastern section at the Khoshk River estuary.
The Seasonal Khoshk River
1. The hydrology of Khoshk River
The Khoshk River is a 65 km long seasonal river that originates from Ghalat and
Kelestan heights (northwest of Shiraz). It passes through the middle of the city, and
flows southeastward to the Maharloo Lake. The average flow rate of the river is 52.94
Mm3 per year, of which 26.43 Mm3 is base flow and 26.50 Mm3 is runoff. The river
is fed by surface runoff of, the Ghasre Ghomsheh and the Tange Sorkh qanats. The
maximum flow occurs in the months of February, March and April and the minimum
flow occurs from July to November. The river is seasonal and starts flowing after a
medium rainfall. Seasonal and annual discharges are shown in Table 4-4.
Table 4-4: Seasonal variations of Khoshk River Discharge at Baghe Safa Brid e
Season             Parameter           Discharge (m3/sec)
Average            2.40
Autumn                Maximum            22.90
Minimum            0.00
Average            5.20
Winter                Maximum            54.10
Minimum            0.00
Average            4.00
Spring                Maximum            37.40
Minimum            0.00
Average            0.40
Summer                Maximum            0.50
Minimum            0.40
Average            3.90
Annual                Maximum            54.10
Minimum            0.02
Source: Parab Consulting Engineers, 2002
2. The quality of water in Khoshk River
The river receives urban runoff and wastewaters from industrial developments, hospitals,
educational centers, houses and hotels along its banks. Due to these discharges, the river's
4-10



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project              Environmental Assessment Report
water quality is highly polluted with contaminants (See exhibits 4 & 5 in Annex G) Quality
tests for the river's water confirmed the presence of heavy metals as shown on Table 4-5,
which shows the corresponding limits required by FAO standards for irrigation water. The
pollution level increases towards the down stream end of the river. Thus the river is a major
conduit for conveying pollutants, particularly heavy metals, to Maharloo Lake.
Table 4-5: Level of Heavy Metals in Khoshk River
Id               FAO guidelines on permitted
Paramete    1V series      2nd series      concentration of trace elements in
r (ppm)   (wet season)  (dry season)              agricultural water
_ _ _ _ _        ~~~~~A               B
Cd         0.003         0.003             0.01                 0.05
Cr         0.017          0.01              0.1                   I
Cu         0.004         0.005              0.2                   5
Fe         0.484         0.116               5                   20
Ni         0.026         0.035               2                   2
Pb         0.017         0.016               5                   10
Zn         0.009         0.020               2                   10
Hg          0.00          0.00
Ref. General Department of Environment Province of Fars (1999)
A= Long term use for every soil.
B= Waters used for a maximum of 20 years in fine grain soils with a pH value of 6.5 to 8.5
The figures in this table are lower than the limits required by FAO standards for
irrigation. Nonetheless, the presence of heavy metals causes concern since it
accumulates in soil, plant, and water bodies as can be seen from the test results of
Maharloo Lake (Table 4-3).
The results of the chemical and biological analysis of Khoshk River obtained from two series
of tests (March 1999 and April 1999) sampled at its estuary are shown in Table 4-6, along
with the corresponding concentration limits required by Iranian standards for river water
quality.
4-11



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project               Environmental Assessment Report
Table 4-6: Water Quality Measurements at Khoshk River and Comparison with Relevant
Standards.
Standards related to
Average        Average       FAO guidelines    the conservation of
Parameter      concentratio   concentration,   on irrigation     the aquaticnlif
n, March 99      April 99          water               rivers
pH                   7.45            7.54           6.5 - 8.4            6.5-8.5
DO mg/l                -          4.36 (48)*           -            2 mg/l or higher
BOD mg/l              6.8             38               -             10 mg/l or less
COD mg/l              34             173               -
Total                                                                 5000 or less
coliforms           43000           46000              -
MPN/l OOML
Fecal
coliforms            15000          24000              -
MPN/1 OOML
no restriction <5
N03- mg/l             17              30            slight to
moderate
restriction 5-30
Ref. General Department of Environment, Province of Fars (1999)
* Figures in bracket show the ratio of saturation in relation to limit of saturation under normal conditions (9 mg/l)
It is clear from above table, that the BOD, Total Coliform levels exceed the limits set
by the Standards. The river water quality also indicates that nitrate levels fall in the
slight to moderate restricted irrigation use per FAO Standards.
The quality of Khoshk River water corresponds to class C3SI in Wilcox Diagram,
which means that it is suitable for irrigation with regard to SAR and salinity
requirements. Figure 4-3 plots the results of tests carried out on Khoshk River
samples (April 1999 and March 1999).
4-12



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project            Environmental Assessment Report
Specific conductance, in uSlcm at 275C
1OO     2   3 4 5 6 7 1    1000  2   3 4 50O0
30m                 m   fl    7              30
28
24 
22
\   \2100   2507602250                        20
0   C CC217C
:518
Ca  I0                                       I 
10
Low Jwr     Medium       Highl _  Very high
Salinity h,urd
Figure 4-3: Wilcox Diagram of Khoshk River
3. Sources of pollution in Khoshk River
Domestic Discharges
Around 148,000 m3 of domestic wastewater is generated daily in Shiraz, which is
discharged untreated, either in absorption wells or in the Khoshk and Soltanabad
rivers.
Industrial Discharges
Industries that discharge raw wastewater in the river include 6 poultry
slaughterhouses, 4 flour mills, 2 soft drink factories, 5 starch factories, 2 processed
meat units, 10 plating units (the most important of which are the electronic industries,
the remote commnunications industries, and Siemens communications), 5 pickles and
tomato paste factories, the glass wool factory, the Narges Shiraz Vegetable Oil, Dena
4-13



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project        Environmental Assessment Report
Tires (sanitary wastewater), Golsar Hygienic Products (sanitary wastewater), the Iran
Fila Factory, the Alcohol Distilleries, the Rishmak factory and a number of traditional
dye factories. The plating industries have been a major contributor of heavy metal
discharges to the river, causing water quality degradation and soil contamination.
Considerable quantities of chrome, nickel and zinc were being discharged to surface
and ground water bodies. (Figure 4-1 lf[Annex C]).
The main pollutants in the Khoshk River and the volume of inflowing wastewater
were estimated by DOE and are shown in Table 4-7.
Table 4-7: Pollution Sources and Estimated Discharge Volumes in Khoshk River
Type of sources and                   Wastewater volume
wastewater volume         Number          (m3/day)
1- Industrial units
- Food industries                   16             2835
- Electrical industries             8              1600
- Chemical industries               3              240
2- Medical and health units         5              995
3- Services                         16             1800
4- Residential & educational       23              1800
complexes                           17             2900
5- Areas dominating the river       -              8400
6- urban runoffs                                   1500
7- Miscellaneous (transported by                   300
tankers)                                                        ll
Total                                              19535
Ref. General Department of Environrnent Province of Fars
In the past, around 19,000 m3 of wastewater were discharged daily into the river along
its course. At the present a portion of this wastewater is collected by the network and
discharged untreated in the canal in Vazirabad region (the current site of Emergency
Wastewater Treatment Plant) and conveyed towards Maharloo Lake, causing severe
water and soil pollution.
Soltanabad River
Soltanabad is a seasonal river, which originates from the Derak Heights (west of
Shiraz) at an altitude of 2700 m above sea level. After passing through the western
limits of Shiraz Plain, and after receiving the waters of the springs in the Sabzpooshan
Mountains, it joins the Shiraz Airport drainage canal and discharges in Maharloo
Lake. It has an annual flow rate of 35.77 Mm3, of which 22 Mm3 is from base flow
and around 13.8 Mm3 is from the surface runoff.
The river flows from west to the east and passes through the city's southern limits. It
becomes completely polluted when it borders the city conveying only wastewater and
4-14



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project            Environmental Assessment Report
farm drainage water during the dry seasons. The chemical analysis of samples
collected from Soltanabad River taken at Fassa Bridge on two occasions (March
1999 and April 1999) along with the corresponding concentration limits required by
Iranian standards for river water quality are shown in Table 4-8.
Table 4-8: Water Quality Measurements at Soltanabad River and Comparison with Relevant
Standards.
FAO        Standards related
Average          Average       guidelines         to the
Parameter     concentration,   concentration,  on irrigation  conservation of
March 99          April 99        water       Aquatic Life for
water       ~~rivers
PH              7.48             7.36          6.5-8.4         6.5-8.5
DO mg/l            -            5.52 (61)*                   2 mg/lor higher
BOD mg/I           7.4              6.8             -          10 mg/l or less
COD mg/l           75.5             114        _
Total coliforMs     11000            24000                        5000 or less
MPN/l OOML     ______
Fecal
coliforms         2400             9300                                       l
MPN/ 1 OOML
no restriction
<5
N03- mg/l           7              29.8          slight to
moderate
restriction 5-
30
Ref. General Department of Environment, Province of Fars (1999)
* Figures in bracket show the ratio of saturation in relation to limit of saturation under normal conditions (9 mg/I)
It is clear from above table, that Coliform levels exceed the limits set by the
Standards. The river water quality also indicates that nitrate levels fall in the slight to
moderate restricted irrigation use per FAO Standards. Table 4-9 shows the level of
some heavy metals in the Soltanabad River and the corresponding limits required by
FAO standards for irrigation water.
4-15



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project        Environmental Assessment Report
Table 4-9: Heavv Metals Levels in Soltanabad River
2nd series      FAO guidelines on permitted
Parameter    1" series                 concentration of trace elements in
(wet season)  season)             agricultural water
_ _ _e__ _o_ _ _)A                   B
Cd         0.002       0.003           0.01               0.05
Cr         0.018       0.002           0.1
Cu         0.002       0.004           0.2                 5
Fe         0.464       0.236            5                 20
Ni         0.028       0.019            2                  2
Pb         0.015       0.012            5                  10
Zn         0.010       0.019            2                  10
Hg         0.00         0.00    _
Ref. General Department of Environment, Province of Fars (1999)
A= Long term use for every soil.
B= Waters used for a maximum of 20 years in fine grain soils with pH value of 6.5 to 8.5
The above figures are lower than the limits required by FAO standards but due to the
accumulative characteristics of the heavy metals, the use of the river water for
irrigation will certainly cause high build up of heavy metal in plants and soils. In
1999, DOE conducted a research to study the effects of heavy metal contamination of
water on the Shiraz Plain. The concentrations of cadmium, copper, iron, nickel,
manganese, cobalt, lead, chromium, molybdenum and vanadium in the plants growing
around the Soltanabad River, were measured. The test results indicate that the
concentration of manganese in canes was equivalent to 649.18 mg/kg of dried plant,
which is above the critical limits of (300-500 mg/kg).
According to the Wilcox Diagram for irrigation, the river's water quality at Fassa
Bridge in wet season corresponds to class C4S3, which is unsuitable in terms of SAR
and Salinity levels. In the dry season, due to a very high EC value, the water quality is
beyond the chart's limits and the water cannot be used in agriculture at all. Figure 4-4
(Wiclox Diagram) below, shows a plot of the result for the sample tested in March
1999 at Fassa Bridge. This point is at the downstream end of the river, and as the plot
indicates, Soltanabad water cannot be used in irrigation. However, for the same period
of time the water in the upstream part of the river has very good quality, and can be
used in unrestricted irrigation.
4-16



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project           Environmental Assessment Report
Specific Sonduc-ance, in aSten- at 25'C
10 XX   2    3  45 6 7    1oo     2    3 .4 5000
FiA m_m_
3                              FF    T130
SaL
26
20~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~~~~~~~2
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
LX             Mcd L ~ _  .   h    |V.ry high   -
Figure 4-4: Wilcox Diagram of Soltanabad River
The Kor River
The Kor River is geographically located outside the project area, but it is described
here since it is a main source of water supply for the project area.
1. Hydrology
Kor River is formned by its two tributaries; one is located in the east and the other one
in the North and North West of Doroudzan Dam. The river discharges into Bakhtegan
and Tashk Lakes. The River supplies 15 to 20 percent of potable water of Shiraz by
the reservoir created at Doroudzan Dam. The dam was built in 1972 on this river at a
distance of 100 km from the city.
According to the latest data obtained from Fars Regional Water Board, 72,000 m3 of
water is transferred daily from this dam to Shiraz (total of 26.2 Mm3 per year)
The physical, chemical and biological quality of the water at Doroudzan Dam is
suitable for potable water supply (see Table 2-2 in Chapter 2) and all its parameters
4-17



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
conform to WHO standards during most of the year. It is only during the dry seasons
that algae grow in the dam's reservoir increasing the colloids concentration.
Runof
There are no precise studies on the hydrological characteristics of surface runoff in
Shiraz Plain. The average rainfall in this Plain is about 378.5 mm per year, and the
rate of evaporation and transpiration is estimated to be 53 percent. Therefore,
throughout the year around 47 percent either infiltrates the ground or flows as runoff.
Studies in the Shiraz indicate that hard surfaces (buildings, pavement, etc.) amount to
15 thousand hectares of surface area. The roads and the rural building areas, estimated
at 60 percent of the region's area, are either asphalted or covered by cobblestone of
negligible permeability (about 3 percent). For the remaining 40 percent area, a
permeability rate of 20 to 30 percent has been estimated.
The average coefficient of permeability of the basin in general is assumed to be 10
percent. Therefore the amount of rainfall (average 378.5 mnm/yr) that infiltrates the
ground is estimated to be around 10.6 million m3 per year.
4.2.6.2 Ground Water Resources
Ground water resources in Shiraz include karstic and alluvial aquifer resources.
General water flow direction in the plain is from North West to South East. The Plain
is replenished by calcareous formations to its north and northwest and is drained at the
extreme east at Maharloo Lake. The maximum of the ground water level is 40 m in
the northwest of Shiraz and minimum water table depth is 0.5 m in the southeastern
areas of the plain. Water table fluctuates with the amount of rainfall, and has an
upward trend that is quite apparent in the south and southeastern regions of Shiraz.
(Based on data collected from 1971 to 2001).
There are two groundwater aquifer types in Shiraz Plain, both of which are alluvial:
Unconfined Aquifer: Shiraz Plain is underlain by an unconfined layer, the depth of
which varies between 2 to 50 m.
Confined Aquifer: There are some Artesian wells near Shiraz Airport. The thickness
of these artesian aquifers and their hydrodynamic characteristics are not known. The
pressure of the aquifer is limited such that during summer the flow is very small. In
the raining season the flow from the artesian wells is between 2 to 10 lit/s. Water
quality in the artesian aquifers is good and can be used as a drinking water source.
Groundwater resources in the study area of the Shiraz Plain include wells, springs and
Qantas.
4-18



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project        Environmental Assessment Report
Wells (deep and semi-deep): There were totally 1062 wells in the region in the year
2001, with an estimated annual discharge rate of 128 million m3. The number of wells
and the volume of water drawn from these wells have decreased during 1999 to 2002.
This was caused by urbanization, destruction of agricultural fields and consequently
elimination of wells. A number of alluvial wells in Shiraz, which were used as potable
water supply, are no more used, due to microbial and chemical contamination.
Springs: There are around 20 large and small springs in the region, most of which
discharge the water stored in the marginal hard formations. The Karstic formations
provide the maximum water supply, some of which provide in excess of 100 lit/s,
which is not suitable for drinking purposes.
Qanats: The traditional method of supplying potable and agricultural water in
Shiraz was through qanats. Nowadays with the progress of drilling technology,
deep wells are more commonly used. Water drawn from qanats during the
irrigation season is mostly used for agriculture, or discharged in the Khoshk River
and Maharloo Lake during winter. According to the data collected in the year
2002, a total of 52 qanats existed in the Shiraz Catchment Basin, of which 42 are
operational and 10 are not operational. The Alimoradkhani Qanat and Ghasre
Ghomsheh (north west of Shiraz) provide the highest water supply volume at 200
lit/sec. The number of ground resources and their production capacities in the
years 1994 and 2001 is summarized in Table 4-10.
Table 4-10: Number and Capacities of Ground Water Resources (well, qanats, springs)
=                ~~~~~No.  icag
o. Discharge   N   .   Discharge         Discharge
of              N.o                         icag
of    rate of      .    rate of          rate of   No. of  Discharge
deep  dep welsemi     -dep    qanat               .       rate of
dee  dep els  depsemi   dep           qanats   springsspig 1s
wells    (I/s)   weelp  wells(l/s)          (u/s)          spring os
199  426      168     629      52       45      103       19        56
200   435     101      627      27       42       42       20        52
I  I_       _ _ _ __ _ _ _
Ref. Parab Fars Consulting Engineers (2002)
The total volume of water discharged to alluvial aquifers in Shiraz Plain is 162.2 Mm3
per year and the total discharge from these aquifers is 143.5 Mm3 per year. The 18.7
Mm3 surplus is elaborated in Table 4-11.
4-19



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project           Environmental Assessment Report
Table 4-11: Water Balance of Groundwater Resources in the Project Area
Feeding resources (million cubic meters per year)
Infiltration
Groundwate     Rain     Losses in  Infiltration  from       Infiltration
Grinflouwat  iflRation  water      from       industrial  from surface  Total
r inflow   infiltration  network  irrigation  and urban     runoff
_ _ _   _ _ _   _ __   I  _ _ _   waters
17.02        10.6       2 1       26.3         84           3.3       162.2
Discharge agents (million cubic meters per year)
Alluvial resources
Drains    Evaporation from aquifer  Outflow     Total
Drainsl
128.8             10.4             0.13               4.16       143.5
Difference between feeding and discharge                 18.7
About 14.7 and 7.31 Mm3 of floodwater per year, reach Khoshk and Soltanabad
Rivers respectively. Moreover, around 3.3 Mm3 of water infiltrate to the groundwater
resources. The highest infiltration rate of 84 Mm3 per year is from industrial and
urban effluents.
Currently Ground water resources constitute the main supply source for domestic
demand, industrial, agricultural, and landscaping demand, and only 15 to 20 % of
domestic water demand is supplied from surface sources (Doroudzan Dam). The
amount of water drawn from ground and surface resources in the project area is
shown in Table 4-12.
Table 4-12: Water Demands of Different Sectors and the Sources of Supply
Groundwater           Surface
Consumer sector                                 water       Total
Well   Spring   Qanat       Damoroudz
Potable           92                         18.7       110.7
Industrial        16.1     -        -          -          16.1
Agriculture and green  66.2     26     24.5                   611.7
Ref Parab Fars Consulting Eng. 2002. Figures in million m3.
As far as quality is concemed the groundwater resources are divided into three
groups:
*  60 % of wells are classified as of the Sulfate type
*  25 % of wells are classified as of the Chloride type
*   15 % of wells are classified as of the Bicarbonate type
4-20



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project          Environmental Assessment Report
In 1996, the DOE commissioned a testing program for 50 selected wells to test for
Coliforms and heavy metal concentrations. These results show that all wells tested
had water suitable for irrigation except for one well which had high level of copper.
However for drinking water use, the concentration of TC and FC as well as some
heavy metals exceeded the limits required by the standards for a number of wells.
Table 4-13 shows the results of analysis of pollutants of wells in Shiraz Plain.
Table 4-13: H avy Metals and Coliform Measurements in 50 selected Wells
Range of      DOE         No of wells      WHO         No of wells
P m RMeasume o standards   exceeding     standards     exceeding
nts      for reuse in   irrigation        for      drinking water
nts      agriculture    standards      drinking      standards
Total
coliforms      11010ND3
MPN/IOOM      0- 100        1000                         N.D            3
L
Fecal
coliforms     0-467        400             -            N.D            3
L
Ba ppm     0.042-1.265      1             -             0.7            2
Ag ppm      0-0.027        0.1             -            U
Cd ppm      0-0.0167      0.05             -           0.003           5
Co ppm      0-0.025       0.05            2              -
Cr ppm      0-0.079         1             -            0.05            2
Cu ppm      0-0.422        0.2             -             1             3
Fe ppm     0.011-2.577     3              -             0.3            6
Mn ppm       0-0.547        1                           0.1            1
Ni ppm       0-0.99        2                           0.02           11
N.D.: Not detected in lOOml sample.
U: It is unnecessary to adopt a health based guideline value for these compounds because they are not
hazardous to human health at concentrations normally found in drinking water.
Ref. Department of Environment (1996)
In summary, well water currently supplies more than 75 % of the total water demand.
The quality of the well water in general can be described as hard. Alluvial wells, with
depths less than 120 m have high hardness content. Magnesium, sulfates, fluorides,
and nitrate content, have exceeded the required limits for a number of wells, which
confirms the contamination of these wells by uncontrolled discharge of sewage.
Furthermore, tests on some of these wells have shown the presence of fecal Coliforms
and heavy metals, thus rendering those wells unsuitable for drinking. As a result of
these conditions, 21 out of 37 wells have been decommissioned. The Karstic wells,
although have high hardness with some wells not complying with the standards for
4-21



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
magnesium, sulfates, fluorides, and nitrate, are less prone to contamination due to
their depths, and thus can offer a more reliable water supply source than the alluvial
wells.
4.3 Biological Environments
In this section the terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems, the fauna, flora and the protected
species and the sensitive habitats in the project area are studied.
4.3.1 Terrestrial Ecosystems
Shiraz Plain and the surrounding mountains including Sabzpoushan Mountains and
Bamoo Mountains form a valuable and diverse habitat, which can be categorized as
brumal-submontane. Shiraz City is located in the submontane-compestral habitat and
due to high rate of evaporation and soil salinity; the area around Maharloo Lake is
categorized as anhydrous habitat.
The Bamoo National Park covering an area of 48,075 hectares is located just north of
Shiraz.
4.3.1.1 Flora
The vegetation in the project area is divided into three groups:
Wild vegetation: This type of vegetation is found mainly around the city. The
complete list is provided in Annex CIV.
Planted vegetation: This type of vegetation is found mostly in gardens of the city,
parks, urban green spaces and the green belt around the city, as well as along the large
streets. The most important gardens in Shiraz are the Gasrol Dasht Garden covering
an area of 1000 hectares and the Chamran Garden, which has an area of 200 hectares.
The prominent species in Shiraz gardens are Plane tree, Maple, Poplar, pomegranate,
date palm, apple, peach, sour cherry and cherry trees. There are 400 hectares of urban
parks and green belts around Shiraz and 650 hectares of urban green spaces and
boulevards. The prominent species in these areas are Plane tree, Maple, Angelica, Elm
and sour-orange trees.
Agricultural products, are Wheat, Barely, Alfalfa, Beet root, Cotton, Maize and
Fallow.
None of the plants (except for the species in the Bamoo National Park as listed in
annex C) in the project area are listed in the Red Data Book of Iran as protected
species.
4-22



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
4.3.1.2 Fauna
As a result of urban development and destruction of wildlife habitat, animals have
taken refuge in the surrounding mountains and only a few species such as the golden
jackal, cape hare, wild boar, etc can be seen around the city.
None of the animals (except for species in the Bamoo National Park as listed in annex
C) in the project area are classified as protected by IUCN-2002 (Intemational United
Conservation of Nature). It should however be mentioned that the eagle owl (Bufo
bufo), the black bellied sand grouse (Pterocles orientatlis), the golden eagle (Aquila
chrysaetos) and the tawny eagle (Oenandhe isabellina) are among species protected
by the Department of Environment of Iran. There are also no species of commercial
value in the project area. Furthermore, these species pass through the project area
during their migration and are not native of the project area.
4.3.2 Aquatic Ecosystems
* Maharloo Lake
Maharloo Lake is located in a region, covering an area of 20,000 hectares, possessing
various springs and extensive grasslands, which are created by the submerged estuary
of Khoshk and Soltanabad Rivers. They support various native and migrating birds.
The lake and its banks are unique sites in the whole area.
At present a major part of the urban and industrial wastewaters are conveyed by the Khoshk
and Soltanabad rivers to be discharged into the Lake.
The high salinity of Maharloo Lake has prevented the development of aquatic habitat
and no rare or endangered species live in the area; however, the Lake has a large
population of Artemia (zooplankton), which has attracted many kinds of waterfowls
and migrating birds.
The lake is not only important as an ecosystem, but also offers many economical
opportunities, since around 15,000 tons of industrial salts are extracted from its waters
annually. During spring time, nature lovers from the area visit the lake for recreational
purposes.
The lake has a high saline environment, which affect the flora and fauna. A swamp
has been formed at the point where freshwater flows into the lake, facilitating the
growth of canebrake and various other plants as well as birds. However, no plants can
grow in the eastem regions of the lake, which is devoid of any freshwater flow, and
where the rate of evaporation is high resulting in high salinity. Consequently the
number of bird habitats is also reduced to a great degree. Therefore the lake is mainly
oligotroph (with little nutrient) and the dominant plants around the lake are
halophytes.
4-23



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
Flora in Maharloo Lake
Halophyte species such as Salsola sp., Salicomia europaea, Typha Sp., Phramites
australis, Tamanrx Sp., and Carex Sp have been identified in the saline banks of the
Maharloo Lake. Other species identified in the saline grounds next to the lake are
Spergolaria marina, Polypogon monspeliensis, Saeda Sp, Cressa cretica, Frankenia
persica, Frankenia pulverulenta, and Awloropus littoralis.
Fauna in Maharloo Lake
Most of the birds living in the Lake belong to the Gruidae, Ralidae and Aratidae
families. Other breeding birds belong to the Charadriidae, Sylviidae, Scolopacidae
and Anatidae families. Large populations of migrant birds arrive at Maharloo Lake
during autumn and winter. The Large area of the lake and its extensive vegetation
attract many waterfowls and wading birds. There are more than 126 species of birds
including native and migrant species living in the lake. According to the latest DOE
statistics there were 30,060 birds in total living in and around the lake. The results of
this bird count are presented in [Annex CV]. According to IJCN-2002 classification,
the Aquila heliaca and the Falco naumanni are considered among the vulnerable and
protected species.
* Other Aquatic Ecosystems
Other aquatic ecosystems consist of seasonal rivers including Khoshk and Soltanabad
rivers, as well as the Borom Shoor, Bolbolak, and Nilgoonak springs, which feed the
Maharloo Lake. The seasonal rivers of Khoshk and Soltanabad are devoid of
biological life. However the majority of the Maharloo Lake's vegetation is found in
the northwestern areas where the Khoshk River and Bolbolak and Nilgoonak Springs
meet the Lake. Canebrakes can also be found in the Barm Shoor Spring area, which is
the breeding ground for other types of birds.
4.3.3 Sensitive Habitats
DOE references identify two sensitive habitats in Shiraz Plain, which are:
Maharloo Lake, which is directly affected by the project. Due to its many habitats and
ecological value, it is protected by DOE and no hunting is allowed in this region.
Moreover since the Lake's characteristics conform to international definitions of a
marshland, the Lake is also referred to as a marshland.
Bamoo National Park is also a sensitive habitat in the region, and can be visited
during certain parts of the year so as not cause year round disturbance to the natural
ecological conditions.
4-24



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project         Environmental Assessment Report
4.4 Socio-Economic Environment
4.4.1  Population Characteristics
4.4.1.1 Shiraz city
*  Present population:
During the past four decades (1957-1997) the population of Shiraz has increased
tenfold, however the average annual rate of increase has declined. The average annual
increase rate is now comparable to the national average as shown in Table 4-14
below.
Table 4-14: Population and Growth Rate of Shiraz (1957-1997)
Year      Population   Average annual growth
rate
1  1957    170659              4.69
[  1967    269865              4.67
1977       425813              7.14
1987       848289              2.61
1997       1073523
Ref: Feasibility Study 2003
* Population Projections:
The population is projected to increase by around 870,000 between 1997 until the end
of the project (year 2027), which amounts to 81% increase over 30 years. The annual
average growth rate is anticipated to decrease significantly to below 1.5 percent in 25
years time. The population pyramid will be an aging one although the largest age
work group will be those in their 30s. The increase in population however, places
further pressure on infrastructure needs.
Table 4-15: Population Projection Throughout the Project Life (1997-2 27)
Year     Growth rate    Population    Average age
l __________  (percent)
1997        2.43         1073523         20.37
2002        2.31         1212214          24.8
2007        2.15         1360895          25.3
2012         1.92        1515410          27.7
2017         1.65        1668362          30.1
2022         1.42        1811526          32.2
2027                     1944858          34.2
Ref: feasibility Study 2003
* Population density:
4-25



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project        Environmental Assessment Report
Distribution of population  density varies between 4 people/hectare to 421
people/hectare. Based on the Feasibility Study and Shiraz Master Plan, the population
density distribution of Shiraz for the years 1997 and 2027 is according to Table 4-16.
Table 4-16: Population Density Distribution in Shiraz
Number of   Population   Population    Area          Average
residents  (person)      (%           (ha)           (person per
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   h a )
Actual Density Distribution in Yeark.1997?.  . ~.
<25         95737          9.1          6558           15
25-75       316708         30.1         6751            47
75-150      346616         32.9          3314           105
150-300      245623         23.3         1216           202
>300        48341          4.6           144           335
total      1053025         100         17984     L     59
Projected Density Distribution in Year 2027   . 
<25         66245          3.4          3903           17
25-75       350574          18          7080            50
75-150      620405         31.9    J     5887           105
150-300      778050         40           3795           205
>300        129587         6.7           356           364
total      1944858         100         21021           93
Ref: feasibility study 2003
Figures 4-5 and 4-6 (Annex C) show the population density distribution in the City of
Shiraz in 1997 and 2027.
The population density maps of Shiraz show that in 1997, the very high-density points
were in the center of the city and very low-density points were at the east and west.
However, the trend of density increase in Shiraz shows that the high-density increase
in population will be in the eastern part and medium density increase in the western
part.
* Immigration:
Immigration statistics and projections for years 1997 to 2027 show that immigration
will not have a significant impact on the average growth rate, as shown in Table 4-17.
The growth rate can be attributed mostly to natural growth rate.
4-26



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project        Environmental Assessment Report
Table 4-17: Immigration Projection (1997-2027) in Shiraz
year        Net immigration   Growth rate due to
during the Plan   immigration O   l
1997-2002        62416                  I
2002-2007          64191           _
2007-2012    ,[     66119              0.92
2012-2017          74713              0.94
2017-2022          84428              0.98
2022-2027          95403              1.01
Ref: feasibility study 2003
* Gender Distribution
According to 1997 statistics, the ratio of men to women is 106 to 100.
* Age pyramid of population
The population age pyramid of the year 1997 shows that Shiraz population is young
and that the ratio of 10-14 years age groups is higher than all the others as shown in
Figure 4-7. This "bulge" in the population age pyramid will continue to be the highest
age group as it moves through the time frame of this project such that by 2027 the 40-
44 age group will dominate the pyramid.
AMales        80+       F. emales
75-79
70-74   I
65-69
60-64
55-59
50-54
45-49
40-44
- -35-39
30ZS-34
L   25-29
20-241
.   15-19
10-14
5-9
0-4               2
9  6   3  0        0  3  6   9
(Numbers in 10000)
Figure 4-7: Age Pyraniid (1997)
* Literacy situation
According to the 1996 census, 89.7% of people over 6 years of age in Shiraz were
literate. This means that for every 100 persons, 90 are able to read and write.
4-27



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project              Environmental Assessment Report
Although about 10% of the population are still illiterate, this literacy rate is acceptable
for Iran.The number of students and number of classes is shown in Table 4-1 8.
Table 4-18: Educational Level in Shiraz 2003
Level                Number of Students          Number of classes
Kindergarten                   8196                        310
Elementary                    110775                      3728
Junior High school               69029                       2065
High school                   69954                       2317
Total                      257954                      8420
Ref. The statistic summary of Education Department (2003-2004)
4.4.1.2 Population Characteristics in the Villages Around the Treatment Plant
Some of the smaller villages are located in the vicinity of Shiraz treatment plant and
will eventually receive water supply and wastewater collection services. The key
physical and social conditions of these villages are shown in Table 4-19. These
villages are: Aliabad, Gachi, Torkan, Dast-e Khezr, Ghale-Nov,Kooshkak.
Table 4-19: Population Data of Villages around the Treatment Plant
No.of                                       Services
Sanitation/health            No.of                Working
Village                  residential         Population                  and       Utilities
facilities             families               population   facilities
Islamic
Female  Male            Elect. Water
I_Council
Ali Abad  Veterinary          168       253       972       23     253     +       +       +
Gachi     Bath, Health        292      369       1,865      15    431      +       +       +
centre
Torkan    -                   179       195       909       2      216     +       +       +
Dast-e-
Bath               426       454       2,458      15     584     +       +       +
Khezr
Ghale No  -                   76        96       393        3      97      +       +       +
Health centre,
Kooshkak  doctor, medical     89        115       526       0      118             +       +
assistant
Ref: General Census, 1996
It should be stated that none of the villages have a central gas utility system
4-28



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project        Environmental Assessment Report
4.4.2 Social- Cultural
A variety of ethnic groups live in Fars Province including Arians, Arabs, and Turks.
The Province has a long cultural history, reflected in its architecture and social
structure. Key factors in the social environment are discussed below.
* Religion:
Generally, religion is one of the most significant factors shaping the cultural and
social characteristics of people. Table 4-20 below, shows the distribution of religious
groups in Shiraz. Religious belief is an important part of the culture and is reflected in
the people's behavior. For instance, many Muslims, particularly the middle aged and
the elderly, consume large volumes of water for hygiene and ablutions according to
religious practice.
Table 4-20: Relative Distribution of Religious Groups in Shiraz
Religion       Shiraz city       Urban          Suburb
Muslim           99.06           98.89           99.7
Zoroastrian       0.065            0.04           0.025
Jewish           0.33            0.330
Christian         0.02            0.02
Others    J      0.43            0.25           0.18
Ref: 1997 Census
*  Language
The majority of people speak Farsi but there are some other dialects, given the ethnic
composition. Other languages such as Turkish, Lori, Arabic, Hebrew, Armenian and
Assyrian are also spoken.
4.4.3 Employment Situation
The distribution of employed people in different economic activities is an important
indicator of the economic conditions of any city. Table 4-21 gives a general picture of
employment in Shiraz City.
The ratio of people employed in Shiraz city is higher than other urban regions of the
province and Township (in all major economic groups but with some exceptions). In
1997 the lowest percentage of employment in Shiraz belonged to the mining category
and the highest to the social and individual service. Hotels, industry and construction
categories rank lower in decreasing order.
4-29



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project         Environmental Assessment Report
Table 4-21: Employment Level in Major Economic Activities (1997)
Shiraz              Number of People        Percentage
Employed
Farning, Forest, hunting,        5000                   2
fishing 
Mine exploration              2433                  1
Industr                   32870                 13.1
Electricity, gas, water         4972                  2
Construction                31714                12.7
Restaurant and hotel           50697        l       20.2
Communication, transportation,     27058                 10.8
warehouses
Financial services and insurance    3851                  1.5
Social and individual services    87111                 34.8
Unidentified and unclear         4932                  2
Total                   250638                 100
Ref: 1997 Census
Table 4-22 shows the distribution of employed people with ten or more years of
experience in major groups of economic activity over the past three decade of 1997,
1987 and 1997.     According to this table, Shiraz is maintaining a service sector
economy. In 1997 more than 69.2% of people were working in the service sector for
more than ten years compared to the national average of 46.3%.
Table 4-22: Distribution of Employment in Different Economic Sectors in Shiraz
Year                     Economic Sectors
Aericulture    Industry         Service
1977          2.6           28.7            68.7
1987          2.3           25.1            72.6
11   1997           2            28.8            69.2       l
Ref: Iran comprehensive census 1976-1986-1996
The employment state of Shiraz in year 1997 is shown in Table 4-23 according to
gender for the age group ten years or older. The table shows that within this age
group, 30.2 % are employed, 3.2% are unemployed, 30.2% are students, and 27.7%
are housewives. The rest has an income without a job or can be categorized in other
groups.
4-30



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project         Environmental Assessment Report
Table 4-23: Employment State in Shiraz year 1997
Female                 Male            Male and female    Employment
Percent    Number     Percent   Number     Percent    Number       State
100.0     403164    i 100.0     427448     100.0     830612      Total
8.1   |   32610      57.3      244626      33.4     277236      Active
N. -________  I_________  .________         _ ________  population
7.0   i   28097      52.1      222541      30.2     250638    Employed
1.1       4513       5.2       22085       3.2      26598    Unemploed
Inactive
91.0      366689      41.3     176788      65.4      543477    population
30.6      123578      29.8      127279  j  30.2      250857     Student
56.6      228132      0.5       2281       27.7     230413     Housewife
1.4       5488        5.9      25230       3.7      30718     wIthoutmob
2.4       9491        5.1      21998       3.8       31489      Others
0.9       3865        1.4       6034        1.2      9899     undeclared
Ref. Feasibility Study 2003
4.4.4 Health
Environmental health is closely related to water quality, hygiene and sanitation as
well as the state of the water and wastewater infrastructure in urban areas. As part of
the over-all programme for the water supply and wastewater treatment projects in six
cities of Iran, including Shiraz, investigations into water related health issues were
undertaken by the World Bank in 2002. The objectives of the Word Bank's
environmental health study were twofold:
*  To take stock of available statistics and existing literature on water related
diseases in the Islamic Republic of Iran, and;
*  To establish a baseline with regard to direct and indirect water-related diseases
that would help monitor progress and measure the outcome during and after the
implementation of the water supply and sanitation project.
These objectives were realized using a combination of desktop research and
interviews with relevant government officials.
The study focused on the cluster of diseases traditionally associated with water-borne
infections  such  as  Diarrhoea,  Dysentery,  Cholera,  Intestinal  helianthus,
Gastroenteritis, Infectious hepatitis A and B, and eye and skin infections. Also
Malaria, Filariasis, and other vectors, prevalent in certain cities, were also
investigated as they can also cause water-born diseases. Moreover, reproductive
disorders, cancers, nervous system damage and liver damage could be caused by the
presence of high levels of nitrates, nitrites, pesticides, chlorinated solvents and heavy
metals such as lead in drinking water.
4-31



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project          Environmental Assessment Report
Water borne diseases in Shiraz:
A water distribution and treatment network was built in Shiraz 50 years ago,
supplying the inhabitants with safe potable water. However, due to a high
groundwater table and numerous pipe breakages in the aged network, the risk of
water contamination constitutes a serious problem. According to health official
statements, most of the infectious diseases are treated without need for hospitalisation.
Table 4-24 shows the numbers and types of water bome diseases recorded in Shiraz in
2001.
Table 4-24: Water Borne Diseases 2001
Item                      Unit                     Shiraz
Diarrhea                  Number                      NA
Amoebiasis                 Number                       165
Shigellosis                Number                      451
Fascioliasis               Number                      NA
Typhoid                   Number                       28
Cholera                   Number                       0
Eye infection (conjunctivitis)     Number                                    l
Hepatit A                  Number                      672
Other type of Diarrha           Number                     1500
Ref: World Bank Study, 2003
Table 4-25 shows the average cost of diarrhoeal and in Dysentery treatment in Shiraz.
Table 4-25: Average Cost of Diarrhoeal and in Dysentery Treatment in Shiraz
Cit= Intervention                   Rials
Private out-patient                 40000
Public out-patient                 30000
Public In-patient                 350000
Pharmacy                        10000
Ref. World Bank report 2003
Apart from the issues addressed by the 2002 World Bank Study, there is also concern
with the impact associated with the contamination of the key food products such as
bread. Recent investigations show that high levels of lead were found in bread,
however the source of the contamination could not be identified, although three
possibilities were determined and considered: water, salt (from Maharloo Lake) and
flour.
*  Medical Facilities
Shiraz has 23 hospitals, 7 clinics, 3 polyclinics, 4 health centres, 4 medical centres
and laboratories, 16 physical therapy clinics, 34 radiology centres and 88 independent
drugstores.
4-32



Shiraz Water Supphl and Sanitation Project         Environmental Assessment Report
The number of hospitals and health centres and the related number of beds in Fars
province and Shiraz Township are presented in Table 4-26.
Table 4-26: Number of Hospitals and Beds in Shiraz in 2000
Patients/hospital or
Description                bed           Shiraz Township
l___   Township
Population __1,214,511
No.          63,921               19
Hospitals      Beds           438                2,773
Matemity wards     No.         607,255               2
Beds          5,190               234
ENT Hospitals     No.         303,628                4
Beds          7,361               165
Pediatric Hospitals  No.        607,255               2
Beds          8,865               137
Psychological     No.         404,837               3
asylums        Beds          1,813               670
Others         No.        1,214,511              1
Beds         23,356                52
Total         No           39,178               31
Beds           301               4,031
Ref. Statistical Book of Fars province in 2000, Management and Planning Organization Iran,
Fars Province
4.4.5 Land Use
The study of land use in the project area addressed two different zones:
1-Urban Land (In this project comprises Shiraz)
2-Farming Land (In this project comprises the lands around the long-term and
emergency wastewater treatment plants)
The land use conditions of the City of Shiraz were considered in the Feasibility Study.
These studies focused on the possibilities of future urban expansions, and on
analyzing the existing land uses such as business, industries, military, green spaces,
roads and housing.
The land use around the long-term, and emergency treatment plants was studied, and
the farming situation was investigated.
4-33



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project          Environmental Assessment Report
4.4.5.1 Land Use of Shiraz
* City boundaries:
North: The Babakoohi Mountain is located in the north of Shiraz Plain. There has
been no urban development in this direction. The agricultural lands around Kaftarak
road can possibly be used in the short-term for service and residential needs.
East: The existence of Maharloo Lake in the east is a limiting factor for development.
Also, the high water table in some areas can hinder the development in this region.
West: Qasroddasht Gardens, Qalat and Derak mountains are located in this part.
Shiraz municipality, has restricted the development in this area to protect the
environment.
South: In this area, the plain stretches from southeast to southwest and continues to
reach the foot of mountains, beyond which the town of Bonab is located. The largest
areas for development are located in this region.
Different Land Uses in Shiraz.
* Commercial regions:
In Shiraz no special zones are designated for service or commercial uses. The
majority of these centers are dispersed throughout the city, especially in the old
quarters. New local commercial centers have been established to meet the demands of
surrounding communities.
* Industrial regions:
A number of industrial facilities are located within the project area of influence
including food, electronics, weaving, metal and wood industries. Among these
industries only five facilities are located within the project area and could be
connected to the wastewater network if their industrial discharges are pre-treated.
These industries include: two food industries, one electronic industry, one rubber industry and
one medical industry. The total volume of wastewater produced by these industrial facilities
is around 2,160 m3/day. Out of these five industrial facilities, the edible oil facility has a
pretreatment provision for its effluent comprising of grease trap and the tire manufacturing
facility has a neutralization system to treat its effluent prior to disposal to the sewage
collection system.
There are numerous small and light industries around the city boundaries. According
to the Master Plan of Shiraz city (1990), an industrial zone, covering an area of 240
4-34



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
hectares, has been allocated in the south and southwest of the city for the
establishment of factories and light industrial units.
* Military Regions:
According to the Shiraz Master Plan, the police and military barracks occupy an area
of around 320 hectares. There is a plan to relocate these facilities outside the city
limits.
* Green spaces:
According to statistical studies of 1993, Shiraz has 19 public parks covering an area
of 98 ha. The main parks in Shiraz are: The Khold-e Barin Park, the Fanfare and the
Azadi Park.
* Roads and pavements:
Due to the population density and the concentration of business and government
centers, the existing transportation network in the central area and the old section of
the city is not adequate and traffic here is very congested. Naturally the
implementation of any development plan in this area would be very difficult. The
roads and streets outside this area are in better condition with easier traffic flow.
There are 465 km of roads in Shiraz, of which 234 km are access roads, 83 km are
grade 2 streets, 125 km are grade 1 streets, and 24 km are highways.
4.4.5.2 Agricultural Activities
* The Emergency Treatment Plant:
The Emergency Plant is located near Torkan village southeast of Shiraz. The villages
of Kooshkak, Mah-e Firoozan, Eqbalabad, Morghan, Dast-e Khezr, Abounasr,
Torkan, Sharifabad and Kharchool are located adjacent to the outfall route from the
Emergency Treatment Plant to Maharloo Lake and along the downstream streches of
Khoshk River. The villages use the river water to irrigate their farms (Figure 4-
13[Annex C]). Table 4-27 show agricultural lands that are irrigated with the river
water. A typical farmland can be seen in exhibits 6 and 7 in Annex G. Shallow wells
are also used in farming, it is estimated that about 1 m3/sec of water is pumped from
shallow wells, for this purpose.
4-35



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project                Environmental Assessment Report
Table 4-27: Agricultural Data in Villages adjacent to the Emergency Plant in 1990 (hectares)
Name of       Total     Vegetables and  Vegetables  Potato      Wheat       Barley
Village     cultivated     other crops   and
V   area        irrigated by  summer
____________ _ ___11______  Khoshk River    crops
Kooshkak        134           10           12         12          30          80
Mah Firoozan      80           25            10         20          40          10
Eqbalabad       130           10           20          10         100
Morghan         65            10           20         20          25
Daste Khezr     215            40           100        100         15
Aboonasr        140           30           60         60          20
Torkan         110           30           30         30          50
Sharif Abad      70            5            10         1 0         40          10
Kharchool       166           10           20          40         100          6
Total        1110          170          282         302         420         106
Ref. Department of Environment, Fars Province 1997
From the total arable lands, about 282 hectares are irrigated with groundwater and 170
hectares by pumping water directly from the river. Consumptive use of major crops is
shown in Table 4-28. In this table the overall efficiency of irrigation is considered as
50% (Application efficiency x Conveyance efficiency = Overall efficiency).
Table 4-28: Consumptive Use of Major Crops in Shiraz Valley
Crop             Net consumptive use   Gross Water Requirement
P_________ -   mm        rn/ha     (Overall efficiency of 50%)
Wheat          700        7000             14000
Barley         650        6500             13000
Alfalfa   |    1300       13000            26000
Beets         1200       12000             24000
Cotton    T    800        8000             16000
Corn          850         8500             17000
* Long-term treatment plant:
The location of long-term plant is in Ghare-Bagh Plain. Land use around this plant
includes agriculture, industry, and animal husbandry. The Industrial zone of Shiraz
and the Special Electronic Zone are located in this area. The agricultural conditions of
the villages in this plain is shown in Table 4-29.
4-36



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project                    Environmental Assessment Report
Table 4-29: Farmng Condition in Gharebagh
Total     Irrigated    Dry
Village      Arable      farms     farnming   Water supply             Crops
. . land  ..
Eslamloo        680        650        30        Spring and       Rice, wheat, summer
I    drainage               crops
Joestan        1090       584        506     Raw wastewater     Wheat, barley, alfalfa,
and well              fruits,
Jamalabad       250         200        50                        Wheat, barley, alfalfa,
summer crops and grape
Hasanabad        58         58         -       Semi-deep well      Rice, wheat, barley,
summer crops
Doodman         145         45        100
Soltan Abad      470        300        170        Well and       Vegetables, barley (dry)
wastewater
Well and        Wheat, maize, barley,
Sanjanak        254        239        15         drainage        grape, summer crops,
drainae .vegetables
Shapoorjan       295        295         -        Deep well        Rice, wheat, maize,
._____________   __________               ________________   Barley, alfalfa, broad  been
Qarebagh Ali      836        441       395     Raw wastewater      Maize, barley (dry)
A bad      _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _              _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Kadooni         103        93         10         Well and       Wheat, summer crops,
aqueduct               maize
Kofn          128         120        8      Spring and well   Wheat, barley, summer
._____________   ___________   __________   _________         crops,  alfalfa
Kooshk bidak      481        476         5      Semi-deep and      Water planted wheat,
deep well     summer crops, vegetables
Wheat, tomato, maize,
Kianabad        410        410         -         Deep well          summer crops
Gachi         590         120       470                            Barley (dry)
Zafar abad       615        567        50           Well           Wheat, vegetables
Kooshke         550        350       200
k h alil   __ _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Wheat, rice, alfalfa, broad
Mahmoodabad       310         220        90          Well                  been
Total         7267       5168       2099
Main crops in this region include wheat, barley and maize, which are produced to
cater for the high market demands of the city. Twenty seven percent of the farmers
practice dry fanning since water is not enough for irrigation.
4.4.6 Infrastructure Services
Governmental departments offer services for fire fighting, civil defense, abattoirs,
cemeteries, mortuaries, waste collection and baths.
4-37



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
* Energy
1. Heating
The energy needed for heating in houses, industries etc. is generated using
electricity, gas and kerosene.
2. Electricity
Power plants in Shiraz, Pole Fassa, and the Do-Gonbadan Plants are connected to
the national grid and supply the electricity needs of Shiraz. In 1993 there were
222,590 connections in Shiraz, of which 184,707 were of the household types.
3. Gas
Currently a major section of Shiraz and its suburbs are covered by the natural gas
supply network, while works continue to expand and complete the gas pipelines.
The total number of connections in the year 2001 amounted to 157,291.
* Water Supply, Sewage collection and Treatment
The existing services for these infrastructure facilities were discussed at length in
Chapter 2.
* Fire Fighting and Civil Defense
There are 9 fire Fighting stations in the city. The Fire Brigade Headquarters is situated
in Golestan Boulevard. This organization has 27 fire engines and 300 firemen.
Under normal conditions all the engines pump their water from the urban water
network. However, in case of a fire, they use the closest fire hydrant, pool or stream in
the city to refill their tanks.
Most fire hydrants in the central parts of the city were installed simultaneously with
the early stages of constructing the water distribution network. There are 45 hydrants
connected to the existing water supply networks.
Fire stations do not own a special well and use the deep wells belonging to the Water
and Wastewater Company and the Municipality. In recent years an average of 4 to 6
fire cases were reported daily throughout the city.
* Abattoir
Shiraz city has an abattoir on the Airport Road, covering an area of 46,000 mi2. There
are also three private slaughterhouses. The main abattoir has adequate health facilities
and a wastewater treatment plant. However, factors such as high groundwater levels,
infiltration to the treatment units, and the improper use of these facilities have affected
4-38



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
the efficiency of the plant. The Abattoir's solid wastes are discharged in the sanitary
landfill of the city.
* Cemetery and the Mortuary
Shiraz city has a large cemetery (Darorrahme) with an area of 37 hectares. There are
also 14 other graveyards and 4 cemeteries for the religious minorities. The total area
of the land occupied by closed and operating cemeteries is about 54,000 mi2. The
water demands of mortuaries for ceremonial washing and the Martyrs' Plot is
supplied from the water distribution network. But the water needed for green space is
provided from wells. There is a shortage of water during summer seasons for
irrigation purposes.
* Collection of Municipal Solid Wastes
According to the information obtained from the Recycling Office of Shiraz
Municipality, 750 tons of solid waste are generated daily in Shiraz, which are
collected at two main waste collection centers and then transported to Barmshoor area
on Fasa road with appropriate vehicles.
Ten percent of the total waste is collected through a mechanized system, 78% through
a semi-mechanized and 12% through a traditional system. The new landfill in
Barmshoor area (Fasa road) covers an area of about 40 hectares at a distance of 50 km
from Shiaz and 15 km from the airport. The nearest population center and niver are at
a distance of 5 and 6 km respectively from the landfill. Operations at the landfill
comprise of waste spreading, compaction, and application of covering material. The
landfill is provided with a methane gas collection system; however no leachate
collection system is available.
* Public Baths and Toilets
According to the 1998 census about 95% of the total residential units are equipped
with bathrooms. However, Shiraz has 22 public baths, used traditionally for personal
hygiene.
Previously most of this public baths had their own wells for water supply, but they are
now connected to the urban water supply network.
The wastewater from these bathrooms is usually disposed through special vehicles
conveying the refuse to rivers or absorption wells.
4-39



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project         Environmental Assessment Report
4.4.7 Tourism
Shiraz is a national and international tourist centre. In addition to the fair climate of
the area, historical, cultural, religious points of interest, and unique natural scenery
attract many visitors to the city.
* Tourist Agencies
The yearly number of tour operators in Shiraz is shown in Table 4-30.
Table 4-30: Tour Agencies in Shiraz and Number of Tourists (1986 - 1999)
Description        Number of licensed          No. of tourists
Year           agencies with guides  Iranian   Foreign    Total
1986                   3             1850       5800      7650
1987                   3             1700       5600      7300
1988                   3             1650       6900      8550
1989                   3             1950       6400      8350
1990                   3             2050       7500      9550
1991                   3             1460       8900      10360
1992                   3             1930       9800      11720
1993                   3             3300      10300      11360
1994                   3             3450      10500     13950
1995                   3             3450      12500     15950
I         1999                   7             3038      15918     18956
Ref The Fars Province Master Plan on Tourism (2000)
According to The Fars Province Master Plan for Tourism, 7,650 tourists including
1,850 Iranian tourists and 5,800 foreigners visited Shiraz in 1987. In this year the
average number of tourists in any tour was about 36 persons.
In 1996 about 15,950 tourists visited the city. They are comprised of 3,450 Iranian
tourists (21.6%) and 12,500 foreign tourists (78.4%). In this year, the average number
of tourists in any tour decreased to 15 persons. At present a comprehensive plan for
promotion of tourism is being carried out in Shiraz.
* Accommodation
An important component of tourism is the standard of tourism accommodation
including guesthouses and hotels. These should have standard hygienic, safety and
comfort facilities. The extent of tourist accommodation and the existing guesthouses
in Shiraz are shown in Table 4-31, and Table 4-32 respectively.
4-40



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project          Environmental Assessment Report
Table 4-31: Number of Hotels and Guests in Shiraz (1987 - 1995 - 1999)
No. of hotels       No. of beds        No. of rooms        No. of guests
1987 N 1995 - 1999  1987  19     999   1987 1995   19991 1987    1995   1999-
13    16 1 18     1,537 1 1,945 12,247  715  884   998  7,325  22,070  3,700
Ref The Fars Province Master Plan on Tourism (2000)
Table 4-32: Number of Rooms and Guests in Shiraz Guesthouses
Description      No. of        No. of    No. of beds    Net change in
guest_ouses     rooms                       Facilities   ]
Year       1992    2000   1992  2000  1992 12000  guesthouseIroom[Ibed
Shiraz      147     137   3298 |3,016 9,480 | 8,536  -6.8   | -8.6-  |10
Ref The Fars Province Master Plan on Tourism (2000)
4.4.8 Cultural Heritage
Shiraz City was founded during the Achaemenian Dynasty (2500 years ago). The City
has significant historical and cultural sites, and offers many attractions to tourists.
These sites are mostly located in the old quarters and are shown on Drawing No.
SWWS-IR_42, in Annex C. A listing of the cultural heritage places is presented
below.
Shrines:
Shahecheragh (5th century) the most important place for pilgrims, located in
Shahecheragh Square (See Exhibit 8 and 9)
Seyyed Mir Mohammad Shrine
Astaneh Tomb: From Safavid era located in Astaneh square
Ali-ebn-e Hamze: From Azododdole era, located in Isfahan gate
Emamzadeh Ebrahim: Located in Lab-e Ab neighborhood in Sibooyeh boulevard.
Seyyed tajeddin gharib Shrine: Located near Kazeroon gate
Bibidokhtaran Shrine: Located in Mishe clock area.
Historical Mosques:
Masjed Jame Atiq (Friday mosque) (3rd century): The oldest mosque in Shiraz
4-41



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
Nour mosque: (Shohada) (7th century): One of the largest and the most beautiful
mosques of Iran to the west of Shahecheragh
Nasirolmolk Mosque (1305 H.): In Lotf Ali Khane Zand Street (Near Go'd Araban
Neighborhood)
Moshir Mosque (1289 H): Located on the old Qa'ani Street
Hoseinie Moshir: Located on Qa'ani Street
Shiraz Historical Schools.
Agha Baba Khan School (1240): Located on Karimkhane Zand Street
Khan School (1204): Located on Ahmadi Junction
Qavam School: Located on Lotf Ali Khane Zand Street
Hakim School: Located on Ahmadi Street
Nezamie School: Located on Ahmadi Street (Lab-e Ab neighborhood)
Moqimieh School: Located East of Shahecheragh
Mausoleums.
Sa'di (1331) a famous 7th century poet: The mausoleum is located in the north of
Shiraz (See exhibit 10
Hafez (1316) a world famous 8th century poet. The mausoleum is located in the north
of Shiraz
Khajoo-ye Kerami (1315) one of the famous Sufis of 7th century. The mausoleum is
located in the north of Shiraz and near the gate.
Vakil Buildings:
These historical monuments are in the heart of the city (Lotfali khan-e Zand street,
Municipality Square). Teh area was developed during Karim Khan-e Zand's reign
(1163 to 11 93Hijjra) and is called the "Zandieh Ditch".
Some of these buildings have been destroyed, however the remaining ones are:
-Karimkhan's Citadel
-Vakil Bazaar
4-42



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project        Environmental Assessment Report
-Vakil Mosque
-Vakil Bathhouse
-Divankhaneh building
-Pars Museum and Nazar garden
-The "Haft Tan Tekich" (Graves of seven anonymous Sufis now turned into a
museum)
-The "Chehel Tan Tekieh" (Graves of fourty persons of religious importance)
-Isfahan Gate Bridge.
Famous Gardens:
The Eram Garden: Northwest of Shiraz and one of the most famous gardens of Iran
The Delgosha Garden: Northeast of Shiraz
The Afifabad Garden: West of Shiraz
The Khalili Garden: Centre of the city
The Jahannama Garden: Next to Hafezie
The perimeters of the above mentioned ditch is now limited to Takhti and Ferdowsi
streets in the north, to Sibooyeh Boulevard in the south, to Sa'di and Tohid streets in
the west and Sa'di gate and Khatoon square in the east.
Other Historical Monuments:
The Quran portal or the Quran Gate: North of the city
Babakoohi in the northern mountain of Shiraz
The Narenjestan Qavam (Qavam Orange Grove) in Lotfalikhan-e Zand Street
The Abounasr Castle at 8km from the east of the city
Gahvare Did in the northern mountain of Shiraz
Morteza Ali's well on Chehelmaqam Mountain
All of these historical places are protected by law. In the present project, potential
effects on these places are fully considered and these monuments will not sustain any
4-43



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
damages. Recently the Council for Protection and Restoration of Cultural and
Historical Monuments in Shiraz was formed with representatives from the Ministry of
Housing and Urbanization, the Municipality, the Cultural Heritage Organization, the
Faculty of Engineering of Shiraz University and the city's Islamic Council.
4.4.9 Planned Developments
The most important development plans in Shiraz are:
Plan for Management of Khoshk River:
The objective of the Plan is to develop flood control facilities and improve the
aesthetic state of the river's surroundings. These are achieved through the
construction of a dam to control floodwater, sedimentation and pollution in the River
and to maintain a continuous flow, thereby creating a suitable environment for leisure
activities.
Plan for the development of Maharloo Lake Surroundings:
The purpose of the plan is to attract tourists by constructing different recreational
facilities on the banks of Maharloo Lake. To this end, the pollution sources will be
identified and controlled. After which, an appropriate leisure infrastructure will be set
up, and the natural landscape improved. Finally a study of the flora and fauna will be
undertaken to preserve the natural ecosystem.
Urban Subway System:
The aim of this plan is to solve the structural and operational problems of the current
transportation system, due to the increased air pollution by developing and operating
an urban train network.
This project involves the construction of 28.5 km of deep, semi-deep and surface rail
tracts (Figure 4-10 [Annex C]). The deep tunnels will not interfere with other urban
infrastructure, but the semi-deep tunnels and the surface tracts will undoubtedly affect
many urban facilities.
The Gharebagh Water Transfer Plan:
This project will irrigate an area of 21,000 hectares located 15 km south of
Shiraz, by supplying agricultural water to the villages of Jarsaghan, Aliabad,
Gachi, thus a total of 1120 families and 206 farmers will benefit from the plan.
The objective of the Plan is to guarantee a sustainable supply of water for
4-44



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
agricultural development, improve water transmission efficiency, to create
employment, and to prevent migration to cities.
The Water Supplv Plan to Sarvestan Plain:
The Plan involves the supply of 95 million m3 of water from ground resources and 48
million m3 from surface resources of Khoshk and Chenar Rivers. Eventually 143
million m3 of water will be transferred to the Sarvestan Plain to irrigate 17,000 ha of
agricultural fields and to improve the quality and replenish the water resources in this
area.
The Shiraz Industrial Zones:
Shiraz has three industrial towns called the Large Industrial Town of Shiraz, the Ab
Barik Industrial town and the Special Electronic Zone. Covering an area of 1134
hectares (including the expansion plan), the large Industrial Town of Shiraz is situated
to the southeast of Shiraz and at an approximate distance of 15 km from the city. It is
accessed by the Pole Fassa bypass road. It has a capacity to accommodate 1000
industrial units; currently 113 units have been built and only 99 are operational. These
include food industries, electrical and electronic units, textile, non-metal and metal
mineral industries, wood and cellulose, chemical, pharmaceutical and hygienic
products, small industries, service companies, warehouses and workshops. An
independent wastewater collection and treatment system has been planned for this
industrial town, and so far the collection works are 90% complete, whereas
construction of the treatment plant have just started.
The Ab Barik Industrial Town, located outside the project area covers an area of 32
hectares and is located at a distance of 26 km from Shiraz along the Shiraz -
Marvdasht Road. It has a capacity to accommodate 100 industrial unit, of which 78
are in place and 62 are operational. The industrial activities here are quite diverse and
resemble those in the Large Industrial Town of Shiraz. This industrial Town has an
operating wastewater collection and treatment system.
The Special Electronic Zone is along the course of the Main Shiraz - Fassa Road and
at a distance of 4 km from Shiraz. It covers an area of 1000 hectares, of which 300 are
considered for development during the first phase. It can accommodate over 860
industrial units, but it is so far devoid of any industries. An independent wastewater
collection and treatment system has been included in the design of the Zone.
4-45



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
The Animal Husbandry Complex:
The objective of the Plan is to resettle all the animal farms in an area outside the city
limits and to improve their efficiency.
4.4.10 Townscape
Shiraz has the following townscape:
Old citv structure:
This is the historical core of the city covering an area of about 350 hectares .It has a
very compact urban structure and its buildings are old. It is a very important part of
the city where the historical monuments and important trading centers are
concentrated. It therefore has a high population density.
Central region:
This region has a significant number of high-rise buildings constructed along the
access roads, which are not sufficient to cope with the demand on housing. Some of
the buildings are 40 years old.
Southern part of the city:
This is the poor neighborhood of the city, where the properties are small and
population density is high. In the Urban Master Plan (1990), this region was selected
as the first priority area for urban development.
North and northwest:
This region has a low population density due to Qasroldasht gardens and larger
properties and houses, clearly reflecting the higher income groups living in this area.
The Urban Master Plan (1990) considered the continuous expansion of the city from
the western side as impossible due to the existence of mountains, the lack of suitable
land for construction, and the presence of Bamoo National Park.
However, slow development of the city in this region could be possible through the
development of suburban towns of Golestan and Shahid Beheshti.
4-46



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project          Environmental Assessment Report
East and Southeast:
People in this area are considered to be in the middle and poor income groups. The
area has a high density of low-rise buildings. The population density varies from
medium to dense. Shiraz Airport is also located in this area. Both the long-term and
the emergency treatment plants are located in this area.
Building heights:
Seventy one percent of the buildings in Shiraz are one-storey buildings, 22% are two
storey, while 5.6% are three storey or more.
4-47






Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project       Environmental Assessment Report
5 Potential Environmental Impacts
In this chapter, the potential environmental impacts of the various components of the
Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project on the physical, biological, socio-
economic environment will be identified and evaluated.
5.1 Impacts on the Geophysical Environment
5.1.1 Changes of Land Use
Change of land use is a permanent effect, occurring at the Construction phase of the
project. The various component of the project will not cause changes in land use in
view of the following:
* Water supply lines and sewers will be constructed in publicly owned property.
* The sites of the two wastewater treatment plants are already acquired, and no
additional land for future extension is required. The Emergency Wastewater
Treatment site, 75 hectares in area, is currently being developed in an agricultural
area which is compatible with wastewater treatment works and will benefit from
the reuse potential of the treated effluent and treated sludge. Similarly, the Long
Term Wastewater Treatment plot of land, originally belonging to an organization
affiliated with the government, occupies an area of 80 hectares that is currently
barren, and situated in an agricultural area.
* The remaining components of the project comprising of water storage tanks,
pumping stations, and pressure relief valves will be constructed on approximately
80 hectares that belong to the Natural Resource Department and currently serving
no specific use.
5.1.2 Relocation of People
The project will not require relocation of people or demolition of property. As stated
in the preceding paragraph, the sewers, water supply lines, water tanks, and pressure
reducing valves will be constructed on publicly owned property. As for the
Wastewater treatment plants, they will be located outside the city of Shiraz. The
nearest residential area to the Emergency Wastewater Treatment Plant is Torkan
village, located some 2 to 3 km away, whereas the nearest residential area to the Long
Term Wastewater Treatment is located 3 km away. Therefore sufficient buffer
distance is available to mitigate potential odor and noise impacts arising from the
5-1



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project         Environmental Assessment Report
operation of these treatment facilities. Therefore no relocation of the residents would
be envisaged.
5.1.3 Disturbance During construction
These impacts will occur during the construction period of the various project
components, and will be more significant during the laying out of sewers, and water
supply lines, in view of the networks' location and coverage within the city. These
negative impacts will be short term and affect different people at different times and
will cause the following disturbances:
* Restriction on access to buildings
*  Noise due to excavation
*  Possible effects of vibration on the historical buildings of Shiraz
*  Closure of roads or partial closure of roads causing increased traffic and
congestion
* Longer journey times and diversions for commuters and pedestrians
*  Dust from construction activities and
*  Movement of construction traffic.
For the residents of the streets where sewers and transmission mains are being laid,
these impacts can be quite disturbing, but will be felt for a short period of time.
The impacts of constructing the water reservoirs, deep wells will be moderate
compared with the construction of the sewers and water supply lines since they are
located relatively far from residential centers.
Construction of both Wastewater treatment plants will cause very little disturbance
since they are located outside the city of Shiraz; the Emergency WWTP is located at
some 2 km distance south east of the city, whereas the Long Term WWTP is located
at some 5.5 km to the south east of the city. The roads leading to both treatment plants
from the city are used mostly to access the agricultural area to the south of the city
and to access Torkan village and some other dispersed residential settlements.
Therefore there is little traffic movements along these roads, and consequently the
impact of heavy construction traffic will be minimal.
The short term negative impacts due to construction activities should be considered
against the permanent positive impact of greatly increased amenity to the streets of
5-2



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project        Environmental Assessment Report
Shiraz, one of the most prominent historical cities of Iran. The positive impacts of the
project, discussed elsewhere in this chapter, greatly outweigh the construction
disturbances.
5.1.4 Noise and Vibration
Potential noise impacts exist during both construction and operational phases of the
project. During the operational phase, the noise impact will arise from the operation
of electro-mechanical equipment at the wastewater treatment plants and at water
reservoirs housing the pumping equipment. These project facilities will include
equipment producing noise such as pumps, blowers, and electrical power generators.
The noise levels produced, however, will be within the acceptable limits specified by
the Iranian Standards and international norms (see annex B), and will be hardly felt at
the two wastewater treatment plants due to their remote locations from residential
centers. Also at the water reservoirs, the pumping units will be installed in equipment
rooms which will reduce noise levels appreciably, and therefore the noise impact will
be insignificant on the general public.
Noise during the construction phase will be also produced from vehicles carrying
construction materials and spoil. The construction traffic during the laying of sewers
and water supply system within the city of Shiraz will produce significant noise
impacts on pedestrians and residents of properties adjacent to the sewer and water
supply lines routing. Vehicular traffic is expected to transport some 360 km of water
supply lines, some 870 km of sewers, and appreciable quantity of spoil within the city
of Shiraz. Furthermore, additional traffic will be generated by the vehicles carrying
concrete and other construction materials from concrete factories to the water
reservoir sites, and refuse material from these sites to the sanitary landfill facility
located outside the city. The disturbance due to construction traffic for the Long Term
WWTP will be less felt, since the plant is located outside the city.
It should be noted though, that phasing of the sewer and water supply network will
ensure that noise impacts in each location are only for a short period of time and will
be limited to normal daytime working hours. As for the materials that will be hauled
to and from the treatment plants and water reservoir construction sites, the traffic will
be spread evenly over the construction period, and given the present high traffic noise
levels in the city, will not result in significant increase in noise levels. Furthermore,
no construction will be allowed on Holy days.
Noise impacts, although temporary, will have to be mitigated using standard silencing
equipment, such as mufflers or sound enclosures. Iranian and Internationally
recognized regulations limiting noise will be included in the specifications of all
5-3



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project       Environmental Assessment Report
contract documents for construction works and supply of mechanical and electrical
equipment.
Drilling and mechanical digging of sites and road surfaces can produce vibration
levels which could potentially cause structural damage to foundations of old buildings
especially if they have already been weakened by earthquake activity. The vibration
impact will be quite significant for the historical buildings and monuments located in
the eastern end of the city. Much of the vibrations will be alleviated by the use of
bored rather than percussive drilling techniques and the use of dead weight rather than
vibratory compaction equipment.
5.1.5 Odor
Potential unpleasant odor emissions for this project will result from the sewage
network during its initial operation and from the operation of the two wastewater
treatment plants.
During the commissioning of the sewage network if the number of house connections
is small, the flows that will be generated will be much less than the design flows of
the sewers. In this instance, solids deposition will be inevitable and during the warm
months of the year the solids will decompose to emit unpleasant odors from release of
hydrogen sulfide and other gases. These gases will eventually leave the sewer system
through manholes to disturb the public. However, this impact will have short term
duration and can be mitigated by the accelerated construction of the house
connections to reach minimum flow conditions that prevent solids deposition. The
project will ensure that sufficient connections will be made to the system to reach
minimum flow conditions in the shortest possible time by including this requirement
in the construction tender documents.
One of the main public concerns regarding sewage treatment is the potential problem
of unpleasant odors. Odors from wastewater treatment plants are inevitable although
their impact can be minimized by:
* Maintaining sufficient buffer distance from residential areas.
* Installation of odor control equipment at the treatment plant.
* Careful planning and implementation of plant operation and maintenance to
prevent formation and emissions of odorous gases.
Under normal operation of the plant, no significant odor problems should arise. If
sewage for any reason becomes septic, or raw sludge is stored for long periods of time
due to sludge treatment plant failure, odor problems will probably result.
54



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project       Environmental Assessment Report
For the two wastewater treatments of this project, odors can potentially be emitted
from preliminary treatment which include mechanical screenings, grit removal and
from the primary clarifiers. The removed screenings and grit will emit odors, which
can be mitigated by minimizing their storage time on site and hauling them to a
sanitary landfill or application of controlled dose of lime. Odors from primary
clarifiers can be released if desludging is not frequently conducted and particularly
during the summer season when organics tend to be decomposed quickly. Increased
frequency of desludging and careful implementation of the O&M instructions would
mitigate this impact.
Odors can also potentially emanate from the sludge handling areas, which include
blending tanks, thickeners, and digesters. The two plants have been designed so that
exposure of raw sludge to the atmosphere will be minimized by:
* Continuous withdrawal of sludge from the blending tanks and thickeners
* Transfer of raw sludge to the primary digesters by enclosed pipelines.
* Anaerobic digestion in sealed tanks
* Using scrubbers before venting the controlled gases from sealed tanks.
It is inevitable that in the summer months odors will increase. Provided that the plant
is operated and maintained properly, these will neither be severe nor frequent. It is to
be noted that the nearest residential area to the two treatment plants is 2 km away and
in the upwind direction which is predominantly north to northwesterly. Therefore due
to this buffer distance and the dilution effect of the ambient air, slight odors may be
discernible under extreme conditions. Only small properties that are adjacent to the
two sites will be affected. In all cases these properties do not include housing
facilities.
The overall effect of the project will be a long term reduction in odor problems
through the provision of the sewerage system. The current practice of discharging raw
sewage to Khoshk and Soltan Abad Rivers which pass through the city is causing
significant odor problems affecting directly the health and well being of the
inhabitants, as well as affecting the tourist industry. The provision and operation of
the sewerage system will cause a halt to the discharge of raw sewage in these surface
waters, and thus eliminate the odor emissions within the city.
5.1.6 Visual Impact
Visual impacts will occur at the construction phase and operational phase. By nature,
construction activities for the various project components will cause a reduction in the
5-5



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project       Environmental Assessment Report
visual amenity in some areas. These impacts, however, will be short term and will be
of significance close to parks and attractive historical places.
The only permanent visual impact will be that of the water reservoirs, and Emergency
and Long Term wastewater treatment plants. The water reservoirs are generally
located at higher elevations on the overlooking hills of city, away from residential
quarters. These reservoirs cause a small visual impact since they are maximum 5 m in
height and can be easily shielded by planted trees. (See exhibit 11 annex G)
As for the treatment plants, their layouts are shown on drawings SWWS-JR-38, and
SWWS-IR-40. The Emergency WWTP extends over an area of 75 hectares, of which
the built up area is 20 hectares (10 of which are for long term sludge storage). The
tallest structure at the treatment plant is the anaerobic digester, which is 16 m high.
Whereas, the Long Term WWTP extends over an area of 80 hectares, of which the
built up area is 32 Hectares (20 of which are for long term sludge storage). Similar to
the Emergency WWTP, the tallest structure at the Long Term WWTP is the anaerobic
digester, which is 16 m high. The visual impacts of both plants are quite similar. The
two plants are enclosed by a perimeter wall, which is visible from a distance due to
the flat, agricultural areas that surround these plants. The color of the perimeter walls
relatively blend with their surrounding ground, and therefore the walls are not visually
intrusive. Furthermore, since both facilities will include tree planting around their
perimeter walls, the visual impact will be reduced and the aesthetic visual quality of
the two plants will be improved.
Although the anaerobic digesters and the perimeter walls of the two plants will be
visible from a distance, the wastewater treatment facilities will have no significant
negative visual impact because:
* The developments will not reduce the visual quality of their surroundings any
further.
*  No residential areas have a view of the site
*  The planting of trees around the perimeter wall will allow improvements to be
made to the visual quality.
5.1.7 Impacts on Traffic and Transportation
There will be impacts on traffic flow and the transportation network of Shiraz from
the following activities:
* Closure and diversion of roads during sewer and water supply network
construction
5-6



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project        Environmental Assessment Report
* Traffic transporting raw materials and spoil during construction of the projects
components
* Sludge transport from both wastewater treatment plants to adjacent agricultural
lands
Shiraz already suffers from road congestion at peak hours especially in the quarters
accommodating business and government centers, and the densely populated areas.
The reduced width of roads during construction and the closure and diversion of roads
will lead to additional delays and congestion. However, these impacts will be
temporary.
All construction material and spoil will be transported by road. Thus construction
traffic will have a negative impact on the already congested traffic flow. However,
this impact will be spread evenly over the construction period, and given the present
high traffic levels in the city, the impact will be insignificant.
The treated sludge will be hauled from both treatment plants to agricultural lands for
reuse as a fertilizer. It is estimated that around 2 lorry trips per day will be required
from the Emergency WWTP and 3 lorry trips per day will be required from the Long
Term WWTP to haul sludge to the agricultural lands using the sludge. These numbers
of Lorries have insignificant impact on the vehicular traffic that exists on the service
roads from the treatment plants.
Although the water treatment plant at Doroudzan Dam is not located within the
project area, nonetheless its sludge disposal operations will have an impact on the
project area since the sludge is disposed at Shiraz landfill. At the year 2027, it is
estimated that one lorry per day will be required to haul dewatered sludge from the
plant to the landfill. This number is very small, and has virtually no impact on traffic
and transportation within the project area.
5.2 Impacts on the Social and economic Environment
5.2.1 Impacts on Population
In accordance with the feasibility study, the current population growth rate is
estimated at 2.31% per year and is projected to decrease to 1.42% per year in 2027
due to a forecast drop in the birth rate, which can be foreseen in view of the
government's family planning campaign. The predicted improvements in health and
reductions in infant mortality as a result of the project may make the local population
more willing to accept the birth control program proposed by the government. The
reduction in disease rates may, however, reduce mortality rates. In conclusion,
therefore, it is difficult to predict with any degree of confidence what effect the
project will have on population levels. However, with the reduction in illness
5-7



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project      Environmental Assessment Report
associated with proper management of sewage and an improved reliable water supply
system, the life expectancy will increase.
5.2.2 Impacts on Employment and Income distribution
It is estimated that the project will employ over 200 people in management, operation,
and maintenance of the treatment plants, water supply and sewage networks, and
pumping stations. Most of the positions will be permanent and a few will be created to
cover for environmental monitoring. The number of construction jobs to be created
will not be known until the construction commences for all activities, however it will
most certainly be several thousand. The project will also increase the productivity of
the agricultural lands in the region downstream of the treatment plants since it
includes for effluent and sludge reuse, which will consequently increase rural
employment. The project therefore will have a positive and substantial impact on
employment. The staffing requirements will be for engineers, technicians, clerks,
skilled labor, and unskilled labor.
Another possible but unquantifiable economic impact of the project, is the consequent
effect on the construction industry in Iran. The scale of engineering work involved
will engage a sizeable proportion of the country's construction capacity.
It is not possible to assess whether the project would have any effects on income
distribution, although in the short term it is unlikely.
5.2.3 Urban Development
The provision of a reliable and suitable water supply system as well as a sewage
collection network for the city will remove a major constraint on urban development.
The project components will facilitate construction in undeveloped areas of the city.
Consequently positive economic impacts in terms of construction activity and
employment will result.
5.3 Impacts on the Cultural Environment
5.3.1 Impacts on Archeological and Historical Sites
Shiraz has a rich archeological setting due to the numerous historical buildings
located mostly in the old part of the city as discussed in the previous sections.
Therefore the project has considered carefully the sensitivity of these sites to avoid
and minimize the associated potential adverse impacts.
Historical and cultural sites are potentially affected by three types of impact:
5-8



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project          Environmental Assessment Report
* Destruction or demolition
* Vibration and settlement as a result of construction activities including tunneling
and;
* Effect on amenity value of the site.
The project will not require the demolition of any historical or cultural building, nor
will directly affect any known archeological sites. The sitting of the wastewater
treatment plants, water reservoirs, pumping stations and water wells was carefully
selected in close coordination with the Cultural Heritage Organization, which is the
designated authority for the preservation of cultural and historical monuments.
Several site visits were made to ensure that these facilities are located away from
areas where there is a potential of finding archeological remains.
During construction, there are potential indirect effects on these historical sites due to
vibration from drilling and compacting equipment, loss of amenity due to dust, noise
and visual intrusion. Good construction practices, including those described in section
5. 1, should mitigate these temporary impacts to acceptable levels.
During the extensive excavation of the city's streets it is possible that archeological
remains may be discovered. The Cultural Heritage Organization will be consulted in
this instance, and the Chance Find procedures discussed in Chapter 7, will be
implemented. The specifications of all contract documents will include reference to
this organization and the Chance Find procedures.
The project will eliminate the uncontrolled flows and discharges of wastewater in the
vicinity of the archeological sites. The long term permanent impact of the project on
the existing archeological sites will be positive due to proper collection of wastewater,
reduced incidence of flooding, improved amenity and aesthetic quality of the city
which would outweigh any temporary adverse impacts.
5.3.2 Impacts on Public Attitudes
An assessment has been made of possible conflicts of the projects with social attitudes
or customs. Two issues were identified as potential problems:
* Attitudes of fanrmers using human waste products for agriculture; and
* Public attitude towards a new system of sewage disposal.
Presently the two rivers passing through the city are polluted with the uncontrolled
discharges of sewage. Also a great number of alluvial wells are polluted by sewage
discharges. Irrigation with these polluted waters is wide spread, despite its potential to
spread disease. This indicates that farmers will be willing to use treated effluents that
are safe for irrigation, and are of superior quality. Also, there will be willingness to
use treated sludge as a soil conditioner, particularly if it is sold at cheaper prices than
5-9



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project       Environmental Assessment Report
commercial fertilizers. However, for the sludge and effluent re-use programs to
function well, there will be a need for enhanced education of the farmers involved.
No problems are envisaged concerning the willingness of the citizens of Shiraz for
their environs to be sewered due to the numerous problems of the current absorption
wells: flooding due to high water table, contamination of ground water, waterborne
diseases, etc. the implementation of the sewage disposal system will alleviate the
problems of the current system. However, there may be reluctance by part of the
public to accept connecting to a new system due to the associated connection fee,
annual subscription fees, etc. These direct costs however, should be considered taking
into account the benefits derived from eliminating medical expenses associated with
contaminated groundwater or contaminated vegetables because of the inefficiency of
the current system. This reluctance should be overcome by a clear and comprehensive
publicity and awareness campaign to inform people of the benefits of this project.
5.4 Impacts on Surface Waters
It is expected that the project will have a direct positive effect on the quality of
surface water, with consequential health effects, as it has done on other cities, but
such predictions will be difficult to quantify at this stage and will depend on the
effectiveness of project implementation.
5.4.1 Impacts on River Water Quality
The project will have a significant impact on the quality of Khoshk and Soltanabad
River, both of which run through the city with significant pollution levels as described
in the chapter 4. There should be a direct improvement in the physiochemical and
microbiological quality of these rivers due to conveyance and treatment of the
wastewater that is currently being discharged in these rivers. Health hazards posed to
farmers and consumers of agricultural products being irrigated with the water of the
rivers would be greatly reduced.
5.4.2 Impacts on River Water Quantities
The average annual discharge of Khoshk River is 52.93 million cubic meters, out of
which about 50% is the basic current. The wastewater flows are currently estimated at
7.13 million cubic meters annually, which amounts to 26% of the surface water
entering the river.
The average annual discharge of Soltanabad River is 35.77 million cubic meters, out
of which about 61% is the basic current and 39% is surface run-off. This latter
5-10



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project        Environmental Assessment Report
portion, in dry seasons, mainly consists of only wastewater and drainage from the
southern lands of the city.
Therefore the discharge of domestic and industrial wastewater in the sewerage
network will cause a decrease in the rivers discharge quantities. However, this issue is
overshadowed by the significant positive impacts foreseen on the qualities of these
rivers.
5.4.3 Impacts Relating to Industrial Discharges
The DOE has promulgated a national law for industrial discharge to surface water
bodies and has undertaken a programme for monitoring industrial discharges to
surface waters.
This project will promote the environmental awareness conceming the need to control
industrial wastewater discharges whether to surface water bodies or to the sewage
network. As discussed in Chapter 7, a training workshop is included as part of
institutional strengthening, and is expected to contribute towards controlling industrial
discharges. Therefore the project will provide an opportunity to better control
industrial discharges through enforcing pretreatment and connection to the collection
system as stipulated in the Iranian law
Although not related to the project, the planned developments for the establishment of
the three industrial zones described in the Chapter 4 would greatly reduce the illicit
discharges of industrial wastewater to surface waters, since these industrial zones will
have their own central treatment facility.
With regard to the remaining industries within the city, these will be subject to
monitoring by the DOE, which will ensure that industrial effluents are pre-treated to
the required standards prior to discharge to any central facility. In this respect, it is to
be noted that SWWC currently carries out daily testing of industrial effluents for TSS,
pH, COD, TN, and occasionally BOD5 to monitor the quality of these effluents.
Therefore it is expected that this project will contribute towards controlling industrial
wastewater discharges, and hence lead indirectly to improvements on the quality of
surface waters.
5.4.4 Impacts on Maharloo Lake
Through the provision of wastewater collection network, and the control on industrial
wastewater discharges as described in the previous paragraph, the quality of the
streams discharging to the salt lake will be greatly improved. The present
environmental damage to the lake will be stopped, and therefore the lake's water
5-11



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project      Environmental Assessment Report
quality will improve over a period of time. The accumulation of heavy metals, such as
cadmium, iron, and lead, in the lake will cease.
With regard to the impact of the treated effluent discharged to the lake, this will occur
during the rainy season, and thus the residual loads from the plant will be further
reduced by dilution and the impact on the lake's water will be minimal. It should be
noted that the total annual flows to Maharloo Lake including run off, rainfall and
drainage are estimated at 1.6 billion cubic meters as discussed in Chapter 4. At
present, the total wastewater flows generated in the project area and reaching the lake
are estimated at 19.7 million cubic meter representing around 1% of the total
incoming flows; whereas the total annual quantity of treated effluent discharged to the
lake at the target year amounts to 33 million cubic meter representing 2% of the total
incoming flows. Based on above, it can be concluded that change in wastewater flows
discharging to the lake due to the implementation of the project will have insignificant
effect on the salt balance of the lake, since these flows represent very low percentages
of the total annual flows reaching the lake.
As to the possible impact on the lake due to contamination of the effluent outfall by
uncontrolled discharges, the project has addressed this issue by making an allowance
for sections of the outfall that run near community developments to be covered by a
concrete slab or to be fenced as appropriate. These provisions would prevent illicit
discharges in the effluent outfall of both plants.
The outfall lengths that run through agricultural lands are unlikely to receive illegal
discharges since no developments exist in these areas.
Based on the above the environmental state of the lake will be greatly enhanced in
comparison to the base-line condition due to improved water quality of the
discharging rivers.
5.4.5 Impacts on Surface Water Supplies
The project does not have an impact on the surface water resources within the project
area, since the provision for future extension of present surface water supplies is
sourced from the Doroudzan dam, which is located outside the project area.
The Doroudzan dam is fed from Kor River, and currently supplies 72,000 m3/day to
Shiraz City, and plans for extending the water supply capacity from the Dam to
156,000 m3 /day were already undertaken by Fars Water Company. It should be noted
that the current scheme for water supply adopted by the project, relies on a maximum
3
of 156,000 m /day from this source at the target year of the project. Ground sources
will be extended to meet additional quantities to meet increasing demand levels. Thus,
the project will not cause diminishing of the dam's water supply capacity.
5-12



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project       Environmental Assessment Report
5.5 Impacts on Ground Water
5.5.1 Impacts on Ground Water Quality
The project will have a long term positive effect on the quality of ground water, since
it will greatly reduce the discharge of contaminants to ground water. The use of
cesspools, a major source for pollutant infiltration to the groundwater will be
gradually phased out as sewers will be constructed to convey the wastewaters to
treatment at the designated facilities. With elimination of pathogens, nitrates, harmful
organics, heavy metals, and through recharge of cleaner surface water, the quality of
the ground water will be enhanced, and compliance with the prevailing water supply
standards will be met and ensured by the provision of the chlorination facilities.
The current practice of irrigation with raw sewage and the use of untreated sludge
from cesspits will be greatly minimized by the implementation of the project. These
practices would cause ground water contamination as a result of their discharge on
land, and therefore under the current project they will stop and consequently the water
quality will be improved.
5.5.2 Impacts on Ground Water during Construction
During the construction phase, groundwater quality may be affected by the disposal of
solid waste such as debris, wash-water of facilities, and accidental spills of oil from
storage tanks. For this project the impact will be more pronounced due to the high
water table. The implementation of mitigation measures and environmentally sound
construction practices would greatly reduce the occurrence and scale of such impacts.
The potential impacts due to construction are in all cases temporary, and are
outweighed by the positive long term impacts.
5.5.3 Impacts on Ground Water Due to Sewer Connections
The provision of sewer connections would cause the stoppage of groundwater
recharge through cesspits. Thus it is anticipated that water table levels will drop as a
result, and hence reduce the problems plaguing Shiraz because of this issue.
Foundation problems due to high water table, frequent flooding in homes induced by
the rise of the groundwater levels will be greatly reduced.
5.5.4 Impacts on Ground Water Resources
A number of studies have been conducted to assess the ground water reserves of the
Shiraz aquifer. In accordance with the feasibility study, these studies confirm that the
current ground water resources have a safe yield capacity of 1,556,000 m3/day. Under
the current plan adopted by the project, the maximum water supply rate from these
5-13



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project       Environmental Assessment Report
resources is 646,608 m3/day in the target year of the project representing 75% of the
total water supply to Shiraz City. Therefore the maximum supply rate from the
groundwater resources is less than 42% of their safe yield capacity; hence the project
would not diminish the resource capacities.
As stated above, the recharge of the aquifers by the illicit discharges and effluents of
the cesspits will be stopped, thus reducing the quantities of water recharging the
wells. However, this issue is outweighed by the significant reduction of pollution
levels in the aquifers.
5.6   Impacts on Agriculture
5.6.1 Impact on Crop Production
The project will have a beneficial effect on crop production by ameliorating two of
the factors currently contributing to low yields, namely:
* Providing an assured supply of a natural fertilizer in the form of treated sewage
sludge; and
* Reducing the incidence of seasonal water shortages
There is the potential for the following additional measures to be taken in conjunction
with the project to further improve crop yields:
* Creation of an effective support service for farmers;
* More effective weed control; and
* Use of modem high yield wheat varieties.
The increase in the total area of crop production will be dependent on the cropping
pattern. As discussed in Chapter 2, based on the current crop pattern, it is projected
that for the Emergency zone wastewater treatment, the total area of crop production
will be increased by 700 ha at year 2027, and for the Long Term treatment plant the
total area of crop production will be increased by 2900 ha at the year 2027. The total
increased area of crop production amounts to 25% of the total agricultural lands in the
area of the two treatment plants. The cropping pattern of the full scheme is likely to
be very similar to the existing situation.
5.6.2 Impact on Fertilizer Consumption
The three main nutrients required by crops are nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium.
Potassium concentrations are usually very low in both treated sewage effluent and
sludge. Current local practice in fertilizer application is to use 400 kg of urea and 45
5-14



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project      Environmental Assessment Report
kg of ammonium phosphate per hectare for wheat production. Based on the estimated
sludge quantities for both the Long Term and Emergency Wastewater Treatment
Plants of 18,400 tons/year at year 2027, the equivalent quantity of urea provided by
the sludge would be 368 tons, and the equivalent quantity of ammonium phosphate
would be 41 tons. The sludge produced at the treatment plants can therefore reduce
consumption of artificial fertilizer by equivalent amounts, if offered at reduced prices.
5.6.3 Impact on Soil Quality
Sludge will add organic matter to the agricultural soils of the project area. This will
have little effect for many years, however, given the proposed application rate.
Current low levels of nitrogen and phosphate will be raised by the use of sludge, and
the effect of this on soil quality will be positive. Furthermore nitrogen and phosphorus
in the treated effluent and sludge will supply many of the trace elements required for
crop growth, zinc, iron, manganese, etc
However, it should be noted that there are constraints on the application of treated
effluent and treated sludge due to heavy metal build up. Guidelines for maximum
permissible concentration of trace elements in irrigation water are provided by FAO
according to the type of soil and the period of application. These guidelines (annex B)
include among others concentration limits of nickel, lead, manganese, cadmium, zinc,
chromium, etc. Also EC directives (annex B) provide concentration limits for
potentially toxic elements (PTE) in sludge and soil over a 10 year annual rate of
addition period.
It would be difficult to assess the extent of heavy metal build up due to the application
of treated sludge and the irrigation with treated effluent, as this would require an
evaluation of heavy metal content of the raw wastewater, and current levels of trace
metals in the soil. As discussed in Chapter 4, previous tests conducted by DOE
indicate high levels of cadmium, nickel, lead, and manganese in the soils adjacent to
Khoshk river course. It is envisaged that the enforcement of industrial discharge
control and the plan to establish the industrial zones will reduce heavy metal
concentration in the raw sewage. Nonetheless, the potential for heavy metal build up
in the soils will be there, and is best mitigated by a careful monitoring program of
trace elements in the raw sewage, treated effluent, soil, and plants as described in
Chapter 7.
5.6.4 Impact on Crop Quality
The potential impact on crops of using treated effluent and sludge in agriculture is the
accumulation of heavy metals. This has implications for human and livestock
nutrition and can arise from crops taking up excessive amounts of certain elements
5-15



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project        Environmental Assessment Report
that are toxic to humans and livestock. The limit values for heavy metals in sludge
and soils are designed to ensure that concentrations in crops do not exceed safe levels.
It is difficult at this stage to determine whether any elements are likely to accumulate
in crops at levels that exceed the recommended limits, for the reasons stated in the
previous paragraph.
The impact on crop quality cannot therefore be assessed at this stage. Adverse impacts
can be prevented only by detailed monitoring of:
* Treated sludge after storage at the two treatment plants
* Treated effluent;
* Soils at a number of locations throughout the agricultural area; and
* The different crops grown.
5.6.5 Impact on Agricultural Practices
As indicated in Chapter 2, the use of treated effluent as irrigation water will allow the
expansion of the irrigated agricultural area from 5600 ha to 9750 ha and the total crop
production will increase. It is unlikely that the proportion of different crops grown
will change greatly. The effect of the project on stabilizing and increasing the supply
of irrigation water to the area, and to a lesser extent the nutrient benefits from sludge,
may, however, lead to a greater expansion in the areas of land given over to
vegetables, and salads than to other crops.
5.6.6 Impact on Agricultural Workers
The WHO guidelines for sludge and effluent reuse in agriculture are designed to
prevent health risks to consumers of crops and agricultural workers. Provided that
these standards are met, there will be no adverse impacts on agricultural workers. The
methods by which effluent and sludge will be applied to the crops will be designed to
minimize human contact with sludge. Irrigation will continue to be by flood methods
and sludge will be ploughed into the soil immediately after application. No adverse
impacts will take place if appropriate guidelines will be issued and followed.
5.6.7 Impact on Supply of Irrigation Water
A considerable positive impact of the project will be to augment the supply of
irrigation water to the agricultural areas in the project area. This will have the
following beneficial effects:
* An increased area of land will be able to be used for agriculture, and
5-16



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project       Environmental Assessment Report
* Crop yield per hectare should increase.
5.7   Impacts on Health
5.7.1 Improvements in Public Health
The current routes of infection for waterborne diseases identified as being important
in Shiraz are considered to be primarily associated with the current pattern of human
excreta disposal and other related activities such as irrigation and direct contact with
contaminated waters.
It is evident therefore, that improvements in the ways in which sewage is collected,
treated and disposed of, will have a significant impact on the incidence of these water
related illnesses. Furthermore, the rehabilitation of the water supply network and the
construction of chlorination facilities will ensure that potable water quality is safe and
virtually pathogen free.
Other benefits are considered likely to accrue from implementation of the scheme. In
summary the principal benefits are considered to be those mentioned below.
* Connection to an integrated sewerage system will significantly reduce the amount
of sewage disposed of to the local rivers and open watercourses which are used as
a source of irrigation water. In addition, direct contact activities (such as from any
child coming in contact with sewage) will also be considerably reduced with
corresponding reduction in the risk of disease transmission.
* Prevention of groundwater contamination with nitrates and possibly
microorganisms (viruses) are considered to pose the greatest risk in this respect.
* Prevention of cross contamination of potable water supply system through
rehabilitation of old existing network and the disinfection of these supplies with
required chlorine dose.
* The supply of adequate quantities of water having good quality and compliant
with national and WHO standards.
5.7.2 Adverse Impact on Drinking Water Quantity and Quality
Treated water quantity and quality should meet water demand as well as allowable
drinking water standards set by the Iranian Government and WHO. Among the
parameters of concern are the bacteriological contamination of the water, the
concentration level of nitrate, the presence of nitrite and the concentration of heavy
metals.
Potable water for Shiraz is supplied from two sources: (1) surface water from
Doroudzan dam and (2) well water. The water from the damn undergoes conventional
5-17



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project       Environmental Assessment Report
treatment, whereas the well water is chlorinated. Following treatment both surface
and ground waters are stored in reservoirs for subsequent pumping in the distribution
network. The project includes for blending the well water with surface water where
possible to improve the quality of the well water. Thus potable water in Shiraz can
have three different water qualities.
In the event of an upset in the performance of Doroudzan water treatment plant or the
failure of the chlorination plants at the reservoir, the water quality in this instance may
deteriorate resulting in possible contamination with pathogens or imbalanced pH
levels, etc. Furthermore any damage to the potable water distribution system may
result in cross contamination with raw sewage and thus present a health hazard to the
inhabitants of the city. Also damage to the network and partial stoppage of the
Doroudzan water treatment plant may cause water supply shortages.
In order to safeguard public health, it is imperative that regular monitoring of raw and
treated water at the treatment plants, storage reservoirs and in the distribution network
be implemented to ensure that drinking water limits are not exceeded, and that plant
and network are in good operating conditions.
5.7.3 Adverse Impacts Due to Agricultural Use of Treated Effluent
Health impacts arising from the reuse of treated effluent have been a matter of
considerable concern and scrutiny in arid and semi-arid zones of the world. One result
of this has been the production of guidelines to protect public health. Most notable of
these are the so-called Engelberg standards, promulgated under the auspices of the
WHO.
It is considered essential to maximize the potential improvements to public health
arising from the implementation of the project. Hence, the sewage treatment process
is designed in such a manner to ensure that it can be operated at all times so that the
treated effluent meets the WHO guidelines. These guidelines are based on
epidemiological studies concerning health impacts of excreta disposal and effluent
reuse. At the present time, they provide the most appropriate guidelines to underpin
the design of sewage treatment processes and effluent and sludge disposal options.
The quality objectives applied to the treated effluent are in accordance with the
Engelberg standards.
In order to meet the criteria for eggs of intestinal nematodes or helminthes (less than 1
per liter) and faecal coliforms (less than 1,000/100 ml) the treatment process must be
designed in such a way that these criteria are consistently achieved. As described in
Chapter 2, both plants are designed to employ chlorination in order to achieve the
fecal Coliform standard (the health aspects of chlorine are discussed below).
5-18



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project       Environmental Assessment Report
It is intended that nematode removal be achieved through the combined effects of
primary and secondary settlement within an essentially conventional activated sludge
process. Previous studies undertaken by UNDPE in Teheran indicate that removal of
intestinal nematode eggs through the activated sludge process can achieve compliance
with the WHO standard subject to the levels of nematodes in the influent.
Evidence from operational activated sludge WWTPs (which incorporate secondary
settlement) is that the removal efficiency of intestinal nematode eggs is between 0 and
2 orders of magnitude. The final concentration of eggs is a function of the load
entering the works. Thus the final effluent numbers are a direct function of the raw
sewage levels. Consistent attainment of the WHO guideline level infers that the
concentration of nematode eggs in the raw sewage must not exceed 100 per liter.
Given that the activated sludge sewage treatment system has been designed to
produce a sludge of good settleability and low upflow velocities in the secondary
sedimentation tanks, it is predicted that a removal efficiency of 2 orders of magnitude
(99%) will be achieved. However, to address the issue of high level of nematode eggs
(at concentration greater than 100 eggs per liter) and for consistent performance,
continuous monitoring of the influent and effluent levels will be required.
5.7.4 Adverse Impacts Due to Agricultural Use of Sewage Sludge
The WHO guideline for intestinal nematode eggs is less than 1 per 100 grams dry
weight of excreta or sludge, which can be achieved by storage of sewage sludge for a
period of one year. The project incorporates this stage by the provision of 10 hectares
of land for the Emergency WWTP sludge storage and 20 hectares of land for the Long
Term WWTP storage, hence, assuring compliance with WHO guidelines with respect
to nematodes.
Contamination of sludge with heavy metals or other toxicants has been considered.
On the basis of current evidence, it would appear that the contaminants of some health
concern are cadmium, nickel, and manganese. Appropriate mitigation and monitoring
programs need to be in place with effective implementation to eliminate potential
health impacts by heavy metals.
5.7.5 Adverse Impacts Due to Chlorination
Two hazards have been identified arising from the proposed use of chlorine as a
disinfectant at the sewage treatment works.
Firstly, the transportation, storage, and use of liquid chlorine pose clearly identifiable
risks of human injury in the event of an accidental release of gas. These risks can be
minimized by attention to the design of the chlorine storage and handling facilities at
5-19



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project       Environmental Assessment Report
the plant. In conjunction, adequate means of ventilation, provision of safety
equipment, and a well defined emergency response procedure must be put in place.
For this project the appropriate storage and use of liquid chlorine standards shall be
incorporated in the tender documents of the Long Term treatment Plant, as well as the
provision of an emergency response procedure. With regard to the Emergency
Treatment plant, the liquid chlorine has been substituted by Calcium hypochlorite,
which has less stringent requirement in handling. Nonetheless, all safety requirements
for its application shall be incorporated. Chlorine has been successfully and safely
transported in Iran for about 40 years in connection with water treatment plants. No
additional adverse impact is therefore, envisaged.
The second issue concerns the formation of disinfection byproducts as a result of
adding chlorine to sewage effluents. Chlorinated species such as trihalomethanes and
MX (3-chloro-4-(dichloromethyl)-5-hydroxy-2(H)-furanone) have been demonstrated
in chlorinated sewage effluent. The health impacts arising from the chlorination of
sewage effluents are unclear. In this instance, it is not foreseen that the discharge of
these byproducts to Maharloo Lake will cause an impact, since there is virtually no
aquatic life in the lake, and the lake's water is not used in agricultural or recreational
activities. However, an appropriate mitigation and monitoring program needs to be in
place and effectively implemented.
Notwithstanding, all efforts should be made to minimize the amounts of disinfection
byproducts formed by using the smallest dose of chlorine commensurate with
achieving the WHO standards for treated effluent.
The disinfection parameters necessary to achieve the WHO standards suggest that a
dose of 5 mg/l (based on literature) followed by a contact time (after intimate mixing)
of not less that 30 minutes will be required. The required dose and chlorine contact
time have been accounted for in the feasibility study and shall be incorporated in the
tender documents for constructing the Long Term WWTP. As for the Emergency
treatment plant these requirements have also been incorporated, and are discussed
further in Chapter 8.
In summary, the design of the facilities incorporates the necessary provisions to
achieve the required disinfection levels of WHO standards. Safety requirements for
handling of Chlorine are incorporated in the project, nonetheless monitoring and
implementation of mitigation measures will be required to minimize potential health
hazards associated with Chlorine use.
5-20



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project       Environmental Assessment Report
5.7.6 Adverse Impacts Due to Operation of the Sewage Treatment Plant
One issue of concern regarding the operation of activated sludge plants is that of
aerosol production and the resultant public health impacts. Studies on the health
impact of wastewater facilities on surrounding populations have been inconclusive in
determining whether increased reporting rates of illness were significantly associated
with proximity to the plant or due to socio-economic factors.
A study of the distribution of heterotrophic bacteria in the vicinity of an unenclosed
activated wastewater sludge plant observed that only heterotrophic bacteria remained
at significantly higher than base-line densities beyond 250 m downwind from the
center of the aeration tanks. Furthermore, this study confirmed similar observations
that densities were higher at night, presumably due to the lack of the killing action of
sunlight.
Studies of treatment plant workers have produced no evidence to suggest that
exposure to sewage aerosols increase their risk of contracting an infectious disease.
It is reasonable to conclude therefore, that the operation of the Emergency and Long
Term treatment plants will not pose a risk to health of the operators or those who live
or work in the adjacent areas as the distance to the nearest development is more than
500m from the perimeter of each plant. Furthermore, the nearest developments near
the two plants are upwind. Also, workers will follow occupational health & safety
practices in addition to undergoing medical surveillance.
5.7.7 Adverse Impacts Due to Pests
Vermin act as vectors for human diseases, including salmonellosis (cockroaches),
malaria (mosquitoes), and leptospirosis (rodents).
It is considered that the project will have little impact on the prevalence of rodents
and cockroaches. Insects that enter the domestic environment may promote disease
transmission by moving fecal pathogens into houses and onto food. The actual
contribution to human disease via this route is unclear and the direct fecal-oral route is
the more probably major route of transmission.
The removal of human excreta from the immediate vicinity of domestic dwellings will
reduce the possibility that transmission of faecal pathogens directly to food may
occur. The control of human excreta will not eliminate the risk completely since
alternative breeding sites will exist. A program of insecticidal control will be required
to control the populations of flies and cockroaches. Preventing insects coming into
contact with human excreta should reduce the proportion of the populations which
5-21



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project      Environmental Assessment Report
harbor pathogens exclusively of faecal origin (such as poliovirus, Hepatitis A,
Shigella, Entamoeba histocylitica and the eggs of roundworms and hook-worms).
It is quite probable that flies will breed in the sludge storage areas. Such flies are not
migratory, and since there will be sufficient food in the sludge drying bays, they will
not usually spread further than 100 to 500 m from the breeding sites. Since there will
only be a small number of people working in the vicinity of the sludge drying beds
and hence, within the range of these flies, they are not expected to pose a significant
health hazard.
5.7.8 Adverse Impacts Due to Asbestos Cement Piping
Although this project does not include provision of asbestos cement piping,
nonetheless since the existing water supply network utilizes asbestos cement piping
adverse health impacts can arise from this material. Asbestos is a known human
carcinogen by the inhalation route. Therefore, if replacement of asbestos cement
piping is required, maximum health care should be provided to the workers to
minimize risk of asbestos inhalation. Furthermore, the tender documents of the project
shall explicitly disallow the purchase and installation of new asbestos piping, and
shall specify safety handling and replacement of such pipes.
5.8   Impacts on Climate
The impact of the project on regional and global climates will, almost certainly, be
negligible. Certain aspects of the scheme will however produce emissions of gases
which are believed to contribute to global warming. The treatment of sewage and
sludge at the STP will convert much of the organic matter in the sewage to methane
and carbon dioxide. It is estimated that some 900 m3/day of gas will be produced by
both plants at year 2027. At the Treatment plants, the methane produced will be used
as fuel to heat the digesters, converting it to carbon dioxide.
It should be recognized that this sewage currently decomposes anaerobically in
sewage wells through natural processes, producing similar quantities of methane and
carbon dioxide. Since methane has a contribution to global warming approximately 21
times that of carbon dioxide on a molecule-for-molecule basis (one molecule of
carbon is converted to one molecule of carbon dioxide), burning of the methane can
be considered as reducing any contribution from the sewage of Shiraz to global
warming.
However, the power consumed by the plant will be generated by burning fossil fuels
which produce carbon dioxide. The average power consumption of the two plants will
be 5 MW (over 24 hour days and seven day weeks). The emissions produced by the
5-22



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project       Environmental Assessment Report
generation of this additional power will be negligible in comparison with those
already produced by the country.
Transport requirements of both construction and operational phases will produce
emissions of carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide and nitrogen oxides. The quantities of
these will be small in comparison to those produced by the total vehicle usage in
Shiraz.
At the treatment plant sites, sizeable bodies of water will be exposed to the
atmosphere and evaporation will occur. The estimated evaporation rate at year 2027 is
8 mm/day. Therefore, it is unlikely to be a sizable variation on current evaporation
rates and so relative humidity will be unaffected.
In conclusion, it is considered unlikely that the project will have any significant
adverse effects on the local, regional or global climates.
5.9   Impacts on the Biological Environment
5.9.1 Impact on Habitats
The only part of the project which will cause a permanent loss of habitat is the Long
Term Treatment Plant. The land required has already been acquired by SWWC. The
site is currently barren and has little vegetation of any type. There is almost certainly
no flora or fauna of any value present. With regard to the Emergency WWTP, the first
phase is already under construction, and the impacts of these works on the biological
environment are discussed in Chapter 8.
Construction of the treatment plants provides considerable opportunity for ecological
enhancement at the vicinity of the two sites. Consideration has been given to the
planting of trees and shrubs around the site perimeters to provide visual & noise
screening, and a new habitat. The overall long term effect of the treatment plants on
the local flora and fauna could therefore, be positive.
5.9.2 Impact on protected species and habitats
No protected species have been recorded in the areas directly affected by the project.
As discussed in Chapter 4, some protected species are found in Bamoo Park; however
no project component is located in or near the Park.
5-23



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project       Environmental Assessment Report
5.9.3 Disturbance to Fauna
There is some evidence which suggests that certain construction activities can have
adverse effects on animals in the vicinity of the works. This issue will be applicable to
the components of the project constructed outside the city, such as the treatment
plants, and effluent outfalls. The possible disturbance effects of constructing these
works have been considered. Since the immediate area is almost devoid of animal life,
except for the variety of birds described for the Lake and its adjacent areas, it is
unlikely that there will be any disturbance as a result of constructing the works. While
in operation, the treatment plants will result in a slightly higher ambient noise level
around the site, but experience suggests that birds and other animals adapt to this and
suffer no adverse effects.
5.9.4 Indirect Ecological Effects Due to Improvements in Surface Water
Quality
Implementation of the project is predicted to lead to improvements in surface water
quality for Khoshk and Soltanabad rivers to which they discharge. The ecological
consequences of this are uncertain at this stage, but likely to be positive.
5.10 Impacts on Other Planned Developments
5.10.1 Plan for Management of Khoshk River
The objective of the Plan is to develop flood control facilities and improve the
aesthetic state of the river's surroundings. The project will have a positive impact on
this development as it will lead to reduction of contaminants such as, sediments,
degradable organics, fecal Coliforms and trace metals.
5.10.2 Plan for the development of Maharloo Lake Surroundings
The purpose of the plan is to attract tourists by constructing different recreational
facilities on the banks of Maharloo Lake. The project will have positive impact on this
planned development, since it will dramatically reduce all the pollution levels in the
lake by treating the contaminants currently discharged to the lake via the two seasonal
rivers of the city.
5.10.3 Urban Subway System:
The aim of this plan is to solve the structural and operational problems of the current
transportation system, due to the increased air pollution by developing and operating
an urban train network. During construction stage of the project interference with the
5-24



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project      Environmental Assessment Report
development of the subway system may occur. It is expected however, that all parties
concerned with development of the two projects coordinate the design and
construction of these works, in a manner to minimize this interference.
5.10.4 The Gharebagh Water Transfer Plan:
This development plan is aimed at providing irrigation water to three villages located
some 15 km south of the city. The present project will have a positive impact on this
development, as it will improve the quality of the waters being provided to these
villages. Furthermore, the project will improve the overall management of water
resources through the reuse program, which will reduce the over exploitation of the
ground water resources by the farmers.
5.10.5 The Water Supply Plan to Sarvestan Plain:
The Plan involves the supply of water from ground resources and surface resources of
Khoshk and Chenar Rivers to provide irrigation water for this vast plain. The project
will have a positive impact on the planned development as described in the previous
paragraph.
5.10.6 The Shiraz Industrial Zones
There is no impact by the project on this development. Water supply and sanitation
provisions for this development will be separate from the project works. On the other
hand these industrial zones will have their own central wastewater treatment facilities,
and therefore will contribute with the present project in improving the environmental
state of Shiraz city.
5.10.7 The Animal Husbandry Complex:
There is no impact by the project on this development. Water supply and sanitation
provisions for this development will be separate from the project works
5.11 Impacts due to Seismic Activities
Shiraz is located in a seismically active zone, with many earthquakes recorded in the
area. There are two faults at the distance of 27.5 Km north and 9 Km south from the
center of Mianrood (the closest epicenter to Shiraz).
In the event of an earthquake the potential impacts could be grave and have serious
repercussions on public health and on the environment. Water retaining structures,
such as sewage holding tanks and water reservoirs, can be severely damaged, and thus
5-25



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project       Environmental Assessment Report
result in discharge of their contents in an uncontrolled manner. Sewers can break to
discharge the sewage in the soil or in groundwater. All these conditions can create
health hazards to the public.
Potential impacts from seismic activities can only be mitigated by strict adherence to
earthquake codes, which should be implemented under extensive QA/QC procedures
during design and construction of the works. The project will include the Iranian Code
for Protection against Earthquake and other applicable codes in all tender documents.
Furthermnore, an earthquake emergency preparedness plan will be developed as
discussed in chapter 7.
5.12 Summary of Environmental Impacts
The likely direct and indirect environmental impacts of the project are summarized in
Table 5.1. The impacts are those predicted providing that suitable mitigative measures
are implemented. Although there are a number of negative impacts predicted, no
severe negative impacts are considered likely in the long term. In many cases,
predictions cannot be easily made and the implementation, monitoring and
effectiveness of mitigative measures will determine the significance of many impacts.
The major environmental issues are: (a) the impacts of effluent and sludge from their
reuse in agriculture and (b) potable water quality and quantity. The impacts could be
significant without appropriate mitigation measures but not greater than the baseline.
The quality of data available will be validated during project implementation.
5-26



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project             Environmental Assessment Report
Table 5.1 Summary of environmental impacts (Part A)
ENVIRONMETANL IMAPCT                       CONSTRUCTION         OPERATIONAL
SECTOR                                     PHASE                PHASE
Geographical          Change of land use   Slight negative      None
Environment           Relocation       of None                  None
population
Disturbance to people  Severe negative    None
Noise                Moderate negative    Insignificant
Vibration            Moderate negative    None
Odor                 None                 Slight negative
Visual impact        Moderate negative    Insignificant
Seismic Activity     Moderate Negative    Moderate Negative
Impact on traffic and  Severs negative    Insignificant
transportation
Social and Economic   Impact on population  None               Slight positive
Environment           levels
Impact           on  Positive             Positive
employment
Cultural Environment  Impact on historical Slight negative     Positive
and cultural sites and
buildings
Impact   on   public  None                None
l attitudes
Table 5.1 Summary of environmental impacts (Part B)
ENVIRONMETANL IMAPCT                           CONSTRUCTION OPERATIONAL
SECTOR              |                         PHASE               PHASE
Surface Waters        Sewer connections       None                Positive
Jubes, qanats and canals  None              Positive
Industrial discharges    None                Positive
Soltanabad  &   Khoshk   None                Positive
water quality          l                   l      _l
Soltanabad  &   Khoshk   None                Negative
water quantity          !                  l      _I
Water supply             None                Positive
Maharloo Lake            None                Positive
Hydrogeology          Groundwater resources    None               None
Groundwater quality      slight negative     Positive
Agriculture           Crop production          None               Positive
Fertilizer consumption   None                Positive
Soil quality             None                Slight negative
Crop quality             None                Slight negative
Impact  on   agricultural None               Positive
practices
Impact  on   agricultural None               None
workers                 !_I_                                  I
Impact  on   supply  of None                 Positive
irrigation water
5-27



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project            Environmental Assessment Report
Table 5.1 Summary of environmental impacts (Part C)
ENVIRONMETANL IMAPCT                            CONSTRUCTION OPERATIONAL
SECTOR                                          PHASE              PHASE
Health               General health impacts     None               Positive
Impact of agricultural use of None            Insignificant
treated effluent
Impact of agricultural use of None            Insignificant
sewage sludge
Impact  due   to  WWTP    None                None
effluent chlorination
Impact due to STP operation  None             None
Impact due to water supply  None              Positive
chlorination
Impact due to pests       None                Insignificant
Climate              Impact on local climate    None               Insignificant
Impact on global climate  None                Insignificant
Biological           Impact on habitats        Insignificant       Positive
environmental        Impact on protected species  None             None
and habitants
Disturbance to fauna & flora Insignificant    Positive
Ecological effects due to  None               Positive
improved   surface  water
quality
Other developments   Impact on management of None                  positive
Khoshk river
Impact on development of None                 Positive
Maharloo lake
Urban subway system       None                Positive
Impact on Gharebagh       None                Positive
Impact on water supply to  None               Positive
Sarvestan Plain
Impact on Shiraz Industrial None              Positive
Zones
Animal Husbandry complex  None                Positive
5-28



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project       Environmental Assessment Report
5.13  Major Adverse Impacts of the Project
Drinking Water Ouantity and Quality
Treated water quantity and quality should meet water demand as well as allowable
drinking water standards set by the Iranian Government and WHO. Among the
parameters of concern are the bacteriological contamination of the water, the
concentration level of nitrate, the presence of nitrite and the concentration of heavy
metals. In order to safeguard public health, it is imperative that regular monitoring of
raw and treated water at the treatment plant, storage reservoirs and in the distribution
network be implemented to ensure that drinking water quality limits are not exceeded.
Effluent Ouality
The effluent should be of acceptable quality so that it can be used in agriculture. This
means that the effluent quality should meet WHO quality guidelines for use in
agriculture. One of the major parameter of concern is the level of nematodes which
should be less than I egg per liter for water used in agriculture.
Sludge Ouality
Dried sludge will be used by farmers as soil conditioner or fertilizer. In such a case
the sludge quality will have to comply with the FAO, EU and WHO guidelines for the
use of sludge in agriculture including the limit of less than one intestinal nematode
egg per 100 gm of dry solids and the limits on the concentration of heavy metals. The
adopted treatment processes, the one year storage period, and the control of industrial
discharges to the sewage system would ensure that the WHO nematode standard and
EU and FAO guidelines on the level of toxic substances would not be exceeded the
for the use of sludge in agriculture.
Health & Safet
During the construction and operational phase, the project will have potential adverse
impacts on health and safety of workers and the public. Construction activities,
treatment plant operation, chlorination facilities, water supply systems, effluent and
sludge reuse applications can all cause health hazards and accidents. The provision of
workers training in safety procedures, public education, and the development of
emergency response procedures will mitigate health and safety impacts.
5-29



Shiraz Water Supply and Wastewater Project           Environmental Assessment Report
Cultural and Archeological Sites
Shiraz has many recorded archeological and historical sites of great cultural
significance. During construction, there are potential indirect impacts on existing
archeological sites due to vibration from drilling and compacting equipment; loss of
amenity due to dust, noise and visual intrusion.  Good construction practices,
implementation of special procedures prior to construction, and implementation of
Chance find procedures would mitigate most impacts to acceptable levels.
5-30






Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project      Environmental Assessment Report
6 Analysis ofAlternatives to the Proposed Project
The analysis of altematives to the proposed project is addressed separately for the two
main components of the project; (1) water supply and (2) wastewater collection and
treatment. The altematives considered for each component of the project are described
and compared to each other in terms of capital costs, operational costs, land
requirements, length of transmission lines, consumed energy, environmental impacts,
management needs, reliability of the process and local conditions.
6.1 Water Supply
6.1.1 Option 1: No Project
The "do nothing" option is that of continuing with the status-quo of using the present
water supply network. The present network comprises of transmission lines,
reservoirs, wells, and other components as described in chapter 2. The network
supplies 71,700 m3/day of surface water from Doroudzan dam and 261,800 m3/day
from 69 ground water wells. Out of the total number of operating wells, there are 16
wells that are located in the Alluvium aquifer inside the city while the others are
located in the Karstic aquifer. Wells located in the alluvium aquifer supply 40,600
m3/day of extremely hard water and will be soon put out of service. With increasing
water demand, this option would entail supplying water to part of the population by
the provision of day tanks and trucking water. This section compares this option with
the proposed project.
6.1.1.1 Water Resources
Due to the old and deteriorating network conditions considerable amount of water
(30% of total supply) is lost through damaged and leaking pipes, thus valuable water
resources are wasted.
6.1.1.2 Water Supply System Reliability
Due to incomplete network coverage, and leakage caused by excessive pressure build
up in some zones, water pressure is dropping and in many instances peak water
demands cannot be met.
6-1



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
6.1.1.3 Public Health
A number of current operating alluvium wells have hard water and contain sulphates,
fluoride, nitrates, thus delivering non-compliant water quality which can cause health
risks. Furthermore, the damaged transmission lines could very well be infiltrated by
contaminated ground water and wastewater resulting in increased cases of water
borne diseases.
6.1.1.4 Indirect Environmental Impacts
The substandard water quality and unreliability of the water supply system may cause
distress and frustration among the population. Furthermore, incidents due to
waterborne diseases would lead to negative indirect economic effects as described in
paragraph 6.1.1.7
6.1.1.5 Construction Impacts
Not constructing the water supply system would avoid many of adverse construction
impacts associated with the project within the city (such as noise, disturbance, traffic
interruption, and dust).
However hauling water would still be necessary, and as development increases water
transportation could cause disturbance to traffic. It would also cause noise impacts
associated with water pumping in heavily populated areas.
6.1.1.6 Management and Monitoring
Not constructing the water supply system would result in increased management
intervention to address low water quality and poor water distribution problems.
Furthermore, it would mean increased monitoring of well water quality, at source and
in the distribution system to prevent transmission of non-complying water.
The 'do nothing' alternative would also result in increased public health management
to address the increase in water borne disease cases.
6.1.1.7 Economic Analysis
The economic consequences of not implementing the project are associated with the
following:
* Cost of medication associated with water borne diseases
6-2



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project         Environmental Assessment Report
*  Cost of working days lost due to therapy which would be paid directly by
individuals and indirectly by the economy.
*  Cost of unaccounted for water, which increases the treatment costs and represents
lost revenues.
*  Indirect loss to economy associated with limitations on development, and thus
affecting internal investments
*  Direct costs associated with supplying water on individual basis through provision
of day water tanks and transporting water. These cost can be estimated by the
following:
o    Cost of 2 m3 water tanks is 400,000 Rials. Annual cost of water tank
operation and maintenance is 10% of the tank cost.
O    Cost of transportation per cubic meter of water is estimated at 7,000 Rials
o    The demand for water is assumed to be 94 litres per capita per day for the
purpose of calculating the costs arising from water supply by trucking
water.
Table 6.1 shows the associated costs of continuing with present methods of water
supply and not implementing the project, though many benefits and costs are difficult
to quantify. The total cost of not implementing the project, is estimated at 10,000
billion Rials. Costs for the provision of day water tanks, medicines, and working days
lost would be paid directly by individuals and indirectly by the economy. It should be
noted that many of the positive benefits from implementing the project such as
improved water supply quality, revenues from tariffs, and decreased maintenance
costs of the water supply system have not been included.
Table 6.1 Summary of Costs of not Implementing the Propos d Water Supply Project
No.                     Item
Net Present Value
Billion Rials  Million US
L____  _______________________________________________            Dollars
I    Medicines for water-borne and parasitic diseases    56.6           7.1
(assuming that 50% of the consumption of anti-
parasitic drugs in Shiraz is related to water-borne
disease.
2     Lost working days (assuming a daily income of      91.6           11.4
4,000 Rials, that currently one working day per
person per year is lost due to water-related disease
and that this would be reduced 25%       by
implementation of the proposed project).
3     Lost revenues and additional treatment cost of    453.2           56.7
l___ Unaccouted for water
4     Cost of day tanks and trucking water             9,476.5       1,184.6
TOTAL                               10,078        1,259.8
6-3



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
6.1.2 Option 2: Shiraz Water Supply Project
This option consists of digging new wells, construction of reservoirs, laying of
transmission lines, construction of water transfer pumping stations, network
expansion, rehabilitation of the old network, and installation of pressure regulating
valves. These works and their impacts are described in detail in Chapter 2. The main
benefits and drawbacks of this option are presented below:
6.1.2.1 Water Resources
The implementation of this project would conserve water resources by reduction of
unaccounted for water.
6.1.2.2 Water Supply System Reliability
This option would ensure that adequate water supplies will be available at all times in
the network by extending network coverage and regulating water pressure.
6.1.2.3 Water Supply Quality
The quality of the supply water will improve, since the project will phase out the
alluvium sources and rehabilitate the old network, thus ensuring good compliant water
quality, free of water borne diseases, with decreased hardness levels.
6.1.2.4 Public Health
As a result of the improved water quality, public health is expected to improve due to
a considerable decrease of water borne diseases.
6.1.2.5 Construction Impacts
The project will result in adverse construction impacts within the city (such as noise,
disturbance, traffic interruption, and dust). However these are of temporary nature,
limited to the construction period, and can be reduced by adopting adequate
mitigation measures.
6.1.3 Conclusions
The "no project" option would avoid the temporary environmental impacts of
installing pipelines and constructing reservoirs, however this option is rejected on the
grounds of economic cost and adverse long-term environmental and social impacts. It
would mean a whole city with poor water supply quality. Under such conditions
6-4



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
considerable adverse environmental impacts such as pollution, and poor health
conditions would increase and the prevailing environmental conditions will further
deteriorate.
Moreover, the economic benefits of the proposed project are greater than the cost of
not implementing it; taking into account revenues from tariffs for water supply, the
cost of the degradation of surface and ground water resources; the cost of treating
additional water quantities to compensate for the high unaccounted for water; the high
maintenance cost for the aged water supply system; lost working days due to water
related diseases; cost of medical treatment; and costs of water supply by tankers.
6.2 Wastewater Collection and Treatment
Currently a wastewater collection system has been implemented for a small part of
Shiraz serving about 8 percent of the City's population. The wastewater collected is
transferred to the Emergency WWTP, currently under construction, and is then
discharged to a nearby earth channel, which finally discharges to Maharloo Lake
without any treatment.
The remaining wastewater generated in the city is disposed of by on-site cesspits. Due
to the high level of ground water especially in the central and southem sections, the
geology and soil conditions, cesspits do not function properly and the ground water
has become polluted. Also in some regions where wastewater disposal by cesspits is
not possible, wastewater is discharged onto nearby lands or directly into Khoshk
River and the surrounding agricultural fields by tankers.
6.2.1 Option 1: No Project
The "do nothing" option is that of continuing with the status quo of using sewage
wells for sewage disposal, with no further construction of sewer networks. This
section compares this option with the proposed project.
6.2.1.1 Surface Water Pollution
This option would essentially lead to a continuation of the current surface and
groundwater problems described in Chapter 2 and Chapter 5. The situation can be
expected to deteriorate as the population of Shiraz (and particularly the population
density) increases. The sewage well system is so dispersed across the city that it
would be much more difficult to monitor and ensure levels of treatment.
The Khoshk and Soltanabad rivers, Qanats, and canals would continue to be polluted
by overflowing sewage wells and illicit discharges, and contain excessive quantities
6-5



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project        Environmental Assessment Report
of pathogenic micro-organisms, organic matter, solids and potentially toxic elements
such as heavy metals. The illicit uses of these water conduits would remain
hazardous, resulting in the contamination of crops irrigated by the polluted waters. It
is unlikely that all these practices could be eliminated.
The plan of relocation of polluting industrial sources outside Shiraz will result in a
decrease in industrial wastewater flows within the city, but some will remain. In many
cases provision of on-site treatment would be difficult and failure to provide this
service would result in pollution of canals or groundwater.
The water quality of Maharloo lake will continue to deteriorate; heavy metal build up,
organic loads, and other pollutants will accumulate to cause sever damage to the
lake's ecosystem and to destroy the little aquatic life that remains in the lake. Due to
heavy metal build up, salt extraction operations for industrial purposes transmit health
risks to those working in this industry or the end users of the salt.
6.2.1.2 Groundwater
Groundwater levels would continue to rise, causing increased building damage and
waterlogging. Of particular concern are the historical monuments of Shiraz, which are
vulnerable to damage by increasing water table levels. Avoidance of waterlogging
would require greatly increased expenditure on pumping to lower the water table and
may not be feasible. Pollution of groundwater would also continue to increase,
particularly from ammonia and nitrate nitrogen. This would either pose increased
health hazards to consumers or reduce the quantities of water available for drinking,
for public baths, etc.
6.2.1.3 Agriculture
The lack of treated sewage effluent for re-use in irrigation of crops on the nearby
agricultural lands would result in the continuous state of using untreated sewage,
pausing health hazards to workers and consumers alike. The loss of opportunity to use
treated sludge in agriculture, would result in continued use of commercial fertilizers at
higher costs to the local farmers.
6-6



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project      Environmental Assessment Report
6.2.1.4 Health
Incidences of water-related diseases such as ascariasis and shigellosis in Shiraz could
be expected to remain high or even increase as the population increases. The costs of
working days lost and remedial drugs consumed would remain high.
6.2.1.5 Construction Impacts
Not constructing the sewer network would avoid many of the adverse construction
impacts associated with the project within the city (such as noise, disturbance, traffic
interruption, and dust). The Long Term WWTP site would be free for other uses, and
the high costs of concrete & steel requirements associated with construction aspects
would be avoided.
However the regular and widespread construction of sewage wells would still be
necessary. This would cause localized disturbances, such as odours and flooding at
locations of high water table, and produce spoil which would need to be disposed of.
Though the WWTP site would not be needed for this option, a sizeable area of land
within the city itself would be required for on-site sewage treatment. Considering land
is much cheaper at the WWTP sites, the "do nothing" option would actually lead to
inefficient use of land with consequential economic losses.
6.2.1.6 Management and Monitoring
Not constructing the wastewater collection and treatment system would result in
increased management intervention to address health related issues because of
waterborne diseases. Furthermore, it would mean increased monitoring of Maharloo
Lake, Khoshk and Soltanabad Rivers to manage the contaminant levels in these
surface water bodies.
The no project alternative would also result in increased public health management to
address the increase in water borne diseases cases.
6.2.1.7 Economic Analysis
The economic consequences of not implementing the project are associated with the
following:
Cost of treating illnesses associated with water borne diseases caused by discharge of
raw sewage, such as diarrhoea, hepatitis type A, etc
6-7



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
Cost of working days lost due to therapy which would be paid directly by individuals
and indirectly by the economy.
* Cost of using alternative irrigation sources instead of treated effluent
* Cost of using fertilizers instead of treated sludge
* Indirect costs of water treatment due to nitrates
* Costs of polluting water resources (eventual clean up and monitonrng)
* Indirect loss to economy associated with limitations on development, and thus
affecting internal investments
* Direct costs associated with the current system through provision of cesspools
with regular spoil disposal by tankers. These cost can be estimated by the
following:
o Cost of digging the cesspits is 1,000,000 Rials. Cost of cesspit operation and
maintenance is estimated at 80,000 Rials per year
o Cost of emptying the cesspit is 220,000 Rials
Table 6.2 shows the costs of continuing with present methods of sewage disposal and
not implementing the project, though many benefits and costs are difficult to quantify.
Costs for the provision of sewage wells, medicines, and working days lost would be
paid directly by individuals and indirectly by the economy. It should be noted that
many of the positive benefits from implementing the project such as improved surface
water quality and decreased competition for water resources between public
consumption and agriculture have not been included.
6.2.1.8 Conclusions
This option is rejected on the grounds of both economic cost and adverse
environmental impacts (on water resources, surface water quality, groundwater levels
and quality and health).
6-8



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project            Environmental Assessment Report
Table 6.2 Summarv of Costs of not Implementing the Proposed Sanitation Project
Net Present Value
No.                              Item                                Billion  Million
Rials    US$
Medicines for water-borne and parasitic diseases (assuming that 50%
1   of the consumption of anti-parasitic drugs in Shiraz is related to water- 56.6  7.07
borne disease.
Lost working days (assumning a daily income of 40,000 Rials, that currently
2   0.5 working day per person per year is lost due to water-related disease, and  91.6  11.4
this would be reduced 25% by the implementation of the project)
Use of other water sources for irrigation of agricultural lands (40  65.3   8.16
L   Mm3/yr at 65 Rials/m3).
Use of artificial fertilizer instead of sludge on agricultural lands
(assuming a market value of 10,000 rials/m3).                 9.2_____
5   Cost of constructing & operating cesspits                      2,891.3  361.4
6   Total                                                            3,114  38918
6.3  Alternative Treatment Processes
This project has adopted the complete mix activated sludge treatment process for both
the Emergency WWTP and the Long Term WWTP. In this section the alternative
processes investigated in the feasibility study shall be explored and compared to each
other in terms of technical performance, costs, and environmental impact. As the
Emergency WWTP is currently under construction the alternatives were developed
for the Long Term WWTP; as such the discussion here will be limited to the Long
term WWTP. The design performance of the different alternatives shall be those
developed by the feasibility study of having an ultimate design capacity of 248,100
m3/day at an influent wastewater concentration of BOD5 250 mg/l and TSS
concentration of 315 mg/I. The effluent design criteria adopted is 20 mg/l for BOD5
and 30 mg/l for TSS.
6.3.1 Complete Mix Activated Sludge Plant
Under this option, the plant is designed to produce secondary effluent quality for
reuse in agriculture following disinfection. The sludge treatment scheme is designed
to have sludge quality suitable for reuse in agriculture. The complete process
description of the plant and relevant design parameters is included in Chapter 2 and
can also be reviewed from the feasibility study. The main features and design
performance of the plant are presented below.
It is to be noted that due to the multiple arrangement of the modules, and the inherent
property of the activated sludge process to handle variable load conditions, the system
has high flexibility, compared to other systems.
6-9



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project      Environmental Assessment Report
6.3.1.1 System Design
The design is comprised of five modules, each having a capacity of 50,000 m3/day
and consisting of:
*  The inlet works; comprising of lift station, two aerated grit chambers 30 m2 each
*  Four primary clarifiers 20 m diameter
*  Four anaerobic selector units 78 m2 each by 5 m depth.
*  Four aeration tanks 10,800 m3 each and 4 m deep
*  Four sedimentation tanks 30 m diameter each
*  Chlorine tank in two compartments, 780 m3 each
*  Chlorination equipment
*  Sludge blending tank 223 m3, 9 m diameter
*  Two sludge thickeners 14 m diameter
*  Four anaerobic digesters 1600 m3 capacity, 15 m diameter each
*  Biogas storage tank 50 m2
*  Dewatering plant consisting of belt filters having a capacity of 7200 kg/day
*  Total built up area 10 ha
*  Total installed power 3100 kw
*  Lime Consumption: 6110 tons/year
*  Chlorine Consumption: 677 tons/year
*  Polymer Consumption: 71.4 tons/year
*  BOD5 removal efficiency 88%
*  Sludge concentration following dewatering 25%
Also the design includes for a sludge storage area of 20 Ha for compliance with WHO
standards; for the purpose of this chapter sludge storage area requirements for the
different altematives shall not be investigated. However, various treatment processes
will have different sludge production rates requiring different sludge storage areas.
Sludge production by the complete mix activated sludge process is highest among all
other altemative processes, and thus would require the largest drying area. In all
instances, the total land requirement by the complete mix activated sludge system
would still be the smallest as will be demonstrated in the proceeding paragraphs.
6-10



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project      Environmental Assessment Report
6.3.1.2 Proposed Site and Ground Conditions
The total land area required for the above option is about 25 hectares (800 m by 300
m) as shown on Drawing No. SWWS -IR-40, annex C.
6.3.1.3 Power
Power consumption would be 16,000,000 KWh per annum. There would be 2 diesel
standby generators giving a total output of 1.2 MW to provide sufficient power for
operation of the essential plant and equipment during any power supply failures.
6.3.1.4 Quantities of Treated Sludge for Disposal
The above system should produce a pathogen-free sludge cake containing about 25%
dry solids before long term drying. The expected volume of sludge for disposal is
46,800 cubic meters per year (12,400 dry tonnes per year, or a weight including water
of about 49,600 tonnes per year).
6.3.1.5 Materials
The construction of the wastewater treatment plant would involve 150,000 m3
excavation, 161,000 m3 of concrete and 14,000 tons of steel.
6.3.1.6 Staffing
The wastewater treatment plant would require highly experienced personnel for
operating it. From the technical point of view a plant manager would be required,
operations manager, maintenance manager, chemist, electrical and mechanical
foremen. Other staff would be required for administrative purposes as well as
technicians, helpers, security, etc. Thus relatively large number of personnel will be
required due to:
*  Expertise required for process control
*  Continuous monitoring of process control parameters
*  Regular preventive maintenance and periodic maintenance operations due to the
large number of electro-mechanical equipment.
*  Regular operating jobs for running the plant particularly chemical operations and
machinery adjustment and checking.
6-11



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project        Environmental Assessment Report
6.3.1.7 Schedule
The facility is expected to be developed in stages. The total construction time is
estimated at 10.5 years.
6.3.1.8 Impact on Local Population
The impacts of disturbance, noise, and dust on the area adjacent to the site would be
moderate since the site is located some 1 km from the planned industrial zone.
Residential areas would not be affected since the closest village is some 3 km away.
Potential odour emissions may occur from the preliminary treatment operations and
from thickeners. Careful operation of the plant will minimize the odour emissions and
will keep them localized to the site at acceptable levels. Impact of odours on
residential areas and nearby development is not foreseen.
6.3.1.9 Impacts on the Cultural Environment
No negative impact is anticipated.
6.3.1.10     Impacts on Surface Waters
The overall effect of the plant is to improve the surface quality of the City's rivers and
Maharloo Lake, which receive considerable pollutants from domestic sources. Due to
the high efficiency of the activated sludge process, the impact of the residual
constituents on the lake's waters during the wet season is marginal as described in
chapter 5.
6.3.1.11 Impacts on Groundwater
It is unlikely that any appreciable fluids be discharged from the plant to the ground,
since all process water, including effluent are conveyed in pipes or lined conduits.
6.3.1.12 Impacts on Agriculture
Local farmers and those involved in the agricultural sector would benefit
tremendously from the development of the treatment plant due to the availability of
good quality irrigation water and treated sludge for reuse as a fertilizer. As described
in earlier chapters it is anticipated that 2900 hectares per year would benefit from
effluent reuse and 1550 hectares would benefit from sludge reuse.
6-12



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
6.3.1.13 Impacts on Health
Impacts on health would be restricted to those who are attending the sight. Although
the plant will be designed to include all required safety provisions, but like any other
development facility involving chemical use, electrical power, process water, etc there
is slight risk to health due to negligence. There maybe a minor impact on health due
to aerosols caused by the action of the diffused aerators. Careful compliance with
safety procedures would ensure that accidents are minimal.
6.3.1.14 Impacts on Climate
The predicted evaporation losses are small in comparison to the atmospheric water
cycle and would have little impact on climate as discussed in chapter 5.
6.3.1.15 Impacts on the Biological Environment
There are no known protected or important species of flora or fauna which are likely
to be affected by the construction of the activated sludge system.
6.3.1.16 Construction and Operational Costs
The construction and operation costs are shown in detail in the proceeding sections.
However it is important to point out to the following:
*  The complete mix activated sludge system requires less land compared to other
systems, accordingly the cost of land is the least compared with other treatment
technologies.
*  Operating personnel would have to be highly trained and in sufficient numbers to
run the plant, therefore human resources cost will be higher than other systems.
*  Plant operation and maintenance will be higher than other systems since the
process is energy intensive and require continuous chemical addition. Furthermore
spare parts costs and replacement costs will be higher due to the electrical
machinery involved.
*  Capital cost is relatively high due to the electro mechanical parts and quantity of
concrete civil works.
6.3.2 Sewage Treatment Using Waste Stabilization Ponds
The feasibility study considered the use of waste stabilization ponds for proposed
project instead of the conventional activated sludge process. Under this option, the
construction of the sewer network, and the incoming main trunk to the plant would be
the same as for the proposed project. Waste stabilization ponds are a series of shallow
6-13



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project      Environmental Assessment Report
earthen basins through which sewage flows without mechanical aeration or mixing.
The ponds would be used instead of the treatment plant at WWTP.
6.3.2.1 System Design
A waste stabilization pond system designed for Stage I flows would consist of:
* An inlet works as for the proposed project;
* 40 anaerobic ponds 60 m by 60 m by 4 m deep;
* 60 facultative ponds 290 m by 140 m by 2 m deep;
* Chlorination equipment as for the proposed project.
* Total built up area 275 ha
* Total installed power 650 kw
* Chlorine Consumption: 677 tons/year
* BOD5 removal efficiency 88%
Sludge would be produced in the anaerobic ponds. These would be operated on a 4
year rotation, with 9 of these in operation at a time and 3 used for storing sludge for
one year per module. The anaerobic ponds would be lined with concrete to facilitate
the removal of sludge. The facultative ponds embankments would be protected with
concrete to prevent erosion due to wave action and to prevent the growth of
vegetation at water level. Also the bottom of the facultative ponds would be concreted
to prevent seepage due to the high water table. Sludge thickening and digestion
equipment would not be needed.
6.3.2.2 Proposed Site
The total land area required for the above option is about 275 hectares (2700 m by
1000 m). The proposed site of the Long Term Wastewater treatment plant is
inadequate for this.
6.3.2.3 Pathogen Removal
Stabilization ponds normally include maturation ponds for reduction of pathogenic
organism, such as faecal bacteria and viruses. In this instance, the feasibility study did
not include maturation ponds; hence chlorination of the treated effluent would be
required all year long.
The design criteria for waste stabilization ponds assume that the WHO standard of
less than one intestinal nematode egg per litre will be achieved. Evidence from
6-14



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project      Environmental Assessment Report
investigations of operational waste stabilization pond systems indicates that the
necessary degree of helminthes removal will be achieved provided that the design
criteria are observed. The total retention time of the proposed system, 22 days, is
sufficient for the removal of intestinal nematode eggs without tertiary treatment.
6.3.2.4 Power
The total installed power requirement for works including the effluent pumping
station would be 650 kW. Power consumption would be 7000 MWh per annum. The
stabilization pond system requires the least amount of power among all the
alternatives.
6.3.2.5 Evaporation from Waste Stabilization Ponds
The total surface area of water across the site envisaged for 2027 design year is over
244 hectares, so a considerable quantity of water could be lost by evaporation. Taking
rainfall into account, it is predicted that 4.3 Mm3 of water would be lost each year (a
mean of 19,000 m3/d or 9 % of the total flow). Perhaps more seriously, the predicted
mean daily water loss during the month of peak irrigation water requirement, June, is
57,000 m3/d, or 27 % of the total raw sewage flow.
Thus the predicted average yearly effluent flow from the waste stabilization pond
system is 231,000 m3/day, about 91 % of the raw sewage flow.
6.3.2.6 Quantities of Treated Sludge for Disposal
The above system should produce a pathogen-free sludge cake containing about 50%
dry solids. The expected volume of sludge for disposal is 40,000 cubic meters per
year; which is less than the sludge production of the proposed project by 15%.
6.3.2.7 Materials
The waste stabilization pond WWTP would require 2,800,000 m3 of excavation,
315,000 m3 of concrete and 14,000 tonnes of steel. The ponds would have to be
constructed partly above ground due to the shallow water table. There would be
considerably lower requirement for imported specialized equipment than for the
proposed project.
Among the alternatives investigated, this system would require the least manpower
involvement and expertise. Nonetheless professional staff would still be required,
which would include plant manager, maintenance manager, chemist, electrical and
6-15



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project      Environmental Assessment Report
mechanical foremen. Other staff would be required for administrative purposes as
well as technicians, helpers, security, etc. The main tasks of the plant personnel would
be:
*  Periodic process control
*  Continuous monitoring of process control parameters
*  Regular preventive maintenance and periodic maintenance operations of influent
pumping system
*  Regular operating jobs for running the plant
6.3.2.8 Schedule
The timescale for construction of the system would be 10 years in five stages
6.3.2.9 Impact on Local Population
It is not envisaged that this treatment plant would cause relocation of people or cause
major disturbance to the residents of nearest community since the closest village is 3
km from the plant. However, considering the vast area of land that that this system
requires, and due to flies, odors, as discussed below, potential impacts on the intended
development of the industrial zone will occur.
Given the nature of the soil and the climate, dust may be a problem to the industrial
zone to be developed during construction. Given the scale of the proposed project, it
may be difficult to control dust nuisance.
Anaerobic and facultative waste stabilization ponds can produce strong odors,
particularly hydrogen Sulphide, if they are operated at incorrect loadings. The designs
presented above use loading rates which should avoid this problem.
6.3.2.10 Impacts on the Cultural Environment
The impact on the cultural environment would be the same is that for the project.
6.3.2.11 Impacts on Surface Waters
The impact on Maharloo Lake could be higher than that of the project, since algae
may grow in the ponds, if not properly controlled, and consequently be discharged via
the effluent in the lake. This will cause a visual impact to the lake, and odor nuisance.
Although effluent total dissolved solids concentration in stabilization ponds, would be
higher than that of the project due to evaporation losses; however the total mass
6-16



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project      Environmental Assessment Report
loading rate would be nearly the same, since the flow quantities are reduced.
Therefore dissolved solids impact on the lake would be the same as that of the project.
6.3.2.12 Impacts on Groundwater
The feasibility study has considered the stabilization ponds to be lined, hence it is
unlikely that any appreciable fluids be discharged from the plant to the ground, since
all process water, including effluent are conveyed in pipes or lined conduits.
If sludge is stored on site temporarily or for long term, care will have to be taken to
ensure that leachate does not pollute any adjoining water course or groundwater.
6.3.2.13 Impacts on Agriculture
Evaporation and seepage from the ponds would result in a smaller quantity of effluent
being available for irrigation, and hence, smaller agricultural benefits than for the
proposed project. Also it should be noted that due to evaporation, the salinity levels in
the effluent would be higher, and therefore the quality of the irrigation water would be
inferior to that of the project.
6.3.2.14 Impact on Health
The possibility that species of Culex mosquitoes may use the open tracts of water as
breeding sites has been considered in the design criteria for the use of the waste
stabilization pond system. Mosquito larvae require still water to allow their
development. The only parts of ponds which can provide such an environment are the
banks which become covered with debris or overgrown with grass or emergent
vegetation. Mosquito nuisance can be avoided by the instigation of suitable
maintenance procedures (regular cutting of grass around ponds and removal of debris)
6.3.2.15 Impacts on Climate
Though the predicated evaporation loss is a significant part of the sewer flow, it is
thought that these quantities are small in comparison to the atmospheric water cycle
and would have little impact on climate.
6.3.2.16 Impacts on the Biological Environment
There are no known protected or important species of flora or fauna affected by the
construction of the ponds.
6-17



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
6.3.2.17 Technical Performance
The stabilization pond system is not subject to shock loads due to the considerable
water body available, and as such the system has higher reliability than the proposed
project in this respect. However the system is very much temperature dependent with
decreased efficiencies during the colder months. Therefore under unexpected
sustained low temperatures that are below design values, the plant effluent quality
would deteriorate.
6.3.2.18 Land use
Given the large area that has to be developed for the project, large areas of good
agricultural lands will have to be acquired.
6.3.2.19 Visual Impact & landscape structure
Due to the large areas required and due to shallow water table, most of the ponds will
have to be built above grade. Since the site is flat the ponds will be built on fill
material, and thus will be visible from a distance, and will cause a marked change in
the original landscape structure.
6.3.2.20 Costs
The construction and operation costs are shown in detail in the proceeding sections.
However it is important to point out to the following:
*  The stabilization pond system has the highest land requirements among the
alternatives.
*  Operating skills for the stabilization system are the least demanding among the
other systems due to system's operational simplicity.
*  Mechanical equipment is minimal for this system. Thus capital costs are lower
than the activated sludge system, and the aerated lagoon system.
6.3.3 Sewage Treatment Using Aerated Lagoons
The feasibility study considered the use of aerated lagoons for the proposed project
instead of the conventional activated sludge process. Under this option, the
construction of the sewer network, and the incoming main trunk to the plant would be
same as for the proposed project. Aerated lagoons are series of shallow earthen basins
through which sewage flows within mechanical aeration.
6-18



Shiraz Water Supplv and Sanitation Project     Environmental Assessment Report
6.3.3.1 System Design
An aerated lagoon system designed for the proposed Long term capacity would
consist of:
* An inlet works as for the proposed project;
* 45 aerated lagoons 153 m by 153 m by 3.3 m deep;
* 15 sedimentation basins 175 m by 153 m by 2.5 m deep;
* 15 polishing ponds 153 m by 135 m by 1.6 m deep; and
* Chlorination equipment as for the proposed project.
* Total built up area 180 ha
*  Total installed power 11650 kw
* Chlorine Consumption: 677 tons/year
* BOD5 removal efficiency 91%
Sludge would accumulate in the sedimentation basins. These would be operated on a
4 year rotation, with 12 of these in operation at a time and 3 used for storing sludge
for one year. The aerated lagoons will be lined with concrete to prevent scouring. The
sedimentation basins would be lined with concrete to facilitate the removal of sludge.
The polishing ponds embankments would be protected with concrete to prevent
erosion due to wave action and to prevent the growth of vegetation at water level.
Also the bottom of the polishing ponds would be concreted to prevent seepage due to
the high water table. Sludge thickening and digestion equipment would not be needed.
Also the generated sludge quantities are considerably lower than those generated by
the proposed project.
6.3.3.2 Proposed Site
The total land area required for the above option is about 180 hectares (1500 m by
1200 m). The proposed site of the Long Term Wastewater treatment plant is
inadequate for this.
6.3.3.3 Power
The total installed power requirements for the entire plant works including the
influent pumping station would be 11,650 kW. Power consumption would be 107,000
MWh per annum, which is much higher than that of the proposed project.
6-19



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project      Environmental Assessment Report
6.3.3.4 Evaporation and Seepage from Aerated Lagoons
The total surface area of water across the site envisaged for the ultimate Design is
over 180 hectares, so a considerable quantity of water could be lost by evaporation.
Taking rainfall into account, it is predicted that 4.5 Mm3 of water would be lost each
year (5 % of the total flow).
Thus the predicted effluent flow from the waste stabilization pond system is 236,000
m3/d that is 95 % of the raw sewage flow.
6.3.3.5 Quantities of Treated Sludge for Disposal
The above system should produce a pathogen-free sludge cake containing about 50%
dry solids. The expected volume of sludge for disposal is 148,000 cubic meters per
four year (74,000 dry tonnes per four year), which is less than the sludge production
of the proposed project by 21%.
6.3.3.6 Materials
The aerated lagoon WWTP would require 2,237,000 m3 excavation, 23,000 m3 of
concrete and 10,000 tons of steel.
6.3.3.7 Staffing
The wastewater treatment plant would require less experienced personnel for its
operation than the proposed project. In comparison with the stabilization pond, the
level of staff experience would be more. Therefore, professional staff would still be
required, which would include plant manager, maintenance manager, chemist,
electrical and mechanical foremen. Other staff would be required for administrative
purposes as well as technicians, helpers, security, etc. The main tasks of the plant
personnel would be:
*  Periodic process control
*  Continuous monitoring of process control parameters
*  Regular preventive maintenance and periodic maintenance operations of electro-
mechanical equipment.
* Regular operating jobs for running the plant
6-20



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project     Environmental Assessment Report
6.3.3.8 Schedule
The timescale for construction of the system would be as for the waste stabilization
pond option.
6.3.3.9 Impact on Local Population
The impacts of relocation, disturbance, noise, and dust on the plant vicinity area
would be similar to those described for the waste stabilization pond option, though not
as large, since a smaller area of land would be required.
The most likely source of odour would be the decomposition of settled sludge in
sedimentation basins. The minimum water depth above the sludge layer must be at
least 1.8 m in warm climates. This figure would be accommodated in the design of
ponds in this location, so odour nuisance is unlikely to be of concern.
6.3.3.10 Impacts on the Cultural Environment
These would be the same as for the waste stabilization pond option.
6.3.3.11 Impacts on Surface Waters
The impact of the aerated lagoon on this Maharloo Lake would be marginally less
than that caused by the proposed project due to the slight increase in system
efficiency. However in the instance algae growth is not controlled at the plant, this
issue could cause a visual impact to the lake.
6.3.3.12 Impacts on Groundwater
Impacts on groundwater would be same as for the waste stabilization pond option.
6.3.3.13 Impacts on Agriculture
Evaporation from the maturation ponds would result in a slightly smaller quantity of
effluent being available for irrigation, and hence, smaller agricultural benefits than for
the proposed project.
6.3.3.14 Impacts on Health
The risk of mosquito breeding in sedimentation basins and polishing ponds could be
avoided by the instigation of suitable maintenance procedures (regular cutting of grass
6-21



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project      Environmental Assessment Report
around ponds and removal of debris). All health benefits within Shiraz would be same
as for the proposed project.
6.3.3.15 Impacts on Climate
The predicted evaporation losses are small in comparison to the atmospheric water
cycle and would have little impact on climate.
6.3.3.16 Impacts on the Biological Environment
There are no known protected or important species of flora or fauna which are likely
to be affected by the construction of the aerated lagoon system.
6.3.3.17 Technical Performance
The lagoon system is not subject to shock loads due to the considerable available
water body, and as such the system has higher reliability than the proposed project.
However the system is very much temperature dependent with decreased efficiencies
during the colder months. Therefore under unexpected sustained low temperatures
that are below design values, the plant effluent quality would deteriorate.
6.3.3.18 Land use
Given the large area that has to be developed for the project, large areas of good
agricultural lands will have to be acquired; however these would be less than
stabilization ponds.
6.3.3.19 Visual Impact & landscape structure
Due to the large areas required and due to shallow water table, most of the lagoons
will have to be built above grade. Since the site is flat the lagoons will be built on fill
material, and thus will be visible from a distance, and the original landscape structure
will be changed. In this instance, however the anticipated impact will be less than that
for the stabilization ponds.
6.3.3.20 Costs
The construction and operation costs are shown in detail in the proceeding sections.
However it is important to point out to the following:
* The lagoon system requires less land compared to the stabilization pond, but more
land than the proposed project and the DPMC.
6-22



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project      Environmental Assessment Report
*  Operating personnel would have to be professionally trained and in sufficient
numbers to run the plant, therefore human resources cost will be higher than
stabilization ponds, but less than the proposed project.
*  Mechanical equipment is comprised of surface aerators and pumps. Therefore
plant operation and maintenance requirements will be less than those for the
proposed project, but greater than those for stabilization ponds. The energy
consumption however will be higher than both activated sludge system and
stabilization ponds.
* Capital cost is the highest among the alternatives due to the mechanical equipment
cost and extensive construction requirements.
6.3.4 Dual Power Multi Cellular Lagoon System (DPMC)
The feasibility study considered the use of DPMC system which is a variation of the
aerated lagoon system. It involves the use of complete mixed aerated lagoons in series
with facultative lagoons followed by polishing lagoons. Under this option, the
construction of the sewer network, and the incoming main trunk to the plant would be
same as for the proposed project.
6.3.4.1 System Design
A DPMC system designed for the proposed Long term capacity would consist of:
*  An inlet works as for the proposed project;
*  15 complete mix lagoons 107 m by 107 m by 3 m deep;
*  30 facultative partial mix lagoons 107 m by 155 m by 2.5 m deep;
*  15 polishing ponds 156 m by 107 m by 2 m deep; and
*  Chlorination equipment as for the proposed project.
*  Total built up area 95 ha
*  Total installed power 1590 kw
*  Chlorine Consumption: 677 tons/year
*  BOD5 removal efficiency 90%
Sludge would accumulate in the facultative lagoons. These would be operated on a
four year rotation, with 6 of these in operation at a time and 2 used for storing sludge
for one year. The aerated and facultative lagoons will be lined with concrete to
prevent scouring. The polishing ponds embankments would be protected with
concrete to prevent erosion due to wave action and to prevent the growth of
vegetation at water level. Also the bottom of the polishing ponds would be concreted
to prevent seepage due to the high water table. Sludge thickening and digestion
6-23



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project      Environmental Assessment Report
equipment would not be needed as they would occur in the facultative lagoons. Also
the generated sludge quantities are considerably lower than those generated by the
proposed project.
6.3.4.2 Proposed Site and Ground Conditions
The total land area required for the above option is about 95 hectares (1200 m by 800
m). The proposed site of the Long Term Wastewater treatment plant is inadequate for
this.
6.3.4.3 Power
The total installed power requirements for the entire plant works including the
influent pumping station would be 1590 kW. Power consumption would be 43,000
MWH per annum, much higher than for the proposed project.
6.3.4.4 Evaporation from Aerated Lagoons
The total surface area of water across the site envisaged for the ultimate Design is
over 92 hectares, so a considerable quantity of water could be lost by evaporation, but
would remain less than the aerated lagoons. Taking rainfall into account, it is
predicted that 2.6 Mm3 of water would be lost each year (2 % of the total flow).
Thus the predicted effluent flow from the waste stabilization pond system is 245,000
m3/d, which amounts to 98 % of the raw sewage flow.
6.3.4.5 Quantities of Treated Sludge for Disposal
The above system should produce a pathogen-free sludge cake containing about 50%
dry solids. The expected volume of sludge for disposal is 148,000 cubic meters per
year (74,000 dry tonnes per year), which is equal to the sludge volumes produced in
the lagoon system and smaller than the sludge production of the project by 21 %
6.3.4.6 Materials
The DPMC WWTP would require 875,000 m3 excavation, 120,000 m3 of concrete
and 7200 tons of steel.
6.3.4.7 Staffing
The wastewater treatment plant would require less experienced personnel for its
operation than the proposed project. The personnel at the DPMC would be similar to
6-24



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project     Environmental Assessment Report
those at the aerated lagoons, and the tasks that would be conducted will generally be
of the same complexity.
6.3.4.8 Schedule
The timescale for construction of the system would be less than that for the waste
stabilization pond option by nearly two years.
6.3.4.9 Impact on Local Population
The impacts of relocation, disturbance, noise, and dust on the plant vicinity area
would be similar to those described for the waste stabilization pond and aerated
lagoon option, though not as large, since a smaller area of land would be required.
The most likely source of odour would be the decomposition of settled sludge in
facultative lagoons. The minimum water depth above the sludge layer must be at least
1.8 m in warm climates. This figure would be accommodated in the design of ponds
in this location, so odour nuisance is unlikely to be of concem.
6.3.4.10 Impacts on the Cultural Environment
These would be as for the waste stabilization pond option.
6.3.4.11 Impacts on Surface Waters
The impact of the DPMC on the surface waters of Maharloo Lake will be very similar
to that of the aerated lagoon; however evaporation from this system would be less due
to the smaller surface areas.
6.3.4.12 Impacts on Groundwater
Impacts on groundwater would be same as for aerated lagoon option.
6.3.4.13 Impacts on Agriculture
Evaporation and seepage from the maturation ponds would result in a slightly smaller
quantity of effluent being available for irrigation, and hence, smaller agricultural
benefits than for the proposed project.
6.3.4.14 Impacts on Health
The risk of mosquito breeding in maturation ponds could be avoided by the
instigation of suitable maintenance procedures (regular cutting of grass around ponds
6-25



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
and removal of debris). This risk is less than that of the aerated lagoon system due to
the smaller areas. All health benefits within Shiraz would be same as for the proposed
project.
6.3.4.15 Impacts on Climate
The predicted evaporation losses are small in comparison to the atmospheric water
cycle and would have little impact on climate.
6.3.4.16 Impacts on the Biological Environment
There are no known protected or important species of flora or fauna which are likely
to be affected by the construction of the aerated lagoon system.
6.3.4.17 Technical Performance
The DPMC is very similar in performance to the aerated lagoon system.
6.3.4.18 Land use
The impact on land use would be much smaller than that of aerated lagoons due to the
smaller site area.
6.3.4.19 Visual Impact
Similar to aerated lagoons, this system will cause visual impact, however to a much
smaller scale due to the smaller land area requirement.
6.3.4.20 Costs
The construction and operation costs are shown in detail in the proceeding section.
However it is important to point out to the following:
*  The lagoon system requires less land compared to the stabilization pond and
aerated lagoons, but more land than the proposed project.
*  Operating personnel requirement would be very similar to the aerated lagoon
option.
*  Mechanical equipment is comprised of surface aerators and pumps. Therefore
plant operation and maintenance requirements will be less than those for the
proposed project, but greater than those for stabilization ponds. The energy
consumption will be higher than the proposed project and the stabilization ponds.
*  Capital cost will be the lowest among the altematives
6-26



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project        Environmental Assessment Report
6.3.5 Comparison of Sewage Treatment Process Alternatives
The feasibility study contains an economic analysis of four sewage treatment options;
the proposed project using a conventional activated sludge system and the three
processes described in the preceding sections. A summary of the financial analysis,
using market prices currently ruling in Iran, is presented in Table 6.3. These costs
include the provision of WWTPs themselves and provision for effluent and sludge
reuse. Also the recurrent costs considered include power, staffing, consumables. The
benefits are those accruing from production of irrigation water (treated effluent) and
fertilizer (treated sludge).
Table 6.3 Summary of Financial Analysis of Options in Sewage Treatment
Sewage Process Treatment
Financial    l__  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
costs (millions  Conventional     Waste
of Dollars at   Activated     Stabilization    Aerated
mid-2003        sludge                                       DPMC
prices)       (proposed       Ponds         Lagoons
project)                                                l
Capital Cost        -44            -41            -49            -37
Recurrent
Cost (per         -2.9          -2.2            -3            -2.3
year)
Benefits
0.5            0.3            0.3            0.35
(per year)                                                              l
Net recurrent
-2.4           -1.9           -2.7           -1.95
The three alternative sewage treatment processes are shown to have land requirements
that exceed the available land size.
The three alternative sewage treatment processes are shown to have inferior technical
performance to that offered by the activated sludge system due to its flexibility and
reliability.
6-27



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project        Environmental Assessment Report
The alternative of sewage treatment using waste stabilization ponds is rejected on the
following grounds:
*  Land requirements are very high and cannot be accommodated by the size of
available land
*  Potential adverse impacts on close developments due to possible odour emissions
*  Substantially reduced effluent quantities available for reuse in agriculture due to
evaporation and seepage.
*  Adverse visual impact and substantial changes to original landscape structure
*  Loss of agricultural land;
Waste stabilization ponds are normally characterized by lower capital equipment costs
and recurrent cost (particularly energy and manpower) but higher land costs than
activated sludge systems. The viability of this option therefore, is highly sensitive to
the cost of land and the environmental impact of its use as stabilization ponds. In this
instance the cost of land is high due to the agricultural value of the land, and
furthermore the environmental impacts are by far higher than the impacts of the
activated sludge process.
The alternative of sewage treatment using aerated lagoons is rejected based on the
grounds:
*  Land requirements cannot be accommodated
* It would entail much higher economic costs than the alternative of using waste
stabilization ponds or the proposed project, due to the high running cost attributed
to energy consumption, whilst incurring the same adverse environmental impacts
of the stabilization pond. Most of the greatly increased recurrent economic costs
are attributable to the provision of aeration.
The alternative of sewage treatment using DPMC is rejected on the grounds that this
would entail higher energy costs than the proposed project, with greater
environmnental impacts. More importantly, the land requirements also exceed the size
of land available.
6.4 Other Alternatives Explored
A number of other alternatives have been explored. These include:
* On-site sanitation.
This option has been described partly in the 'no project' discussion, but it should be
further mentioned that the government has already initiated the construction of an
6-28



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
Emergency wastewater treatment plant and various sections of the trunk main are
being implemented, which would offer a more feasible and reliable method for
sewage disposal to house owners. Furthermore, the performance of such systems has
proved to be unsatisfactory due to the resulting contamination of ground water and
frequent flooding of cesspits induced by the high water table in Shiraz.
Hence, the option of on-site sanitation is rejected.
* Decentralized treatment
The DOE has set limitations on the construction of treatment plants within the city.
Therefore decentralized treatment plants would have to be located outside the city
limits. Since the Emergency WWTP is currently being constructed, the option of
having more than one plant in lieu of the Long Term WWTP was explored during the
feasibility study. It was rejected based on the following grounds:
* The increased cost of influent trunk mains to each treatment plant
* The increased cost of outfalls from each treatment plant to the end disposal point
at Maharloo Lake.
* The prohibitive cost and the difficulty of finding suitable sites for the different
decentralized plants.
* The potential adverse impacts associated with development of these facilities.
6-29



- - - - - - - -



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
7. Environmental Management Plan
7.1    Objectives of the Environmental Management Plan
The main objective is to address all the major environmental issues satisfactorily. The
major environmental issues have been identified earlier in Section 5, Impacts of the
Project. The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) covers mitigation measures,
monitoring, and institutional strengthening for effective implementation (during
construction and operation). These are designed to eliminate or minimize adverse
environmental and social impacts. It also identifies actions needed to implement the
mitigation measures by (a) identifying a set of responses to be taken; (b) determine
requirements for ensuring that those responses are made effectively in a timely
manner; and (c) describe the means for meeting those requirements.
The purpose of the EMP is to ensure that the defined objectives of the Shiraz Water
Supply and Sanitation Project are achieved whilst preventing or minimizing any
potentially adverse environmental impacts. The EMP will be carefully coordinated
with the construction programme of the project, to ensure that each relevant
mitigative measure is implemented at the most appropriate time and that resources are
efficiently allocated.
Baseline In formation
In order to properly gauge the performance of the project as a whole and to set the
future direction of developments, the situation will be fully monitored and compared
with the established baseline. Each issue to be affected by the project has been
identified and a programme of monitoring has been designed to efficiently establish a
datum for future changes. Areas of concern will not only include the quality aspects
of water and soil, but also social issues, agricultural production, general public health,
and the economic well-being of the community.
Monitoring
It is important to realize that while the collection of data is necessary, the information
gained must be useful. There is no advantage in collecting a wide range of data, if a
use for it has not been defined. Programmes and procedures for monitoring have been
developed taking full consideration of economic and physical restrictions and budget
allowances.
7-1



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project      Environmental Assessment Report
7.2   Mitigation Measures
7.2.1 Construction Phase
During the construction of the project particularly the sewerage and water supply
network, the potential for causing disruption to public activities is the greatest.
Monitoring during this stage will need to be continuous and will cover traffic impacts,
noise and dust nuisances, disposal of spoil, and safety. Public liaison would have to be
maintained.
The conditions of the contracts will include requirements for the work to be
performed as per international specifications. If the contracts are properly prepared
and supervised, then disturbance will be minimized. Monitoring of the impacts during
construction will be undertaken by the Environment and Safety Officer (ESO) in the
Technical Support Unit as part of their contract supervisory duties, and Department of
Environment. Dedicated and fully trained personnel will be appointed to carry out this
monitoring.
Monthly reports will be submitted to the SWWC on the environmental impacts of
construction with recommendations for dealing with any problems including
corrective actions that should be taken.
Noise
During construction, all feasible measures (mentioned below) will be undertaken in
order to minimize the impacts of noise on the community. These measures will
include:
* Selection of up to date, well maintained plant with reduced noise levels ensured
by suitable built-in damping;
* Further screening of plant equipment such as air compressors and dewatering
pumps, particularly in the streets of Shiraz by the use of sandbags, where
necessary;
* Providing residents with advance warning of construction activities;
* Confining noisy work to normal working hours in the day, wherever possible;
* Providing the construction workers with suitable hearing protection and training
them in its use; and
* Restricting construction traffic movements during the night-time.
These measures will be included in the contract documents and undertaken by the
contractor. The TSU will ensure that they are carried out as part of its contract
supervision function.
7-2



Shiraz Water Suppiv and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
Vibration
Vibration impacts from the construction phase will be mitigated by the following
measures:
*  The use of appropriate equipment that is modem and well maintained;
*  Limiting the use of percussive equipment in the excavation of sewer trenches and
tunnel shafts;
*  The use of dead-weight rather than vibration compaction plant when compacting
trenches close to buildings;
*  Providing supports for existing buildings that are likely to be disturbed or
damaged; and
*  The location of works away from sensitive buildings.
These measures will be included in the contract documents and undertaken by the
contractor. The TSU will ensure that they are carried out as part of its contract
supervision function.
As a precaution against excessive compensation claims for damage to property caused
by vibration, a programme of pre-construction audits will be developed well in
advance of the construction programme by the TSU's site supervisory staff. This
programme will involve the detailed inspection of all structures likely to be affected
by the project, in order to establish a baseline for defense or the minimization of
claims. Particularly susceptible buildings will be carefully surveyed to determine
support requirements for the prevention of damage. The subject of mitigation
measures for archeological sites is dealt with separately in the proceeding sections.
Dust
The majority of dust problems caused by the construction of the project will be
mitigated by the implementation by the contractor of a few simple procedures:
*  Construction activities causing dust will not be carried out on excessively windy
days;
*  Unsealed routes for earthmoving equipment and general transport will be
regularly sprayed with water during dry weather;
*  Excavation workfaces will be sprayed with water;
*  Stockpiles of excavated material will be covered with tarpaulins or sprayed with
water during dry weather; and
*  Construction employees will be provided with masks for protection against the
inhalation of dust and be trained in their use.
7-3



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project      Environmental Assessment Report
These measures will be included in the contract documents and undertaken by the
contractor. The TSU will ensure that these are carried out as part of its contract
supervision function. Rather than leaving the perception of nuisance from dust to
individuals, weather conditions in which precautions should be taken by the
contractor will be specified by the TSU and included in the contract documents.
Disruption
Disruption impacts will principally be experienced during the construction period and
these will be mitigated by the following measures:
*  There will be liaison between the TSU and the transport, police, electricity,
telephone, gas, and water supply authorities at an early stage;
*  There will be coordinated planning of traffic diversions by the TSU, police and
the transport authorities and restrictions in accordance with the construction
programme, with advance warnings to the affected residents and road users;
*  The continual services of the police will be used in the diversion and control of
traffic.
*  The TSU will coordinate the planning and construction of the water supply and
sanitation system with the construction of any other planned construction
activities, in order to achieve efficiency of progress.
*  The TSU will design and specify the construction works to minimize disruption.
*  The TSU will identify the locations of all qanats in the vicinity of the works.
*  Under the supervision of the TSU, the contractor will restrict the length of open
trenches and the amount of materials stored adjacent to the excavation works to
that necessary for construction.
Community Relations
By establishing good community relations, any disruption experienced by the
community should quickly become apparent and will consequently be resolved with
due consideration for the community's needs. By providing advance publicity on the
work program and through the establishment of liaison arrangements between
members of the public, contractors and the project team, any adverse public reaction
to project nuisance can be minimized.
As construction contractors move into a residential area, the TSU will inform
residents of the works to take place, their duration, and whom they should address
their complaints to. A procedure will be established to enable the public to complain
about excessive nuisance, disruption or disturbance due to the Shiraz Water Supply
and Sanitation Project. The public should be able to do so via both the Public
Relations Unit of the SWWC and the DOE-Fars Province.
74



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project         Environmental Assessment Report
Water Pollution:
Construction activities can generate runoff, which would end in surface water bodies
or in underground water. The latter is likely to occur due to dewatering operations
because of the high water table. Measures to mitigate water pollution will include:
* Waste solvents, petroleum products, toxic chemicals or harmful solutions shall not
be disposed in the city's drainage system watercourse, or the two rivers. Solid
waste refuse shall be disposed off at Shiraz landfill or at other approved
designated areas. Construction sites shall be maintained in a sanitary condition at
all times; rubbish, surplus spills, and litter shall be disposed off in a controlled and
prompt manner.
* The Contractor shall dispose of all fluids and test pumping discharges in a manner
that does not cause contamination or nuisance. He shall also be responsible to
control all run-offs, erosion, etc. Water pumped from the construction site should
be disposed of in an appropriate manner so as not cause nuisance or flooding to
surrounding properties.
* Works affecting surface water channels shall allow for the continuous supply of
water to existing users. The Contractor shall take all reasonable measures to
maintain outflow and to avoid discoloration.
* Where a temporary reduction in downstream flow or discoloration by suspended
solids from excavations is, in the opinion of SWWC, unavoidable, the Contractor
shall make alternative arrangements for supplying water to all effected users
throughout the period of flow reduction or discoloration.
* Where dewatering of trenches is to occur, care should be taken to ensure that bank
collapses do not occur so as to safeguard workers, the public and to prevent
structural damage to properties.
Accidents and Emerjenay Cases:
Potential accidents during construction can be mitigated by adopting the following
measures:
* By training all employees in the areas of occupational health and safety prior to
their commencing work and regularly thereafter; any adverse effects on their
health and safety will be minimized.
* At the planning level, the design of the WWTP will include measures for
preventing attraction and breeding of pests. A regular eradication programme will
be carried out using the application of biodegradable pesticides at appropriate
levels.
* The contractor will ensure that construction employees are trained in safety
procedures for all relevant aspects of construction and that these procedures are
7-5



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project         Environmental Assessment Report
always adhered to. The TSU will make regular checks that the contractor is
following safe practices.
* In order to ensure that all work is carried out safely, every team employed by the
contractor or SWWC will be led by a fully trained supervisor with easy access to
emergency services. In addition to this, an appropriate number of site personnel
will be trained in First Aid.
* Formal emergency procedures will be developed for each construction site for the
event of an accident.
* The safety of the public at all stages of the construction will be ensured by
appropriate public education and safety measures such as the use of barriers, flags,
and bollards.
* On all construction sites, first aid facilities will be provided in an accessible
location. The tender documents will include this provision, which will be
implemented by the Contractor. The TSU will make regular checks on all sites to
verify this provision.
* Public access to the construction sites will be restricted. For this purpose, the sites
will be fenced where possible. Security guards will prevent unauthorized entry to
these sites.
These measures will be included in contract documents, and as such will be the
responsibility of the contractor. The TSU will ensure these activities are undertaken as
part of their supervisory function.
Traffic and Accessibility:
Many activities such as digging, excavating, pipe laying, transportation of primary
materials, cause traffic disruption, some severance of pedestrian movement
(particularly on footpaths) may limit access to shops, businesses, factories, etc
especially in the old and high density quarters of Shiraz. The following measures will
mitigate such potentially disruptive impacts:
* The closure or partial closure of roads, walkways and other public areas will only
be permitted if approved by the relevant authorities and the closure permit has
been issued. The Contractor shall detail for each closure the extent of area to be
closed, the reasons and duration of the closure and, where appropriate, proposed
diversion route. The Contractor shall exhibit the Closure Permit for inspection by
SWWC if requested. SWWC shall have the right to order suspension of the
relevant works if the Contractor does not produce the Closure Permit.
* Transportation of materials to and from construction sites will not be scheduled
during peak commuting hours, whenever possible.
7-6



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project        Environmental Assessment Report
* The TSU will coordinate construction activities in the city with Shiraz police
department to reduce the traffic congestion around construction sites.
Announcement about traffic restrictions will also be made public.
* The contractor will minimize the length of open trenches and amount of stored
materials during excavation works to cause least disruption to traffic flow. The
TSU will check the implementation by regular supervision.
These measures will be included in contract documents, and as such will be the
responsibility of the contractor. The TSU will ensure that these activities are
undertaken as part of their supervisory function.
Soil:
Activities such as excavation, landscaping, demolition, temporary storage of materials
and the clearing of the sites for the treatment plants can cause soil instability and
erosion problems or soil contamination. The following measures will be taken by the
contractor to mitigate the potentially negative impacts of construction activities on
soil quality:
* Wherever possible filling or covering will be accomplished by using the same
excavated material.
* Contaminated soil should be removed from the construction site to a proper
landfill centers and not used as fill or cover at the construction sites.
* Vegetation clearance will be kept to minimum at wastewater treatment site.
* Trees and plants will be planted at WWTP site.
* Soil transport will be kept to minimum.
The TSU will regularly check the implementation of these measures.
Seismic Activity:
The potential impacts due to seismic activities are grave as described in the previous
chapter. The destructive effects of earthquakes can be avoided at the planning phase
and construction phase of the project.
During the design phase, all structures, pipework, and other works that are subject to
damage as a result of an earthquake, shall be designed to the Iranian seismic design
code and other complementary international design codes. All tender documents for
the design and construction works shall include this provision. Tender specifications
shall include QA/QC procedures for implementation during design and construction
of all works in compliance with applicable seismic codes.
7-7



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project        Environmental Assessment Report
During construction phase, the Contractor shall comply with provisions of the design
specifications and the code requirements. All structures and piping shall be
constructed in strict adherence with Iranian code and the tender and design
specifications. The TSU will implement an extensive inspection procedure to verify
the compliance.
Solid Waste Disposal
Solid waste generated during construction consists mainly of demolition and building
rubble, chemicals and road building material, containers and packaging for building
materials as well as refuse material from site offices.
All solid wastes shall be temporarily stored at designated locations on the construction
sites. Appropriate sealed containers shall be used for storage whenever this is
required. Solid waste materials shall be covered during transportation to the disposal
facility. The disposal facility shall be approved by TSU prior to any disposal.
Domestic and biodegradable waste shall be removed daily from the Site. Toxic and
hazardous wastes shall be collected separately and be disposed of in accordance with
current regulations.
Recyclable materials such as oils and metals will be collected and delivered to an
appropriate sorting facility. The TSU will specify the location of this facility in the
tender documents.
Comprehensive procedures will be included in the construction tender documents to
ensure that safe and environmentally sound practices are followed by the contractor.
The ESO will supervise the contractors' activities.
TSU will prepare a detailed plan to manage waste and soil spoil. The plan will include
procedures of recording, reporting and interpretation of data in details. DOE will
supervise the implementation of the plan.
General Housekeeping:
*  The Contractor shall maintain the Site and any ancillary areas used and occupied
for performance of the Works in a clean, tidy and rubbish-free condition at all
times.
*  Upon the issuance of any Taking-Over Certificate, the Contractor shall clear away
and remove from the Site the Contractors' Equipment, surplus material, rubbish
and temporary works of any kind, and shall leave the Site in a clean condition to
the satisfaction of SWWC.
7-8



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project           Environmental Assessment Report
Visual Amenity
Activities such as excavation, pipe laying, storage of construction materials and
debris, workshops, general activities on construction sites can cause a significant
visual impact, particularly in areas with high levels of activities (such as community
facilities, shopping centers, religious centers and the like) and cultural and
archeological places. To mitigate potential impacts, the following measured will be
followed:
*  Fences of workshops and construction facilities shall be built with appropriate
materials that blend with the surrounding environment;
*  Immediately removing waste and construction debn's and soil wastes from the
works site.
*  Planting suitable trees and plants during the construction phase at the treatment
plants site, water tanks and where appropriate within a 500m buffer distance of
those sites to create a green belt. This will not only obscure construction activities
but will also be a permnanent landscape feature that will add visual aesthetic value
to the facility.
These measures will be included in contract documents and as such will be the
responsibility of the contractor. The TSU will ensure these activities are undertaken as
part of their supervisory function.
Archaeolozv and Chance Finds
Shiraz has many recorded archeological and historical sites. The implementation of
the water and sanitation project will not require the demolition of any known
historical sites, nor will it directly affect any known archeological sites. On the
contrary, the project will have a positive environmental impact as it will eliminate the
uncontrolled flows and discharges of wastewater adjacent to historical sites.
Mitigation measures were taken at the planning phase by a careful consideration of
works site. The sitting of the all the project works was selected in close coordination
with the Cultural Heritage Organization following several site visits so as to ensure
that these facilities are remotely located from the archeological and historical sites as
well as from areas where there is potential of finding archeological remains.
During final design stages, further site inspections will be conducted by surveyors and
archeologist to check the construction drawings in the field.
Furthermore, pre-tender conferences will be held to brief pre-qualified contractors on
the effective implementation of mitigation measures. The contractors will be briefed
on: (i) chance find procedures, (ii) special procedures to be adopted in the vicinity of
7-9



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project        Environmental Assessment Report
sites defined as requiring protection, (iii) penalties for non-compliance, and (iv)
coordination with concerned authorities.
During the construction phase, the following mitigation measures shall be
implemented:
* An archaeologist should always be present in the historical quarters throughout
the construction period for delicate observation.
* A group of competent archeologists in collaboration with the Cultural Heritage
Organization should be ready at all times for rescue excavations, so as not to delay
the construction process and to save and take control over all archeological
findings
* Any finding should be directly reported by the supervisor (Archeologist -
Forman) to the responsible official authorities or the Cultural Heritage
Organization
* Construction works should be performed with suitable equipment. Use of
explosives should be prohibited. Moreover, excavation should be monitored
especially in delicate areas.
* To avoid extensive delays in an area with a high archeological findings potential,
it is highly recommended to perform several soundings (Im x 2m to the needed
depth) supervised by an experienced archeologist enabling clearer perspectives of
the archeological sites.
* If an archeological site or irremovable remains is discovered project activities
should be suspended and possible adjustments to the project design discussed and
implemented in order to prevent any loss of archeological and cultural remains.
The following "chance finding procedures" were developed in coordination with the
official representative of the Cultural Heritage Organization and in compliance with
the Iranian regulations, and the World Bank Operational Policy on Cultural Property.
The procedures should be included as standard provisions in construction contracts to
ensure the protection of cultural heritages. In any chance find, the procedures should
be directly executed. Chance find includes new archeological remains, antiquity or
any other object of cultural or archeological importance, which is encountered during
the project construction:
1. Stop construction activities
2. Delineate the discovered site or area
3. Secure the site to prevent any damage or loss of removable objects. In case of
removable antiquities or sensitive remains, a night guard should be present until
the responsible authorities take over
7-10



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project        Environmental Assessment Report
4. Notify the responsible foreman/archeologist, who in tum should notify the
responsible authon'ties, the Cultural Heritage Organization and the local
authorities immediately (less than 24 hours)
5. Responsible authorities would be in charge of protecting and preserving the site
before deciding on the proper procedures to be carried out. This would require an
evaluation of the finding, which should be performed by the Cultural Heritage
Organization. The significance and importance of the findings should be assessed
according to various criteria relevant to cultural heritage; those include the
aesthetic, historic, scientific or research, social and economic values.
6. Decision on how to handle the finding should be reached, that could include
changes in the project layout (such as when finding an irremovable remain of
cultural or archeological importance), conservation, preservation, restoration, or
salvage.
7. Implementation of the authority decision conceming the management of the
finding.
8. Construction work could resume only when permission is given from the Cultural
Heritage Organization after the decision conceming the safeguard of the heritage
is fully executed.
Summara
The environmental mitigation measures discussed in the preceding sections are
summarized in table 7-1.
7-11



Shiraz Water Supplv and Sanitation Project                        Environmental Assessment Report
Table 7-1: Environmental Mitigation Measures during the Construction Phase
Responsible Organization
Potential Impacts               Mitigation Measures
Performing         QA/QC
Noise generation             Restrict work to normal working hours;  Contractor monitored    DOE
Use equipment with appropriate silencers;      by ESO
Only run equipment when required.
Contractor monitored
Generation of dust       Employ dust suppression measures such as          by ESO            DOE
wetting and dust enclosures.
Traffic congestion      Restrict movement of construction vehicles to  Contractor monitored  DOE
and from the sites to normal working hours;       by ESO
Diversion of traffic through suitable roads to the
expected traffic loading;
Provision of adequate diversion signs;
Minimizing lengths of open trench;
Expeditious completion of backfill and
reinstatement.
Damage to access roads   Site access roads will be inspected regularly and  Contractor monitored  DOE
and streets             repairs made where necessary;                      by ESO
All roads and streets used for laying pipes will
be covered and paved.
Damage to archeological  Application of protection measures in areas close  Contractor monitored  Cultural
remains                 to existing historical sites;                by Archeologist and   Heritage
Implementation of Chance Find Procedures.           ESO           Organizatio
n
Water pollution          Collect and dispose wastes, demolition and  Contractor monitored    DOE
excavated materials at appropriate locations;     by ESO
Restrict surface runoff from the site.
Public safety and site   Control access of unauthorized personnel;   Contractor monitored    DOE
security                Provide pedestrian access;                         by ESO
Provide safety barriers and signs.
Air pollution            Do not bum wastes on site;                  Contractor monitored    DOE
Routine maintenance of construction equipment     by ESO
and vehicles to minimize exhaust emissions
Generation of wastes     Minimize wastes generated during construction  Contractor monitored  DOE
and reuse construction wastes where practicable;  by ESO
Use appropriate methods for the storage of waste
materials;
Dispose of wastes to an appropriate site.
7.2.2 Operation Phase
During the operation of the project different mitigation measures for each project
component will be required on an on-going basis. The operation mitigation measures
are outlined below.
7-12



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
7.2.2.1 Water Project
Responsibility for undertaking mitigation measures during the operation will reside
with the water facilities operator under the supervision of the SWWC.
Seismic Activitv
Critical mitigation measures are undertaken during the design and construction phase.
The Safety and Environment officer will provide the needed procedures, as discussed
in the next paragraph, to face the accidents in water facilities in case of an earthquake.
Furthermore, monitoring of earthquake occurrence and intensity will be conducted by
the TSU, the WTO and WWTO by reviewing the data acquired at the earthquake
monitoring station at Doroudzan dam and other close centers for evaluation of the
resulting impacts.
Incidents and Emer-encv Cases
Incidents during operation can involve accidental toxic gas emissions, pipe bursts,
tank leakages, occupational hazards, all of which can lead to serious health risks if not
addressed and dealt with in an appropriate manner.
To ensure incidents and emergency cases are dealt with efficiently the following
mitigation measures will be implemented:
*  SWWC will organize and mobilize rescue teams to respond to emergency
incidents in a timely and effective manner. Communication with the rescue team
must be reliable, manageable and available at all times. The rescue teams should
be located in close proximity to the water chlorination and storage facilities and be
able to attend the sites of an incident within the City in the shortest possible time
period.
*  Well equipped rescue teams with appropriate equipment will undertake periodic
inspections of the systems so as to troubleshoot defects before an incident occurs.
*  Training of professional staff in the fields of health and safety will take place
before they commence work or operations. This would minimize the effects of
health and safety incidents.
*  Public accessibility to the water supply facilities should be restricted. For this
purpose, water supply facilities especially storage reservoirs will be under the
supervision of SWWC guards.
*  Both the operator and SWWC shall ensure that training in basic operational
procedures is fulfilled by the concerned staff. Training will be conducted on an
on-going basis so as to ensure that staff is aware of best practice procedures,
changes to technology and emergency procedures that may occur throughout the
lifetime of the project.
7-13



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
* To assure proper safety procedures are followed, any subcontractor of the operator
or SWWC should be supervised by a well-trained supervisor who is
knowledgeable of and have easy access to emergency services and rescue teams.
* All staff shall be provided with basic training in first aid procedures. The operator
will appoint a health and Safety Officer who will have in depth knowledge of first
aid procedures.
* Formal procedures on how to respond to emergency cases for facilities should be
prepared in the case of incidents. Summaries of these procedures should be
displayed in key locations and near telephones so that immediate actions are
targeted for obtaining correct assistance in a timely manner. Co-ordination with
fire services and hospital services should take place so that the information is kept
up to date.
* A formal emergency preparedness plan against earthquakes should be prepared in
consultation with the MOHME, the Iranian Civil Defense and other concerned
relief agencies. This plan should address the emergency response procedures to be
followed by the water system operators and officials of SWWC in case of an
earthquake. The plan shall detail the procedures before, dunrng, and after the
earthquake, and shall elaborate on preparedness measures such as availability of
survival kits, fire extinguishers, securing of heavy items, power shutdown and gas
isolation, safety measures, response of individuals, communications with other
colleagues and relief centers, and routine drills for emergency situations. All the
treatment plant staff shall be provided with a one day training workshop in
earthquake emergency preparedness procedures.
* SWWC will assure that all operation and maintenance staff at the water supply
facilities are well informed of the risks in operating the system and machinery. All
staff must be trained in avoiding contamination of hygienic areas inside and
outside the facilities. Training is also vital to ensure that contamination of water
does not take place. All staff will be vaccinated by health officials to protect them
against infectious diseases.
* Emergency procedures, especially for accidents involving emissions of chlorine
gas will be provided to the operator staff and be presented on the displayed
emergency procedures cards. A chlorine gas warning device will be provided
wherever chlorine gas is used, chlorine storage rooms shall be equipped with
automatic exhaust ventilators discharging gas in a suitable location, emergency
showers shall be installed outside rooms for emergency wash.
Water QuantitY:
The provision of adequate water supply quantities is one of the main objectives of the
project. To this end, adequate water supply quantities have been addressed at the
planning level, wherein the water supply components to be developed under the
7-14



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project      Environmental Assessment Report
project will meet the water demand up to the year 2027. In fact the feasibility study
projects that the water supply from well and surface water sources will exceed the
demand by 5458 m3/day at year 2027. Furthermore, the water supply facilities will
include adequate storage facilities that are capable of meeting seasonal, daily, and
peak hourly demand. The supply network will be sized to provide the peak hourly rate
required by various consumers.
Mitigation measures during the operational phase will include:
* Responding to emergency leakage situations through an established procedure as
discussed in the previous section.
* Reducing unaccounted for losses through a comprehensive monitoring plan, that
will be discussed in the proceeding section. These monitoring programs will
prohibit illegal connections to the water supply network and prevent system
leakages.
* The operator of the treatment plant, chlorination, and pumping facilities will
adhere to the O&M maintenance procedures and manuals, and will conduct
regular maintenance and monitoring to ensure that adequate output is maintained
from these facilities. The TSU will check the plant's records and verify that proper
O&M operations are being undertaken
In all instances, SWWC will establish an emergency response program to address
citizens' complaints in the shortest possible time. These complaints shall be attended,
and appropriate mitigation action will be taken to restore water quantity. A report
will be generated to document such incidents, and will be forwarded to SWWC
management for review and evaluation of future required action.
Water Ouality:
The provision of safe and compliant water supply quality is one of the main objectives
of the project. To this end, the water quality of available resources (well and surface
resources) have been evaluated and were found to be in compliance with WHO and
Iranian drinking water quality standards after appropriate treatment.
The surface water treatment process will ensure the elimination of bacteriological
contamination, and the removal of turbidity and the ground water will be chlorinated
to eliminate any microbial concentration. During project implementation, a
continuous monitoring program will be implemented at the treatment plant, water
reservoir, and supply network to ensure that treated water will always meet the
required standards. The monitoring program, discussed in the proceeding sections,
will cover biological and physical parameters as well as heavy metals and pesticides
residues.
Furthermore proper operation and maintenance of the treatment and chlorination
facilities will be performed as discussed in the previous paragraph. Routine
7-15



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project              Environmental Assessment Report
inspections of the network will be required to ensure that no cross contamination by a
broken sewer line is taking place.
Table 7-2 below provides a summary of the required mitigation measures.
7-16



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project                      Environmental Assessment Report
Table 7-2: Environmental Mitigation Measures during the Operation Phase of Water Supply
System
Responsible Organization
Potential Impacts             Mitigation Measures                             1
Performing    j    QA/QC
Degradation of water      * Ensure proper operation and maintenance  Water Operator     DOE
quality                   of the water treatment plant.            supervised by
ESO
* Continuous monitoring of raw water and
treated water as well as water quality at
various locations within the water supply
system; avoid cross contamination with
sewage;
Reduction in available     * Prohibit illegal connections to the   Water Operator       DOE
water supply              network; avoid leakage in the network;   supervised by
ensure proper maintenance of the system       ESO
including treatment plant, pumping stations,
pipelines and house connections.
* Maintain hygiene and have medical
Health and Safety         surveillance; maintain showers and sanitary  Water Operator   DOE
facilities; provide first aid and have an  supervised by
emergency response plan.                      ESO
* Capacity building and training in
occupational health, safety and earthquake
emergency preparedness procedures and in
operation and maintenance of treatment
plants.
* Monitoring of earthquake occurrence and
intensity and associated impacts.
7.2.2.2 Wastewater Project
Mitigation measures outlined within this plan will be the responsibility by the
operators of the wastewater installations. SWWC will supervise the appropriate
implementation of these mitigation measures. Key measures to include:
Seismic Activitv
Critical mitigation measures are undertaken during the design and construction phase.
The Safety and Environment officer will provide the needed emergency preparedness
procedures to face the accidents in wastewater facilities in case of an earthquake as
discussed in section 7.2.2.1. Also the wastewater treatment plant staff will attend a
one day training workshop on the implementation of these procedures.
Furthermore, monitoring of earthquake occurrence and intensity will be conducted by
the TSU, the WTO and WWTO by reviewing the data acquired at the earthquake
7-17



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
monitoring station at Doroudzan dam and other close centers for evaluation of the
resulting impacts.
Noise
Noise impacts during the operation of the project will be confined to a few pieces of
equipment in the Sewage Treatment Plant. The equipment will comprise of:
compressors; pumps, and stand-by generators. There will also be some noise from the
movement of vehicles. By specifying appropriate silencers on the equipment and
screening the noisier areas of the WWTP with structures, there will be insignificant
impact on local residents. Traffic will be routed to keep this nuisance to a minimum.
Impacts on the WWTP employees will be further reduced as they will be provided
with hearing protection equipment by SWWC and trained in its use. In addition, all
plant equipment will be well maintained to maintain their efficiency and noise levels.
A formal maintenance programme will be established by the wastewater treatment
plant operator (WWTO) on- the WWTP site and elsewhere where plant is located.
Noise levels will be regularly monitored within this programme and any defective
equipment will be promptly dispatched for maintenance by WWTO.
It is recommended that land use within 500 meters of the WWTP be formally
allocated as a green/agricultural area. This will restrict the development of housing
towards the site and consequently avoid complaints regarding noise in the short or
long term.
Odor
The WWTO will minimize any problems caused by odor during operation of the
treatment plant and associated works by:
* Designing the WWTP to ensure minimum odor at the site boundary, such as
strategically locating the sludge treatment works with reference to the remainder of
the WWTP and the neighboring settlements;
* Careful planning and implementation of the WWTP operation and maintenance to
prevent the formation and liberation of odors;
* Providing covers to containers and equipment likely to cause an odor nuisance and
scrubbing of malodorous vapors; and
* Designating the area around the site as green belt, thus restricting development
towards the site.
Screenings Disposal
The screenings from the treatment plant will be disposed of by the WWTO in an
environmentally acceptable manner by transporting in enclosed containers and
7-18



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
burying in a municipal landfill. Disposal in the landfill has been designed to ensure
that groundwater or surface runoff from the site will not be contaminated.
Health & Environmental Risks of Effluent Reuse in Agriculture
Reuse of treated effluent and sludge in agriculture has considerable environmental
risks. Therefore strict implementation of the mitigation measures will be required to
ensure the safe reuse applications. The following paragraphs address the required
mitigation measures for effluent reuse in irrigation and sludge reuse as a fertilizer.
The WWTO will implement the mitigation measures under the supervision of SWWC
to ensure that WWTP performs satisfactorily and that effluent and sludge from the
WWTP complies with the set standards under monitoring by the DOE.
Treated Effluents
In order to assess the performance of the plant and the compliance with required
standards, the raw sewage arriving at the WWTP and the final effluent will be
regularly monitored by the WWTO for BOD5, suspended solids, total nitrogen, fecal
coliforms, and intestinal nematode eggs. Spot samples will be taken once a day so that
the operators can respond to any irregularities.
The WWTO will also monitor particular units within the treatment works such as the
primary sedimentation tanks and aeration tanks to assess their performance.
Knowledge of the concentration of mixed liquor suspended solids within the aeration
tanks and the settleability of the activated sludge will allow optimization of operation.
The WWTO will also monitor the operation of the chlorination facilities, and will
check for residual free chlorine content in the effluent and will verify that contact time
is in accordance with specifications.
Particular attention will be paid by the WWTO to review the performance of WWTP
in removing intestinal nematode eggs. If the effluent quality data show that the
arithmetic mean number of eggs is greater than the WHO guideline of one egg per
liter, then the WWTO will review the treatment process and operations to ensure
compliance with the WHO guidelines. The ESO will supervise all these monitoring
operations to ensure that the operator is conducting all the required checks, and that
samples are being tested to the correct standard procedures.
The quality of the treated effluent will be carefully controlled at the WWTP to the
required limits, through efficient and up to date methods using accurate analytical
procedures. All discrepancies detected will be immediately notified to those
concerned, and the problem promptly dealt with at source. A suitable response system
will be developed at the WWTP, in the event that problems develop, and all relevant
staff will be fully trained in the corrective measures to be taken. Provision will be
made for the diversion of non-complying WWTP discharges to nearby surface waters,
thereby preventing its discharge to agricultural land. Discharges to the final outfall
7-19



Shiraz Water Supplv and Sanitation Project           Environmental Assessment Report
canal leading to the Lake will take place in accordance with established procedures
which will take account of physical and chemical effects on the canal having regard to
the particular circumstances prevailing at the time.
National guidelines for effluent re-use would be developed in coordination with line
ministries (Ministry of Energy, Department of Environment, Ministry of Agriculture
Jihad, Ministry of Health and Medical Education, etc.) and concerned stakeholders.
These guidelines would set out good standards of practice and monitoring and define
roles and responsibilities. Training workshops on re-use of treated effluent will also
be provided to all concerned stakeholders.
7-20



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
Sludge Application as a Fertilizer
The reuse of sludge in agricultural applications entails potential adverse impacts due
to microbial presence, and heavy metal content. These parameters can cause serious
health effects on farmers, agricultural consumers, and the environment through soil
contamination, build up in crops, and ground water contamination. The following
mitigation measures will be implemented:
* For the use of treated sludge as soil conditioner, compliance with the European
Union (EU), Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), and WHO Guidelines
(including the limit of less than 1 intestinal nematode egg per 100 gms of dry
solids) will be ensured by providing adequate treatment including a drying period
of one year. Sludge drying beds are already incorporated in the design of the
treatment facility, and the WWTO will be responsible for application of sludge
onto the beds for drying, under the supervision of the ESO.
* Treated sludge disposed of to agricultural land for use as a fertilizer will be
monitored for compliance with the standards for metals in sludge and application
rates described in the 1986 EC directive on the use of sewage sludge in agriculture
(cadmium, chromium, copper, nickel, lead, mercy and zinc). Several spot samples
will be taken from each batch of stored sludge taken to the agricultural lands near
the WWTP. It will also be necessary to measure sludge moisture content to
calculate the above. These figures and sludge application rates will allow
estimation of future compliance with limit values for accumulated metals in soils.
In the instance that the treated sludge is not compliant with the applicable
regulations, it will be hauled and disposed to Shiraz landfill at designated separate
cells having clear signage to indicate the cell's content. In a similar manner the
sludge from the water treatment plant operations will also be disposed off in
separate cells at the landfill.
* Soil in areas where effluent or sludge is used in agriculture will be monitored for
the above metals to ensure compliance with the 1986 EC directive on the use of
sewage sludge in agriculture. Concentrations will be measured before any
application takes place (baseline) and after each year of application, so each area
will be monitored every 2.5 years. It will also be necessary to measure soil pH.
Ministry of Agriculture Jihad will monitor soil quality and the crops of the lands
fertilized by sludge. DOE will be responsible for QA/QC.
* Sludge shall be transported by trucks in closed containers. Truck drivers should be
well trained and be aware of the health risks of sludge transportation. The operator
of wastewater treatment plant will be responsible for their training under the
supervision of ESO (Environment and Safety Officer).
* Prior to any sludge application program, farners will be trained in appropriate
procedures for sludge application, crops that can be cultivated in sludge
7-21



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
conditioned land, application rates, and health and safety matters. Ministry of
Agriculture Jihad will be responsible for farmers training.
*  DOE will monitor groundwater to assess the effect of sludge application on
groundwater quality.
*  Heavy metals content of industrial discharges to sewers will accumulate in sludge.
Therefore wastewaters with heavy metals content will have to be pretreated to
meet the DOE industrial discharges criteria. The project will only provide
connections to those industries that do not discharge toxics that affect the
performance of the wastewater treatment plants. The discharge of industrial
effluents will be subject to the approval of both the Director of the treatment plant
and the director of the DOE. For those industries for which their industrial
effluents will not be pre-treated, and/or will not be connected to the network, the
SWWC and DOE will require that each polluting industrial establishment will
prepare a compliance action plan (CAP), which will address the pollutants of
concern, the type of pre-treatment required and the investments and monitoring
costs of the pre-treatment facility. Operational permits for these industries will be
subject to the implementation of the CAP as yearly monitored by the SWWC and
enforced by the DOE.
*  TSU and Ministry of Agriculture Jihad will prepare a detailed sludge management
plan. The effects of regular application of sludge and its accumulation in soil will
be fully considered in the plan. Also, the plan will include procedures of
recording, reporting and interpretation of data in detail.
Health and Safety of the Emplovees
The following mitigation measures will be undertaken to safeguard public health due
to the operation of the wastewater system
*  The SWWC will ensure that operation and maintenance personnel of the WWTP
are fully aware of the hazards involved in the running of a system of this nature.
All site employees will be trained in hygienic procedures designed to avoid
infection from wastewaters and sludge. The workers will be educated in the
dangers of leptospirosis and provided with documentation to alert medical
practitioners to the possibility of such an infection when diagnosing them. They
will also be inoculated against infectious diseases such as polio and tetanus and be
under medical surveillance.
*  Formal emergency procedures will be developed by the TSU in conjunction with
SWWC for dealing with accidents. These procedures will involve the coordination
of emergency services such as the fire brigade and health services.
*  In particular, emergency procedures will be developed in the event of the release
of chlorine gas. A warning device for the detection of chlorine gas will be
provided where chlorine is to be used.
7-22



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project                       Environmental Assessment Report
Table 7-3 provides a summary of the mitigation measures during the operation phase
of the wastewater system.
Table 7-3: Environmental Mitigation Measures during the Operation Phase of Wastewater
System
Responsible Organization
Potential Impacts               Mitigation Measures
Performing        QA/QC
* Adequate treatment (retention time) should be  WWTO            DOE
Health and environmental  provided to control the number of nematode eggs;  supervised by
risks associated with   chlorine will be used to disinfect the effluent.  ESO
discharge and re-use of
treated effluent for    * Regular monitoring of treated effluent; treated
irrigation              effluent will not be reused in irrigation if its quality
does not meet the standards.
* Development of re-use guidelines for treated
effluent;
* Capacity building, training and awareness.
Sludge quality and the  * Drying beds for one-year storage will be       WWTO            DOE
risk of public and farmers  provided to dry and store sludge following de-  supervised by
acquiring infection     watering and digestion.                           ESO
* Monitoring of nematodes, coliforms and heavy
metal content of treated sludge.
* Transportation of treated sludge in closed
containers.
* Capacity building, training and awareness.
Odor generation from the  * Careful planning and implementation of       WWTO            DOE
wastewater treatment    operation and maintenance.                    supervised by
plant                                                                     ESO
* Providing covers to equipments and containers
that are likely to cause odor nuisance.
Health and Safety       * Maintain hygiene and have medical surveillance;  WWTO           DOE
manage wastewater operations to minimize contact  supervised by
of personnel with sewage; maintain showers and    ESO
sanitary facilities; provide first aid and have an
emergency response plan.
* Capacity building and training in occupational
health, safety and earthquake emergency
preparedness procedures and in operation and
maintenance of treatment plants
* Monitoring of earthquake occurrence, intensity
and associated impacts.
7-23



Shiraz Water Supplv and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
7.3   Monitoring Program
To ensure the performance, efficiency, and effectiveness of environmental mitigation
measures programs, it is necessary that these activities be monitored. Monitoring
programs will be necessary for noise, air quality, and dust during the construction
phase. During the operation effluent, sludge, noise, and odor will be required to be
monitored by the Environment and Safety Officer within SWWC. Water quality
monitoring in Maharloo Lake will include data on BOD, suspended solids, pH,
phosphates, nitrates, salinity, and heavy metals, and will be conducted by the DOE.
Use of effluent for irrigation and use of sludge as a fertilizer for agricultural crops and
soil conditioning will be required to be monitored by Ministry of Agricultural Jihad.
Quality Control and Quality Assurance (QC/QA) of monitoring program at the
construction and operation phases of wastewater system are the responsibility of
Department of Environment (DOE). Quality Control and Quality Assurance (QC/QA)
of drinking water is the responsibility of Ministry of Health and Medical Education.
The Technical Support Unit is to provide an executive enviromnental program with
complete details of mitigation measures; so that all those with environmental
monitoring responsibilities are clear on their role, the frequency of their inputs and
lines of reporting.
If significant adverse impacts by any responsible organizations are identified,
appropriate mitigation measures will be taken and arrangements for amendments of
the environmental management plan will be made. The Ministry of Energy will have
the overall responsibility to ensure that adverse impacts are maintained to acceptable
levels and corrective actions are taken when required.
A project monitoring report will be prepared on the effectiveness of the EMP once
every 6 months and will be sent to the World Bank after review and approval of DOE.
Executive monitoring program for the various phases of the project including
monitoring parameters, location, frequency, and the responsible organization is listed
in Table 7-4 to 7-9
7-24



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project                  Environmental Assessment Report
7.3.1   Construction Phase
Table 74: Environmental Monitoring Program for the Construction Phase
Environmental     Monitoring                                  Responsible Organization
Parameter to     Moniton          Frequency     Standard
be monitored                                                  Performing       QA/QC
Noise       At construction   Every day     70 dB (A)  Supervision Engineer  DOE
Sites                                   monitored by ESO
Air Quality and  At construction  Every day     150 ug/m3  Supervision Engineer  DOE
Dust            Sites                                   monitored by ESO
ESO: Environment and Safety Officer at Project SWWC - TSU
DOE: Department of Environment
7.3.2   Operation Phase
7.3.2.1 Water Supply System
The quality of the fresh water and water in the distribution system and storage
reservoirs will be monitored by the operator of the system continuously. Shiraz Water
and Wastewater Company (SWWC) will supervise the performance of the operator.
Quality Control and Quality Assurance will be the responsibility of Ministry of Health
and Medical Education. Monitoring is presented in Table 7-5.
7-25



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project                       Environmental Assessment Report
Table 7-5: Environmental Monitoring Program during the Operation Phase of the Water Supply
Svstem
Environmental                                                              Responsible
Parameter to be        Monitoring      Frequency       Standard            Organization
Location 
monitored            L                          .                 Performing      QA/QC
pH                         At Water        Every day   6.5 - 8.5           Water        MHME
Turbidity                   Sources                    5 NTU              Operator
Coliforms               (treatment plant,              0/100 ml         Supervised by
Fecal coliforms          dam and wells)                0/100 ml             ESO
Fecal Streptocoques                                    0/100 ml
Conductivity                                           400 pS/cm
Ammonium                                               0.05 - 0.5 mg/l
Nitrates                                               0 - 45 mg/I
Nitrites                                               0 mg/l
Chlorides                                              25 - 200 mg/I
Phosphates                 At Water                     1.0 mg/l
Calcium                     Sources                     100 mg/I
Magnesium               (treatment plant,  Every Week  30 - 50 mg/l        Water       MHME
Sodium                   dam and wells)                20 - 150 mg/I      Operator
Potassium                                               10-12 mg/I      Supervised by
Sulfates                                               250 mg/I             ESO
Iron                                                   50 - 200 mg/l
Herbicide and Pesticides
Ni                         At Water      Every Month   0.1 ,ug/l           Water       MHME
Cr                          Sources                    0.02 mg/I          Operator
Zn                      (treatment plant,              0.05 mg/I        Supervised by
Cd                       dam and wells)                3 mg/l               ESO
Pb                                                     0.003 mgA
Hg                                                     0.01 mgl
0.001 mg/l
Ammonium                                                0.05 - 0.5 mg/l
Phosphates                                              I 1.  mg/l
Nitrites                   At Water                     0 mg/I             Water       MHME
Chlorides                  Reservoirs    Every day     25 - 200 mg/I      Operator
Total coliforms                                         0/100 ml        Supervised by
Fecal coliforms                                         0/1 00 ml           ESO
Fecal streptocoques                                     0/100 ml
Residual chlorine                                       0.2-0.8 mg/I
Total coliforms          At Distribution  Every day     0/100 ml            Water        MHME
Fecal coliforms             Network                     0/100 ml          Opcrator
Fecal streptocoques                                     0/100 ml        Supervised by
Residual chlorine                                       0.2-0.8 mg/I         ESO
WSFO: Water Supply Facilities Operator
MHME: Ministry of Health and Medical Education
7.3.2.2 Wastewater Systems
Responsibility for implementing environmental monitoring program in order to control the
probable adverse impacts during the operation of the wastewater system is the responsibility
of the operator. The SWWC will supervise its performance. Quality Control and Quality
7-26



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project               Environmental Assessment Report
Assurance (QC/QA) is the responsibility of Department of Environment (DOE). Monitoring
of odors is set out in Table 7-6.
Table 7-6: Environmental Monitoring Program of the Wastewater Treatment Centre at the
Operation Phase
Monitoring           ~~~Responsible
Disarrangement    Parameter     Monitoring   Frequency       organizaion
Performing   QA/QC
Gases emitting
odor         Around
Odor         Mercaptans    wastewater    Weakly      WWTO         DOE
Hydrogen      treatment
Sulphide       plants
rAmmoniac
WWTO: Wastewater Treatment Operator
DOE: Department Of Environment
Monitoring of treated effluent and resulting sludge will be the responsibility of the
operator and the SWWC will supervise its performance. Quality Control and Quality
Assurance of monitoring program will be the responsibility of Department of
Environment (DOE). The monitoring program for treated effluent and treated sludge
are shown in Table 7-7 and Table 7-8 respectively.
7-27



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project                       Environmental Assessment Report
Table 7-7: Environmental Monitoring Program for the Treated Effluent
Environmental        Monitoring                                       Responsible Organization
Parameter to be       Monion         Frequency        Standard
monitored           Locabon                                       Performing       QA/QC
BOD                                                  25 mg/1
COD                                                  125 mg/l              WWTO           DOE
PH                           At                      6- 9               Supervised by
Oil and grease           Wastewater                  10 mg/l                ESO
TSS                         Plants     Every day     50 mg/l
Total Phosphorus                                     10 mg P/I
Total Nitrogen                                       30 mg N/I
Nematode eggs                                         <l egg/liter
Fecal coliform.                                      200 MPN/I 00 ml
Heavy metals                                         10 mg/l
Phosphate                    At                      5 mg/I
Ammonia                  Wastewater                  10 mg/l               WWTO           DOE
Nitrate                  Plants and in  Every week   90 mg/l            Supervised by
Fluoride                  drainage                   20 mg/l                ESO
Sulfate                 channel after                500 mg/I
Sulfide                   discharge                  I mg/I
Chlorine, total residual                             0.2 mg/l
Phenols                                              0.5 mg/I
TDS
Cadmium                      At                      0.1 mg/I
Chromium                 Wastewater                  0.1 mg/I              WWTO           DOE
Copper                    Plants and                 0.5 mg/l           Supervised by
Iron                      drainage                   3.5 mg/l               ESO
Lead                    channel after  Every month   0. 1 mg/I
Selenium                  discharge                  0.1 mg/I
Silver                                               0.5 mg/l
Zinc                                                 2.0 mg/l
Chlorine                   At the      Every week    0.2 mg/l              WWTO            DOE
discharge                                     Supervised by
from the                                          ESO
outfall or at I
km from the
WWTP
WWTO: Wastewater Treatment Operator
ESO: Environment and Safety Officer
DOE: Department of Environment
7-28



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project              Environmental Assessment Report
Table 7-8: Environmental Monitoring Program for the Treated Sludge
Responsible     I
Environmental Parameter to  Monitoring  Frequency    Standard        Organization
be Monitored          Location
Performing QA/QC
_                   ~~~                 ~~~At_
Nematode eggs           At                                  WWTO
(egg/l00gm solids)     WPstewater  Every Batch               Supervised   DOE
Plants                     ~~~~by ESO
Heavy Metals (mg/kg sludge):
Cd                             At                   20 - 40
Cu                         Wastewater               1000- 1750    WWTrO
Ni                            Plants    Every Batch  300 -400    Supervised   DOE
Pb                            Plns750 - 1200                       by ESOl
Zn                                                  2500- 4000
Cr                                                  16-25
WVWTO: Wastewater Treatment Operator
DOE: Department of Environment
Soil monitoring of agricultural lands and monitoring crops which have been irrigated
with treated wastewater is the responsibility of Ministry of Agricultural Jihad. Quality
Control and Quality Assurance of the monitoring program is the responsibility of
Department of Environment (DOE). Monitoring of soils and crop production is set out
in Table 7-9.
Table 7-9: Environmental Monitoring Program for Agricultural Soil
Responsible 
Environmental Parameter  Monitoring  Frequency    Standard       Organization
to be Monitored       Location
Performing   QA/QC
Nematode eggs           At                                 MOJ
(egg/ I OOgm solids)  Agriculturt   Every 6      <1       SupeOr        DOE
lands   months                  by ESO
Heavy Metals (mg/kg soil):
Cd                                                   0.15
Cu                            At        Every 6       12         MOJ
Ni                         Agriculture   mots         3        Supervised   DOE
Pbn                          Land       months       15         by ESO
Zn                                                   30
Cr                                                    3
MOJ: Ministry of Agriculture Jihad
ESO: Environment Safety Officer
DOE: Department of Environment
7-29



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
7.4   Management Requirements
A comprehensive management plan is required to effectively perform water and
wastewater projects mitigation measures. In this plan, goals, activities, and
responsibilities of different units according to their legal responsibilities, working
flow diagrams and reporting will be outlined.
7.4.1 Overview of Responsibilities
There are many different aspects to the administration of the project. The
organization's structure must have minimal complexity and have clear lines of
communication. It is also essential that the annual budget attached to each relevant
department or unit truly reflects its responsibilities.
The SWWC is to be responsible for the implementation of the Shiraz water and
wastewater project, which includes the design of works, supervision of contractors'
operation of the plants and ensuring that measures to mitigate adverse environmental
impacts will be carried out. It will regulate discharges to the sewerage system and
charge for them. It will inform the public on the use of the sewerage system. It is to
establish a Technical Support Unit (TSU) to implement the project. In close
coordination with DOE, the TSU will set standards for effluent discharges to the
sewerage network from domestic and industrial sources and prohibiting those that
exceed the standards. It will also monitor and regulate effluent and sludge from the
wastewater treatment plants.
The DOE is to monitor the project impacts during the construction and operation
phases.
The Ministry of Agriculture Jihad is to supervise and regulate the re-use of treated
effluent and sludge. It will monitor crop quality and production. It will inform the
farmers about safe and productive methods of re-use of effluent and sludge. It
recommend that the Ministry of Agriculture Jihad establish a unit to manage irrigation
with treated effluent and sludge application properly; to ensure the correct and safe
application of effluent and sludge; to monitor soil and produce; and to provide advice
to farmers in order to realize the full potential of the scheme.
The Ministry of Health and Medical Education is to conduct an education campaign
to inform the public about general aspects of public health relating to sanitation
hygiene and to ensure that drinking water quality is in conformity with the standards.
Involvement of the SWWC
The role of SWWC has been described in Chapter 3.
7-30



Shiraz W'ater Supply and Sanitation Project      Environmental Assessment Report
7.4.2 Technical Support Unit
The structure of the TSU will include the following functions:
Desi3:n and Procurement
Provide detailed design and issue contracts for the projects.
Implementation
Ensure that the works are implemented satisfactorily, on schedule and within the
allocated budget.
Environmental
Implement the Environmental Action Plan including the specific mitigation measures
and monitoring for the parameters listed.
The TSU may perform the above activities itself or employ other agencies to
undertake them.
Operations
Ensure adequate operation and maintenance of the water supply and sanitation
facilities.
Establishment of a Proiect Liaison Committee
The effective implementation of the project and associated health protection measures
requires the involvement of several Governmental agencies and Ministries. The
Ministry of Energy will establish a Shiraz Project Liaison Committee. The chair of the
Committee is to be the Deputy Minister of Municipal Water and Sewerage Affairs in
the Ministry of Energy. Its members will be representatives of the following
organizations:
*  The Technical Support Unit
*  The Fars Province Water and Sewage Company;
*  The Ministry of Energy;
*  The Fars Province Department of Environmental;
*  The Fars Regional Water Organization;
*  Shiraz Municipality
*  The Ministry of Agriculture Jihad
7-31



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
*  The Ministry of Science, Research and Technology
*  The Ministry of Health and Medical Education
*  The Ministry of Housing
*  The Ministry of Industries and Mining
*  The Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs
*  The Ministry of Post and Telephone
*  The Ministry of Roads and Transportation
* The Management and Planming Organization
*  Electricity Board
*  Traffic Police
The function of the Liaison Committee will be to minimize adverse impacts of the
project on other services and the public. This will minimize interference with the
project's progress due to external factors. The Committee will be responsible for
project coordination. The full committee will meet at least once every 6 months; most
liaisons will take place through several sub-committees, each dealing with a major
aspect of the project.
TSU will have among its staff members an Environment and Safety Officer (ESO) to
carry out monitoring. ESO will be responsible of supervising monitoring activities
during both the construction and operation phases of the water supply and sanitation
project. ESO will submit its activities report to TSU on monthly basis.
The water operator will be responsible for monitoring water quality while WWTP
operators will be responsible to monitor treated wastewater and sludge. ESO will
supervise their monitoring activities.
Ministry of Agriculture Jihad will be responsible to monitor soil and crops. While
DOE will be responsible for QA/QC of treated wastewater, sludge, soil, surface water
and ground water.
Ministry of Health and Medical Education will be responsible for QA/QC of drinking
water as part of its legal responsibilities.
7.5   Institutional Strengthening
A training program is defined in order to increase capability of different
organizations' staff to carry out Shiraz water and wastewater projects' mitigation
measures. It should be noted that many water supply and wastewater treatment plants
do not operate to their full capacity or to prevailing environmental standards due to
7-32



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
poor maintenance and lack of suitably qualified staff. Training is thus vital if this
project is to achieve its environmental and social development aims.
Training programs will be designed and implemented with the assistance of local and
international experts and will include:
: SWWC, Treatment Plant Operators, Shiraz Municipality and Fars DOE: At the
initiation of the project, a training workshop will be provided to the staff of the
SWWC, Ministry of Energy, Shiraz Municipality and DOE to raise environmental
awareness and to clarify the specific environmental requirements related to the
project. A two days workshop will then be provided and will cover the following
topics:
- Effective implementation of mitigation measures
- Project supervision
- Sampling and analysis
- Monitoring and evaluation
> SWWC, Municipality, Fars DOE and Line Ministries: A two day workshop will
be provided to the staff of SWWC, Municipality, and representatives of line
ministries to strengthen capacities in the application of treated effluent and sludge
re-use.
> Laboratory Staff of Water and Wastewater Treatment Plants: A one week training
workshop will be provided to strengthen capacities in sampling and analysis
methods, environmental monitoring, quality assurance and quality control as well
as safety procedures.
' Staff at Water Supplies and Wastewater Treatment Plants: A one day training
workshop on occupational health, safety, and emergency response procedures
against earthquakes will be provided.
Workshops and awareness campaigns will be also implemented to raise awareness of
farmers, NGOs and residents of Shiraz; these would include:
> Local NGOs, communities and farmers: Training would be provided through 1 or
2 days workshop for local NGOs, communities and farmers, focusing on public
awareness and on re-use of treated wastewater and sludge for agricultural
purposes.
> Awareness campaign and pamphlets: two awareness campaigns will be
conducted; pamphlets in Farsi will be distributed to all farmers highlighting the
adverse health and public safety impacts resulting from the use of untreated
effluent; and measures to be taken when using treated effluent and sludge. Public
hygiene education campaign will be also conducted by the Ministry of Education.
7-33



Shiraz Water Suppiv and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
An assessment of analytical capacities of the laboratories at the SWWC and at the
emergency wastewater treatment plant has been conducted (ref. Annex E); additional
required equipment was also identified and will be supplied as part of the proposed
project. For the Long-term zone Wastewater Treatment Plant, a fully equipped
laboratory will be provided as part of the construction contract.
Technical assistance will be provided to the DOE to set up baseline data on existing
environmental conditions and to develop a quality assurance and a quality monitoring
program as well as an enforcement program for industrial discharges. Similarly,
technical assistance will be provided to the Ministry of Health and Medical Education
to set up baseline data on the occurrence of water born diseases and to develop a
monitoring program for the occurrence of water borne diseases.
7.6   Cost Estimate
The cost of the Environmental Management Plan during construction (mitigation
measures including additional treatment and monitoring) will be borne mostly by the
contractor (construction phase) and the Supervision Engineer who will make the
necessary provision as part of their contracts.
During the operation phase, mitigation measures and monitoring activities will be
implemented by the operator of each plant. For the emergency and long-term
wastewater treatment plants and water supply facilities, cost of mitigation measures
and monitoring requirements will be borne by the contractor who will include the
necessary provisions as part of his construction and two years operation and
maintenance cost. The contractor will also allocate a provisional cost for the
construction of tertiary filters in case the treated effluent at the WWTP does not meet
the standards with respect to nematodes.
A total amount of 1.764 million dollars will be allocated for the implementation of the
environmental management plan as detailed in Table 7-10 and will be included in the
project cost. It should be noted that the total cost does not include the following
costs:
> Cost of additional treatment incorporated in the design of the project;
> Cost of mitigating negative construction impacts (included in the construction
contract cost);
> Cost of mitigation measures and environmental monitoring of the long-term zone
wastewater treatment plants (included in the construction and operation and
maintenance contract cost);
> Cost of setting up new laboratories at the long-term wastewater plants (included
in contract cost).
> Cost of Environment and Safety Officer at TSU (included in TSU cost).
7-34



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project                       Environmental Assessment Report
Table 7-10: Cost Estimate of Environmental Management Plan
Component                                    Quantity         Unit Rate     Total Cost
in
US$        Thousand
US$
SWWC
International environmental consultant to provide technical assistance to SWWC  14 months  12000/month     168
Short termn Archeological consultant for monitoring archeological surveys and  12 months  I 500/month       18
construction works
Environmental Monitoring Program for Water Supply System                               60 000/year         300
Environmental Monitoring Program for emergency zone WWTP                               75 000/year         300
Subtotal                                                                                                   786
Studies, Trainins and Awareness
Development of baseline data on water related diseases and a monitoring                                    50
program for the occurrence of these diseases
Development and implementation of a QA/QC monitofing program for the                                       60
proposed project to be implemented by Fars DOE
Development of earthquake emergency preparedness plan                                       12000           12
Development of Compliance Action Plan (CAP)                                  5 CAPs      6000/CAP          30
Two days workshop to SWWC, Treatment Plant Operators, Shiraz Municipality
and Fars DOE on environmental management, monitoring, analysis and       2 workshops   7000/workshop        14
evaluation
Two days workshops for SWWC, Municipality, Fars DOE and Line Ministries
on treated effluent and sludge re-use                                    2 workshops   7000/workshop        14
One week training workshop to Staff of Water and Wastewater Treatment Plants
on laboratory sampling, analysis, environment monitoring and QA/QC       4 workshops   4000/workshop        16
One day training workshop on occupational health and safety to staff at Water
and Wastewater Treatment Plants                                          4 workshops    1000/workshop       4
One day workshop for local NGOs, communities and farmers, focusing on
public awareness and on re-use of treated wastewater and sludge for agricultural
purposes.                                                                4 workshops    1000/workshop       4
Awareness campaigns and pamphlets                                                                           50
Subtotal                                                                                                   254
Laboratory Eauipment
SWWC                                                                                                       400
Emergency zone WWTP                                                                                        300
Subtotal                                                                                                   700
Monitoring and evaluation at the project level                        2 MM                  12000           24
TOTAL                                                                                                      1764
7-35






Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project      Environmental Assessment Report
8 Post Environmental Review of Emergency WWTP
The purpose of the post environmental review of the Emergency WWTP is to provide
an evaluation of the WWTP site, a review of the plant's design basis, an appraisal of
the plant's technical and environmental performance, and an assessment of the
potential risks associated with its operation.
This plant will treat the wastewater flows originating in the Emergency Zone of the
project area, and is being developed in two phases:
*  Phase 1, currently under construction, has a capacity of 87,500 m3/day and can
serve the year 2020 flows generated by an equivalent population of 435,000
* Phase 2, to be constructed in the year 2018, shall extend the plant's total capacity
to 118,500 m3/day to serve a total population equivalent of 584,000.
8.1  Evaluation of WWTP Site
The plant is conveniently located downstream of the Emergency Zone drainage area
at a distance of 2 km south east of Shiraz. It can be accessed through the bypass
Bushehr - Fasa Road close to Shiraz airport and Torkan Village. (Refer Drawing
SWW-IR-43)
The treatment plant site is situated in an agricultural area growing barley, wheat,
green vegetables, and beans. To the west of the site, at a distance of some 500 m, a
number of workshops are developed, but presently do not appear to be occupied. The
closest residential area is located 2 km to the east of the site at Vazir Abbas village.
The site has a total land area of 75 hectares. It is bounded from all sides by
agricultural fields, which are currently uncultivated. The prevailing winds are north
and north - westerly. As shown on Drawing No SWWS-IR-38 the plot of land has
irregular shape and has a brick wall along all its boundaries. The total built up area,
including the treatment works amount to 10 ha. Immediately to the east of the site, an
earth channel conveys drainage water, mostly polluted with sewage, to the
agricultural areas south of the site. (See exhibit 12, Annex G)
Presently the site is under construction. The aeration tanks, primary and secondary
clarifiers are already built. The construction of administration building, mechanical
plant room, and sludge handling facilities is in progress. The original topographic and
site environmental conditions were changed. Nonetheless it is possible to assess the
site characteristics from adjacent plot of lands. The site has a flat terrain with a minor
slope in the southwest direction. Presently there is no ground cover as the site has
8-1



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project         Environmental Assessment Report
been cleared. There is no valuable vegetation or special wildlife habitats on adjacent
plot of lands (See exhibit 13 & 14, Annex G).
The advantage of the site is that the agricultural field around it offers a perfect
opportunity for the disposal of the effluent. The reuse of effluent for irrigation
purposes is convenient and provides an alternative source of water in an area where
groundwater quality has deteriorated due to uncontrolled wastewater discharge.
Effluent reuse in agriculture however is subject to limitations discussed in the
proceeding sections and elsewhere in this report.
Similarly ultimate disposal of sludge is normally a costly operation. Methods of
disposal include incineration, application in a sanitary landfill, or reuse in agriculture.
The reuse of sludge in the nearby agricultural land would be ideal as the end result of
it could lead to economic savings in sludge handling and disposal.
The geographical location of the site permits gravity conveyance of the Emergency
Zone sewage flows due to the lower elevation of site with respect to the drainage area.
Thus investment and operational cost of pumping stations are saved.
The size of the plot is properly chosen, as adequate space is available for the plant's
future expansion, and for the long term storage of sludge and temporary storage of
screenings and grit.
The environmental impacts to the plant site can be described as minimal. The original
topographic conditions were to a large degree retained, since the site is relatively flat
with a favourable minor gradient.
The treatment plant will also have a visual impact. The tallest structure at the
treatment plant is the anaerobic digester, which is 16 m above ground level. The plant
is also enclosed by a perimeter wall. Both of these construction features will be
visible from a distance due to the flat, agricultural areas that surround the plant. The
colour of the perimeter wall relatively blends with its surrounding ground, and
therefore the wall is not visually intrusive. Furthermore, since the facility will include
tree planting around their perimeter walls the visual impact will be reduced and the
aesthetic visual quality of the plant will be improved.
Although the anaerobic digesters and the perimeter wall will be visible from a
distance, the wastewater treatment facilities will have no significant negative visual
impact because:
* The development will not reduce the visual quality of the surroundings any
further.
8-2



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
* No residential areas have a view of the site.
* The planting of trees around the perimeter wall will allow improvements to be
made to the visual quality.
Odours can also be potentially emitted in the plant due to improper operation or septic
sewage. However, the impact is localized to the plant and can be mitigated by proper
management of the facility. Sufficient buffer distance is available between the plant
and the nearest residential community to render the effect of any odour emission
insignificant. The existing workshops to the west of the plant maybe affected by
odours under considerable adverse plant operating conditions, however in general
these developments are upwind and separated by a sufficient distance from the plant.
Noise levels are not expected to cause a significant impact, since the project includes
noise levels standards for operating machinery, and furthermore the site is wall
bounded and tree bordered, which will reduce noise to insignificant levels.
In summary, the site is appropriately selected. Its main advantage is the opportunity it
offers for effluent and sludge reuse in agriculture. The visual, odour, and noise
impacts are minor and localized to the site.
8.2 Design Basis
8.2.1 Influent loads
The design influent loads adopted by Mahab Ghods, the original design Consultant of
the plant, are based on BOD5 concentration of 250 mg/l and TSS concentration of 315
mg/L. The concentrations were derived from data acquired from Tehran wastewater
system, and not from direct wastewater analysis since no sewer system existed in
Shiraz at the time of developing the plant design. Both of the above quoted figures
characterize weak sewage, which can be attributed to the high infiltration rates
estimated at 18% of the total generated flows. The high infiltration rates were justified
based on the high water table that exists in Shiraz.
Based on these concentrations and the per capita wastewater production rates of 126
I/day for domestic flows and 30 I/day for non domestic flows, the BOD5 per capita
generation would equate to 37 gm/day for domestic flow and 9 gm/day for non
domestic flow. The calculated domestic BOD5 generation rate is slightly smaller than
the recommended range of 40 to 50 gm per capita per day adopted by the National
Water and Wastewater Company. The calculated non-domestic BOD5 generation rate
appears to be reasonable considering that there are no heavy industries in Shiraz, and
the load contribution of the existing industries is relatively small compared to
8-3



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project      Environmental Assessment Report
domestic flow contribution. However, it should be noted that neither the feasibility
nor the tender documents include characterization of nitrogen and phosphorus.
Furthermore no analysis was performed for seasonal wastewater quality and quantity
changes. Therefore, although the adopted design influent concentrations are
justifiable, nonetheless a full wastewater characterization study needs to be developed
once the wastewater system is operational. This issue is accounted for through the
monitoring program included in the Environmental Management Plan, and will assist
in the adjustment of the plant operating parameters and any required adjustment in the
design of the second phase of the plant.
In accordance with the above BOD5 and TSS concentrations, the design loads of the
treatment plant can be summarized by the following:
Table 8.1 Emergency WWTP Design Loads
Phase   Design    Population   Average Flow   Average    BOD5     TSS
year     Equivalent     per Capital    Flow      load    Load
l                   I/c/d        m3/d     kg/d     kg/d
1     2020       435,000          196        87,500   22,000   27,500
2      2027      583,000          198        118,300   28,400  37,000
8.2.2  Treatment plant load Progression
In accordance with design concentrations presented in the preceding section and the
forecast of flows developed in the feasibility study, the treatment plant forecast loads
can be summarized by the following:
Table 8.2 Emergency WWTP Load Progression
Design year        Average Flow         BOD load         TSS Load
m 3/d              kg/d             kg/d
2004                20,100             5,000            6,300
2007                34,000             8,500           10,700
2020                87,500             21,000          27,500
2027               118,300             29,500          37,000
8.2.3  Effluent Quality Design Criteria
The treated effluent quality design criteria are dictated by the final disposal method of
the effluent. For this project, the effluent will be either used in agricultural irrigation
of the lands downstream of the site during the dry season, or during the wet season
will be discharged to Maharloo Lake via an 8 km long canal. Currently this canal is an
84



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project        Environmental Assessment Report
earth channel conveying polluted surface waters to the Lake. It will be rehabilitated
and its walls and bottom will be concreted. It will be approximately 2.5 m deep, 3 m
wide and 8000 m long.
The treated effluent quality design criteria adopted by Mahab Ghods are represented
by the following table, which also shows the current prevailing standards.
Table 8.3 Emergency WWTP Effluent Quality Design Criteria & Comparison with Prevailing
Standards
Standard                             BOD5    TSS     pH        Total
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _Coliform
mg/l    mg/l            MPN/ 100 ml
Plant adopted Criteria                  20     30      6.5 -8      400
*Iranian  Standard for surface water   30      40     6.5-8.5     1000
discharge
*Iranian Standard for reuse in agriculture  100        6-8.5      1000
*WHO for crops likely to be eaten raw                            <1000
(Category A)
* see annex B for other parameters
As can be seen from above table the adopted design criteria are stricter in comparison
with the Iranian standards and WHO standards. However, the stated parameters above
do not include other parameter of concern, which in this instance comprise of the
levels of intestinal nematodes, heavy metals, and other physical and chemical
constituents as required by EEC, WHO, FAO, and Iranian standards (Annex B). The
compliance of the projected effluent quality with the limits required by these
standards is addressed in section 8.5
8.3 Emergency WWTP -First Phase Process Design
As stated earlier in this report, the plant will be developed in two phases. The first
phase with a capacity of 87,500 m3/day is comprised of four identical streams,
whereas the second phase plant has a capacity of 31,000 m3/day and is also comprised
of four streams.
The design of the treatment plant is based on the biological activated sludge treatment
process, which incorporates an anaerobic selector to achieve the targeted effluent
requirements.
The liquid stream is comprised of:
* Preliminary treatment by screening and grit removal
* Primary treatment by circular clarifiers
8-5



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project        Environmental Assessment Report
* Secondary treatment by anaerobic selector tanks followed by a complete mix
activated sludge units
* Secondary clarification
* Final effluent disinfection by chlorination
The sludge treatment stream is comprised of the following:
* Sludge conditioning
*  Sludge thickening
*  Primary anaerobic digesters
*  Secondary anaerobic digesters
*  Dewatering by centrifuges
*  Sludge drying beds, which will be incorporated in the long term sludge storage
area.
A brief description of the first phase plant's components is as follows:
8.3.1 Raw wastewater pumping station
Raw wastewater enters the plant from the west side via a 1400 mm concrete pipe. The
hydraulic design of the plant includes for wastewater lifting. Two hand-cleaned bar
racks are provided ahead of the pumps to remove coarse objects and floatable
materials. The bar racks have 50 mm clear spacing. The screenings will subsequently
be hauled off site for disposal at the Shiraz landfill site.
Two duty and one standby Archimedean pumps are provided to transfer the raw
wastewater to the grit removal chambers. The pumps are rated at 750 lit/s each.
8.3.2  Screening
Following pumping, the sewage discharges to the fine screening plant. Two
mechanical screens having clear spacing of 20 mm are provided for removal of the
remaining floating material. A back up hand operated screen is provided in a bypass
channel to remove the screenings in case of maintenance of the mechanical units or in
emergency situation. The mechanical screens are automatically operated by water
level difference upstream and downstream of the screens. The screening plant is
provided with belt conveyors for screening collection and discharge in temporary
8-6



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project        Environmental Assessment Report
storage tank. The screenings will subsequently be hauled off site for disposal at a
landfill site.
8.3.3  Grit and grease removal
Two aerated chambers are provided for removal of grit and grease. The spiral action
of the introduced air, maintains lighter organic particles in suspension, but allows the
heavier grit to settle. The deposited grit is removed through pumping to a grit washing
unit prior to storage and off site disposal. The grease separated by the action of air is
pumped to the sludge blending tanks for further treatment. The retention time when
both units are operational is 5 min at maximum day flow. The size of each chamber is
211 m3.
8.3.4 Flow meter
Two Parshall flumes flow meters comprised of prefabricated channels and ultrasonic
level sensors are provided downstream of the grit chambers for measuring the flows
entering the plant.
8.3.5  Primary settling tanks (PSTs)
The wastewater flow is distributed to two primary settling tanks using a flow
distribution chamber. Sluice gates are provided for isolating the flow to the clarifiers,
in case these units need to be bypassed.
Two primary clarifiers, each with a surface area of 1257 m2, are provided for removal
of suspended solids. Each clarifier has a diameter of 40 m, and a volume of 3770 m3.
At average flow the clarifiers will provide 2.1 hour retention time. The projected
removal rate in the plant design is 30% for BOD5, and 60% removal for TSS.
The settled wastewater discharges from the tank through an overflow weir, whereas
the primary sludge and scum generated are conveyed by pipes to the primary sludge
pumping station.
8.3.6  Anaerobic selectors
The primary effluent flows to the four biological treatment units through a flow
distribution chamber. The inlet end of each stream is provided with an anaerobic
selector tank. The function of this tank is to promote the process conditions which
will eliminate filamentous bacteria, and thus prevent sludge bulking in the
downstream units. The total operating volume of the anaerobic selector tanks is 4500
m3, which provide a detention period of 1.2 hours at average flow conditions.
8-7



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project      Environmental Assessment Report
8.3.7  Aeration tanks
The aerated activated sludge tank is designed as a complete mix unit. The tank
dimensions and the surface aerators are designed in such a manner so as to maintain
complete mix conditions at all times. The total volume of the tanks is 20,500 m3
providing 6 hr detention at average flow conditions. Each aeration tank is oxygenated
and kept completely mixed by the action of five surface aerator units having a
capacity of 45 kW each with an oxygen transfer efficiency of 2 kg 02/kw-hr.
8.3.8  Secondary settling tanks
The effluent of the aeration tanks is distributed to 4 secondary settling tanks by a flow
distribution chamber, which is provided with an emergency by pass chamber for flow
diversion in case these tanks are not to be put in service.
The secondary clarifiers are of the circular type and achieve efficient settling of the
sludge for recycling to the anaerobic selector tank or for wasting the excess generated
sludge. Each clarifier has a surface area of 1257 m2, with a diameter of 40 m, and a
volume of 3770 mi3. At average flow the clarifiers will provide 2.5 hour retention
time.
The settled secondary effluent discharges from the tank through an overflow weir,
whereas the secondary sludge generated is conveyed by pipes to the return activated
sludge pumping station. The scum generated is skimmed and transferred by pumps to
the sludge blending tank.
8.3.9  The effluent disinfection system
Disinfection of the effluent is achieved by a controlled dose of chlorine. Previously
chlorine gas was specified; however this was revised to Calcium Hypochlorite, which
is applied in liquid form by injection pumps at the inlet end of the chlorine contact
tank. The tank provides a detention time of 15 minutes at the peak flow conditions of
phase I to ensure elimination of Coliforms.
The Hypochlorite will be applied in sufficient quantities to maintain a minimum of
1 mg/l free chlorine residual at the outlet end of the tank
8.3.10 Sludge blending tanks
Two sludge blending tanks are provided to mix and condition the primary and
secondary sludge generated by the treatment process. A controlled dose of lime of 250
gm/kg of dry solids will be applied to promote sludge conditioning. The total volume
8-8



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project      Environmental Assessment Report
of the two sludge blending tanks is 340 m3, providing a sludge retention time of 12
hours. Following blending the sludge will be transferred to the thickeners by two duty
and one standby pump.
8.3.11 Sludge thickeners
Two gravity circular thickeners are provided to increase the sludge concentration
prior to digestion. Each thickener has 16 m diameter, and an operating volume of 925
mi3. The sludge is applied at the rate of 300 m3/day for the two tanks. The thickener
will achieve a sludge concentration of 5 %. The thickened sludge is pumped by
positive displacement pumps to the first stage digesters whereas the supernatant
overflows to the headworks for re-treatment.
8.3.12 Anaerobic digesters
The thickened sludge is pumped to two circular primary sludge digesters tanks 18 m
diameter and 21 m high, with 16 m above ground level. The design retention time is
15 days minimum, and the operating temperature is 35C. Gas produced by the
anaerobic digestion process is stored in the biogas tank and is to be used to heat the
sludge in the primary digesters and other heating purposes.
The primary digested sludge is then pumped to two secondary egg shaped digesters
having 18 m diameter and 21 m high. These digesters will also be 16 m above ground
level. The design retention time is at least 15 days. The resulting liquor from the
secondary digester is returned to the inlet works of the WWTP for treatment.
8.3.13 Biogas storage tank
The 250 m3 floating cover biogas storage tank is designed to store the produced gases
for one day. The floating cover can be moved using an overhead crane fixed above the
tank. The unit is controlled by a pressure gauge and a computer. The crane lifts or
lowers the floating cover according to the gas pressure build up inside the tank. When
the cover is moved to its maximum, excess gas is vented automatically to the
atmosphere through gas flare stacks.
8.3.14 Sludge dewatering
A sludge dewatering system comprising of 2 number of decanter centrifuges is
provided to dewater the digested sludge to a concentration of 30%. Each centrifuge
has an operating capacity of 116 m3/day. A measured dose of polymer is applied
ahead of the centrifuge feed pumps to assist in the dewatering process. The dewatered
8-9



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project        Environmental Assessment Report
sludge will be hauled to the sludge drying beds for drying, whereas the filtrate is
recycled to the head end of the plant for treatment.
8.3.15 Emergency by - pass system
An emergency bypass channel 1.75 m wide by 2 m deep is provided at the inlet of the
plant and is connected to the effluent end of the plant, downstream of the chlorination
tank. The various treatment units are connected to this bypass line at selected points to
allow bypassing of the individual treatment units in case of maintenance or
emergency. In emergency situations such as toxic spills or non conforming influent
wastewater quality, the bypass can be used for bypassing the plant, and thus preserve
the biological system from being lost.
8.4 Buildings and other facilities in the plant
According to tender documents, the plant includes a number of utility buildings as
described hereunder:
8.4.1  Guardhouse
The guardhouse is situated at the entrance of the plant to control entry to and exit of
the staff and visitors. This building has an area of 85 m2, and is furnished with the
required accommodation needs.
8.4.2  Administration Building
This building will be used by the plant operators for administrative and monitoring
operations. It includes a laboratory, canteen, control room, offices, meeting room etc.
The total built up area of the building is 855 M2.
8.4.3 Power Supply Building
This building houses the emergency diesel power generators, and power transformer.
The power supply building has an area of approximately 270 M2.
8.4.4 The Chlorination Building
This building consists of two adjacent rooms; the first houses the chlorination
equipment, and the second is provided for storage of the Calcium Hypochlorite
chemical. The building has a total area of 165 m2.
8-10



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project        Environmental Assessment Report
8.4.5 Workshop
This building houses the facilities required for repair and maintenance of the
mechanical equipment and electrical switchgear. The total area of the workshop is
approximately 270 m2.
8.4.6 Laboratory
The laboratory is located in the administration building. It has a plan area of 170 m2,
and fumished with the required mechanical and electrical installations. However, the
laboratory equipment, tools and reagents were not included in the original tender.
These have been identified and are further discussed in the proceeding section.
8.4.7  Landscaping
The plant includes landscaped areas that are lawn planted. Furthermore, numerous
trees are already planted along the perimeter wall and within the facility grounds.
Intemal roads and walkways shall be constructed to provide access to all treatment
units, and facilities of the site. Parking spaces are provided as necessary for parking
vehicles for staff or visitors.
8.4.8 Power Supply & Equipment Controls
The electricity requirements of the plant are supplied by two 20 KV overhead lines.
For avoiding power outage due to power cuts, the required number of emergency
power generators is provided.
Control Panels and the central control station at the administration building; facilitate
remote and local monitoring of equipment. Instrumentation for monitoring of process
variables is partially provided. The missing instrumentation is identified and
discussed in the proceeding paragraphs.
8.4.9  Utility Services
The necessary utility services have been checked and were found to be adequate.
These include potable water supply, heating, ventilation, drainage, etc.
8.4.10 Safety and Occupational Health
Provision for fire fighting has been included. The specifications require the
installation of fire hydrants. Where required safety showers have been installed.
Nonetheless, the plant requires a provision for a first aid room, where medical



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
supplies, medical aid kits, and a stretcher can be housed. It is recommended that
appropriate space be allocated for that in the administration building.
8.5 Review of the Design and Environmental Performance of the Emergency
WWTP
The design and environmental performance review is based on information included
in the feasibility study and the current plant tender documents:
8.5.1 Effluent Quality and Design Appraisal
Based on the design loads stated in section 8.2, preliminary design calculations were
performed to assess the effluent quality and to check the adequacy of the treatment
units. These calculations indicate the following:
For the projected flow of 87,500 m3/day (year 2021)
1. The liquid stream is adequately sized to achieve the targeted BOD5 and TSS limits
2. The sludge treatment scheme is adequately sized to handle the generated solids at
the plant, based on the assumed process parameters.
For the projected flow of 34. 000 m3/day (2007)
Since the forecast flow is lower than the designed capacity of the plant, it is envisaged
that the following treatment units shall be operated:
o Grit removal tank: 1 tank
o Primary Clarifier: Should be bypassed, in which case the plant would operate in
the extended aeration mode. Alternatively one tank can be operated, but with
increased primary sludge withdrawal rate to prevent solubalization and digestion
of the sludge with subsequent release of gases that interfere with the settling
process.
o Activated sludge plant: two units should be operated
o Secondary clarifiers: two units should be operated
o Thickeners: two tanks to be operated
o Digesters: one primary and one secondary digester
8-12



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project     Environmental Assessment Report
Under the above conditions the plant would be producing the designed concentration
limits.
For the proiected flow of 22, 100 mn3/dav at year 2004
Since the forecast flow is lower than the designed capacity of the plant, it is envisaged
that the following treatment units shall be operated:
o Grit removal tank: one tank
o Primary Clarifier: To prevent development of septic conditions during warm days
due to prolonged hydraulic detention time, it is preferable to bypass the primary
clarifiers and operate the plant in the extended aeration mode
o Activated sludge plant: one unit should be operated
o Secondary clarifiers: one unit should be operated
o Thickeners: one tank to be operated
o Digesters: one primary and one secondary digester to be operated
Under the above conditions the plant would be producing the designed concentration
limits.
On the basis of above analysis the following conclusions can be made:
During the first development phase, the plant would be producing the designed
concentration limits of BOD5 and TSS. However, careful attention is required in the
selection of the number of treatment units and modules, and in the adjustment of the
process parameters in accordance with actual hydraulic and organic loads received.
At its designed capacity (year 2021), the plant would be producing the designed
concentration limits of BOD5 and TSS.
8.5.2 Solids Production and Quality Requirements
The estimated solids production generated by the treatment process can be
summarized by the following table:
8-13



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project      Environmental Assessment Report
Table 8.4 Emergency WWTP Solids Production
Phase   year   Flow    Screenings Grit    Sludge dry       Sludge dry
I  _      I                      L_ ____  __ j  solids       solids
m'/d      m3/d   j   /      m3/month        tons/year
1   g 2020  87,500       2       1.3       1098            4,400
2@2027      118,500      3                 1487            6,000
It is to be noted that screenings and grit generally emit odours although provision for
grit washing is included, therefore it is necessary that these solids be hauled on a daily
basis, and if need be provision for lime application be made to eliminate odour
emissions.
The current sludge treatment process is classified as process to significantly reduce
pathogens (PSRP), which will allow only restricted use of sludge in agriculture
(fodder or cereal crops). To allow unrestricted re-use of sludge in agriculture a
process to further reduce pathogen (PFRP) is required, which entails the provision of
other processes, such as composting, long term storage, etc.
In all cases, this project would be subject to the World Bank guidelines for sludge re-
use which would require one year sludge storage for reduction of nematode eggs to
less than 1 per 100 gm. Therefore, it is proposed that a total area of 10 hectares be
provided for this, of which 1 hectare to be constructed by the year 2004.
The sludge would be stored in concrete bays with separating walls. Provision for
drainage of liquid should be provided as well as service roads for sludge loading
around the sludge bays.
The dried sludge would be hauled daily at an estimated rate of one trip over 300 days
per year. The trucks hauling the sludge shall be covered to prevent accidental sludge
spills.
8.5.3 Power
The total installed power requirement for the Emergency WWTP is 40 KVA. Power
consumption is estimated to be 1500 kw-hr per year at 2027. There will be one diesel
standby generator giving a total power output of 2.5 MW to provide sufficient power
for operation of the essential plant and equipment and maintain levels of treatment
during any power failures.
8-14



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
8.5.4 Chemical Usage
The chemicals used in the treatment plant and their application rates at year 2027 can
be summarized in the following table
Table 8.5 Emergency WWTP Chemical Consumption Rates
Flow @ 118 ,500 m3/day 2027         Dose       Consumption
tons/year
Calcium Hypochlorite, 70 % conc.   5 mg/l         460
Lime                              260 kg/ton      2974
Polymer                            5 kg/ton        33      l
The treatment plant includes all the required safety facilities for handling of chlonrne
such as safety shower, and emergency extraction fans in the Calcium Hypochlorite
storage room.
For all chemicals to be transported or handled on site, provisions for safety standards
are included in the tender specifications. These provisions require:
o The posting of information on specifications of chemical, method of storage,
application, and remediation measures in case of emergency conditions due to
contact or exposure.
o Installation of safety showers as required
o Wearing of protective clothing
o Emergency plan for serious conditions.
8.5.5 Review of Engineering Aspects
Based on the treatment plant's tender documents, and site visits conducted, a number
of shortcomings to the plant have been identified. These are summarized by the
following:
Instrumentation for process Control
* A number of instruments that are necessary for controlling the operation of the
treatment process have not been included, and should be provided. These are:
* Flow meters for monitoring of return activated sludge flow rate, which would
allow adjustment of the flow rate. Quantity required 4.
8-15



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project      Environmental Assessment Report
*  Flow meters for monitoring of primary sludge flow rate, which would allow
control of primary sludge wastage. Quantity required 3.
*  Flow meters for monitoring of waste activated sludge flow rate, which would
allow control of sludge age critical for the process. Quantity required 3.
*  Flow meters for monitoring and controlling the amount of dilution water added to
the sludge blending tank. Quantity required three.
*  Flow-meters at the outlet of the circulation pumps of sludge digester for a precise
control of the amount of sludge being circulated. Quantity required 33.
*  Flow-meters at the outlet of each centrifuge are recommended for the daily
measurement of the amount of sludge dewatered in the treatment plant. Quantity
required 2.
Revision of Process Piping Design
Provision to return supernatant from thickeners and anaerobic digesters to headworks
should be made since the original plan of diverting the supernatant to sludge drying
beds is not acceptable.
Filtrate line from sludge drying beds should be re-routed to the headworks in lieu of
the current routing which shows them discharging to the dilution pumping station.
Laboratory Equipment and Furnishings
Provision for test equipment, tools, utensils, chemicals, and reagents to conduct
chemical, physical, and bacteriological tests that are required for analyses of
wastewater and sludge as part of the monitoring programme has not been included in
the tender documents. These furnishings were evaluated and included in the cost
estimate of the Environmental Management Plant, Table 7-11 Chapter 7.
Tender Specifications for Calcium Hvpochlorite
As the chlorination system has been revised from gas chlorination to Calcium
hypochlorite, the complete specifications of the latter would be required to ensure that
the correct materials, capacities, etc are procured and installed in accordance with
good engineering standards.
8-16



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project      Environmental Assessment Report
8.6 Evaluation of Effluent Discharge Impact on Maharloo Lake
As discussed in the preceding paragraphs, the effluent of the Emergency WWTP will
be discharged in Maharloo Lake during the wet season. Whereas in preceding
chapters the impact of the project on the lake was addressed, this section will consider
the impact of the Emergency WWTP effluent discharge in detail.
8.6.1 Maharloo Lake Environmental condition
The environmental state of the lake was considered in depth in Chapter 4; however
environmental aspects which are of relevance to the discussion will be re-presented
here. The lake's volume fluctuates depending on the season of the year, reaching a
maximum of 90 million m3 when the lake's water is at its highest level. When the
lake is filling, the water is highly saline due to the geological formations of the area,
and the average salt content has been quoted at 188 gm/l. At this salinity level, the
biological environment is very scarce. Certain fauna and flora species have been
identified, and the most common of which is the Artimia, cane and some aquatic
plants. The lake however is an attraction point for the local population, particularly in
spring time, when it is full and migrant birds approach it.
Currently the lake is polluted with heavy metals, nitrate, organic contaminants, and
Coliforms due to the uncontrolled discharge of sewage in Khoshk and Soltanabad
Rivers which end up in this lake. Measurements of these contaminants were
performed by the DOE, and are exhibited in tables 4-3, 4-5, 4-6, 4-8, and 4-9 of
chapter 4.
8.6.2  Treated Effluent Loads
The effluent of the Emergency WWTP will be treated to a secondary level, with
following parameters:
1. BOD5 < 20 mg/l
2. TSS < 30 mg/l
3. Total Coliforms < 400 MPN/100 ml
4. Nitrogen and Phosphorus would be difficult to predict since no influent levels to
the plant have been established as discussed in the previous paragraphs. However,
typical removal rates by the complete mix activated sludge process of nitrogen
and phosphorus are 50% and 25% respectively. If we consider the influent
concentrations of Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen (TKN) and Phosphorus to be in the
8-17



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project        Environmental Assessment Report
range of 40 mg/l and 8 mg/l respectively the effluent concentrations should be less
than 20 mg/l for TKN and less than 6 mg/l for phosphorus.
It would be quite difficult to quantify the cumulative effect of effluent disposal on the
lake, particularly since the lake volume is variable, and there are other sources of
nutrients and particulate matter that discharge to the lake through surface run off.
However, given the effluent concentrations described in the previous paragraph, and
the fact that the discharge will occur during the winter season only, it is anticipated
that the impact of the residual loads to be small.
8.6.3  Iranian Standards of Discharge to Surface Water Bodies
There are no Iranian standards for effluent discharge to salt water bodies per se.
Iranian Standards for effluent discharge to water bodies are classified either for wells,
agricultural reuse or to surface water. For the latter, no further classification is made
to distinguish whether the water body is for drinking, recreation, etc. Although this
standard cannot be entirely applied in this case, since the lake is highly saline and
with very little aquatic life, comparison with this standard is shown in the table below
for indication purposes.
Table 8.6 Emergency WWTP Effluent Quality & Comparison with Iranian Standards
Parameter    Iranian    WWTP     Remark
Standard    Effluent
BOD5       30 mg/l    20 mg/l  ok
TSS         40       30 mg/l   ok
pH        6.5-8.5     6.5-8   ok
NH4         2.5       can be   If operated as a nitrification system. See
met    paragraph below
NO3          50       will be  Since influent NO3 is negligible and influent
met     NH4 is less than 30 partial nitrification will not
lead to effluent NO3 levels exceeding 50
P04          6       likely to  Compliance will depend on influent levels,
be met   under normal sewage quality, the limits should
be attained
TC      1000/100 ml  400/100  OK
ml
As can be seen from above table, the treated effluent will be in compliance with the
Iranian standards. It should be noted though, that the required N1H4 concentration
would require that the process includes a nitrification step. The design of the
treatment plant will achieve partial nitrification, particularly during the summer
season. To ensure nitrification during the winter season, which is the period of
discharge to the lake, the process parameters have to be modified to ensure that
8-18



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project        Environmental Assessment Report
nitrification will take place. This will entail longer sludge detention times and
reduced mixed liquor concentration, and ultimately lead to increase in plant
construction and operational costs. Based on average ammonia concentration of 25
mg/ in raw sewage, it is anticipated that the treatment process will achieve 60% to
70% removal and the effluent ammonia concentration will be less than 10 mg/I. The
10 mg/l figure is the standard effluent limits for non-saline water bodies.
8.6.4  Standards of Discharge to Surface Water Bodies
In the absence of the national standards, reference can be made to International
standards goveming effluent discharge to oceans or seas. Normally such standards
would require preliminary treatment with dilution or secondary treatment For instance
effluent discharge standards to the Mediterranean Sea require secondary treatment
level (ref. Barcelona Protocol), with a total nitrogen content of 30 mg/I, which can be
achieved by the adopted process. Therefore the treated effluent of the Emergency
WWTP would be actually compliant with relevant international standards.
It should be noted though, that Iranian standards (refer to annex B) also specify limits
of heavy metal. It is not possible at this stage to forecast the heavy metal effluent
levels since no data on the influent is available, however heavy metal concentration in
the influent is not expected to be significant, particularly since all industries will be
required to move to the industrial zone currently under development, which will have
its own central treatment facility. Furthermore, industries with strong wastes will be
required to provide pre-treatment prior to discharge to central sewers according to the
current environmental laws.
8.6.5  Evaluation of Effluent Impact
Based on the preceding sections, it can be concluded that the treated effluent will be
in compliance with relevant prevailing standards governing the discharge of effluent
to Maharloo Lake. The impact of the effluent on the lake can be considered to be
marginal on the lake ecosystem particularly since the loads are insignificant, and the
disposal is occurring for a limited period of time during the year. In fact, as stated in
Chapter 5, the overall impact of developing the treatment plant on the lake's
ecosystem is positive and significant when we consider that the current deteriorating
conditions of the lake due to the discharge of raw sewage will be put to an end by
operating the treatment plant.
8-19






Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
9 Public Involvement
As an integral part of the EA process of Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project,
consultation and communication with various interested groups were undertaken. The
Public Involvement (PI) is essential to determine individual and community
preferences, facilitate selection of project altematives, and designing sustainable
mitigation plans. Furthermore, PI will assist in understanding likely impacts, and the
gathering of environmental data.
The basic components of public involvement is information dissemination,
information soliciting, and consultation, all of which promote effective public
involvement and occur at various stages of the project development cycle.
9.1 Information Dissemination
Information conceming the project was disseminated very early by the Proponent to
various stakeholders. Technical, financial, environmental and social issues associated
with the project were issued to Fars Water Authority, general Public, relevant
industrial institutions, The Shiraz Municipality, The City Council, The Department of
the Environment, The Ministry of Health and Medical Education, The Ministry of
Agricultural Jihad, The Cultural Heritage Organization, Universities, NGO's (such as
the Green Association) , and Farmers. Terms of Reference for the El studies were
developed and shared with the key stakeholders in scoping meetings, which were held
as of August 2002. Relevant documentation about the project was issued through
letters, and project reports. SWWC also issued monthly bulletins and news letters to
inform the public about the project. The aim of this dissemination was to provide
accurate information conceming the project objectives, components, likely impacts,
environmental concems, and other issues, which would facilitate information
soliciting, and participation at later stages of the EA, as described in the proceeding
paragraphs.
9.2 Information Solicitation
Information that is relevant to the EA and that would provide insights were sought
from the various stakeholders throughout the EA study. In brief, the following
outlines the main inputs of selected stakeholders:
* SWWC: Status of water supply system, sewage system, water and wastewater
quality records.
9-1



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project        Environmental Assessment Report
*  Cultural Heritage Organization: Permit requirements for work adjacent to
historical sites, latest archeological findings, sitting of the projects components
adjacent to the cultural sites, review and comments on chance find procedures.
*  Shiraz Municipality: urban situation, land acquisition, building permits.
*  Department of Environment: latest update on applicable environmental standards,
well water quality records, Maharloo lake water quality, industrial effluent records
*  Ministry of Health and Medical Education: Public health in Shiraz City, incidence
of water bome disease
* Ministry of Agriculture Jihad: Agricultural situation, standards of irrigation water,
standards for treated sludge
9.3 Public Consultation
Following information dissemination and solicitation, public consultation was
conducted through interviews, group discussions, and public meetings. On several
occasions discussions about the project were conducted on local TV talk shows and
included experts, university professors, and SWWC officials. Monthly meetings
between SWWC representatives and Fars Province Govemate Technical Officer,
including other provincial officials, were held at the Fars Govemor General's office to
discuss the project development and to consult with all concemed officials. Public
consultation include also other major stake holders as detailed in the following
paragraphs
9.3.1 Ministry of Health and Medical Education
Consultation with the public health authorities of the affected areas covered the
following issues:
*  The improvement of personal hygiene and public health
*  The need for effective control of waterbome disease transmission in agricultural
areas and in potable water supply
*  The measures to decrease health risks to farmers and consumers through healthy
practices: washing of vegetables, wearing of boots for farmers
* Measures to control helminthes diseases and livestock diseases
* The necessity of public awareness and education
9.3.2 Ministry of Agriculture Jihad
The following points were discussed with agricultural authorities:
9-2



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project      Environmental Assessment Report
The need for water in the agricultural areas downstream of the plant
*  The improvement in irrigation water following implementation of the project
*  The reuse potential of treated effluent and treated sludge
*  The need for mitigation measures such as controlling heavy metal content in soils
and crops
* Improving current irrigation methods
*  The need for agricultural extension services in the agricultural areas of the project
to monitor long term impacts of the project.
*  The education of farmers on the use of treated effluent and sludge
9.3.3 Non-Governmental Organizations
The Consultant and the Project Management Unit organized and held a number of
meetings to consult affected groups and obtain comments from local NGOs. The
complaints about the project were then reviewed by the Consultant and the proponent.
The non-governmental organizations consulted were:
The farmers Council
*  Independent agronomists
*  Environmental researchers
*  Independent public health engineers
* Representatives of the city's industrial institutions
* University professors and experts
*  Green Association
The view points of the various non-governmental organizations can be summarized as
follows:
The implementation of the project should commence as soon as possible.
*  The standards for management, pipe laying, construction and monitoring should
be of the highest quality.
*  The need for institutional strengthening of all agencies at the provincial levels,
including SWWC
*  The need for more action , rather than continued endless studies and hesitation
*  The need fore inter-agency coordination training, education and public awareness.
9-3



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
*  Technology transfer is essential for training of staff at all levels.
*  Issues relating to the connection fees, and the need to make them affordable
*  Reduction of the Unaccounted For Water
*  The need to preserve the natural state of Maharloo lake
*  The need to exercise utmost care to avoid potential impact on cultural heritage
buildings and monuments.
9.3.4 Farmers
Several meetings were held with farmers and agricultural organizations and the
following topics were addressed:
*  The improvement to the environment if the project was implemented
*  The negative and positive impacts of using treated sludge a soil conditioner
*  The impacts of reuse of treated effluent in agriculture
*  The positive impacts of improved quality of Khoshk and Soltan Abad rivers
*  The farmers awareness of possible water logging problems and how to use sludge
*  The public hazard from using contaminated surface and ground water.
The views and concems of the farmers were recorded and assessed. They can be
summarized by the following:
The farmers emphasized the importance of improving the quality of the ground water
and surface waters.
* Farmers are concerned about heavy metal pollution of soil and crops leading to
avoidance by consumers of crops grown in the area.
*  The farmers insisted that the effluent should be of acceptable quality to protect
their reputation
*  The farmers welcomed the reuse of sludge as a soil conditioner, particularly if it
would yield good results and is offered at economical rates.
* However, they expressed concern about the risk of heavy metal build up or
helminthes diseases.
9.3.5 Public Meeting
Annex F presents the proceedings of the public consultation meeting held on the 4 of
January, 2004. More than 150 people representing the main stake holders, and the
public participated in the meeting. The public meeting discussed the project
9-4



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
objectives, project description, alternatives to the project and altemate design options
available, positive and negative impacts of the project, major environmental issues
and mitigatory measures available, and feedback from the public. The speakers
presented their discussions using documentary films, power point, and audio visual
aids. The main feedback from the public was that the project is urgently needed, it
should be executed to a very good quality, govemment agencies should coordinate
with each other, and SWWC capacity should be enhanced to meet the project needs.
The main concern of the participants was the potential adverse impacts of the projects
on the following:
* Maharloo lake water quality
* Historical buildings and monuments
*  Health concems from sludge and irrigation reuse
The Proponent and the Consultants to the project assured the participants that the EA
studies have addressed these issues very carefully per following:
The project aims at maximizing the reuse of effluent in agriculture. Therefore, the
discharge of effluent in the lake will take place during the wet season only, wherein
the effluent cannot be reused. Furthermore, the treated effluent of the WWTPs would
be in compliance with the national standards for surface water discharge. Also to
evaluate and detect potential effects on the lake, the project includes a comprehensive
program for monitoring the Lake's water quality.
The Consultants clarified that the design of the project works was studied carefully to
locate all facilities and align all underground lines away from historical sites;
furthermore the project will ensure compliance with the permit requirements of the
SCHO, whose representative will attend the construction sites near cultural heritage
areas.
Adequate design provisions have been incorporated in the sludge treatment process,
sludge application, sludge and soil monitoring to address all the requirements of the
national and intemational standards for reuse of sludge in agriculture.
9.4 Summary
Numerous govemmental and non-govermmental organizations were consulted at
various stages of project preparation. At the initiation of the project, technical,
financial, environmental and social issues associated with the project were discussed
in meetings attended by the design Consultants, representative of the City councils,
Shiraz municipality, Fars Water Authority and various other stakeholders. Terms of
9-5



Shiraz Water Supplv and Sanitation Project       Environmental Assessment Report
Reference for the El studies were developed and shared with the key stakeholders in
scoping meetings, which were held as of August 2002.
The preparation process for the environmental assessment included public
consultations which were carried out at various stages. The consultations involved
line ministries, city authorities, provincial departments of environment, operating
water and wastewater companies, local communities, NGOs and the public.
Upon the completion of the draft EA report, the executive summary was translated to
Farsi and a public hearing was held on the 4 of January 2004. The meeting was
attended by more than 150 participants from various organizations including
representatives of SWWC, local health authorities, local law enforcement authorities,
Fars Water Authority, NGOs, Shiraz municipality, DOE, members of the press,
experts and professionals from the community of Shiraz. Invitation letters were
prepared in Farsi and were accompanied with the draft Executive Summary.
Announcements about the meeting were also made through the local newspapers and
public bulletin boards. The meeting was covered by the local newspapers, television
and radio. The meeting consisted of an opening session, a presentation of the project
financial arrangements and the current cooperation between the World Bank and
SWWC. This presentation was followed by a short documentary film which showed
the current status of the water and wastewater services in the city and the ongoing
works of these facilities. The film was followed by a presentation of the project's
major components and the environmental aspect of each component. The common
view held was that the project should be implemented as soon as possible as it would
result in improved health and welfare benefits not only to Shiraz but for the whole
region.
The main concern was expressed by NGO and MOE representatives conceming the
impact of the project on Maharloo Lake, and whether alternative effluent discharge
options are available to avoid these impacts. The Consultants of the project clarified
that the alternative of reusing the treated effluent in agricultural irrigation is actually
adopted in the project, and therefore the discharge of effluent in the lake will take
place during the wet season only, wherein the effluent cannot be reused. Furthermore,
the treated effluent of the WWTPs would be in compliance with the national
standards for surface water discharge. Also to evaluate potential effects on the lake,
the project includes a comprehensive program for monitoring the Lake's water
quality. Other concerns related to the impact of the project on the historical buildings
of Shiraz, was raised by a member of the public, who requested clarifications on the
measures foreseen to mitigate these adverse impacts. The Consultants clarified that
the design of the project works was studied carefully to locate all facilities and align
all underground lines away from historical sites; furthermore the project will ensure
9-6



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project             Environmental Assessment Report
compliance with the permit requirements of the SCHO, whose representative will
attend the construction sites near cultural heritage areas. A representative of the
MOAJ requested clarification on how the project will address the reuse of treated
sludge in agriculture considering the constraints and the health quality limits required
by various standards. It was clarified that adequate design provisions have been
incorporated in the sludge treatment process, sludge application, sludge and soil
monitoring to address all the requirements of the national and international standards.
9-7






Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project      Environmental Assessment Report
10 List of References
1. A Study of Air Pollution in Shiraz; A.Safari, Organization of Environmental
Protection, Fars Branch, 1999
2. A Study of Contamination and Contamination Resources of Water in Shiraz Plain;
M. Koochmeshkian; Organization of Environmental Protection,1993
3. A Study of Ways for Water Table Drawdown in South-east of Shiraz Plain; Parab
Fars Consulting Engineers, 1991
4. A Synthesis of the Comprehensive Study for Revitalization and Development of
Agriculture and Natural Resources in Fars Province (Parts 6 and 7); Yekom
Consulting Engineers, 2000
5. A Synthesis of the Comprehensive Study for Revitalization and Development of
Agriculture and Natural Resources in Fars Province, Part 19 (Environment);
Yekom Consulting Engineers, 2000
6. Contamination of Water and Soil in Catchment Area of Maharloo Lake; K.
Banani, Organization for Enviromnental Protection, Fars Branch, 1996
7. Draft report -Feasibility Study for water Supply and wastewater Collection
Treatment and Disposal Facilities for City of Shiraz, Iranab Consulting Engineers,
2002
8. Draft report -Feasibility Study for water Supply and wastewater and Disposal
Facilities for City of Shiraz, Iranab Consulting Engineers, 2002
9. Economic-Social-Environmental-Technical Justification of Shiraz Sewerage Plan;
Mahabghods Consulting Engineers, prepared for Shiraz Water and Sewage
Company,2002
10. Environmental Impact Assessments of Shiraz Sewage Treatment Plant during
Construction and Operation; Z.Saboori; Graduation Paper; School of
Environmental Studies, University of Tehran, 2001
11. Environmental Review of Baalbek Water and Wastewater System
12. Final Report- Feasibility Study for water Supply and wastewater Collection
Treatment and Disposal Facilities for City of Shiraz, Iranab Consulting Engineers;
2003
10-1



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project      Environmental Assessment Report
13. First Interim Report- Feasibility Study for Water Supply and Wastewater
collection Treatment and Disposal for City of Shiraz; Iraanab Consulting
Engineers; Vol. 1 ;2002
14. General Census of People and Houses; Iran Census Center; 1996
15. Identification of Iranian Villages; Iran Census Center; 1999
16. Iran Wild Life (Vertebrae); Eskandar Firooz; University Press Center, 1 999
17. Phase 1 Study Report for Rehabilitation of Shiraz Water network (Parts 1 and 2);
Iranab Consulting Engineers, 2001
18. Plan for Development and Extension of Shiraz (Part 5); Parhas Consulting
Engineers, prepared for Fars Housing and City Planning Branch Office, 1996
19. Report on Geo-electrical investigation of groundwater resources of Shiraz;
Abkav-Tehran Consulting Engineers, 1971
20. Report on Geology of Catchment Area of Shiraz Khoshk River; Parab Fars-Haseb
Fars Consulting Engineers, 2002
21. Report on Hydrogeology and Water Resources (Rehabilitation Plan of Khoshk
River in Shiraz); Parab Fars-Haseb Fars Consulting Engineers, 2002
22. Report on Morphology of Shiraz Khoshk River; Parab Fars-Haseb Fars
Consulting Engineers, 2002
23. Second Interim Report- Feasibility Study for Water Supply and Wastewater
collection Treatment and Disposal for City of Shiraz; Iraanab Consulting
Engineers; Vol. 2; 2002
24. Soil Study of Shiraz; Center for Investigation of Water and Soil, 1969
25. Study of Contamination of Maharloo Lake Water; Organization for
Environmental Protection, Fars Branch-Shiraz University, 1998
26. The Birds of Iran, Firooz .E; 1976; Department of the Environment
27. Third Interim Report- Feasibility Study for Water Supply and Wastewater
Collection Treatment and Disposal for City of Shiraz; Iraanab Consulting
Engineers; Vol. 3 ;2002
10-2



Shiraz Water Supply and Sanitation Project          Environmental Assessment Report
28. Tracing of Heavy Metals in Water, Soil and some Agricultural Products around
Khoshk River in Shiraz; Moslemi, Jaafar-Zadeh, Abbasi; Organization for
Environmental Protection, Fars Branch
29. Water Supply and Wastewater Collection Disposal (Feasibility Study- draft
Report) Iranab Consulting Engineers, March 2003
10-3



