                             Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)

                                                                                                 Report No: AC91
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 03/15/2004
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF                           Project ID: P071191
Project: IR-WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION                      Task Team Leader: Mohammed Benouahi
Authorized to Appraise Date: January 23, 2004                IBRD Amount ($m): 253.50
Bank Approval: May 25, 2004                                  IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: MNSIF                                         Sector: Sewerage (60%); Water supply (30%);
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)           Central government administration (10%)
Status: Lending                                              Theme: Pollution management and environmental
                                                             health (P); Infrastructure services for private sector
                                                             development (P); Access to urban services for the
                                                             poor (P); Other financial and private sector
                                                             development (S); Gender (S)

I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):

The project development objectives are:

(a)      enhance the quality of life in the proposed cities, Ahwaz and Shiraz, particularly in poor areas by:
         (i) improving access to satisfactory water supply and significantly increasing coverage of
         sanitation services; and (ii) improving environmental, hygiene and health conditions, as well as
         promoting reuse of treated effluents;

(b)      strengthen and develop the capacity of Ahwaz and Shiraz Water and Wastewater Companies
         (WWCs), and assist the latter in improving their efficiency, sustainability and financial autonomy;
         and

(c)      initiate sector reforms, particularly with respect to institutional arrangements, the regulatory
         framework, demand management, as well as prepare a sanitation strategy.

I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):

Long-term development plans have been designed for the extension of water and wastewater system and
facilities in Ahwaz and Shiraz over the period 2004-2027. These plans are formulated to serve a population
of about 2.2 and 1.9 million respectively in Ahwaz and Shiraz by 2027. They are scheduled to be
implemented in four phases and the project under consideration covers works proposed under phase 1.
Areas to be covered will be as follows:

In Ahwaz: The water component of the project aims at improving the quality of water and regulating the
pressure in the water system. This will be done by rehabilitating the existing water treatment plants and
providing additional treatment to ensure adequate water quality, constructing 5 new reservoirs and the
required pumping stations, and implementing the necessary transmission lines. Additionally, rehabilitation
of the water network and implementation of house connections will take place where needed throughout the
project period. The wastewater component includes the improvement and rehabilitation of the existing
treatment plant in the west of Ahwaz (Choneibeh), the construction of the first two modules of a new
treatment plant in the east of Ahwaz, and the implementation of the wastewater collection system that are

                                                         2
                                                                                                              ISDS


planed to connect 750,000 persons by 2007.

In Shiraz: The water component will finance works that will increase supply capacity and regulate the
pressure in the water network. This will be achieved by digging and equipping 17 wells, constructing four
reservoirs, the required pumping stations and pressure reducing valves, laying and extension of the
transmission and distribution system. Rehabilitation of the water network and implementation of house
connections will take place where needed throughout the project period. The wastewater component will
include works that will extend the collection system in the city and the construction of the first two modules
of a new treatment plant.For the wastewater treatment works of the first phase in both cities, it is proposed
to apply the design-build-operate approach in order to optimize the design and to ensure proper operation
and maintenance of completed works in the initial stages of operation while building local capacity to run
the treatment plants. Build-operate and transfer-type of contracts would be considered for the subsequent
phases. These contracts will increase the involvement of international private sector in providing
wastewater services, which will ensure sustainable service delivery.

The project also includes operation and maintenance equipment and TA/training/consultant services for
institutional development and project management, engineering design and construction supervision,
updating of the wastewater development program and feasibility studies and engineering design for phase 2
investments.

I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or
critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)

The project will cover two cities that are located in two different provinces:

·        Ahwaz in Khoozestan ­ South-Western part of Iran
·        Shiraz in Fars Province ­ Southern part of Iran

Both cities have acceptable water supply systems with over 95% coverage however, there is considerable
lack of adequate wastewater collection, treatment and disposal networks. Connection rates to modern
sewage networks are presently very low in all cities, there is only one treatment plant in operation, that of
Ahwaz, and even this plant treats only a small proportion of the wastewater discharged by the local
population to the Karoon River, the largest river in Iran. The lack of adequate sanitation facilities has
resulted in considerable environmental degradation and heightened health risks. Among the major negative
impacts arising from the existing situation are:

·        The pollution and degradation of natural resources (surface water, groundwater, soil, aquatic
         life......) is leading to the reduction of opportunities (salt production from the salt lake in Shiraz);

·        The spread of underreported traditional and possibly water-related diseases to local populations
         and tourists alike;

·        Contamination of the food chain from untreated wastewater is affecting consumers' health;

·        Loss of water resources (e.g. several wells have been closed in Shiraz); and

·        Considerable costs for remediation of damages (e.g. additional treatment requirements of the water
         supply sources, new remote sources of clean water, cost of health treatment, lost income and
         schooling days, etc...).

                                                        3
                                                                                                           ISDS



Khoozestan Province: Ahwaz is the capital of Khoozestan province and is located at approximately 875
km from Tehran. The present population is about 950,000 and is projected to reach 2,200,000 by the year
2027. Ahwaz is one of the most economical centers of the Islamic Republic of Iran as it is located in an
oil-rich region and hosts a number of large industries. The Karoun River, the largest river in Iran, flows
along Ahwaz and divides the city into two separate drainage zones: the eastern zone and the western zone.
At present, more than half of the population is connected to a wastewater collection network. Areas
without wastewater either use seepage pits or discharge their wastewater in open channels, rivers or in open
grounds creating wastewater pools, polluting the soil and water resources, and creating health hazards. To
improve the wastewater situation, the existing wastewater treatment plant that was constructed in 1977 has
been recently rehabilitated and put into operation. This treatment plant, which is based on activated sludge,
serves the Western drainage zone but can only treat the wastewater generated by 140,000 persons.

The pollution of the Karoon River is a major problem and a priority issue not only for Ahwaz but for the
whole province.      The discharge of untreated municipal and industrial effluents, the drainage from
agricultural lands, and the uncontrolled discharge of solid wastes directly into the River and its tributaries
have considerably degraded the water quality of Karoun. Available treatment facilities have proved to be
insufficient to produce adequate drinking water quality. At present, water from well fields is being
transferred around 70 km and blended with the river water in order to reduce the concentration of
contaminants and make it treatable. However, the maximum water that can be obtained represents less than
10% of Ahwaz water demand and as such cannot improve the degraded water quality to acceptable levels.
Consumers are switching to new sources of drinking water (15-20 liter deposit-refund containers) or taking
measures to reduce the contamination of the drinking water (filtering and boiling tap water). The water
quality but also personal and domestic hygiene behaviors are largely contributing to high diarrhea
prevalence that reaches 50% during peak months. Out of the total gastro-enteritis cases in Iran during the
year 2000, 10% were reported in Ahwaz, which accounts for only 1.5% of the total population but where
there is acute pollution of both ground water and surface water.

Fars province: Shiraz is the capital of Fars province and is located at approximately 925 km from Tehran.
The present population is about 1,200,000 and is projected to reach 1,950,000 by the year 2027. Shiraz
has a rich historical heritage and is close to Persepolis, the most important archeological site of the country.
At present only 8% of the population is connected to wastewater collection. Due to the high water table,
the performance of seepage pits has been unsatisfactory and several houses are discharging their
wastewater into the open drainage channels that run along the roads adjacent to the residential areas.
During the dry periods, the channels become open wastewater collectors releasing un-pleasant odors,
attracting mosquitoes and affecting the health of the residents. The impact of wastewater on health is
considered to be lower than in other cities, yet water related diseases such as cholera and gastro enteritis
are being reported by the health centers of the City and have been attributed to irrigation of raw vegetables
with untreated wastewater and to ground water contamination. It was also reported that around 26 wells
have been closed due to pollution mainly in areas where ground water is relatively high. Water-related
diseases are moderately prevalent in Shiraz with diarrhea set at 20 percent between June and October.


B. Check Environmental Classification: A (Full Assessment)

Comments:

The components of the proposed project have been reviewed and environmentally screened. The project
has been classified as Category "A" because of the extension of water treatment plants, the construction of
wastewater treatment plants, the re-use of sludge and treated effluent, the potential impact from the
discharge of industrial effluents, the presence of archeological sites in one city and the overall complexity

                                                         4
                                                                                                             ISDS


of the project. The most significant positive and negative environmental impacts that the project will
generate can be summarized as follows:

Positive impacts: The proposed project will improve the quality of water supply and sanitation services
with the objective of reducing environmental pollution and improving public health conditions of the
various cities.

The project will extend and rehabilitate the water supply network to ensure 100% water supply coverage,
to provide good quality water on a continuous basis, to cater for population growth and to reduce
unaccounted for water. Thus the project will provide controlled water supply to the households and will
reduce overdraft of the aquifer. It will also improve health conditions of the population by providing them
with good quality domestic water from sustainable sources.

The provision of wastewater collection and treatment facilities will have a strong positive effect on the
overall environment and the public health conditions in each city. It is expected that as result of the health
risk assessment, appropriate indicators will be developed to measure the exposure to wastewater related
diseases. There will be improvement of the water quality in the streams and rivers that flow throughout the
cities. A major benefit is the protection of the groundwater resources from contamination by untreated
sewage and the preservation of the marine environment and other vulnerable water. As a result economic
benefits will occur in terms of increased water volume of good quality, increased fisheries and tourism
activities, and lower remediation costs. Furthermore, the wastewater treatment facilities will provide an
opportunity to better control industrial discharges through pretreatment and connection to the collection
system as stipulated in the Iranian law. Finally it is worth noting that the design of the treatment plants will
take into consideration the use of their by-products (treated effluent and generated sludge) with the aim of
protecting the environment and the scarce water resources. This will generate significant economic, social
and health benefits and will enable the Government to enforce the law that prohibits the use of raw
wastewater for irrigation.

Negative impacts: Major environmental issues are:

(i)      risk of poor performance of water treatment facilities that would lead to insufficient water quantity
         of inadequate quality if the water supply system is not properly maintained and monitored;

(ii)      possible discharge of toxic/harmful industrial substances into the wastewater collection network
         because of the lack of enforcement on the provision of the required pre-treatment; and

(iii)    use of treated effluent for irrigation and of treated sludge for soil conditioning could, in case of any
         adverse diversions in treatment quality, cause a health threat to people.

Other issues are mainly related to inconvenience to be experienced during construction such as disruption
of traffic pattern, disrupted access to residential or/and other buildings, change in the landscape (loss of
vegetation), noise nuisance, air pollution due to dust formation, safety hazard from construction activities
and inappropriate disposal of excavated materials and construction debris.

                                                        5
                                                                                                          ISDS




C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on   for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
                                     Policy                                           Triggered
     Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                         Yes    No
     Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                 Yes    No
     Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                  Yes    No
     Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                    Yes    No
     Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                Yes    No
     Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                 Yes    No
     Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                        Yes    No
     Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                            Yes    No
     Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                 Yes    No
     Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                      Yes    No



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.

II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe
any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.

Environmental assessment OP 4.01:
Environmental assessment studies including environmental management plans (EMP) were prepared for the
two cities in compliance with the requirements of the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran as well as
the Procedures of the World Bank, including Operational Policy OP 4.01 "Environmental Assessment" and
Operational Policy Note OPN 11.03 "Cultural Heritage". The reports covered three major areas:

(i)      Project description, legal and regulatory framework, and baseline conditions;

(ii)     Analysis of impacts and design alternatives;

(iii)    Environmental Management Plan.

The environmental assessment indicated that the execution of the project will have positive environmental
impacts in terms of reducing pollution of natural resources, will generate significant economical, social and
public health benefits, and will enable the government to enforce existing environmental regulations and
standards. Potential adverse environmental impacts might arise but can be mitigated. Mitigation measures
to ensure that potential adverse environmental impacts are minimized were identified and include:

·        Routine maintenance of the water supply system and regular monitoring of water quality including
         water sources, treatment plants and reservoirs;

·        Connections will be provided only to industries that pre-treat their effluents to levels which comply
         with the World Bank Environmental Guidelines mentioned in the "Pollution Prevention and
         Abatement Handbook;

·        Restricting the use of treated effluents for irrigation in case relevant WHO Guidelines cannot be

                                                       6
                                                                                                            ISDS


         met;

·        Drying of sludge for one year, before its use as soil conditioner, to ensure elimination of nematode
         eggs; and

·        Construction activities will be coordinated with all concerned authorities prior to the start of the
         construction works. In addition, Good Practice Environmental Procedures will be adopted.

Cultural Property (OPN 11.03):
Shiraz. Shiraz, the capital of Fars province, is an ancient city. It lies 35 km north of Persepolis, the most
important historic site of ancient Iran, contains several other historic sites, and is an important tourist
destination. Most of the works lie outside the city in barren, uninhabited or agricultural lands, well away
from any areas of cultural interest. The implementation of the project will not affect any archeological or
historical sites. However, such sites may exist buried under the areas where construction activities are
planned.    To address this concern, the environmental assessment, consistent with the provisions of
Operational Policy OPN 11.03 included an archaeological assessment of potential impacts to archeological
and historical sites that may be located during construction and a special cultural heritage component was
included in the EMP. Moreover, the final design of the project concerning the pipelines was sent to the
Cultural Heritage Organization (CHO), which has legal authority to ensure protection of archeological
sites. Following careful review and recommendations, some minor changes were incorporated in the design,
and CHO has now issued a permit for construction of pipelines.

Ahwaz. There are no sites of cultural value in the area.

Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.30):
The implementation of the project required includes the expropriation of land for the construction of
treatment plants, pumping stations and sewerage lines. Given the common characteristics of this project in
each city, a Resettlement Policy Framework has been prepared together with abbreviated resettlement
action plans for the first two cities. Iranian law conforms in all major respects to Bank law, and provides
for minimization of disturbance, advance notification to owners, compensation of all right holders at full
value independently assessed, and right of negotiation and appeal. In no case are residences or current
economic activities or livelihoods affected. In Ahwaz there is expropriation of an unused agricultural plot
of 67 ha from 13 owners, with compensation currently being negotiated, and two small-undeveloped urban
plots for pumping stations from private owners. All other land is public land expropriated by transfer with
compensation from other public organizations. Full documentation is available to support the plants, and a
Bank social scientist has visited the sites and confirmed the findings of the local social scientist. The project
therefore complies with the requirements of OP 4.12.

II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
Impact on archeological findings during excavation in the city of Shiraz.

II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
None.

II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)

1. The quality of treated effluents will be monitored on a regular basis. In case the concentrations of the
    parameters in the treated effluent into the receiving bodies (rivers and streams) are higher that those in
    the pollution prevention and abatement handbook, treatment of the wastewater will be reviewed in

                                                       7
                                                                                                         ISDS


    terms of cost availability and efficiency. Otherwise the treated effluent will be discharged in a way as
    not to reach the receiving water bodies. Alternative discharge means have been identified during the
    environmental assessment studies.

2. In case archeological remains are found, chance find procedures will apply: construction will be
    stopped and changes in right of way will be undertaken.

II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues

The Environmental Assessment studies include an environmental management plan (EMP) to ensure that
all negative impacts are properly mitigated and monitored.

The EMP covers all components funded by the project as well as existing water supply sources and
wastewater treatment facilities including any facilities that are under construction. The plan outlines the
measures incorporated in the design, construction and operation of the project to mitigate potential
environmental impacts. It also includes a monitoring program, the institutional arrangement for
implementing the various tasks as well as capacity building and technical assistance for key stakeholders
involved in the project. The cost of implementing the EMP was estimated and appropriate budgetary
allocations were provided as part of the project cost.

II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard
policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.

Key stakeholders of the project include Government and related agencies including WWWC, DOE,
municipality, city councils, agricultural association, industrial association, health centers, farmers, NGOs
and communities.

At the initiation of the project, technical, financial, environmental and social issues associated with the
project were discussed in meetings attended by design consultants, representatives of the City Councils,
Municipalities, WWCs and various other stakeholders. Further consultations were held during project
preparation to facilitate stakeholder involvement and awareness at all levels of project implementation and
to ensure that information required for decision making is available to all interested parties.

TORs for the EA studies were developed and shared with the key stakeholders in scoping meetings, which
were held on April 2002. In addition the Bank team provided a one-day training on August 2002 .regarding
the Bank's safeguard policies.

The preparation process for the Environmental Assessment included public consultations which were
carried out at various stages.     The consultations involved line ministries, city authorities, provincial
Departments of Environment, operating water and wastewater companies, local communities, NGOs and
the public. This process was complemented by additional consultations undertaken in preparation of the
RAP and SA. The EA executive summaries in English and Farsi, were distributed to all concerned
stakeholders. Public hearings were held in Ahwaz and Shiraz on October 28th, 2003 and January 4th,
2004, respectively and were attended by a large number of people including representatives of most
ministries, Governors, MPs, local communities, NGOs, contractors, consultants, university professors and
medias. The public did not have any restriction on the implementation of the project, on the contrary all
presents welcomed the project, requested its initiation the soonest possible and asked for additional
activities to solve pollution problems.

                                                      8
                                                                                                           ISDS


Prior to appraisal, the environmental social assessment studies and the executive summaries will be
disclosed in the WWCs, the Directorate of Environment and the Bank's Infoshop.

E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or
on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.

[ ] S1. ­ Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks in
         management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. ­ One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
         technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. ­ No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. ­ Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or similar
         projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard
         issues.

F. Disclosure Requirements

Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:                         Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               1/31/2004
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           1/31/2004
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            2/3/2004
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive         1/28/2004
Directors (For category A projects)

Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                                        Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               1/31/2004
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           1/31/2004
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            2/10/2004

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                             Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            Not Applicable Not Applicable

Pest Management Plan:                                                      Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            Not Applicable Not Applicable

Dam Safety Management Plan:                                                Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.

Signed and submitted by               Name                                                  Date
Task Team Leader:                     Mohammed Benouahi                                     03/04/2004
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:     Sherif Kamel F. Arif/Person/World Bank                03/10/2004
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:     Meskerem Brhane/Person/World Bank                     03/04/2004

                                                  9
                                                                   ISDS


Project Safeguards Specialists 3:

Approved by:                      Name                   Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Sherif Kamel F. Arif    03/10/2004
Sector Manager                    Francoise Clottes      02/10/2004

