Document of                    F E L E C 0 P Y
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rqrt No. P-2505-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENi
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS,
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
LOWIER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT-
April 11, 1979
This document ha a restricted ditrbutlem ad may be mod by rewiPits edy In the pedormance of
their officid duties. Its ctents may net otirwise be diueied widho* Word Bank athoriaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        Rupiah (Rp)
US$1             =   Rp 625
Rp 100           =   US$0.16
Rp 1 million     =   US$1,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                         =   39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)                    =   0.62 miles_
1 square meter (sq,m)                   10.8 square feet
1 cubic meter (Cu m)                -   35.5 cubic feet
1 hectare (ha)                      =   2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (sq km)          =   0.386 square miles
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPPEDA        -   Provincial Development Planning Board
BAPPENAS       -   National Development Planning Agency:
DGWRD          -   Director(ate)-deneral of Water Resources Development
DIP            -   Project Implementation Budget
DOR            -   Director(ate) of Rivers
INPRES         -   Instruksi Presiden - "Presidential Instruction"
- a rural public works program,
IPEDA          -   luran Pembangunan Daerah - Land,Tax
O&M            -   Operation and maintenance
Proyek Cimanuk -   Badan Pelaksana Proyek-Pengembangan Wilayah Sungai
Cimanuk, "Project ExecutivedBody for Cimanuk:River
Basin Development":
Repelita I     -   First Five-Year Development Plan (1969-74)
Repelita II    -   Second Five-Year Development Plan (1974-79)
Repelita III   -   Third Five-Year Development Plan (1979-84)
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1-March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Republic of Indonesia
Amount:           $50.0 million equivalent in various currencies
Terms:            20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
7.90Z p.a.
Project
Description:   The proposed project would assist the Government's efforts
to intensify food production, raise farm incomes, and
minimize loss of lives and damage to property caused by
flooding of rivers in the Indramayu area of West Java. The
project consists of: construction of river training, flood
control and related works; a river estuary study to enable a
description and analysis to be made of the coastal and
littoral process in the vicinity of Indramayu; and a flood
control operations study to ensure that the project works
would function effectively in a flood emergency. The
project would create a demand for some 27,500 man-years
of labor over the construction period, and would increase
rice production by about 6,100 tons per year by 1989. The
project would bear moderate risks, as is normal for flood
control projects.
Estimated         The table below summarizes the estimated cost of the project.
Cost:
Local Foreign Total
-------$ million-----
Civil Works                      18.2     25.1    43.3
Equipment and Services            6.8      2.3      9.1
Base Cost                     25.0      27.4    52.4
Physical contingencies            4.5      5.4      9.9
Price contingencies               9.8      4.9    14.7
Total Project Cost            39.3      37.7    77.0
Financing         The proposed loan of $50.0 million would finance the full
Plan:           foreign exchange cost of the project and $12.3 million of
local costs.  The remaining costs ($27.0 million) would
be met by the Government.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated                          -----------------($ million)------------
Disbursements: Bank FY           1980     1981      1982      1983     1984
Annual            1.5     10.5      16.0      15.5      6.5
Cumulative        1.5     12.0      28.0     43.5      50.0
Rate of Return:  16%
Staff Appraisal
Report:         No. 2330b-IND, dated April 2, 1979.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REpUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR
A LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $50 million to help
finance a Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control Project. The loan would have a
term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.90 percent
per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest economic report on Indonesia, "Indonesia:  Growth
Patterns, Social Progress a.nd Development Prospects," of February 20, 1979
(2093-IND) was circulated to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979.
The report's main findings are that:
(a) aided by a massive improvement in the country's resource position
during the early 1970s and innovative policies, considerable
progress has been made towards raising the level of material
well-being for the bulk of the Indonesian population, including
the lowest income groups;
(b) due to a number of new, mostly exogenous circumstances,
including an expected slow-down in the growth of oil production,
Indonesia is now facing a rapidly tightening overall resource
position which will, make it more difficult to maintain high levels
of income and employment growth, while at the same time preserving
monetary stability and external balance;
(c) the recent (November 15, 1978) devaluation of the Rupiah from
Rp 415 to Rp 625 to the US dollar, while strongly supportive of
the structural changes required to reduce economic dependence on
oil and to improve long-term development prospects, should not be
regarded as a substitute for efforts needed to remove physical and
administrative bottlenecks and to develop effective support services;
(d)  although the Government (because of the structure of its revenues
and expenditures) is a prime beneficiary of devaluation-induced
income shifts from import users to net-exporters, significant
additional public sector resource mobilization efforts will be
needed to prevent a sharp decline in the share of Government
savings in GNP beyond 1979/80;
(e) while the next five to ten years may be difficult because of the
structural changes needed to adjust to a post-oil boom era, Indonesia's
long-term development prospects have been significantly enhanced by
/1 Substantially unchanged from President's Report, Third Urban Development
Project (No. P-2440-IND), circulated under cover of R79-1, dated January 4,
1979, and approved by the Board of Executive Directors on January 16, 1979.



- 2 -
the Government's successful population policies which have already
contributed to a substantial (approximately 20%) reduction of
fertility on Java and Bali during the past decade. These crucially
important demographic developments will, in due course, particularly
after the mid-1980s, be reflected in reduced and declining rates of
growth of the labor force. Declining labor force growth rates and
the prospects of declining income elasticities of demand for food
justify the hope and expectation that with sound policies, Indonesia
can and will eventually - possibly within the next two decades -
overcome the severe poverty and food security problems that still
plague the country today. The solution of these fundamental problems
through the pursuit of a pervasive employment oriented development
strategy would set the economy firmly on a long-term growth path
towards much higher levels of social and economic development
involving all Indonesians. One of the key components of such a
strategy would be to aim at a high rate of labor-intensive manufac-
turing development.
Social Developments Since 1970
3.        Analysis of data from the National Household Surveys for 1970 and
1976 suggests that while overall income disparities have almost certainly
widened, the rapid overall growth of the economy /1 has contributed to a
considerable improvement in consumption of all income groups, including the
very poor. The data further suggest that increases in per capita consumption
were higher in Java than in the Other Islands and higher in urban areas than
in rural areas. Notwithstanding this, many Indonesians remain extremely poor:
in 1976 when average per capita income was about $280,/2 over 50 million
Indonesians (38% of the population) spent less than $90 (1976 prices and
exchange rate).
4.        Analysis of data from National Labor Force Surveys shows a remarkably
high rate of employment growth (over 4% p.a.) between September 1971 and
October 1976. But during this period, the labor force also grew at a very
high rate and the data suggest that there was a slight increase in the rate
of open unemployment. Since the labor force grew much faster than population
in the relevant age groups, a sharp increase in labor force participation
rates, from 50% in September 1971 to 55% in October 1976, was observed. Thus,
a substantial part of the increased per capita consumption levels is believed
to have been related to increased labor force participation and declining
dependency ratios.
5.        The share of agricultural employment between 1971 and 1976 declined
from 66% to 62%, implying rapid growth of nonagricultural employment - over 7%
p.a. or 54% of the total increase in employment. Within the nonagricultural
sectors, the increase in employment occurred largely in proliferating small-
/1 GDP grew at 8.0% p.a. As a result of favorable terms of trade developments
during most of the period, GDY grew even faster - about 9.5% p.a.
/2 World Bank Atlas (Preliminary estimates for 1977: $300).



- 3 -
scale enterprises in the manufacturing and service sectors where labor produc-
tivity is thought to be extremely low. This is indicated, inter alia, by the
stagnation of real minimum wage levels which are among the lowest in the
world. Employment growth in medium- and large-scale enterprises, which absorbed
the bulk of industrial investment, was very modest.  The broi. picture of
rapid employment growth since 1970, though encouraging in many respects, thus
reveals that a relatively large part of the incremerLtal employment has been
of poor quality in residual types of activities.
6.        Much progress has been made in recent years with the provision of
education services. Enrollment rates increased at all levels of education.
For example, primary school enrollment (excluding over-age students) is ex-
pected to reach 85% in 1979 for the 7-12 age group, compared to 60% in 1974;
dropout rates - while still high - declined, and universal primary education
appears to be in sight. A promising nonformal education program has been
introduced to increase the basic employable skills of those who never attended
school (presently estimated at 23 million people) and others who left school
without completing primary education (a further 22 million). Indonesia's
adult literacy rate increased to 62% in 1974, which is much higher than in
India (36%), Pakistan (21%), or Bangladesh (23%), but lower than in Thailand
(82%) or Philippines (87%). Within Indonesia, large differences in levels
of educational attainment between urban and rural areas still exist, but
differences between Java and other parts of the country are relatively small.
7.        In the field of health care services, there has been a tremendous
expansion of physical infrastructure, including medical training facilities.
Almost 3,000 rural health centers, designed to become the principal vehicles
for the delivery of basic health services, were constructed between 1969 and
1977. But much of the new physical infrastructure has so far remained under-
utilized due to personnel shortages, and a range of other factors, including
popular preference for traditional health care services in several areas.
8.        Inadequate sewerage and sanitation facilities are still major
health hazards, especially in crowded urban areas. Even if the various
targets for rural and urban water supply for the Second Five-Year Development
Plan (Repelita II), which ended in March 1979, are fully met, over 100
million Indonesians will still remain without easy access to safe water in
1979. Similarly, housing conditions are generally very unsatisfactory,
especially in crowded urban areas.   Although simple and inexpensive improve-
ments in water supply, drainage, footpaths and community facilities, executed
through Kampung Improvement Projects, including those supported by the Bank
Group, have contributed to better living conditions in several overcrowded
urban areas, specific socio-economic support programs to improve the living
conditions of the urban poor are needed.
The Devaluation of November 15, 1978
9.        The recent devaluation of the rupiah from Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US
dollar was designed to encourage labor-intensive import substitution and
nonoil export growth by reversing some of the adverse relative price shifts in
the economy that had occurred earlier this decade. The opportune timing of
this drastic and unique policy action is believed to be a strong factor



-4-
enhancing the probability of its success. The strongest immediate effects of
the devaluation, however, will be a dramatic increase in budgetary revenues in
local currency terms. Government expenditures will, of course, also increase
as a result of the devaluation but the net budgetary position in terms of
rupiahs should strongly improve. While the recent devaluation will generally
tend to facilitate export promotion efforts, great emphasis needs to be placed
on the importance of developing effective support services and of reducing
administrative obstacles and other unnecessary cost increasing factors.
10.       A number of supportive measures to prevent an upturn in domestic
inflation eroding the potential benefits of this devaluation have already been
taken. Such measures include the lowering of import tariffs by 50% on a wide
range of intermediate inputs, stringent temporary price controls, and a
temporary increase in budgetary subsidies to initially isolate key consumption
items, such as rice, from the effects of the devaluation. Aside from the
budget's influence on the prices via subsidies, the degree of monetary control
exercised will also be an important factor in minimizing devaluation-induced
inflation. There is likely to be conflict, however, between the needs to
contain devaluation-induced monetary expansion and the need for additional
credit to promote new private investment in line with the structural objectives
of the devaluation. Nonetheless, a sizeable budget surplus in fiscal 1979/80
almost certainly will be needed to assist in neutralizing the effect of a sudden
sharp increase in the rate of monetary expansion following the devaluation.
11.       Prior to the November exchange rate adjustment, balance of payments
projections based on current trends and expectations suggested the probability
that, without special export promotion efforts, a shortage of foreign exchange
would become a binding constraint on development efforts within the next few
years. Although it is too early to make more than a very preliminary and
speculative assessment of the effect of the devaluation on imports and exports,
there is now less ground for the fear that the balance of payments will become
a development constraint. No dramatic changes, however, are foreseen in the
immediate future; the short-term export response, in particular, is likely to
be constrained by supply rigidities. Ultimately, changes in the size and
structure of imports and exports will be strongly influenced by the effect that
the devaluation will have on the overall growth performance of the economy.
Food Supply and Demand Prospects
12.       Despite impressive achievements in rice production, the past
decade has seen a continuing decline in Indonesia's food self-sufficiency.
Between 1968-77, the composite trend growth rates of domestic food calorie
production and availability were approximately 3.2% and 3.7%, respectively./l
These growth rates reflect a growing import dependence on rice, sugar, wheat
and recently coconut oil, as well as a reduction or disappearance of maize,
cassava, meat and coconut product exports. After three years of stagnating
or slow growing rice production due to a combination of poor weather and
/1 The rice trend production growth rate was about 3.5% and the composite
trend for the 5 r-ain secondary staples (maize, cassava, peanuts, sweet
potatoes, and soybeans) was 1.7%.



-5-
pest problems, 1978 showed an unprecedented increase in output (over
10%), but import requirements in 1978/79, though much lower than in 1977,
are still about 6% of total domestic consumption.
13.       Comparison of plausible food supply and demand scenarios suggests
the likelihuod of increasing import requirements of basic foods and especially
of rice, wheat, sugar, coconut oil and possibly maize. There is an urgent
need for a comprehensive food production and consumption strategy. In the
case of rice, with the substantial completion of irrigation rehabilitation,
the recent shift in emphasis towards extension of irrigated areas and to
swamp drainage projects will probably somewhat reduce rice production growth
rates, at least through 1985. However, the potential from increasing fertil-
izer and insecticide consumption and from improving the local performance of
the most recent IRRI varieties, suggests that an annual rate of growth of
rice production of around 3% is nevertheless feasible through 1985. The
recent devaluation has provided significant additional room for further rice
producer price increases aimed at stimulating supply.
14.       While slower growth in rice productivity is anticipated, a com-
parison of yields for secondary crops in a number of countries suggests that
these crops offer considerable potential for raising Indonesia's domestic
food self-sufficiency. With proper marketing and other support services, the
rate of growth of secondary crop production could probably be raised from
1.7% to 3.5% p.a. A gradual shift in the overall food production and con-
sumption pattern from rice to the secondary crops would assist low income
farmers in unirrigated areas and reduce the cost and risks associated with
excessive rice import dependency.
Overall Growth and Employment Prospects
15.       Medium-term prospects, as determined by developments already in
motion and by exogenous factors such as the expected temporary stagnation
in oil production, suggest that it will be difficult to achieve an overall GNP
growth rate of more than 6-6.5% during the next 3-5 years. This is consider-
ably less than the average growth performance of the economy during the
past decade. But if the broad pattern of relationships between output growth,
employment growth, and personal consumption growth observed for the period
1970-76 does not drastically change, a GNP growth rate of 6-6.5% could still
be consistent with an overall employment growth target rate of around 3% p.a.
The Government has already announced a GNP growth target of 6.5% p.a. for the
Third Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita III), which started in April 1979.
16.       As the economy is entering a difficult period of adjustment to post-
oil boom conditions involving structural changes in the pattern of production
and the sources of savings, more reliance will have to be placed on agricul-
ture and industry and on the mobilization of Indonesia's most abundant and
inexhaustible resource: people. The devaluation may be expected to facilitate
the structural changes that are needed. With improved incentives for an employ-
ment-oriented strategy and adequate Government investment and institutional
support services for agriculture and small industries, it should in due course
be possible to raise the overall growth rate of the economy to at least 7% or 8%,
which would be a major help in accelerating the further elimination of poverty.



-6-
External Aid and Creditworthiness
17.       The heavy foreign borrowing in 1974, 1975 and the early part of
1976, together with a hardening of average terms during those years, has
raised the level of debt service payments which reached about $1.5 billion in
1978, or about 18% of projected export earnings. The debt service ratio /1
was 16% in 1976 and 17% in 1977; the ratio is expected to remain below 20% in
1979 and 1980. This is the encouraging result of restraint with regard to
new borrowing in 1976 and 1977 and the recent replacement on more favorable
terms of $575 million remaining payments on cash loans (originally totalling
$1 billion) which had been obtained in 1975 from a number of private banks in
the wake of the Pertamina crisis. Total new loan commitments declined from a
peak of $3.4 billion in 1975 to $2.3 billion in 1978. Most of the decline
was achieved through a reduction in commercial borrowing. This means that
average loan terms have recently begun to soften agats, which will be reflected
in future debt service payments.
18.       The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) continues to be
the principal source of external capital, including Official Development
Assistance (ODA), to the country. Total ODA (bilateral and multilateral)
commitments in 1977/78 (including grants) amounted to about $1.4 billion; the
IGGI (including the World Bank Group and Asian Development Bank) accounted
for over 90% of this amount. The Bank's most recent economic report on
Indonesia recommends that total ODA to Indonesia should reach at least
$1.93 billion in 1979/80, including both loans and grants. of which at least
70% should be on concessional and semi-concessional terms. At the meeting of
the IGGI in May 1978 the indications of probable commitments in 1978/79 made
by bilateral and multilateral IGGI members amounted to $1.6 billion; the
meeting concluded that the Bank recommendations would be approximately
met. As a result of the pattern and terms of external borrowing during
the recent past, net resource transfers from abroad are expected to decline
in 1978/79 to about $500 million, even if the recommended level of new ODA
commitments is reached.
19.       Our overall assessment of Indonesia's external accounts indicates
that the country will be able to finance essential imports of consumer,
intermediate and capital goods and meet its debt service obligations. The
debt service ratio is expected to remain below 20%. Although the November 15
Rupiah devaluation will provide a one time revenue windfall, the Government
will need to raise substantial additional non-oil revenues over the coming
years if the relatively high rate of domestic investment already reached is to
be maintained. The Government has been quite cautious in increasing current
expenditures and there does not appear to be much scope for reducing them
further; they should, in fact, rise in step with the growth in GNP and infla-
tion, to permit reasonable growth in Government salaries as well as materials
expenditures, a significant part of which is development related. In view of
the expected increase in the pressure on public sector resources, the devalua-
tion notwithstanding, a limited measure of local cost financing is considered
justified.
/1 Ratio of debt service payments to commodity export earnings, with oil
and gas on a net basis.



PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
20.      As of February 28, 1979, Indonesia had received 40 IDA credits
totalling $680.8 million, and 37 Bank loans amounting to $1,913.0 million.
IFC investments have totalled $61.3 million. The share of the Bank Group
in Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of
1977 was about 8%, and the share of debt service about 1.8%. By the end of
1978, these ratios are estimated to have increased to around 12% and 5%,
respectively. Annex II contains a summary of IDA Credits, Dauk- Loans and
IFC Investments as of February 28, 1979, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
21.      To date, the Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all
sectors of the Indonesian economy, although there has been particular stress
on agriculture, which accounts for over one-third of all lending. Most of
the loans for agriculture have been for rehabilitation and expansion of
productive capacity, both for food and tree crop development. Several
national programs to provide credit inputs and advice to farmers and to
promote agricultural research have also been financed by the Bank Group.
More recently, an effort to aid the Government's transmigration program
has been initiated. In the industrial sector, while the major thrust has
been on expanding fertilizer production on the basis of Indonesia's gas
resources and on establishment and improvement of development finance institu-
tions, a credit has also been extended to finance a small enterprise develop-
ment project. The main emphasis in education has been on upgrading the
quality of education, improving primary and secondary education and manpower
training as well as on expanding non-formal education. In the social sector,
the Bank Group has financed projects for urban development (through neighborhood
improvement programs), urban water supply, family planning, and nutrition.
A major portion of Bank Group financing has been used to rehabilitate and
expand Indonesia's inadequate infrastructure, particularly in the power and
transportation sectors. Credits have also been extended to finance a tele-
communications project and a tourism project. Finally, the Bank Group has
assisted the Government's efforts to prepare and formulate its development
programs and projects through four technical assistance credits and a loan
for a natural resource survey and mapping project.
22.      The discussion in Part I of this report underscores the need for a
development program which will provide increasingly productive work oppor-
tunities and incomes for Indonesia's presently underemployed and growing labor
force and increase agriculture production, particularly of food crops. Efforts
to increase employment through programs directed towards improving the incomes
of the poor and their living standards are expected to be one of the major
/1 Substantially unchanged from President's Report, Third Urban Development
Project (No. P-2440-IND), circulated under cover of R79-1, dated January 4,
1979, and approved by the Executive Directors on January 16, 1979.



-8-
objectives of Repelita III. While several of these programs are likely to
be suitable for Bank Group financing, it will be some time before they are
ready for implementation. However, as part of this new focus, a small enter-
prise development project designed to increase non-agricultural employment in
rural areas and small towns, has already been approved by the Executive
Directors, and an integrated rural development project should be ready for
presentation to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. With respect to
agriculture development, projects are being prepared to further improve and
expand research and extension services, rehabilitate and expand irrigation
systems, help replant smallholder rubber and coconut plantations, assist in
watershed management and village development, and develop presently under-
utilized land in areas outside Java for transmigrants and other smallholders.
In addition to the family planning program, which continues to have high
priority, other areas of particular importance for Bank Group assistance will
be the improvement of urban services through construction of urban water supply
systems and further expansion of neighborhood improvement programs, and the
improvement and expansion of higher education particularly of engineers,
accountants and agriculture specialists, as well as primary and nonformal
education. Finally, Bank Group financing continues to be important for the
Government's program of infrastructure rehabilitation and expansion, parti-
cularly in transport and power, which will continue to require very large
investments for many years before these facilities are adequate to support
Indonesia's development. Compared to past lending activities, many of these
projects and programs reflect the shift of emphasis in Government's development
objectives towards a more balanced and more equitable and employment-oriented
economic growth strategy.
23.      Bank Group lending to Indonesia started in 1968 and between 1968 and
1974, all Bank Group lending to Indonesia was on IDA terms. Following the
rapid increase in Indonesia's oil income which enabled Indonesia to borrow on
less concessional terms, it was decided that all lending to Indonesia after
June 30, 1974, would be on Bank terms. Since 1974, the Government has
saved and invested almost all of the increase in its oil revenues and greatly
expanded its development expenditures which reached about $6 billion in
1977/78. For reasons discussed in Part I above, and notwithstanding the
November 1978 devaluation, both the budgetary and balance of payments situa-
tions may be difficult in the years ahead. Thus, while Indonesia has always
qualified for assistance on concessional terms on grounds of its low per
capita income and the quality of its economic management, such terms are now
also necessary to enable it to maintain a high level of investment without
impairing its ability to service its external debt. Accordingly, starting in
FY78, a portion of Bank Group lending to Indonesia has again been provided on
IDA terms.
24.       The proposed loan is the fourth lending operation presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year and would bring total lending to Indonesia
this year to $230 million. Projects for rural development, transmigration,
development finance company (BAPINDO), water supply, road betterment and
power are expected to be ready for presentation in the next few months.



-9-
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR
25.       Objectives.  The major national objectives in the agricultural and
rural sector in Indonesia are to: (a) create produtive employment to raise
the incomes of the rural poor, (b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace
with rising demand, (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of small-
holder tree crops, and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's
land, water and other natural resources.
26.       Role and Performance.  Although agriculture's contribution to GDP
and exports has declined during the past 15 years (from 55% to 33% and from
55% to 23%, respectively), the rural sector remains of overwhelming importance
to the vast majority of the Indonesian people in terms of employment, incomes
and food production. Some 80% of the country's 135.5 million people /1 live
in rural areas, and agriculture employs about two thirds of the total labor
force. Except for oil palm and tea, agriculture is dominated by smallholder
production; there are some 14.4 million smallholders producing subsistence
and cash crops on 14.2 million ha. There are also 1,800 estates occupying
2.2 million ha producing mainly rubber, sugar, tea, palm oil and tobacco.
Over the past five years, the growth rate of agricultural production has
been uneven, averaging 4% p.a., while total GDP grew at 8% p.a.
27.       Development Problems and Potential.  In' Java, tLe cultivable land
is almost fuly utilized and in some areas agricultural land use already
exceeds ecologically safe limits. In 1976 about 82 million people lived in
Java, which has 45% of the cropped area but only 7% of Indonesia's land
area. About one-third of Java's rural population is landless, and a large
proportion of the remainder cannot support themselves on income from their
own farms. Outside Java, there are large areas of unused cultivable land,
less fertille than in Java, and other natural resources to be exploited.
While the inhabitants of these islands do not have high standards of living,
they are generally better off than most in rural Java.
28.       Employment.  Perhaps the single most important challenge facing the
Indonesian Government is to guide and structure the development process in
such a way that the creation of new opportunities for gainful employment does
at least keep pace with the growth of the labor force. The changes associated
with modernization in rural Java are generally labor-saving, so that farming
is increasingly becoming a part-time activity. M4odern manufacturing and
services have been unable to fully absorb the incremental labor force.
Successful locally administered public rural works programs (INPRES), may be
difficult to expand due to limited budget and implementation capacity. Future
employment strategy will probably include stress on labor-intensive export
industries and small-scale rural enterprises producing for the domestic
market. There may also be potential for more productive agricultural employ-
ment through increased cropping intensity and a shift to higher value crops
and livestock, including fruits and vegetables grown on house compounds.
/1 Estimate for mid-1978 based on the Inter-Censal Population Survey of
M4arch 1976.



- 10 -
29.       Food Crops.  Despite the heavy emphasis on rice production in the
past, the gap between domestic production of and demand for food appears to be
widening. Production of rice and the principal nonrice food crops has not
kept pace with the growth in aggregate demand over the past few years. To
keep rice imports at some reasonable fraction of world rice trade, demand
must be shifted to other domestic and imported staples, and the rate of growth
of rice production should ideally approach 4% p.a. compared to an average of
3.5% p.a. over the past decade, and only 1.7% over 1974-77./i Improved water
management and agricultural supporting services are essential for increasing
rice yields and production. On Java there remains much scope for more effi-
cient water use, through construction and/or improvement of additional tertiary
and quarternary canals. On the Other Islands there is considerable potential
for new irrigation systems, including tidal and swamp land development. On
both Java and the Other Islands, secondary food crops also offer promising
development prospects. For example, there is much room for yield improvement
through intensified research and supporting services, and great scope for
the expansion in harvested area. A food policy which emphasizes secondary
crop production as well as rice would serve the twin goals of growth and
equity as many of the poorest parts of Java and the Other Islands are best
suited to dry land farming.
30.       Tree Crops.  The Government has embarked on a major effort to
develop smallholder tree crops outside Java, as part of its transmigration
and national rubber and coconut replanting programs. The objective is to
improve production on existing blocks while developing large areas of new
land for settlement. One of the Government's main approaches has been to
use public estate companies to plant tree crops on land to be settled by
local landless families and transmigrants. The estate companies provide a
range of services including planting material, land clearing and planting,
inputs, processing and marketing facilities for the smallholders. This
approach is well taken in view of Indonesia's scarce managerial and technical
capabilities.
31.       Transmigration.  Transmigration offers substantial opportunities
for impfoving social equity and the economic use of Indonesia's two main
underemployed resources: Javanese labor and land in the Other Islands.
Transmigration has long been hampered by unrealistic expectations about its
potential contribution to regional development and the solution of Java's
population problems, overambitious targets and weak, uncoordinated implemen-
tation. These problems are now being addressed and the Bank is engaged in a
wide ranging discussion with the Government on its transmigration program and
the manner in which the Bank can assist. Organizational aspects of trans-
migration, the design of farming systems and the package of services which
will support successful, long-term settlement are among the issues being
examined.
/1 This low growth rate was the result of below average harvests caused by
inadequate and untimely rainfall in many areas of Java and by pest and
disease damage to high yielding varieties. Production from the 1977/78
crop is reported to be much improved.



- 11 -
32.       The Role of the Government.  The capacity of the Indonesian
Government to plan and implement agricultural and rural development programs
has generally improved over the past decade. However, future programs
responsive to the Government's stated objectives will necessarily be more
complex than those which the Government has followed up to now. They will
require closely coordinated "packages" of research, extension, inputs,
credit, land development, transportation and marketing improvements. Multi-
agency integrated area development programs in Java and land settlement
schemes in the Other Islands will require stronger field organizations of
Government line agencies and local governmental authorities, as well as new
administrative arrangements. With the more complex organizational require-
ments of future programs, implementation capacity is likely to become the
limiting factor in Indonesia's economic and social development. It is
therefore of utmost importance that the Government continue its efforts to
strengthen the key rural development institutions.
33.       Bank Lending Strategy.  There is general agreement between the
Bank and the Government on the overall objectives and strategies proposed
for the rural sector. While views sometimes differ on the relative emphasis
to be given to different investments and on the technical design of some
projects, such differences are not profound and are likely to be resolved
with further analysis and dialogue. The Bank is devoting considerable staff
time to various analyses of the rural sector (e.g. employment, irrigation
development, support services and food crop production) in order to improve
its understanding of the needs of the sector and the Government's policies.
34.       The Bank has been and should continue to be involved in a broad
range of agricultural and rural activities in Indonesia. Since the first
irrigation credit was made in 1968, the Bank has rapidly expanded its agri-
cultural and rural lending to include support for estate and smallholder tree
crops, fertilizer production and distribution, sugar estates, support services,
transmigration, livestock and fisheries. Credits already closed and for
which Project Completion Reports have been prepared, e.g. First Irrigation
Rehabilitation (Cr. 127), First Agricultural Estates (Cr. 155), showed
excellent rates of return ranging from 25% to 33%. Taking 1974 as a base
year, Bank-financed projects will contribute almost 60% of the increase in
palm oil output by 1980, about 16% of incremental sugar production and 6% of
incremental rice and rubber. Four continuing trends in Bank agricultural
lending to Indonesia are: (a) a shift from rehabilitation to new development
activities; (b) a shift from support of state enterprises to direct support
of smallholders; (c) an increased emphasis on rainfed systems; and (d) greater
emphasis on development of the other islands. All these trends are consistent
with the Government's changing policies.
The Irrigation Subsector
35.       Rice is the dominant irrigated crop in Indonesia.  Of an estimated
8.4 million ha of rice harvested in 1977, 7.2 million ha were irrigated or
grown under wet land conditions. Irrigation systems cover a service area
of about 5 million ha, of which about 4 million ha are of a quality which



- 12 -
is adequate for irrigated rice production. Java accounts for 60% of the
irrigated area. Average paddy yields on Java are about 3.2 ton/ha compared
with 2.8 ton/ha in the Other Islands. Although irrigation has long been
a major feature of Indonesian agriculture, by the late 1960s, the systems
built during the colonial period were in a state of complete disrepair.
Irrigation development during the first two development plan periods
concentrated heavily on the rehabilitation of these systems. Construction
of new systems, mainly to serve as the basis for transmigration projects
outside Java, lagged behind.
36.       With the rehabilitation of most existing irrigation systems either
completed or under way, future irrigation development in Indonesia will shift
to the construction of new gravity systems and swamp and tidal land development
outside Java. This shift does not mean, however, that irrigation development
on Java should stop. Many of the existing systems still need to be fully
rehabilitated or upgraded at relatively low cost, and the limited potential
for large storage and groundwater should be developed to expand dry season
cropping as far as economically feasible. A recent Bank review of Indonesia's
irrigation program /1 concluded that, to expand rice production at the same
rate as demand (about 4% per year), the level of annual investment in irriga-
tion should be increased by about 20% by the end of the Third Five-Year Plan
(1984). This in turn would require strengthening of the Directorate-General
of Water Resources Development (DGWRD), training and staff development, and an
expansion of agricultural supporting services.
37.       The Bank Group agricultural operations in Indonesia were evaluated
in an OED Report dated August 9, 1978, No. 2166 (SecM 78-649). The OED
conclusions were that, despite some deficiencies, Bank Group financed agri-
cultural projects have been of overall good quality and are likely to con-
tribute substantially to increased production. However, there are a number of
aspects related to the performance of most major irrigation systems in Java
which continue to inhibit the realization of optimal benefits and which
threaten to shorten the systems' serviceable lives. The poor state of
drainage and road networks continually depresses cropping intensities and
yields and seriously hampers the flow of extension services; widespread
inundation of villages and agricultural land, caused by overflowing of major
rivers traversing the project areas, has resulted in the reconstruction or
relocation of threatened irrigation canals, highways and communication lines;
and improper land use on the catchments of these rivers is accelerating soil
erosion and giving rise to serious sedimentation and siltation problems
downstream.
38.       The Bank is working closely with the Government in addressing these
problems. The Sixth Irrigation Project (Loan 1100-IND) included soil conser-
vation pilot projects in the Cimanuk Basin, and these efforts will be continued
under a proposed watershed development project currently being considered for
Bank financing. Studies and investigations designed to alleviate drainage
/1 Bank Report No. 2027a-IND, "Indonesia - Irrigation Program Review,"
October 16, 1978.



- 13 -
problems in Bank-assisted irrigation systems along the north coast of Java
were components of the Seventh Irrigation Project (Loan 1268-IND); these
studies have resulted in the financing of flood control, drainage and road
network improvements in the Ciujung area (Eighth Irrigation Project: Loan
1434-IND) and in the Cisedane area (Twelfth Irrigation Project: Loan 1645-IND).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The proposed project was prepared by Proyek Cimanuk, an executive
body in the Directorate-General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD) in the
Ministry of Public Works, with consultant assistance from SMEC (Australia)
and Gadjah Mada University (Indonesia). The project was appraised in June
1978 but subsequent processing was delayed by a decision by the Government
to reduce the scope of the project and the need to reflect the November 15,
1978 devaluation of the rupiah. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2330b-IND,
dated April 2, 1979) is being distributed separately. Supplementary project
data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington from
March 12 to March 16, 1979 with an Indonesian delegation led by Mr. Julianto
Moeliodihardjo, Secretary General of the Ministry of Public Works.
40.       For a number of years the Government has attempted to check the
tendency of major rivers to change their regimes and overflow their banks.
However, due primarily to limited available funding, construction of river
training and flood control works has been piece-meal, and the completed works
have often been inadequate. In order to gain a more comprehensive picture of
soil and water management problems in a complete river basin the Government,
with consultant assistance funded under the Eleventh Irrigation Project (Loan
1579-IND), has embarked on a Master Plan for the Cimanuk Basin. While it will
be some time before the Master Plan is completed, the priority of certain
investments, such as the flood control works on the Lower Cimanuk River, is
already clear. The river has consistently overtopped its banks and changed
its meander patterns; it has breached its dikes at several places on numerous
occasions and caused serious flooding. The physical problems of this flood
damage are compounded by an inadequate maintenance program for the river
levees, the absence of a flood warning system, and poor communications. The
proposed project has been designed to assist the Government in its flood
control and river training efforts.
Features of the Project
41.       The propbsed project consists of the rehabilitation and improvement
of river training and flood control works on the Lower Cimanuk River and
other small rivers that cause annual flooding of the Indramayu area in West
Java, including most of the service area of the Rentang irrigation
system. While flood control works, including levee banks, cutoffs and a new
river mouth, have been constructed at various times along the Lower Cimanuk
and the other rivers, these have, in many cases, not been adequately designed
or maintained and are only partly effective. In recent years, an average of
4,250 ha has been inundated, with consequent damage to crops and public and
private property and loss of life. Without the project, these losses would
increase as the existing protection works deteriorate further.



- 14 -
42.       The project provides for construction of an hydraulic control
structure on the Cimanuk River at Bankir, downstream of its confluence with
the Rambatan Channel, thereby increasing flood protection for the town of
Indramayu. From its present width of 45-50 m, the Rambatan Channel would be
widened to about 80 m and material excavated from the channel would be used
to augment existing flood embankments along each bank. In addition, the
project would also provide for the construction of bank stabilization and
river training works along acute bends (totalling about 34 km in length) that
are subjected to considerable erosive forces during high flood flows; reha-
bilitation or construction of about 175 km of flood protection levees;
construction of road bridges at Bankir and Pangkalan; and procurement of
vehicles and equipment for supervision of construction.
43.       In order to better understand the interaction of river hydraulic
and sedimentation processes of tides, currents, winds, littoral drifts and
salinity, the project includes a Cimanuk River Estuary Study with the primary
objective of assembling basic data, upon which a description and analysis will
be made of the coastal and littoral processes in the vicinity of Indramayu.
The project further provides for a Flood Control Operations Study, designed to
ensure that the project works would function effectively in a flood emergency.
To this end, the study would focus on: (a) establishing communications and
flood warning systems for the Lower Cimanuk Basin; (b) devising a system for
the operation and maintenance of the project works; and (c) recommending a
program for monitoring the project works in order to refine design standards
for future projects.
Organization and Management
44.       The proposed project would be implemented by Proyek Cimanuk, an
executive body of DGWRD. Proyek Cimanuk shares most of its staff with the
long-established Directorate of Rivers (DOR)/l which supervised earlier studies
and investigations for the project. DOR has responsibility for the control
of floods, river-borne sediments and volcanic mud flows throughout Indonesia.
The staff of Proyek Cimanuk is being strengthened under Loan 1579-IND for the
execution of the Cimanuk Basin Master Plan (para. 40). With consultant
and advisory assistance provided under Loan 1579-IND, and to be provided under
the proposed project, Proyek Cimanuk should have no difficulty in executing
the project works. The field organization would be headed by a Subproject
Manager, who would coordinate the flood control works. Working under him
would be a Deputy Subproject Manager and assistants in charge of surveys,
design, construction and administration, who would look after all technical
and administrative aspects. An assurance has been obtained that Proyek
Cimanuk would at all times be staffed with competent and qualified personnel
(Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement).
/I   The Director of Rivers is presently also Project Manager of Proyek
Cimanuk; a full-time Project Manager will be appointed later in 1979.



- 15 -
45.       The project provides for overseas and local training of Proyek
Cimanuk personnel. It is expected that overseas training would be provided
in project management, project administration, soil and water conservation,
operation and maintenance (O&M) and other technical subjects. Local training
would be given for project planning, construction supervis:oa and O&M of
river training, flood control and soil conservation works. The details of
this program would be worked out in conjunction with the training adviser
provided under the Twelfth Irrigation Project (Loan 1645-IND). An assurance
has been obtained that a program for the training of Proyek Cimanuk staff,
satisfactory to both the Bank and the Government, would be furnished to the
Bank by December 31, 1979 (Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement).
Technical Assistance
46.       Since Proyek Cimanuk does not have the in-house capability to carry
out fully the works and studies included in the proposed project, provision
has been made for the services of expatriate and local consultants during
implementation. The project also addresses the need to strengthen the
Directorate of Rivers (DOR) and Proyek Cimanuk through the utilization of the
services of an advisor on project planning, management and administration.
In all, about 180 man-months of foreign and about 90 man-months of local
consulting and advisory services are expected to be required. Assurances
have been obtained that engineering consultants and a management advisor,
whose qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment are
satisfactory to both the Bank and the Government, would be engaged to: (a)
assist in the completion of detailed designs, tender documents and construction
drawings, the evaluation of bids and the supervision of construction; (b)
carry out (i) the Cimanuk River Estuary Study, and (ii) the Flood Control
Operations Study; and (c). provide management advisory services to the DOR and
Proyek Cimanuk (Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement). The employment of the
engineering consultants to carry out the services referred to under (a)
and (b)(ii) above would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan
(Section 5.01 of the Loan Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
47.       The total project cost is estimated at $77.0 million (exclusive
of direct taxes), with a foreign exchange component of $37.7 million (49%).
The cost estimates include physical contingencies of 20% for civil works and
10% for equipment and services. The estimated price contingencies assume
annual rates of inflation declining from 20% to 10% for local costs (reflecting
the expected impact of the recent devaluation) and constant at 7% for foreign
costs. These price increases which are based on recent trends, total 20% of
the base cost (in early 1979 prices) plus physical contingencies. Consultant
costs have been estimated at $9,500 per man-month (including all overheads,
housing and travel) for expatriates and $1,300 per man-month for local firms.
The proposed Bank loan of $50.0 million would finance the project's full
foreign exchange cost ($37.7 million) and $12.3 million of local costs, or
65% of total project costs and about 31% of local costs. Financing of local



- 16 -
costs is justified as this project is of high priority for the agricultural
development program and because of the tightening domestic resource constraints
(para. 19). The remaining expenditures ($27.0 million) would be met by
annual Government budgetary appropriations.
Procurement and Disbursement
48.       Except for two start-up vehicles, which would be purchased by the
consultants following quotations from local suppliers, vehicles for construct-
ion and operation ($60,000) would be procured under international competitive
bidding procedures in accordance with Bank Guidelines. For purposes of bid
evaluation, a preference equal to 15% of the c.i.f. cost of the imported
goods or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to qualified
domestic manufacturers. Equipment for the studies and laboratory and office
equipment ($150,000) would either consist of small or specialized items, or
of items required in small amounts and would not be suitable for ICB. This
equipment would therefore be procured by the consultants through prudent
shopping after solicitation of offers from at least three suppliers.
49.       Contracts for the construction of the Bankir hydraulic control
structure ($6.9 million) and widening of the Rambatan Channel ($6.7 million)
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding procedures
in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Qualified local contractors would be
granted a margin of preference of 7-1/2% in the evaluation of bids. The
remaining civil works ($51.0 million) are rather simple in scope and, in
order to be attractive to foreign contractors, packages would need to be
very large. This would be impractical, given the number of worksites and the
need to ensure an even flow of design work. These works would, therefore, be
carried out following competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance
with the Government's procedures and regulations. There is sufficient flexi-
bility inherent in the Government's local competitive bidding procedures
to ensure that such procurement would be carried out efficiently and economi-
cally. Assurances have been obtained that: (a) the works would be grouped
into a number of suitable contracts (minimum value $500,000) that would enable
large local contractors and joint ventures of small local firms to bid within
the classes for which Government regulations require them to be prequalified;
(b) to minimize late construction starts, tenders would be advertised as bid
documents are completed and bids would be processed even before the project
implementation budget (DIP) is signed, although contract award and signing
would only be done after the DIP is approved; (c) price adjustment clauses
would be included in contracts extending beyond one year; and (d) for contracts
estimated to cost $1,000,000 or more, documents would be submitted to the Bank
for review before bidding and award (Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
50.       Disbursements of the proposed loan would cover 70% of total costs
for civil works; 100% of total expenditures for consultants' and advisory
services, including training and start-up vehicles; 100% of foreign expenditures
for directly imported goods; 95% of local expenditures for locally manufactured
goods; 65% for imported goods procured locally, excluding vehicles; and 40%
of local expenditures for locally manufactured vehicles.
Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
51.       Proyek Cimanuk would be responsible for the operation and main-
tenance of bank stabilization, river training and flood control works in the
Lower Cimanuk Basin during construction and for one year following completion
of the project.  The Provincial Public Works Directorate would thereafter
assume responsibility for O&M. While Provincial Public Works arrangements
for staffing and funding the operation and maintenance of irrigation systems
and associated internal drainage works have been established under previous
irrigation projects, similar arrangements for river training and flood
control works on major rivers are unclear and have so far been unsatisfactory.
These aspects would be investigated under the Flood Control Operations Study
included in the project. Assurances have been obtained that: (a) all works
rehabilitated, constructed or modified under the project would be adequately
operated and maintained in accordance with sound engineering and financial
policies and practices; (b) by September 30, 1980, the Government would
furnish to the Bank for its review an O&M program for the bank stabilization,
river training and flood control works constructed under the project, includ-
ing staffing and funding requirements, together with a flood warning system;
and (c) by April 1, 1981, it would start implementation of the O&M program
and flood warning system and keep the Bank informed about the progress of
their implementation (Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement).
Monitoring
52.       A plan for monitoring the technical effectiveness of the project
works would be drawn up under the Flood Control Operation Study and local
authorities would continue to keep records of flood occurrences and damages.
A program to monitor benefits accruing from Bank-assisted irrigation and
drainage works, together with other social aspects, is being implemented
under Loan 1100-IND. Since this program includes the Rentang irrigation area
(the benefit area of the proposed project works), the existing monitoring
provisions would be sufficient to enable the benefits of the project works to
be measured.
Cost Recovery
53.       No direct recovery of project costs is proposed.  As floods in the
Lower Cimanuk area are random in their occurrence, determination of the
direct beneficiaries in any particular year is impossible. Averaging of
benefits over the 1.7 million benefitting population would lead to values so
low that collection of charges would be administratively impracticable.



- 18 -
Moreover, at present some 90% of the beneficiaries have per capita incomes
below the estimated absolute poverty level and cost recovery from this group
would be inequitable. The project would, however, result in some increase in
Government revenues from the IPEDA land tax, which is based on production
levels, and from road user taxes. Because yield and traffic increases would
be small in absolute amount and widespread in incidence, these revenue
increases would be difficult to quantify.
Benefits and Justification
53.       Project benefits are equivalent to the reduction in flood damage
that would result from the construction of the project works, including
damage to crops, roads, bridges, levees and other infrastructure, and houses
and household effects. Damage records from 1970-77, a period during which
flooding was fairly representative of long-term average flooding conditions,
have been used to model the present level of damage. The damage estimates for
houses and infrastructure are based on actual records. The estimated damage
to crops, which would be about 20% of all damage, is based on the actual
average area flooded and an assessment of the average loss of income from a
flood event. Damage to rice crops may take one of two forms, depending on the
month in which the flood occurs. In the first case, where the flood occurs
late in the wet season, the advanced paddy crops inundated by the floodwaters
will suffer a yield reduction which may vary from negligible to total, depend-
ing on the depth and duration of inundation, the velocity and turbidity of
the water, and the age of the crop. For the flood regime of the Cimanuk
Basin, such losses would average about 25% of the normal yield in the area
affected by the flood. Under present conditions, the average loss of wet-
season paddy would be 1.0 ton/ha. As damaging floods do not occur in the dry
season, dry-season cropping would be unaffected. The second case is where
flooding occurs early in the wet season, completely destroying the immature
rice crop. There is, however, time for the farmer to replant his crop but,
because of the delay in planting, the paddy yield will be reduced by about 5%
and the opportunity to plant a dry-season crop lost. These losses, plus the
sunk cost in inputs and labor of the destroyed crop, would result in total
losses amounting to about 25% of income, approximately equivalent to the first
case.
54.       By providing control over floods up to a recurrence interval of
once in 25 years, the project would substantially reduce average yearly
damage to crops, roads, canals and houses and eliminate recurring threats to
production and household activities, as well as prevent loss of human lives.
Floods greater than the once-in-25-years event would continue to cause
damage but, since such damages would be approximately the same with or
without the project, they have been excluded from the economic analysis.
Incremental rice production resulting from the reduction in flooding would be
about 6,100 tons per year by 1989. The project would create a demand for
some 27,500 man-years of labor over the construction period. At present,
assuming no flood occurs, average total incomes (on-farm plus off-farm) in the
project area are about $50 per capita for an owner-operator and about $40 per
capita for a sharecropper. About 90% of the project area farmers have per
capita incomes below the estimated absolute poverty level; in the event of
flooding, about 40% of each family's annual income will be lost./l Taking
/1 Including crop yields, damage to houses and household effects, and loss
of small livestock.



- 19 -
into account the probability of flooding and randomness of such occurrences,
present average annual loss (equivalent to the benefits of the project) is
only about $5 per family but is expected to rise to $15-20 by 1989. By that
time, as a result of the benefits of past investments in irrigation and
extension services, average per capita incomes for non-flooded farmers would
rise to $70 for an owner-operator and $50 for a sharecropper.
55.       For the purposes of economic evaluation, unskilled labor for
project construction and farm operations has been shadow priced at 50% of the
market wage rates (reflecting the considerable unemployment and underemployment
in the project area), and a period of 25 years and salvage valuie of 20% of
initial costs have been assumed. Under these assumptions, the economic rate
of return is expected to be 16%.
Environmental Effects
56.       Since the benefit area of the proposed project has been under
cultivation for many years, the land use would not change appreciably,
although the quality of agricultural activity would improve following project
implementation. There would be a temporary disruption of the flora and fauna
in the vicinity of the construction sites but, due to its tropical character,
the disturbed area would be restored to its natural condition within a year.
The impact of the project works on sedimentation and delta formation at the
mouths of the Cimanuk River and Rambatan Channel would be investigated under
the Estuary Study included in the project. The proiect works would lessen
the dislocation of families or entire villages due to flooding, would render
transportation less subject to interruption, and would eliminate the need to
relocate previously threatened infrastructure.
Risks
57.       While the economic rate of return of the project is not unduly
sensitive to any of the major assumptions made in its derivation, the project
does bear moderate risks. The most important is the risk of a damaging flood
during the construction period or of a flood exceeding the design flood in
the first few years after completion. In either case, the project works
could be damaged and significant financial and economic losses could ensue.
However, such risks are normal for flood control projects. There is also
some risk that the project works will not be adequately operated and main-
tained; this risk has been minimized by the inclusion of the Flood Control
Operations Study in the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
59.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The employment of engineering consultants would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan.



- 20 -
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOIMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 11, 1979
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-21-                                                 Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SIIFEET
REFERENCE CROIUPS (AD JUSTED AVERArFS
IN7ONESIA                          O        N
I AND AREA (THOUSAND SM. KH.)                                                   -   _t)ST RECENT ESTIMATF)
ToTAL            1904.3                                                     SAW.         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      283.8                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb         REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GP PFR CAPITA (US$)                    70.0        140.0      300.0            616.0       182.9       432.3
RIERCY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAI. EQUIVALENt)      129.0        120.0     178.0            522.0        88.9        251.7
tPl'PULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(?IIl,l IONS)                      94.7        117.6      133.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 14.9           17.5      17.9              30.1        15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         50.0        62.0       70.0            156.8        46.8         42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL IAND    337.0         419.0      470.0            794.8       254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           42.L /L      44.0      42.1             40.8        43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                           55.3 j.     53.5       55.1             55.4        53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.6 if,    2.5         2.8               3.2        2.9          3.0
PO.'ULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
IOTAL                                2.1         2.0        2.0              2.3         2.4          2.7
URBAN                                 *-         3.7 LI    2.6               5.1         4.0          8.8
lRIDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      46.0         45.9       40.3             34.6        44.3         42.2
'RUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      25.4         20.6       19.9              8.7        19.7         12.4
ROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.8          3.2       2.5               2.6         2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        181.1    1979.0
USERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WOMEN)    ..           0.2       13.7             22.1        14.6         14.2
FOID AND NUTRITION
NDEX OF POOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)               96.5        100.0     102.7            106.8        96.4        104.3
i ER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     89.0        91.0       98.0            108.7        92.3         99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            43.0        43.0       43.8             57.7        50.0         56.8
OF lIACH ANIMAL AND PULSE         15.0 Lh      14.0      16.6             17.0        13.9         17.5
(H1LD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         ..           ..         ..             4.0          ..          7.5
NE} _TH
[IFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTR (YEARS)    47.5           45.0      45.3             59.0        45.8         53.3
1NFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
IROUSAND)                            125.0 Ifi       .-     116.0             44.0       102.7         82.5
A XESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
P PULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          3.0      11.0             21.9        26.4         31.1
URBAN                                 ..         10.0      41.0             58.3        63.5         68.5
RURAL                                 ..          1.0       4.0              9.8        14.1         18.2
AXESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
0? POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        12.0       15.0             28.6        16.1         37.5
URBAN                                 ..        50.0       60.0             66.6        65.9         69.5
RURAL                                 ..         4.0        5.0             14.8         3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           41380.0 /i  26830.0   16930.0            4103.1    13432.7       9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..      7770.0 LI 7310.0 LI         1520.2      6983.3       2762.5
Pi(PULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1370.0      1670.0    1430.0             657.1      1157.6        786.5
URBAN                                 ..      1130.0         ..            145.5       183.3        278.4
RURAL                                 ..      1890.0         ..           1011.8      1348.8      1358.4
AINISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..        ..             19.0        19.5         19.2
HOU 1ING
A'.ERAC.E SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
WTAL                                4.4          4.8         ..              5.2        5.2
URBAN                               4.9          5.3          .5.2                      4.8
RURAL                                4.3         4.7         ..5.4                      5.3
ALVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
rOTAL                                 ..         1.5         ..
URBAN                                            1.6                                    1.8          2.3
RURAL                                1. .6                   .
AC.ESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
OTAL                                            63.5                        39.1       25.9         28.3
IRRAN                                *-         75.5                                    81
IURAL                                ..         39.1         .                          8.7         10.3,



ANNEX I
-22-                                                       Page 2 of 5
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
tNDONESIA                                                 /s
- ffOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAMF.       SAMF.    NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 lb     1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCAT I ON
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  67.0         75.0      81.0              95.6        62.9         75.8
FEMALE                55.0         70.0       75.0             93.7        45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   6.0         15.0      18.0              43.3        14.4         17.7
FEMALE                 3.0         11.0       13.0             38.6         8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 20.0           22.0      21.0              11.3         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.0         29.0      30.0              30.0        38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                           14.0         13.0       15.0             25.4        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         47.0 /k      59.0       62.0 /k          84.0        36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.0          2.0        3.0              9.3         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.0           ..      39.0              97.6        31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ,,          0.7        ,,              21.8         2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..           ..       16.0             25.9         6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..         ..              4.6         1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    34600.0       44200.0   48430.0 L 
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    27.9         31.0       34.2             33.2        24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               75.0         69.0       60.1             48.4        60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   8.4          9.7        8.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 54.1         49.9       52.6             38.9        39.8         37.8
MALE                                  79.8         68.7       73.8             48.6        53.3         50.3
FEMALE                                29.4         32.1       36.8             28.4        19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4          1.3        1.2              1.2         1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         33.7 /a      ..             17.3        20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           52.0 /a      ..             45.6        45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          6.8 /m      ..              6.5         5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         17.3 It      *-             17.3        16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      125.0            140.8        88.5        155.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..       95.0            112.8        71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..               ..       100.8        143.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..       55.0             76.8        42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       55.0             27.7        46.0         22.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..       59.0             40.4        48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted grGup averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Eatimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    East Asia & Pacific;   /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lover Middle Income ($281-550
per capita. 1976);   /f  Excludes W. Irian;   /A  1961-71;   /h  1961-63;   /i  1962;   /I  Including
midwives;   /k  Aged 10 years and over;   /1  Excludes rural areas in East Nusa Tenggara, Maluku and
Irian Jay&; fm  Income recipients.
September 1978



ANNEX I
-23 -                                                                  Page 3 of 5
DEFINTTIONS OP 'IDCIAL rNDICAIOtSS
Notes: Aitbo-gh the dais are drawn fros .oo.-tee gne rally judged the east authoritative and reli.abl, It should also be noted that the- may not be inter-
nainlyc-parahte hb--aus  of the lackof stadardinod definitions and concepts used by different countries  in collecting the data.  The data ore, nonetheless,
usefut to desc.ribe ards of -agniltude, indicate trends, and chrarsterire certain najon difference he t.eencountries.
mch  adjusted Raro ~avrsoos far each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme vlesof the indicator end the east
popuILaed country to neb hgroup. Coverago of coun.tries a%mog the Indicators depends on aveilahility of data acd to not onifn-m boa to lath of data,
gRuop averugee far Capial larpic.oOil toparere and Indioators of see.s to ester and eacreuc disposai, housfng, income distributiaon and poverty are
am.ple population-oaf rh.ed genuecric means cithout the ..scIusie of setrene values.
LANDo ARti (thousand sq. k.)                                                             Penniatian ner basnital hod - tntal, urban, and  .rurl - Papulation (total,
Total - Trtal surface  'trea comprising land area and inland watar..                      urban, and rural) divided by the ir renpective number nf hospital beds
Aariulsst ...I - Vest rc. out eouimaf e of agricultural arsa used temporarily             available in public and private general and specislised hospital sod ro-
or pernanenc. ly froo ups. paus,  aker and kituhen gardens or to                        habilitatian setr.Hospital  urn nestablishmonen. por--stly stuffed by
lie fallow,                                                                             at least one physician.  Etetbliohoents providing principally cuetodia2.
rare are not included. Rural hospitule. howaver, include healtb aod nail-
bIP PtR CAITA (CII-  f  pr  apt  esiae   tcurrent market prices.                           Cal cenxters not perman.ently ataf fed by a physician (hut by a nndiral as-
46   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ clultdby name onrerMon  eethsd as World Rank Aries (t9P5-77 basis);                            siat.at, nre   adio  etc.) Which offer in-patiant acecnmdation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                              provide a linited range of mndical facilitie..
Adnission. per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONIUMPTGIN PER M,AITk - Annual Consumption of comoercial energy                    from  hospitals divided by the snumbe  of beds..
(coal anlinite  ptrtclao, natural gsed hydra-, nuclear and Seo-
thnraa'lele~ctricityp) is kilograms of naal eqnuivalent per ropits.                HOUSING
Average altes of household (persons per household) - total, urba.Iasd _rural-
-                  ~~~~~PiPIJLAIIIN' APD VITALi ST J,StitCS                                                    A household conisitr  of a group of individuals who shar  living quaters.
Total poculatio-.  id-~t .2fcilinl    - As Of7July 1; if eat available,                   and their naIn  ea1e.  A baarder or lodger nay or nay no   eicldd  Ic
everao of en ed-yo eiute  19Sf. 1970  and 1977 data,                               the hous ehold for statistical purpuseu.  Statistical definisinna of hcouse-
Urban  Pupuutc  (Cpercnt of total) -Ratio  fofrban to tntal Vpoula-                       hold vary.
Lie.; diffa.rnt def :icu  of urban areaa may affect comparability                    Average somber of prera... per room - total, urban, and rural - Average  om
of data among counts ea                                                                 bar uf peroona per room  to all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
.Psulardon density                                                                        dwellings  respectively.  Dwellings e..olude sos-permanent arructursa and
Per  as. ho.- M4d-pair popuistino per square kilometer (100 bectaree)                    Unoccaple  parts,
otoaarea.                                                                       Access, tu electricit  (ponc..    of.  d-e11ingo) - total. urban, and rural -
Perf ent. ho  aricultuet land - Compotnd as ahove for agricultural leand                 Conventional, dwellingo wih  eletririaty ix living quarters as p-erretage
osly.                                                                                   of total, orba". and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age  tutr  (nnet     hildren (0-li years),..crking-age
(13- 64 year-),tandnotred ( yarn. and aver) as percenragen of mid-                 EDUCATION
yer population.                                                                     Adjusted enrol.ent rutics
.Psplstin eroceth rats (percect) - total, and urban - Campound annual                   Prmr   col ttal, an.d fo..alo - Tota a1 nd female enrollont of all agea
grscrh ruron of total and urban old-pear populations for 1950-60,                       at the Primary lovo1 an per-ntuges nf repectively primary school-age
1960-70, an  1970-71.                                                                   papulatiuns; normally includes children aged k-li years but adjusted f or
Grain birth re(pr thousand) - AnnualI live births per thousand of                         differeut lengtho of primary education; for couarriea s-irb unirersal edo-
nid-year population; ten-yeor arithontic averages ending in 1961 and                    Cation anru11i.ant nay naceed li  percent since sme Pupils are below  or
1970 and ficc-pear soetgo .odi.g in 1975 for most recent estimate.                      above the officiulh school age.
Crude doa-tcae  pe  thousand ) - A...aI de-tba per thcuoaud of aid-                     Secondary achn  - total, and feml   Computed a  above; aeco.daryadu.a-
yearpp  cuaticc; ct. -ear arthmetic s-eragne ending in 1960 and 1970                   titem  requirest lean.t four yean  fappra.ved Pr imary,isro s  pro-
and fire-peer -v_rul  ending in 197) fur unut rocenL.tasiats.                           vide. general vccationml, aT teacher training intu         fin    on Pupils
fro   oroucc  faIr,  -i Avog  number of.daughters a wuoan will bear                sualIly of 12 to 17 years of age; ctroupondeoco. c.u.ue. are generally
in her conra  ruptnortiv  per iod if she eperlanreo preae.nt age-                       eacluded.
Papeific ic,tiliry rates; usually five-year averges e.diog in 1960.                  vocatto.u.  enrollment fyoccent of secondary) - Vucatinnal institutions In-
1970, end 1975.                                                                         clude tobmIcuI, induotrial, or other programs which nyerate icdepeodemtly
family Plaon ing-coc prom,           I' annal ...onodu  - Annual number of                or asdearmnt  o   ecndr  inoitceu
aCceptors cf birth-control dieu_ under auspices of national family                  Puoll-toacber ratio - pnimor~y. and secon'dary - Total  tcdenta enrolled In
pluncing program.                                                                      primary and ...condury levels divided hy numbers of treachorn in the ctotte
Feam, i .. oloicouee(ror f narrird ...eco) - Percaeae  f                                  a?osding le-elo.
maredwmn of chil-b    aic   ge (l-i  er)  h            `uebrirt-motrro1       Adult'literacy rate (percent) - Litorate adults Cable to toad and w-ita) as
deviuns to all married ooeeo in same age group.                                         a percentage of tutul odult papulatiun aged 1) yeara and ove.t
FOOD1 AND ItThtTRI~M                                                                  CONSUMPTPION
Index ci food proute.  o  rpe  cupita (197010i0) - Indro nmber of pee                 Passenge.r cars (per thnu..aad pupulutint) - Passenger cara comprien motor care
cupita annulpou. Icoobal  food cmoodirioc                                             ecatiog less than eight parsons.; nocludes ambulances, hearses a.d oilirary
For cap6ita  uoco   aoio(eroto   ourm , -f                     Computed from            veicle..
.enegy eqoicalent ot net food ouppylis a-iIubln Ic counroy per capita.              Radio receivncn (por thooac-       nolalol-All types of rciesfor radio
pen day.  iA-ilable eupplien ounpnise donea.cic production, importa lons              hroadcastu to generl1 public per tho..oa.rd cf population; e.cludos unlica--d
eckerte, ond choge:in croci.  lot cupplicio  c-1udo aelmaI food, aoedo,               raeivor n ic . cuouric  und In Yearo nI-o rngductation of radio aoa oi
qa-tlito. usd'in   enu pLco.uuin- and boson.  in distribution.  Re-                   efict  drofo  recont peur  may no   ecmucl ic   otcutrie
q'cooccreo reo-d by FAG based oc pybpnnocgiiul ...edu for no-                 aboliuhed lieorcuicg.
e-l aciiyad no. ith  -oriderocg esire tu                -pe-pntc.-,                     o:oivno   rev  hoovod coulticrl - TV cecee-ro for broadcas.t to generA
ucIgyc,' geo od no: diotci.ioulofuc  popolativn.  and ullrmicg 10 par-                 public portnhcuuacd populatico; ocluesunicec...d TV receic-- in re.s-
co  for cauce ur huocehold lec-l.                                                   tmien und in yeorsvbeo. rogiltrutlcc c  Ti sets was it,  ff-ac.
Per  onia ryo   ofro-noi  (fRees. per day) - Protein content of per             Neropp.ctcr ulto (nriuadpclao)    S- h ts  ho a-orgo    cua
cupit.  ct supply o.  food per day .  bee supply of feud Is defined so                  tior of 'duilp gonteal iccorcut cr uc.dof iced 00 0 pcrlodicat p&-i-
ubrue   bo T lmou--t  fun o-Il c..ctrfes estubilirhd by USDA provide for                cation devoted primarily to re..ordici grceru1 inns.  It in cIcidered! to
a     . mnau  alloanc  ofc6) g-ano of total protein per day and 20 grano                he 'daily" if it appoa- an   --     .   Lrau .foo   tie  a..eb.
of animaland paIneprote in, of uhich IC grama should be anicl protein.              Cinema .ccuaI attodarce per caoita percver - boned on rho cooler of tIckets
These staudurds are bear than those of 75 gram  of total protein and                    sold during rho yeac, i-oluding   .i-i.ut.c  to drtv-in cicenan und mobile
23 gcumn of animal  Lotein an an avrage for the aurld, propose.d by                     units..
PAO in the Third fo Id Food Su-vY.
Par ceyits potcin - 00    yjoi  soimal and pulen - Protein supply of faud             EhiPLOYhCNT
drrived frnomaia ,and yalu_  in gram  pen day.                                      Total labor frcco (thu.....do) - Ecro..cilsly active persons, ir-luding amd
Child (ages L-4) morttiy er.tac  (pot tho..... l - Annual deathe per thbma-               farc   an...d  -cotlayed hut eoidoghueivs   rdeots, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-.. years . ichibldros in chin age graup.                             tiens in vari... contrie.sare not com parable.
Femal  (perent  - Female labcr force aspececag Ioftur   labor fcrc.
liEALIH                                                                                 Aroluefoot)-Labor force  cfamig  foetry, hutin Dad fiehing
Life e, ecrt-oy at hi tb (pears) - Average number of yecra of life                        asp-rtctof  of total lahor force.
-                     ~~~~~~~remaining at bcirt; ..suoliy five-year aegsending in 1960, 1970,               Industry (percnt) - L.abnr force in mining. co..strutiar, manufacturisg and
nand 1971.  etyleorriIcir1  y,rcatec and gas at percomtugo of total labor force.
nfant Mortaiyrt  (pnertouan) - 1Ana  deaths nf infents undar.... Pric ticio  rac  loercan..   - total, mule,  and female - Total, male, sad
one year of age per tho..ua.i Ium bihits,                                               female labor f.to -eu  pocaentugoc of rheir ce-p-oic- populalooi.I
Access to safe water  oeccent of populationo) - total, urban, and rural -                 These are ILO1 adjorted participatlon nretx reflecting ape-sc
Ifobot of poopie it t.l. urban, and ruca1) with coasn.oablo  -acco  to                   trroctue af rho popolatia, Inod funf tine trend.
soft water supply (Lnlocld.. treated suf- acewatore or unrreered but                 tcnnon.io doed-ccv ratio - fRatso of pcpo.latio  under lb and 65 and aver ra
uscoeromloatad wane: ouh 00 that from prtotectd   rhcrebale. springs,                   the lab.:or force in age group of 15-ho year.
and  ..oitary wollul A. porocotagco of their cepciepopulatiosa.
In an urban are  a  alic  -Icutuin or standpost located net mare                    INICOMIE DISTRIBU2TION
than lii00....  fcc. s  heo_n nap be cons idere.d as being within rem-               P"erontae nf pcivate income (hock in caseh and kind) receivod by richest 5
sonahbe coent of  t'u  hon...    InTenl areas. reasonabl.e acess wou ld                 percent. riohoe  20 percent. peorese 20 percent. aed p-orrot 40 percent
implp that the hou-oife or nenbera of the hb..oebold do not have ce                     of households.
spend a  :prpnt .ote pact of tha day in fetching the fseily's
Acceno to en-t-ta din-onu1 lo'Erceet ef pclco)-ttal, urbam, and                        Estinated absolute poverty incoma level (US$ per capital - urban  and rural -
ttl- Poohor of pauple (tutoI, urban,and rural) nerved by e.cceta                       Absolute porcerty income level Is that income le-e  below which a ninical
disposa-l as percet ges nf their respootive  oul na.Excrete                             nutrri-inllyadrquotn diet plus .. raatca1 non-food reqontcets Is mat
diapal ma.I   y mlo,ldy the c-i1etino aod diapo...l, with or withaut                    affocdabe..
treetnet, of hua   ..crero and waste-water bp water-borne systems                    Eacixared relation poserty itomo level (US$ per capita) -  rbas sand rural -
or thcoe   apit pilienosicir Ion.allaticna.                                             Relative poverty IInoc Ib-I Is that inoose level lees than one-third
PeouluIvoprov4  a  - FPcpcltiio  divided by number of practielug                           Per capita peaolIncam   uf the coun..try.
Ph-yxiviar  qualifioi from a  cilca1 school at  noivratty level.                     EstimateD.. pultien bal1n pverty I..... levo1 f.recat) - arbor and rural-
Populoti.n pet notir4 p-rn- - Pupulaciuc divided by number of                              Pr teoo   poplton(ro  and crl.. ) abe are either  'absolute poet' or
prcticing male enod female praduate nurses, practicaltos, and                            relative, poor" whichever Ia greate..
esistoot Iruax
Economic and Serial Data Dictalom
Economic Anaiyais sod Projections Department



ANNEX I
-24  -                                             Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAI PRODUCT IN 1977 -                                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.        %                         1960-65             1965-70         1971-77
GNP at Market ?rices           44,386        100.0                            1.9                4.9             7.8
Gross Domestic Investmaent       8,667         19.5                           3.3               11.5            13.4
Gross National Saving            8,448         19.0                           5.8                5.1            16.9
Current Accoun; Balance       -   725      -   1.6
Exports of Goois, NFS            7,592         17.1                           1.5                7.8            10.0
Imports of Goods, NFS            7,489         16.9                          0.2                10.9            18.0
OJTPUT, LABOR }'ORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IL 1976
2/
Value Added                    Labor Force-                     V. A. Per Worker
US$ M'n.       %                   Min.        %                     US- -$
Agriculture                     11,624      31.1                   35.3      62.6                   329           49.7
Industry                        12,672       33.9                  4.7        8.3                 2,696         407.3
Services                        13,043       35.0                  13.4      23.8                   973          147.0
Unallocated                       -            -                    3.0        5.3
Total/Av3rage
37,339     5Or.O                            10.0                    662         100.0
GOVERNMENT FINA:'CE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
(Rp. Billion)                                            % of GDP
1976/77             1977/78                            1976                  1977
Current Receipt,                2,877               3,535          ,                  18.6                  18.6
Current Exoenditure             1,610               2,149                             10.4                  11.3
Current Surplus                 1,267               1,387                              8.2                   7.3
Capital Expenditures            2,044               2,157                             13.2                  11.3
External Assistance (net)         784                  773                             5.0                   4.0
MONEY, CREDIT anl PRICES                    l972          1973          1974         1975         1976         1977
(Bilion Rp  outstanding end period)-
Money and Quasi loney                         695           987        1,452        1,978        2,631        3,147
Bank credit to Piblic Sector                  129           153          209          990        1,051          865
Bank Credit to Plivate Sector                 524           932        1,186        1,376        1,737        2,063
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi loney as % of GDP              15.2          14.6         14.8         16.3         17.0         16.5
General Price Incex (1966 = 100)              807         1,928        1,370        1,640        1,873        2,094
Amnual percent ge changes ins
General Price Incex                            25.7          27.4         33.3         19.7         14.2         11.8
Bank credit to Ptblic Sector                 -14.0           18.6         36.6        473.7          6.2        -17.7
Bank credit to Private Sector                 65.3           77.9         27.2         16.0         26.2         18.8
NOTE:  All conver3ions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Conversion at an exchange rate of Rp 415 - US$1
2t Total labor fo'ce; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  "Unallocated"' consists
mainly of unemi)loyed workers seeking their first job.
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
February 28, i979



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BAEANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1975     1976      1977(Provisional)                                      US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Exports:                       4,738   6,183    7,592                  Oil                                 2,906      57.1
Oil (net)                    2,921   3,567    4,243                  Timber                                605      11.9
Non-oil                      1,817   2,216    3,349                  Rubber                                461       9.1
Imports                       -        -6,352   -7, 89                 Palm Oil                               117      2.3
Resource Gap                -  795  -  169        103                Tin                                    107      2`1
Factor service:               -  462  -  646   -  828                  Coffee                                 104       2.0
Interest                    -  178  -  362   -  473
Investment Income           -  284 --  284   -  355                    All other commodities               791      15.5
Balance on Current Account  -1,257       815   -  725                         Total                        5,7- 100,0
Direct Foreign Investment        497      329       286               EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1977
Net NLT Borrowing
Disbursements               2,395   2,327    1,988                                                              US $ Mln
Amortization               -  322  -  625   -  826
Subtotal                    2,073   1,702    1,162                   Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                11,391
Capital Grants                    ..                                     Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)           -2,250  -  205   )474                      Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i             -   46  -  .604   )
Increase in Reserves (+)    -  983        736    1,197                DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977- -
Gross Reserves (end year)         590   1,494    2,494
Net Reserves   (end year)        490   1,226    2,423                    Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               17.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related M4aterials                                              Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                         93      119        28
ofi which:  Petroleum         89      114        26
Exports
of which:  Petroleum       2,921   3,567    4,243           IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Feb. 28, 1979)(Million US $):
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                            IBRD         IDA
2/                Outstanding & Disbursed               596.1       490.7
Through  - Aug. 1971             Since  -  1971-                  Undisbursed                         1,306.9        189.0
US $ l.OO = Rp  375             US $ 1.00 = Rp 415                Outstanding incl. Undisbursed    1,903.0           679.7
Rp   IODo = US $2.67            Rp   lQ0 = US $2.41
1/  Ratio of Debt Service'to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services, with oil exports on a net basis
(i.e. excluding factor payments and imports of the oil companies).
2/  Since 11/15/78
US$ 1.00 = Rp 625
Rp 1000 = US$ 1.60
.   not available
. not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
February 28, 1979



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 20 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of February 28, 1979)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                  (less cancellations)
Number   Year                 Purpose                        Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
One Loan and seventeen Credits fully disbursed               50.0  228.1         -
220      1971    Third Irrigation Rehabilitation                     14.5       0.2
259      1971    Tea                                                 15.0       0.7
260     1971    Second Highway                                       34.0       0.2
289     1972    Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation                     12.5       0.2
300     1972    Population                                           13.2       3.2
318     1972    Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation                     8.5       2.0
319     1972    Fourth Agricultural Estates                          11.0       2.0
355     1973    Beef Cattle Development                               3.6       0.2
358     1973    North Sumatra Smallholder Development                 5.0       0.8
387     1973    Third Education                                      13.5       4.7
388     1973    Third Highway                                        14.0       0.1
399     1973    West Java Thermal Power                              46.0       4.8
400      1973    Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                   7.8       6.3
405     1973    Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                        50.0       0.8
428     1974    Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                        16.5      10.1
436     1974    Private Development Finance Co.  of
Indonesia (PDFCI)                                10.0       0.7
451     1974    Fourth Technical Assistance                           5.0       1.9
479     1974    Bali Tourism                                         16.0      10.7
480     1974    Fisheries Credit                                      6.5       2.1
514     1975    Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                       30.0     22.4
785     1978    Small Enterprise Development Project                 40.0     35.9
827     1978    Rural Credit                                         30.0     30.0
869     1979    Polytechnic /a                                       49.0     49.0
1005    1974    Railway                                      48.0              3.9
1040    1975    Jakarta Urban Development                    25.0              2.5
1049    1975    Five Cities Water Supply                     14.5              8.5
1089    1975    Second Fertilizer Expansion                 115.0              1.6
1100    1975    Sixth Irrigation                             65.0             49.8
1127    1975    Fourth Power                                 41.0              4.7
1139    1976    Fertilizer Distribution                      68.0              1.5
1179    1976    Agricultural Research & Extension            21.5             19.2
1197    1976    National Resource Survey & Mapping           13.0              8.5
1236    1976    Fourth Highway                              130.0            100.2
/a  Not yet effective.



- 27 -                       ANNEX II
Page 2 of 20 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
Number   Year                 Purpose                        Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1237    1976    Fourth Education                            37.0               31.2
1250    1976    Second Shipping                             54.0               46.7
1254    1976    Third Fertilizer Expansion                  70.0               14.3
1259    1976    Fifth Power                                 90.0               76.7
1267    1976    National Food Crops Extension               22.0               15.8
1268    1976    Seventh Irrigation                          33.0               21.5
1318    1977    Transmigration and Rural
Development                              30.0               23.2
1336    1977    Second Urban Development                    52.5               22.0
1337    1977    Tanjung Priok Port                          32.0               23.9
1363    1977    Second Private Development
Finance Co. of Indonesia
(PDFCI-II)                               15.0              12.5
1365    1977    Sixth Power                                116.0               86.9
1373    1977    Nutrition Development                       13.0               12.9
1433    1977    Teacher Training-Fifth Education            19.0               17.8
1434    1977    Eighth Irrigation                            63.0              61.1
1435    1977    Ninth Irrigation                            35.0               31.2
1437    1977    Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO III)                            40.0              26.6
1472    1977    Second Population                           24.5               23.9
1486    1978    Non-Formal Education                         15.0              14.4
1499    1978    Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I          65.0               61.7
1513    1978    Seventh Power                              109.0              108.4
S 009   1978    Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport
Engineering                               10.0                9.1
1578    1978    Tenth Irrigation                           140.0              139.7
1579    1978    Eleventh Irrigation                          31.0              29.0
1604    1978    Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II         65.0               65.0
1645    1979    Irrigation XII /a                           77.0               77.0
1653    1979    Third Urban Development /a                  54.0               54.0
Total                                            1,903.0  679.7   1,495.9
of which has been repaid                          13.8    0.0
Total now outstanding                            1,889.2  679.7
Amount sold                               28.1              0.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b                1,861.1  679.7
Total undisbursed                                1,306.9  189.0   1,495.9
/a Not yet effective.
/b Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 20 pages
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 28, 1979)
Fiscal                                 Type of                     US$ million
Year         Obligor                   business             Loan    Equity    Total
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                10.6      2.5        13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                    Textiles              2.5      0.8         3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia               Textiles              2.0      0.5         2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia           Cable                 2.8      0.4         3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.            Textiles               4.5      1.5         6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism                  11.0       -         11.0
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                 5.4      0.7         6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco.
Indonesia               Textiles              2.0      0.3         2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics            0.9       -          0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.         -       0.5         0.5
1974    P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles               2.4      0.6         3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                 5.0      1.5         6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                  -       1.1         1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.            Textiles              0.3       -          0.3
1977    P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles               1.4     0.1          1.5
Total                                                 50.8    10.5         61.3
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                   29.2      1.8        31.0
Total held by IFC                                     21.6      8.7        30.3
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)           -        -           -



-29-                      ANNEX II
Page 4 of 20 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Agriculture                                                                   Pages
Irrigation (Cr. 289, 514, Ln. 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,
1579 and 1645/2)                                                5-6
Other Agriculture Production (Cr. 259, 319, 355, 358, 400,
405, 480, Ln. 1318, 1499 and 1604)          6-9
Agriculture Support Services (Ln. 1179 and 1267)                             9-10
Agro-Business and Credit (Cr. 785 and 827)                                    10
Education (Cr. 387, 869/2, Ln. 1237, 1433 and 1486)                           11-12
Energy (Cr. 399, 1127, 1259, 1365 and 1513)                                   12-13
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (Ln. 1089 and 1254)                                   14
Industrial Estates (Cr. 428)                                                14
Development Finance Companies (Ln. 1437, Cr. 436 and Ln. 1363)              15
Coal Mining (Ln. S-9)                                                       15
Population and Nutrition
Population (Cr. 300 and Ln. 1472)                                           15-16
Nutrition (Ln. 1373)                                                        16
Technical Assistance (Cr. 451 and Ln. 1197)                                   16-17
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (Ln. 1139)                                          17
Highways (Ln. 1236)                                                         17
Marine Transport (Cr. 318 and Ln. 1250)                                     18
Ports (Ln. 1337)                                                            18
Railways (Ln. 1005)                                                         18
Tourism (Cr. 479)                                                             19
Urban Development (Ln. 1040, 1336 and 1653/2)                                 19-20
Water Supply (1n. 1049)                                                      20
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.
/2 Not yet effective.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 20 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 289 Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$12.5 Million Credit
of March 9, 1972; Effective Date: May 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979.
The construction program has escalated in cost by 150% over the
appraisal estimate, due to an increase in the magnitude of the works and
unexpected inflation. The project is expected to be completed shortly.
Feasibility studies included in the project have been concluded and ground-
water investigations are nearing completion.
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: US$30 Million Credit
of October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and late awarding of the
first construction contract have caused a delay of about 2 years in the
project schedule. The first construction activity started in February 1977
and contracts for over 70% of the project works have been let. Based on bid
prices for the first contract and revised quantity estimates on the basis of
detailed design, total project cost is now estimated to be about 140%
over the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  US$65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Good progress has been made on the rehabilitation works, but
construction of new works is behind schedule because of delays in preparing
contract documents. The two largest contracts have still not been let.
Substantial cost overruns are anticipated due to unavoidable major changes in
the design of the Sampean Baru dam and unit price increases in other compo-
nents. These will be verified as bids are received for the major contracts.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  US$33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The implementing agencies have engaged the consultants. Construc-
tion is underway in the North Sadang and tertiary development areas, and
studies being funded under the project are expected to be completed shortly.
The mapping program is progressing satisfactorily. Disbursements are ahead
of schedule.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  US$63.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
Disbursements are somewhat ahead of schedule, and the project is
being implemented satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  US$35.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
1977; Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
While delays have arisen due to inadequate mapping in the Sungai
Dareh-Sitiung area, the project is ahead of schedule and progressing satis-
factorily.  Some tender documents have been prepared and contracts are
expected to be let this year. Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  US$140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Initial delays in hiring consultants and in preparing tender
documents are slipping the start of project construction behind the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  US$31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
A smooth start has been made on some components but two components
are behind schedule due to unforeseen technical problems and delays in
drawing up tender documents.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  US$77 Million Loan of December 29,
1978. Not yet effective; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Consultant contracts are being finalized and a smooth start to
project implementation is being made.
Other Agriculture Production
Credit No. 259 Tea: US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective Date:
September 17, 1971; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
Nearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
ahead of project completion, but factory capacity still has to be expanded



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 20 pages
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal estimates
by about 6,000 tons, or 30%. Financial, technical and managerial performance
has been excellent. Inflation and additional construction and equipment
costs are expected to increase project costs by about 17% above appraisal
estimate, but the economic rate of return is good and is expected to be over
20%.
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1981.
Progress of the project continues to be good, with planting of
rubber and oil palm ahead of appraisal estimates and in excellent condition.
The project has been expanded to 15,000 ha (originally 11,400 ha). The
remaining area to be planted is about 3,500 ha, of which 2,300 ha have been
cleared and are ready for planting. Technical problems exist in processing
and equipment maintenance, but construction of the oil palm mill will be
accelerated and additional capacity for crumb rubber production will also be
provided. Profitability and cost of development at PNP X are satisfactory,
while the capital structure of PNP X is to be improved during the course of
the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I Project (Loan 1499-IND). PNP X is
also participating in the Transmigration and Rural Development Project
(Loan 1318-IND).
Credit No. 355 Beef Cattle Development: US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
Several problems seriously delayed project implementation. The
Government's budget allocation was insufficient, and financial management and
coordination were weak. Changes in the scope and design of the project,
from one of breeding and fattening of beef cattle for export to that of
production of improved cattle for domestic sale as draft and breeding
animals, were approved by the Executive Directors in June 1977. The project
was reviewed in November 1977 and May 1978 and is now being implemented
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 358   North Sumatra Smallholder Development:  US$5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress continues to be satisfactory, and the expected program of
planting rubber and oil palm by smallholders was accomplished at the end of
1977. By 1981, when the project is completed, these plantings will have been
brought to maturity. The Government has decided not to expand the project in
its present location because of the extensive support already being given to
North Sumatra Province through this and other Bank-supported projects;



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 20 pages
instead, the Government is seeking the Bank's assistance for smallholder
development projects in other Provinces, including Aceh, Jambi, Riau,
S. Sumatra, W. Kalimantan and S. Kalimantan.
Credit No. 400   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea:  US$7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date:  November 30, 1973;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1982.
Since smallholders and estates prefer a heavier concentration on
replanting and less on rehabilitation, the mix had to be changed, thereby
reducing the overall area from 13,200 ha to about 10,200 ha. Although
production will not be affected, since yields from replanted tea are higher
than from rehabilitated tea, costs will exceed appraisal estimates by about
77%, since replanting is more expensive than rehabilitation and costs have
generally increased because of inflation. Delays were experienced in imple-
menting the institutional framework for long-term lending, a new venture for
Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI). Because of this, and difficulties in involving
the private estates in the project, disbursements are behind appraisal
estimates. A major review of the project is currently being undertaken by the
Resident Staff in Indonesia. While the project has experienced difficulties,
it is estimated that, because of the project-induced spin-off effects, an
area at least equal in size to the project is being improved. Over 500
farmers' groups have been formed to improve tea production supported by a
project training program presently involving nearly 4,000 farmers. These
developments have been helped by a surge in tea prices (2-1/2 times appraisal
estimates). Considerable investment in factory and field development is
taking place outside the project, largely financed by short- and medium-term
loans from BRI and by private investors.
Credit No. 405   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:  US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1979.
The rehabilitation of two sugar factories and the construction
of one new factory, financed by the Credit, have been completed on schedule
and trial runs are taking place. The research part of the project is slow in
materializing; the sugar research station still requires a major consultant
input. The two PTPs involved in the rehabilitation process are both in a
particularly weak financial position, and this problem requires attention.
The Government has started an evaluation of the financial status of the
industry, but progress of this study is slow.
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
After some initial delays, the overall project is now about
18 months behind schedule. Construction of shore facilities at Ambon is



-34                        ANNEX II
Page 9 of 20 pages
virtually completed. Boat construction is under way and all related equip-
ment is on site, ready for installation. While the quality of fishpond
lending has suffered some deficiencies in the past, remedial action taken by
Bank Rakyat Indonesia is gradually improving the situation.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  US$30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Settlement and construction are lagging about a year behind ap-
praisal estimates, partly because of the initial delay in project effective-
ness and weak project organization and management. Nonetheless, 1,300
migrant families have been settled at Baturaja and are successfully growing
food crops. Initial incomes are satisfactory in spite of inadequate fer-
tilizer supplies and poor seed supply, although one third to one half
originates from construction and rubber planting. These incomes are substan-
tially above incomes the transmigrants received in Java. As evidence of the
relative attraction of the Baturaja community, 485 spontaneous settlers have
already been attracted to the site. In the existing settled area at Way
Abung, there has been little improvement in incomes because fertilisers are
not available on site and delayed road construction limits marketing of cash
crops. Experience to date highlights the need for improving project manage-
ment and ensuring that agricultural support services and input supply systems
are in place as settlement proceeds.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I:  US$65.0 Million
Loan of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
This loan became effective in January 1978. Project implementation
has started slowly, due to inadequate budgeting of local funds and appoint-
ment of key consultants. Land clearing is in progress and planting material
is being distributed to smallholders.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder II:  US$65.0 Million
Loan of July 12, 1978: Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This loan has recently become effective.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179 Agricultural Research and Extension I: US$21.5 Million Loan
of December 19, 1975; Effective Date:  February 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Due to prolonged negotiations over selection and terms and condi-
tions of employment of consultants, including architects and engineers, the



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 20 pages
project is about 18 months behind the appraisal implementation estimates.
Design of all civil works has been completed, construction of extension
information centers is progressing well and expected to be completed in FY79,
and the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD) plans to let
contracts for the remaining civil works shortly. At the present projected
pace of implementation all components, except fellowships, could be completed
by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1267  National Food Crops Extension; US$22 Million Loan of June 4,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Good progress is being made in the field and, despite organiza-
tional difficulties, an effective extension service is being created. Ap-
pointments of extension staff are ahead of schedule and the project director-
ate has been strengthened by the appointment of three additional Assistant
Directors. Civil works have been resumed and, after recent approval of
prefinancing requests for 1977-78, the training program has been started.
Disbursement is lagging in every category due to prefinancing difficulties
and delays in submission of withdrawal applications with supporting documen-
tation for equipment and furniture. The new procedure for prefinancing
(outlined by the Finance Ministry in October 1978) is expected to help solve
the problem and speed up project implementation and disbursement.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: US$40.0 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
This credit became effective on August 17, 1978. Despite start-up
difficulties, Bank Indonesia (BI) is making good progress in revising lending
procedures and establishing new lending approaches to serve the medium-term
credit needs of small entrepreneurs. Training of BI and handling bank staff
is progressing and preparation for studies is on schedule.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: US$30.0 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallhold-
ers, primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical
assistance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training,
credit procedures and accounting and management information systems. BRI,
the implementing agency, is in the process of evaluating proposals for
project consultancy and preparing the lending program for the first year
(April 1, 1979 to March 30, 1980).



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 20 pages
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387   Third Education:  US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks in four subjects, and related in-service training
for 350,000 primary school teachers and 2,800 supervisory personnel. About
90 million project books have been printed and 3,800 tutors and administra-
tors and about 400,000 teachers (114% of the project target) have received
training nation-wide. Despite the remarkable quantitative achievements,
problems of management, distribution, technology and pedagogy make the
project less effective than it could be. The training program, although on
schedule and making good progress, is out of phase with book production,
which is almost one year behind schedule due to delays in paper procurement.
Textbooks and teacher manuals would benefit from better design, organization
and illustrations, and their content is limited by the national curricula.
In response to Bank proposals, the Government has started a major review of
the project to focus on its relation to other ongoing Government textbook
programs and overall future needs for production of instructional materials.
Credit No. 869   Polytechnic:  US$49.0 Million Credit of December 29,
1978; Not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The project is designed to help the Government meet demand for en-
gineering technicians and trained accountants. It will introduce a new system
(polytechnics) for training technicians at the diploma level by establishing
a Technician Education Development Center and six polytechnics in Java and
Sumatera, and improving the quality of accountancy training by establishing
four accountancy development centers in existing universities.
Loan No. 1237 Fourth Education: US$37 Million Loan of April 15,
1976; Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Initially, all three subprojects - under the Ministry of Education
(MOE), Ministry of Manpower (MOM), and National Institute of Administration
(LAN) respectively - suffered an eight month delay due to late signing of
the Funds-in-Trust (FIT) Agreements with the UN Agencies providing technical
assistance, as well as contracts with the consultant architects. Further delays
have occurred in the tendering and awarding of civil works contracts for the
Manpower and LAN components. Overall, the project is about 1-1/2 years
behind schedule. About 70% of civil works, 40% of furniture, and 100% of
technical assistance have been contracted. Implementation of the technical
assistance programs of all subprojects is in line with the FIT Agreements.
Overall, the Ministry of Education and LAN components are going well, but the
Ministry of Manpower has had difficulty in managing its diverse program of



- 37'-
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 20 pages
establishing 17 training centers. Delayed implementation may require post-
ponement of the Closing Date by about six months.
Loan No. 1433 Teacher Training: US$19.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Implementation of the project closely follows the appraisal sched-
ule.  The first and second phases of the program to train 160 Indonesian
educators in ways to improve teacher training and develop new curricula have
been carried out successfully. Curriculum development work is making good
progress, production of learning material is under way, and the research
designs for studies included in the project have been completed. Civil works
are on schedule, but equipment procurement is delayed by about nine months.
There are no specific implementation problems at this stage.
Loan No. 1486 Non-Formal Education: US$15.0 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project aims at strengthening the nonformal education programs
of the Department of Education in seven Provinces. General progress in
project implementation is satisfactory. Renovation of two existing provin-
cial centers was completed on schedule, construction contracts for four new
centers are being awarded, and furniture and equipment is being tendered.
The technical assistance component is about nine months behind schedule due
to late signing of contracts and the November 1978 devaluation; however, the
training aspects of the project are on schedule. Recruitment of foreign
experts and domestic consultants is accelerating satisfactorily; initial
staff training, learning materials development, and evaluation activities are
being carried out.  It will be another two years before the project can be
expected to make a significant impact on field activities.
ENERGY
Credit No. 399 West Java Thermal Power: US$46 Million Credit of June 22,
1973; Effective Date:  August 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the necessity
of making additional financing arrangements to meet much higher costs of
equipment resulting from rapid inflation in 1974/75. However, implementation
is now progressing smoothly. Both 100 MW generating units have been syn-
chronized with the grid and are being loaded slowly.



38-                     ANNEX II
Page 13 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1127   Fourth Power:  US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975; Effective
Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Construction of the third 100 MW unit at Muara Karang is pro-
gressing satisfactorily. The scheduled commissioning date of February 1980
is about seven months behind the appraisal target, but no further delays are
expected and there is a good possibility that some of the delays may be
made up. The loan disbursement is proceeding as scheduled in the appraisal
report.
Loan No. 1259 Fifth Power: US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976; Effective
Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
All equipment required for the project is scheduled to be procured
in three lots. Nearly 75% of the equipment which was covered by Lot I
(valued at $13.6 million) has been received; orders for equipment covered by
Lot 2, (amounting to $32.4 million) are now being placed. The project
suffered an initial setback of about one year in procurement action but is
now progressing satisfactorily. It is expected that loan disbursements will
be completed prior to the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1365 Sixth Power: US$116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Implementation of the project, consisting of 2 x 200 MW steam
generating units at Muara Karang, is progressing satisfactorily. Orders for
major electrical and mechanical equipment were placed during the period
December 1977-February 1978. So far progress is on or slightly ahead of
schedule. Currently, estimated commissioning dates for the units are about
four to six months ahead of the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1513 Seventh Power: US$109.0 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Tenders for major electrical and mechanical equipment required for
the 200 MW unit, including turbine generator, steam generator, cycle equip-
ment, electrical equipment and power transformer, were opened on August 21,
1978. Bids have been evaluated and the Bank indicated no objection to the
recommendations for award of contracts on February 6, 1979.



-39 -                      ANNEX II
Page 14 of 20 pages
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1089 Second Fertilizer Expansion: US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1979.
The project (PUSRI III) was commissioned April 9, 1977, one month
ahead of schedule. During the eight months of operation in 1977, the project
operated at 66% capacity utilization, which increased sharply to about 92% in
1978 with the overcoming of initial technical problems. Certain auxiliary
facilities, now being installed, are expected to be completed by mid-1979.
The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.
Loan No. 1254 Third Fertilizer Expansion: US$70 Million Loan of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project (PUSRI IV) was commissioned November 26, 1977, about
four months ahead of schedule. During 1978, PUSRI IV produced nearly 470,000
tons of urea, reflecting a capacity utilization of 83% in the .'rst year
of operation. Some auxiliary facilities are planned to be expanded by
1980. The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The estate is progressing satisfactorily. Of 430 ha of raw land
earmarked for acquisition, 313 ha has been acquired and acquisition of
another 31 ha is under negotiation. 119 ha of developed land have been sold
to 99 firms. Employment in these firms at full capacity will be around
19,000 and an estimated 1,400 persons are employed on the average in both
factory construction and land development. Overall, operations are profit-
able. The return on capital investment, which is now projected to be 22%, is
significantly higher than the appraisal forecast of 13.4%. This is due to
developed land values rising faster than the cost of raw land and development.
The project's development has been slower than forecast at appraisal, and the
Closing Date has been postponed to December 31, 1980.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 20 pages
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1437   BAPINDO III:  US$40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981.
At the time of loan appraisal (October 1976) BAPINDO was facing
many problems, including high portfolio arrears and slow loan processing.
Accordingly, the Bank sought and reached understanding with BAPINDO and the
Government on a comprehensive Program of Action designed to remedy BAPINDO's
weaknesses and achieve further improvements. A recent Bank mission found
that BAPINDO has effectively implemented the Program and achieved satisfac-
tory progress.
Credit No. 436 Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia (PDFCI):
US$10 Million Credit of November 2, 1973; Effective Date:
March 6, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
This Credit is fully committed.
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  US$15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effective Date: April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Coal Mining
Loan S-9         Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport Engineering:
US$10.0 Million Loan of May 19, 1978; Effective Date:
December 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This loan became effective on December 22, 1978, and consultants
are in place.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300  Population:  US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date:  November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The Indonesian national family planning program appears to have
slackened somewhat. As of October 31, 1978, 30.0% of eligible couples in
Java and Bali were estimated to be currently using contraception; the
comparable figure for the 10 provinces of the Other Islands covered by
the program is 8.2%. These figures as of March 30, 1978, were 30.1% and
9.6%, respectively. However, during the period covered there have been
some problems with data collection, which may be part of the reason for



-            - ~~~~41-
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 20 pages
the decline. The report of the consultant engaged to determine the needs for
in-house computer facilities for the National Family Planning Coordination
Board (NFPCB) is now being evaluated. Of the construction component, the
remaining two paramedical training schools are scheduled to be completed by
August 1979. No completion date has yet been estimated for one provincial
office building, which was destroyed by fire in September when it was half
completed. Other project activities which remain to be completed, including
the fellowship training program and several research studies, will also be
completed by August 1979.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  US$24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date:
April 30, 1983.
Considerable progress has been made on the civil works and procure-
ment aspects of the project. Of the 21 facilities, contracts have been
awarded for 20, and design drawings for the remaining building approved. The
provincial offices and training centers are scheduled to be completed by
September 1979, and the National Family Planning Training Center (NFPTC) by
May 1980. Development of the national population education program and the
national family planning training program is proceeding well.
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  US$13.0 Million Loan of
March 14, 1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982.
Initial progress under the project is satisfactory. The Nutrition
Intervention Pilot Project, the anemia control and home gardens components,
as well as the fellowships program, are proceeding with minor delays. The
Nutrition Academy has increased its student enrollment from 100 to 160, and
48 graduates are expected this year, compared with 25 prior to project start.
Construction of the Nutrition Academy was completed in February 1979. The
Food Technology Development Center is about 50% completed, and the Center for
Research and Development in Nutrition about 63%.  While monitoring and
evaluation units for each component have been operational for six months, the
central monitoring and evaluation unit of the Project Secretariat is just
starting to be staffed.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Progress under the project is satisfactory and the bulk of the
funds have been committed.



42                      ANNEX II
Page 17 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  US$13.0 Mil-
lion Loan of February 5, 1976; Effective Date:  April 2,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The BAKOSURTANAL complex at Cibinong is now structurally completed,
and most of the cartographic, photographic processing, and printing equipment
required to produce maps has arrived and is being installed. Resource evalu-
ation activities, including the compilation of data for Southern Sumatra
and a study for the Directorate-General of Estates of coconut lands to be
replanted in Sulawesi and Lombok, are also proceeding in the new complex.
Recruitment and training of new staff, particularly junior operatives,
has accelerated. The new photography financed under the Canadian parallel
project will shortly be available, by which time BAKOSURTANAL hopes to have
installed color photo processing equipment and to have fully trained special-
ized teams of operatives in the various map production fields.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 1139   Fertilizer Distribution:  US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project has been substantially completed at a cost 20% below
the appraisal estimate. Work on the five original port depots is completed
and the sixth depot, which was approved by the Bank in 1977 as an extension
financed from project savings, is nearing completion. All four ships,
including the additional ship approved in 1977 and paid for from project
savings, have been delivered and 52 of 58 inland storage depots are com-
pleted.  All the ships, port depots and storage depots are operating.
Shipping operations have not been as cost effective as they could be, due to
some extent to existing large stocks of fertilizer requiring ships to be used
for longer distances for exports.  Costs have also been increased because of
delays in ship turnaround time caused by the need to clear customs on inter-
island voyages and the cumbersome procedures Involved. These matters are
being taken up with PUSRI and improvements are expected.
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  US$130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Virtually all key activities in the initial implementation schedule
agreed with the Government have been completed, although with delays of up to
one year. Construction of 1,200 km of roads has been started. Some problems
in executing the road works have been revealed on contracts started in 1976
and delays were encountered in awarding some contracts in 1977, causing a
slower rate of progress than scheduled. The project is about 25% complete.
The delays, combined with slow progress, indicate that the project will
probably be completed about 15-18 months after the Closing Date.



-43                      ANNEX II
Page 18 of 20 pages
Marine Transport
Credit No. 318 Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation: US$8.5 Million
Credit of June 28, 1972; Effective Date: October 19,
1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1979.
Due to sharply increased costs and lack of creditworthy applicants,
just over half the tonnage of shipping expected at appraisal will have been
rehabilitated.  The Credit has been entirely committed and is expected to be
fully disbursed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  US$54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date:  October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Delay in the appointments of a number of consultants has caused a
slow start to the project and slowed project implementation and disburse-
ments. The acute financial problems of the State Shipping Company (PELNI)
have been tackled by the Government and new management is instituting a
recovery plan. The project entity (PANN) has committed, and the Bank. has
approved, $22.3 million of subprojects; the Bank has disbursed and made
qualified agreement to reimburse, funds totalling $6.0 million as of
December 31, 1978. The recent change in exchange rate may adversely affect
this project in the future and slow disbursements further. This matter is
under study and being reviewed with the Government.
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  US$32 Million Loan of November 4,
1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Slow progress on the construction of Government-financed works
has delayed construction of the first component, but progress is being
made and these works are scheduled for completion in July 1979. The first
construction contract for Basin III back up facilities has been awarded and
work is underway. The regional berths component has been delayed by slow
withdrawal of the Army, which was using the site for storage. However, 90%
of the land has now been released, the old buildings are being demolished,
and a contract for the new works has recently been awarded. These delays
will probably postpone overall completion of the project to mid-1981; it is
too early to estimate the full effect of delays on project cost. The. Govern-
ment intends to establish statutory agencies (PERUMS) during 1979 for ports
and dredging, functions which are currently administered by government
departments.
Railways
Loan No. 1005   Railway:  US$48.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: August 16, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Project execution is behind schedule due to initial slow procure-
ment and execution of works. Procurement is now well under way and all
contracts have been placed or are about to be 'Ilaced. Freight and cassenger



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 20 pages
traffic declined in 1976, due largely to poor service. However, some
improvements have been made since the first half of 1977 following the
arrival of new locomotives and rolling stock, and operations improved
with the aid of consultants. The financial performance of the railway
continues to deteriorate due mainly to increasing costs, including a large
wage raise in early 1977, to low traffic levels, and to inadequate tariffs
for major freight commodities. The Government is completing the reorganiza-
tion of the railway as a Government Department. It has undertaken to review
the role of the railway and determine which traffic should be carried at a
profit and which should be subsidized.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974: Closing Date:
August 31, 1979.
Construction of major infrastructure and related facilities for
the Nusa Dua tourism estate is under way and scheduled for completion in mid-
1980; construction of the hotel training school has been completed. The
completion of project components outside the estate (i.e., roads) is scheduled
for December 1980, about two years later than planned at project appraisal.
Visitor traffic to Bali has been growing; it rose by 8% in 1977 to 286,000
visitors and by a further 11.5% in the first eight months of 1978. Air
access is improving with the introduction of new international flights from
Singapore. At present, three potential hotel projects for Nusa Dua are under
consideration; however, while no final commitment has yet been made, changes
in the project description (recently approved by the Executive Directors)
which would allow use of savings in credit funds for hotel construction may
encourage hotel investment. It is unlikely that a first hotel at Nusa Dua
could be completed in 1980 to coincide with completion of the infrastructure.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1040 Jakarta Urban Development: US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The kampung improvement part of the project is substantially
complete. Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded, compared with the original
plan of 1,980 ha. The sites and services component is about 75% complete.
Problems which have arisen with regard to the standard of materials and the
procedures to be utilized in allocating the plots were resolved last year.
About 2,000 settlers have moved on the site and the remaining plots are
currently being allocated.



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1336 Second Urban Development: US$52.5 Million Loan of November 4,
1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
The progress of civil works is ahead of schedule, and costs are
generally within appraisal estimates. Although land acquisition is causing
some delays, efforts are being made to speed up procedures.  Progress is
being made in developing Government capabilities to undertake a nationwide
kampung improvement program in the future.
Loan No. 1653 Third Urban Development: US$54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Not yet Effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The national kampung improvement program has been expanded in this
project to include Ujung Pandang, Semarang and Surakarta, as well as follow-
up components in Surabaya and Jakarta. The latter includes a new solid
wastes component, and will stress drainage and maintenance.
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049 Five Cities Water Supply: US$14.5 Million Loan of
October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule. This delay, together with higher rates of
inflation than anticipated, is expected to increase project costs about 15%
above the appraisal estimate. Detailed engineering and preparation of tender
documents have been completed, and contracts for all equipment and for major
civil works have been signed. The project has reached the construction
phase. The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering has
been completed, and the establishment and development of local water enter-
prises is proceeding satisfactorily. In September 1978, the Government
issued an interministerial decree defining relationships between the various
Ministries and the Water Enterprises, which is expected to expedite current
and future projects in the sector.



- 46 -
ANNEX III
INDONESIA
LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:       Three years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:       Directorate-General of
Water Resources Development,
with consultant assistance
funded locally and under
Loan 1579-IND.
(c)  Date of first presentation to Bank :   May 1977
Date of first Bank mission to
consider project                       July 1977
(d) Date of departure of appraisal
mission                                June 1, 1978
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations : March 16, 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness        :  July 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The employment of engineering consultants would be a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed loan (para. 46).
(b) The Government would:
(i)  ensure Proyek Cimanuk be staffed at all times with
competent and qualified personnel (para. 44);
(ii)  furnish to the Bank by December 31, 1979 a program
for the training of Proyek Cimanuk staff (para. 45); and
(iii)  furnish to the Bank by September 30, 1980 an O&M
program for the works constructed under the project,
and by April 1, 1981 start implementing the program
(para. 51).



Al                                   ml                                   .66i                                 .96i                                     .6 L                                 .06t
06C                                                  0
N  V  -4  D  0                                                                              06         O&V       obc        ok         06,        'o
W-10M          WI"Ad                           i
q.
110JO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            s3tilVONnOs IVNDIIVNU31N]
S ,                                               N OOZ'V        q MOIVC                                                                                              SWBAIU
S"Iddil'144                                                                                                                                                                                     s   .4 000,88
Id-jf->t                                                                                           savou
d
.-,.P-q
f=    o                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ix-I iiojr6d Not""IBUI
-=E v
9                                                      NO!IVDld di
e?., 4,g Pmm              Das             $010/j                                                                                                                               r                       "f.,v Ap-is MPrlo
fj f -  -P                                                                                                                    (IV                                                                                            14 -                                   SY311VIONOW
-,VA
-qp=v-vvl Pn
poqMM 11 Al =1 -ML, 1%                                                                                                                              6
Iq oarlit 4MAW     !P%-S                    ow    t                                         4 oup
.1.1d.4 a.10              mv Apnzs                                               -S 6!                                 DRONd IONINOD
0"                                                                                                                                                             P--Ij                                                                           GOOIA NISVS)4nN'YWI:),,43MOl
n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VIS3NOONI
04 000'                                                               S-.qRoA Agm
.4 00"   --!                          -.4                : 
p      n                                                                                                                                 q GOE'VZ                             14 ogz
.4 oooso                    4
V                                     &                                                              1.0.  nS
1.4.60 P-ti kip-s                                                                                                                          .4 0mg
W-N                                                                                                                                                               M                             Vl-o
q ooo'(9 ..V APMS 11
qooo,gL
1  s                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VA
n                                          Alo
17
-d
L  npo'                                                                                                                                                                                      q
N  V I N 'V W
-d'
0-
980d                                                       -!P
Mt                                                                                                                                SL L                                                                 .6y i                                                                                                       lo?,
VOLCi OVVI



