Document of
The World Bank  f\\ -
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2330b-IND
INDONESIA
LOWER CIMANUK BASIN
FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 2, 1979
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                  =  Rupiahs (Rp) 625
Rp 100                   =  US$0.16
Rp 1 million             =  US$1,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYTEM
1 millimeter (mm)                =  0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                      =  39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)                 =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq m)        =  0.386 square miles
l hectare (ha)                  =  2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (cu m)             =  35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (M cu m) =  811 acre feet
1 liter (1)                      =  0.264 gallons (US)
1 liter/second (1/sec)           =  0.035 cubic feet per sec
1 kilogram (kg)                  =  2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)               =  2,205 pounds
CONVERSION FACTOR FOR RICE
1 ton paddy (gabah)              =  630 kg milled rice
INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1-March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
CA              -  Catchment Area
c.i.f.          -  cost, insurance and freight
DGWRD           - Director(ate)-General of Water Resources Development
DIP             -  Project Implementation Budget
DOR             - Directorate of Rivers
DPMA            - Directorate of Hydraulic Engineering
DPUP            -  Public Works Office (Kabupaten level)
f.o.b.          -  free on board
HYV             - High-Yielding Variety
ICB             -  International Competitive Bidding
INPRES          -  Instruksi Presiden - "Presidential Instruction"
- a rural public works program
IPEDA           -  Iuran Pembangunan Daerah - Land Tax
ISH             -  International Shopping
LSH             - Local Shopping
O&M             - Operation and maintenance
PROSIDA         - Proyek Irigasi IDA - an executive body in the DGWRD
Proyek Cimanuk  -  Badan Pelaksana Proyek Pengembangan Wilayah Sungai
Cimanuk, "Project Executive Body for Cimanuk River
Basin Development"
SMEC            -  Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation
NOTATION
-- Less than half the smallest unit shown
- Nil or negligible
Not available separately but included in total
Not available
* not applicable
e Mission estimate
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF THE LOWER CIMANUK
BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.  BACKGROUND  .1..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    I
General  . . .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    I
The Agricultural and Rural Sector .  . . . . . . . . . .    1
The Irrigation Subsector ...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    4
Project Formulation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
2.  THE PROJECT AREA  ...  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    7
Location ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    7
Climate  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  7
Soils, Topography and Drainage . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
Population, Farm Size and Land Tenure  . . . . . . . . .    7
Existing Works and Infrastructure  . . . . . . . . . . .    8
3.  THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Detailed Features of the Project . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Consulting Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
Status of Engineering           ..13
Implementation Schedule          ..13
Cost Estimates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
Financing              ..15
Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Disbursements              ..16
Accounts and Audits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
Environmental Effects  ...  .  .  .  .   .    ......  .    .   .   16
4.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   17
Project Management ... .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   17
Training ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .    .   17
Operation and Maintenance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
Monitoring.                                             .  18
Cost Recovery  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
5.  FLOODING CHARACTERISTICS AND FLOOD DAMAGE . . . . . . . . .   19
Flooding Characteristics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
Crop Damage  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. J.T. Caparas, P. Momal, W.P. Ting (Bank), L. Miranda and P.T. Reddy
(consultants), which visited Indonesia in June 1978.



- ii -
PaeNo.
Damage to Houses .  . . . . . . . . .-. . . . . . . . .   22
Other Damage ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   23
6.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
Benefits   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  25
Economic Rate of Return  . . . .  ...... ..  .  .  .   .  26
Risks  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   27
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . .  30
List of Tables in Main Report
2.1   Farm Size Distribution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
3.1   Project Cost Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
5.1   Areas Flooded by Various Rivers. . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
5.2   Observed and Theoretical Discharges of the Cimanuk River
at Rentang Weir  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  20
5.3   Characteristics of Annual Maximum Floods at Rentang
Weir (1960-77) .. ....  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  20
5.4   Correspondence between Discharges and Flooded Areas in
Annual Maximum Floods from the Cimanuk River and
Rambatan Channel (1962-77)  . . . . . . . . . . .. . .  21
5.5   Distribution of Damage to Houses and Household Effects .  23
6.1   Estimates of Expected Flood Damage . . . . . . . . . . .  27
6.2   Economic Costs and Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
6.3   Sensitivity Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
Annexes
1    Description of Studies
2    Project Costs and Financing
3    Crop and Farm Budgets
4    Schedule of Early Events
5    O&M Funds for Bank-Assisted Irrigation Projects
6    Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
List of Figures
3.1   Implementation Schedule
4.1   Water Resources Organization
4.2   Directorate of Rivers Organization
4.3   Proyek Cimanuk Organization
List of Maps
IBRD 13784 Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control Project
IBRD 13781 Project Works
IBRD 10867 Cirebon and Rentang Irrigation Systems, Jatigede
Dam and Future Phases of Irrigation



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF THE LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND
General
1.01      The Government of Indonesia has requested Bank assistance for
the rehabilitation and improvement of river training and flood control works
on the Lower Cimanuk River and other rivers in the Lower Cimanuk Basin.
1.02      The staff of Proyek Cimanuk, an executive body in the Directorate-
General of Water Resources Development, prepared the project, with local
consultant assistance (Gadjah Mada University) funded by the Government.
These studies were reviewed and updated in early-1978 by consultants (SMEC,
Australia) funded under Loan 1579-IND. This report is based on the findings
of an appraisal mission composed of Messrs. J,T. Caparas, P. Momal, W.P. Ting
(Bank), L. Miranda and P. T. Reddy (Consultants), which visited Indonesia in
June 1978. Mr. P.W. Whitford also contributed to the report.
The Agricultural and Rural Sector
1.03      Objectives.  The major national objectives in the agricultural and
rural sector in Indonesia are to: (a) create productive employment to raise
the incomes of the rural poor, (b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace
with rising demand, (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of small-
holder tree crops, and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's
land, water and other natural resources.
1.04      Role and Performance.  Although agriculture's contribution to GDP
and exports has declined during the past 15 years (from 55% to 33% and from
55% to 23%, respectively), the rural sector remains of overwhelming importance
to the vast majority of the Indonesian people in terms of employment, incomes
and food production. Some 80% of the country's 135.5 million people /1 live
in rural areas, and agriculture employs about two thirds of the total labor
force. Except for oil palm and tea, agriculture is dominated by smallholder
production; there are some 14.4 million smallholders producing subsistence
and cash crops on 14.2 million ha. There are also 1,800 estates occupying
2.2 million ha producing mainly rubber, sugar, tea, palm oil and tobacco.
Over the past five years, the growth rate of agricultural production has
been uneven, averaging 4% p.a., while total GDP grew at 8% p.a.
1.05      Development Problems and Potential.  In Java, the cultivable land
is almost fully utilized and in some areas agricultural land use already
exceeds ecologically safe limits. In 1976 about 82 million people lived in
Java, which has 45% of the cropped area but only 7% of Indonesia's land
area. About one-third of Java's rural population is landless, and a large
/1 Estimate for mid-1978 based on the Inter-censal Population Survey of
March 1976.



- 2 -
proportion of the remainder cannot support themselves on income from their
own farms. Outside Java, there are large areas of unused cultivable land,
less fertile than in Java, and other natural resources to be exploited.
While the inhabitants of these islands do not have high standards of living,
they are generally better off than most in rural Java.
1.06      Employment.  Perhaps the single most important challenge facing
the Indonesian Government is to guide and structure the development process
in such a way that the creation of new opportunities for gainful employment
does at least keep pace with the growth of the labor force. The changes
associated with modernization in rural Java are generally labor-saving, so
that farming is increaslngly becoming a part-time activity. Modern manu-
facturing and services have been unable to fully absorb the incremental labor
force. Successful locally administered public rural works programs (INPRES),
may be difficult to expand due to limited budget and implementation capacity.
Future employment strategy will probably include stress on labor-intensive
export industries and small-scale rural enterprises producing for the domestic
market. There may also be potential for more productive agricultural employ-
ment through increased cropping intensity and a shift to higher value crops
and livestock, including fruits and vegetables grown on house compounds.
1.07      Food Crops.  Lespite the heavy emphasis on rice production in the
past, the gap between domestic production of and demand for food appears to
be widening. Despite a heavy rice crop in 1978, production of rice and the
principal nonrice food crops has generally not kept pace with the growth in
aggregate demand over the past few years. To keep rice imports at some
reasonable fraction of world rice trade, demand must be shiEted to other
domestic and imported staples, and the rate of growth of rice production
should ideally approach 4% p.a. compared to an average of 3.5% p.a. over the
past decade, and only 1.7% over 1974-77./1 Improved water management and
agricultural supporting services are essential for increasing rice yields and
production. On Java there remains much scope for more efficient water use,
through construction and/or improvement of additional tertiary and quarter-
nary canals. On the Other Islands there is considerable potential for new
irrigation systems, including tidal and swamp land development. On both Java
and the Other Islands, secondary food crops also offer promising development
prospects. For example, there is room for yield improvement through inten-
sified research and supporting services, and great scope for an expansion in
harvested area. A food policy which emphasizes secondary crop production as
well as rice would serve the twin goals of growth and equity as many of the
poorest parts of Java and the Other Islands are best suited to dry land
farming.
1.08      Tree Crops.  Tae Government has embarked on a major effort to
develop smallholder tree crops outside Java, as part of its transmigration
and national rubber and coconut replanting programs. The objective is to
/l This low growth rate was the result of below average harvests caused by
inadequate and untimely rainfall in manv areas of Java and by pest and
disease damage to high yielding varieties. As noted, production from the
1977/78 wet season crop was much improved.



improve production on existing blocks while developing large areas of new
land for settlement. One of the Government's main approaches has been to
use public estate companies to plant tree crops on land to be settled by
local landless families and transmigrants. The estate companies provide a
range of services including planting material, land clearing and planting,
inputs, processing and marketing facilities for the smallholders. This
approach is well taken in view of Indonesia's scarce managerial and technical
capabilities.
1.09      Transmigration.  Transmigration offers substantial opportunities
for improving social equity and the economic use of Indonesia's two main
underemployed resources: Javanese labor and land in the Other Islands. Un-
fortunately, transmigration has long been hampered by unrealistic expectations
about its potential contribution to regional development and the solution of
Java's population problems, overambitious targets and weak, uncoordinated
implementation. These problems are now being addressed and the Bank is
engaged in a wide ranging discussion with the Government on the transmigration
program and the manner in which the Bank can assist. Organizational aspects
of transmigration, the design of farming systems and the package of services
which will support successful, long-term settlement are among the issues
being examined.
1.10      The Role of the Government.  The capacity of the Indonesian
Government to plan and implement agricultural and rural development programs
has generally improved over the past decade. However, future programs
responsive to the Government's stated objectives will necessarily be more
complex than those which the Government has followed up to now. They will
require closely coordinated "packages" of research, extension, inputs,
credit, land development, transportation and marketing improvements. Multi-
agency integrated area development programs in Java and land settlement
schemes in the Other Islands will require stronger field organizations of
Government line agencies and local governmental authorities, as well as new
administrative arrangements. With the more complex organizational require-
ments of future programs, implementation capacity is likely to become the
limiting factor in Indonesia's economic and social development. It is
therefore of utmost importance that the Government continue its efforts to
strengthen the key rural development institutions.
1.11      Bank Lending Strategy.  There is general agreement between the
Bank and the Government on the overall objectives and strategies proposed
for the rural sector. While views sometimes differ on the relative emphasis
to be given to different investments and on the technical design of some
projects, such differences are not profound and are likely to be resolved
with further analysis and dialogue. The Bank is devoting considerable staff
time to various analyses of the rural sector (e.g. employment, irrigation
development, support services and food crop production) in order to improve
its understanding of the needs of the sector and the Government's policies.
1.12      The Bank has been and should continue to be involved in a broad
range of agricultural and rural activities in Indonesia. Since the first
irrigation credit was made in 1968, the Bank has rapidly expanded its agri-
cultural and rural lending to include support for estate and smallholder tree
crops, fertilizer production and distribution, sugar estates, support services,
transmigration, livestock and fisheries. An integrated rural development
project is currently being appraised. Credits already closed and for which
Project Completion Reports have been prepared (e.g. Estates I, Irrigation I)



-4-
showed excellent rates of return ranging from 25% to 33%. Taking 1974 as
a base year, Bank financed projects will contribute almost 60% of the
increase in palm oil output by 1980, about 16% of incremental sugar
production and 6% of incremental rice and rubber. Four continuing trends
in Bank agricultural lending to Indonesia are: (a) a shift from rehabilita-
tion to new development activities; (b) a shift from support of state
enterprises to direct support of smallholders; (c) an increased emphasis
on rainfed systems; and (d) greater emphasis on development of the Other
Islands. All these trends are consistent with the Government's changing
policies.
The Irrigation Subsector
1.13      Rice is the dominant irrigated crop in Indonesia.  Of an estimated
8.4 million ha of rice harvested in 1977, 7.2 million ha were irrigated or
grown under wet land conditions. Irrigation systems cover a service area
of about 5 million ha, of which about 4 million ha are of a quality which
is adequate for irrigated rice production. Java accounts for 60% of the
irrigated area. Average paddy yields on Java are about 3.2 ton/ha compared
with 2.8 ton/ha in the Other Islands. Although irrigation has long been
a major feature of Indonesian agriculture, by the late 1960s, the systems
built during the colonial, period were in a state of complete disrepair.
Irrigation development during the first two development plan periods
concentrated heavily on the rehabilitation of these systems. Construction
of new systems, mainly to serve as the basis for transmigration projects
outside Java, lagged behind.
1.14      With the rehabilitation of most existing irrigation systems
either completed or under way, future irrigation development in Indonesia
will shift to the construction of new gravity systems and swamp and tidal
land development outside Java. This shift does not mean, however, that
irrigation development on Java should stop. Many of the existing systems
still need to be fully rehabilitated or upgraded at relatively low cost,
and the limited potential for large storage and groundwater should be
developed to expand dry season cropping as far as economically feasible.
A recent Bank review of Indonesia's irrigation program (Reference A.2)
concluded that, to expand rice production at the same rate as demand
(about 4% per year), the level of annual investment in irrigation should
be increased by about 20% by the end of the Third Five-Year Plan (1984).
This in turn would require strengthening of the Directorate-General of
Water Resources Development (DGWRD), training and staff development, and
an expansion of agricultural supporting services.
Project Formulation
1.15      While the rehabilitation (including tertiary development) of most
major irrigation systems in Java has either been completed or is under way,
other aspects related to the performance of the works, which have not yet
been addressed, continue to 4inhibit the realization of optimal benefits from
these works and threaten lto shorten their serviceable lives.  The poor state
of drainage and road networks in parts of irrigation systems along the north
coast of Java continue to depress cropping intensities and yields, and
seriously hamper the flow of extension services, agricultural products



- 5-
and inputs. Major rivers traversing the project areas constantly threaten
to change their regimes and courses and periodically overflow their banks,
causing widespread inundation of villages and agricultural land and neces-
sitating the reconstruction or relocation of threatened irrigation canals,
highways and communications lines. Improper land use on the catchments of
these rivers is accelerating soil erosion, resulting in a significant re-
duction of soil productivity and giving rise to serious sedimentation and
siltation problems downstream. The Government is reacting to these problems
and, under Irrigation Project VI (Loan 1100-IND) has carried out soil conser-
vation pilot projects in the Cimanuk Basin. These efforts would be continued
under a proposed Watershed Development Project being considered for Bank
financing. Studies and investigations designed to alleviate the drainage
problems in Bank-assisted systems along the north coast of Java were funded
under Loan 1268-IND. As a result of these studies, the first project for the
improvement of flood control, drainage and road networks in the Ciujung area
was funded under Loan 1434-IND and a second project for similar improvements
in the Cisedane area is included in the Irrigation Project XII (Loan 1645-IND).
1.16      The Government has, for many years, attempted to check the tendencies
of major rivers to change their regimes and overflow their banks. Because of
limited funding, however, the construction of river training and flood control
works has been piece-meal, and the completed works have often been inadequate.
In order to gain a more comprehensive picture of soil and water management
problems in a complete river basin, the Government has embarked on a Master
Plan for the Cimanuk Basin, with consultant assistance (SMEC, Australia)
funded under Irrigation Project XI (Loan 1579-IND). This Plan would include
the review, analysis and coordination of all the existing and largely unin-
tegrated plans for the utilization, conservation and management of the land
and water resources of the basin. While the Master Plan will not be finished
for some time, the priority of some investments, such as the Lower Cimanuk
Basin Flood Control works, is already clear. The Lower Cimanuk River in West
Java is a typical example of a major river which has consistently overtopped
its banks and changed its meander patterns. It has breached its dikes at
several places on numerous occasions and progressively eroded its banks along
at least 29 bends. The most serious flooding attributed to the Cimanuk River
occurred in 1977, when it inundated 11 villages and more than 21,000 ha of
agricultural land, including portions of the area served by the large Rentang
irrigation system. The undercutting of the right bank at one bend was so
serious that, if it had remained unchecked, a large irrigation canal and a
national road would, very shortly, have had to be relocated. The physical
problems of flood damage are compounded by the inadequate maintenance program
for the river levees, the absence of a flood warning system and poor communi-
cations.



- 6 -
1.17      Various alternative measures for flood control have been considered
for the Lower Cimanuk. Following a feasibility study financed under Irrigation
Project IV (Credit 289-IND), the Jatigede Dam on the Cimanuk River was identi-
fied as a potential source of flood mitigation, dry-season irrigation and
hydropower (Map 10867). The detailed design of the dam has been completed
with Australian bilateral assistance and the construction of the first stage
of the dam was originally proposed for inclusion in the present project.
However, after reviewing the budgetary implications of the long construction
period and the size of the resettlement program for the residents of the
reservoir area, the Government recently decided to defer construction of the
Jatigede Dam. Subsequently, the project consultants redesigned the river
training works and levees proposed for the Lower Cimanuk to provide the
required level of flood protection, without the Jatigede Dam.



- 7-
2. THE PROJECT AREA
Location
2.01      The Lower Cimanuk Basin flood control area (Map 13784) is located
along the north coast of West Java. It roughly coincides with the service
area of the 90,000 ha Rentang irrigation system. This system, served by the
Rentang Weir, was rehabilitated under Irrigation Project I (Credit 127-IND).
These works were completed in 1976 and are expected to have an economic rate
of return of about 33%. Further substantial benefits are expected from the
ongoing reconstruction of Rentang Weir, tertiary development of the whole
area, drainage improvements and rural extension centers, being financed under
Irrigation Project VI (Loan 1100-IND)(Map 10867). Apart from some delays
in the award of the contract for the weir, progress is generally satisfactory.
Indramayu, one of the biggest towns in the project area, is about 170 km east
of Jakarta. These earlier projects were not intended to provide relief to the
areas affected by flooding from the rivers.
Climate
2.02      There is little variation in the tropical, monsoonal climate of
the Cimanuk River Basin, with temperatures varying only a few degrees from
the annual average of 26 C. Seasonal weather patterns prevail, with the
wet season (northwest monsoon) extending from November to May and the dry
season (southeast monsoon) from June through October. The mean annual
rainfall varies from about 2,000 mm on the plains to about 4,000 mm on the
upper parts of the catchment. The average rainfall during the five driest
months, June to October, is only about 17% of the annual rainfall. High rain-
fall intensities are frequently encountered and floods may arise within six
hours of heavy rain. Floods generally reach the vulnerable stretches of the
Lower Cimanuk in the early hours of the morning, the most difficult time for
communications and emergency repairs to levees.
Soils, Topography and Drainage
2.03      Soils in the Cimanuk project area are alluvial and of volcanic
origin, having very fine clayey to fine silty texture. Percolation rates for
the alluvial soils are low (<1.0 mm/day). The water holding capacity of the
surface horizon ranges from 25-50%. Soils in the area are slightly acid in
reaction, generally poor in nutrient status, and require supplementary
nitrogen and phosphorus to obtain high yields. Most of the area is flat
and, except for poor surface drainage in some low coastal areas, is generally
well suited to intensive rice cultivation. The project lands slope from
0.2% near the'toast and rise gently to the higher ground inland. Inadequate
drainage is a fairly localized problem. Secondary crops are grown on the
better drained and lighter upland soils.
Population, Farm Size and Land Tenure
2.04      The Rentang area has an estimated rural population of 1,700,000
comprising about 220,000 farm families and 100,000 landless families. The
average family size is 5.5 and the average farm size is about 0.4 ha. In
addition to the rural population of the Lower Cimanuk Basin, beneficiaries
would include the 40,000 urban inhabitants of Indramayu.



- 8 -
2.05      Farm size and land tenure data are sketchy.  The following table
gives an estimate of farm size distribution in the Rentang area:
Table 2.1: FARM SIZE DISTRIBUTION
Farm size                       No. of farms                  Cultivated area
(%)                            (%)
Less than 0.25 ha                    35                             17
0.25 ha - 0.50 ha                    40                             34
0.50 ha - 0.75 ha                    17                             27
0.75 ha - 1.00 ha                     6                              12
More than 1.00 ha                     2                              10
2.06      In the project area, some 77% of the farmers are owner operators,
10% are sharecroppers and 13% are tenants. In most sharecropping arrangements,
the tenant and landlord equally share total production, inputs and harvest-
ing costs; the tenant and his family provide labor, while the landowner pays
the land tax. Landless laborers comprise some 30% of the rural population.
Existing Works and Infrastructure
2.07      The Cimanuk river and six smaller streams /1 constitute the rivers
in the Lower Cimanuk Basin.  As is common for alluvial streams, channel
capacity generally diminishes towards the outlet and thus these rivers
frequently overtop their banks, causing extensive damage to property, infra-
structure and crops in the fertile and densely populated basin. Crop damage
is about 20% of all damage. To mitigate flooding, remedial measures have
been carried out since the 1880s on vulnerable reaches of these rivers.
These measures consist mainly of the dredging of new river outlets and the
construction of levees, bank protection works and channel cutoffs. Because
of the heavy sediment loads in these rivers and their tendency to change
their regimes and meander patterns, the design of remedial works has proved
extremely difficult. Channel cutoffs and the dredging of new outlet channels
has had unforeseen effects on the downstream regime. The existing works were
sometimes inadequately designed; substandard construction and inadequate
maintenance of some works have further curtailed their capability to function
as conceived by their designers. As a result, many serious floods have
occurred, due to erosion of river banks and failure of levees at weak points
in unpredictable locations (Chapter 5).
2.08      With a catchment area of some 3,600 sq km, the Cimanuk River is by
far the largest and most destructive of the streams in the basin. Its
headwaters originate from Mt. Puncak Gede, some 2,000 m above sea level.
Over its 180 km course, it flows through the mountainous region east of
/1 These streams are the Cipanas (C.A. = 280 sq km), Ciwaringin (C.A. = 100
sq km), Pangkalan (C.A. = 320 sq km), Kumpul Kuwista (C.A. = 200 sq km),
Karangsambung (C.A. = 170 sq km) and Jamblang (C.A. = 100 sq km).



Bandung and traverses the plain west of Cirebon, flowing northward over the
Rentang weir and through the towns of Kertasemaya, Jatibarang, Bangkir and
Indramayu before debouching into the Java sea (HIap 13781). At Bangkir, part
of its flow is diverted through the Rambatan Channel, an artificial channel
constructed in 1926, which used to be capable of absorbing some 60% of all
flood flows. In the last few years, the absence of a hydraulic control struc-
ture at Bangkir on either the Rambatan Channel or the Cimanuk River has made the
division of flow at this junction uncertain. Changes in downstream conditions
arising from sedimentation of the Rambatan Channel outlet, combined with the
formation of a new mouth of the Cimanuk River and subsequently scouring of that
channel, have significantly increased discharges of the latter through Indramayu
to the point that it now conveys about 65% of flood flows at Bangkir. At
Indramayu, the Cimanuk River is narrow and high flood embankments protect the
town. These embankments have, however, been repeatedly threatened by high flood
flows and are in grave danger of being undermined and breached if the imbalance
in flow distribution is not corrected. Under the project, the distribution
would be controlled to reduce potential flooding of Indramayu (para. 3.05).



- 10 -
3. THE PROJECT
3.01      The proposed project would consist of the rehabilitation and
improvement of river training and flood control works on the Lower Cimanuk
River and other small rivers that cause annual flooding of the Indramayu
area in West Java, including portions of the service area of the Rentang
irrigation system. Some associated studies are also included.
Detailed Features of the Project
3.02      The project features are as follows:
(a) Construction of bank stabilization and river training works along
acute river bends totaling about 34 km in length;
(b) Rehabilitation/construction of about 175 km of flood protection
levees;
(c) Widening of about 21 km of the Rambatan Channel and construction
of adjacent levees;
(d) Construction of road bridges at Pangakalan and Bangkir;
(e) Construction of a hydraulic control structure on the Cimanuk
River at Bangkir;
(f) Procurement of vehicles and equipment for construction supervision;
(g) A study of coastal and littoral processes near the mouths of the
Cimanuk River and Rambatan Channel;
(h) A study to develop communications and flood warning systems, an
operation and maintenance plan for the project works and a system
to monitor their effectiveness; and
(i) Consultant services for construction supervision and the studies
and the services of an advisor to assist in strengthening Proyek
Cimanuk.
3.03      Basis of Design.  To mitigate flooding in the Lower Cimanuk Basin,
the Cimanuk River and the other rivers (para. 2.07) that annually overtop
their banks or breach portions of their levees would be isolated from the
internal drainage systems in the basin. This would be accomplished by
rehabilitating, improving or raising existing flood embankments and cons-
tructing new embankments along reaches that need them; constructing flap
gates at drainage inlets to the rivers; constructing bank stabilization and
river training works along acute bends that are subjected to considerable
erosive forces during high flood flows; and improving the river courses,
channels and outlets. Flood flows of the Cimanuk River at Rentang weir,
Kertasemaya and Bangkir (para. 2.08) were derived from a frequency analysis
of recorded floods (17-30 years) for each of these stations. Results of



- 11 -
these analyses were checked by synthetic methods using storm patterns derived
from an analysis of extreme precipitation as well as exceptional storms
recorded in the area over a 41-year period. Previous studies by Proyek
Cimanuk indicate that returns from investment would be optimum if the improve-
ments are designed to cope with a 25-year flood. While this choice of design
flood has not been analyzed by the project consultants, the choice is not a
critical one, as the flood stage is rather insensitive to the return period
of the flood. In other words, the height of the 40-year flood is little
different to that of the 20-year event, for example. Project works have,
therefore, been sized to accommodate the 25-year flood.
3.04      In preparing the project, the consultants compared six alternative
methods of conveying the design flood flow from Rentang Weir to the sea. These
alternatives included various divisions of the flow at Bangkir between the
Cimanuk River and the Rambatan Channel, completion of a flood bypass around
Indramayu and a possible new outlet to the sea from Kertasemaya. As all alter-
natives were sized to accommodate the same design flood, the least cost solution,
described below, was selected.
3.05      Channel Excavation and Levees.  On the Cimanuk River, the 25-year
peak discharge of about 900 cu m/sec at Bangkir would be safely handled by
passing 200 cu m/sec through Indramayu and diverting the remaining 700 cu m/
sec through the Rambatan Channel. To limit the flood flow through Indramayu
to 200 cu m/sec, a discharge the present channel can safely convey, a
hydraulic control structure incorporating 6 m x 10 m vertical slide gates,
would be constructed on the Cimanuk River at a section approximately 100 m
downstream of its confluence with the Rambatan Channel. From its present
width of 45-50 m, the Rambatan Channel would be widened to 80 m throughout
its 18 km course to enable it to discharge 700 cu m/sec. Material excavated
from the channel would be used to augment existing flood embankments along
each bank. These embankments would have side slopes of 2.0 H:1.0 V, a crest
width of 4 m, and a freeboard allowance of 1.0 m. Upstream of Bangkir,
similar flood embankments would be rehabilitated, improved or constructed.
Over the 75 km reach between Rentang weir and the Rambatan Channel outlet to
the Java Sea, about 86 km of flood embankments would be required. Of these,
42 km would be new, 14 km would be relocated (set back), and 30 km would be
rehabilitated and upgraded. Existing levees on the Cimanuk River downstream
of Bangkir would require no modifications. Levees would generally carry an
unsurfaced inspection road. Wherever possible, levees would be set back to a
sufficient extent that they would not interfere with the scouring and meander-
ing characteristics of the river. However, in some locations, existing
infrastructure and/or high property values make this infeasible and bank
protection would be used instead. The levee would be provided with overflow
sections to pass floodwaters greater than the design flood through areas
where they would do the least damage.
3.06      River Training.  Between Rentang Weir and the Rambatan offtake
(56 km), there are approximately 29 serious erosion sites adjacent to levees,
roads and irrigation canals, including the breakout points of the 1977 and
earlier floods. River improvement works to control erosion at these sites have
been selected after considering bank protection systems in operation in several
countries and relative costs in Indonesia and would consist of training works



- 12 -
to deflect the flow away from the threatened bank and direct bank protection
where training works are not economical. The training works in some cases
would be low circumferential and radial pervious rock barriers laid out on
the river bed along a predesigned curved alignment. The 15 m sq embayments
formed by these barriers are designed to induce a stable cream flow align-
ment and trap sediment at the toe of the threatened bank. In other cases
permeable groynes, consisting of reinforced concrete piles spread about 1.5 m
apart would be constructed at right angles to the flow. The direct bank
protection would consist of gabion mattresses (wire baskets filled with
boulders) laid on a prepared sloping face at the erosion site. The height of
the circumferential gabion walls would vary with the estimated erosion
hazard, as would the choice between gabions and post and wire fences for the
radial barriers. Improvement of the natural soil slope stability would be
done in conjunction with both types of works. For the minor rivers, similar
works on a smaller scale are proposed, but more emphasis would be placed on
soil slope stabilization. No works are proposed for the Cipanas River, as
it has been determined that the drainage works along that river being con-
structed under Irrigation Project VI would be adequate for flood protection.
3.07      Cimanuk River Estuary Study.  This study would assemble basic data
to enable a description and analysis of the coastal and littoral processes in
the vicinity of Indramayu to be made. In particular, the long-term effects
on the estuaries of the Cimanuk and Rambatan and the growth rates of their
respective deltas as a result of diverting a larger proportion of the Cimanuk
flow through the Rambatan Channel, under the project, would be studied. The
estuary study would be at pre-feasibility level and is expected to require 15
months. Further details are given in Annex 1.
3.08      Flood Control Operations Study.  To ensure that the project works
would function effectively in a flood emergency, the following systems would
need to be established: communications and flood warning systems (both within
the relevant government agencies and to the affected population); a mainte-
nance system, including regular patrols of levees and provisions for emer-
gency repairs; and, a program for monitoring the effectiveness of the project
works, in order to refine design standards for future projects of this type.
The six- to nine-month study would emphasize organizational and training
aspects, together with the identification of equipment and vehicle needs.
Procurement of any equipment would be carried out under a future project.
Further details are given in Annex 1.
Consulting Services
3.09      As Proyek Cimanuk does not have the in-house capability to carry out
fully the project works and studies, the project provides for expatriate and
local consultants during implementation. It is expected that the term of the
foreign consultants (SMEC, Australia), who were engaged under Loan 1579-IND
to prepare detailed designs, tender documents and construction drawings for
the project works would be extended under this project to enable them to
assist in supervising construction of the works and in carrying out the
studies just described. Consulting services for construction supervision
would total about 120 man--months; about 35 man-months would be required for
the studies, with counterpart assistance from Proyek Cimanuk, the Directorate



- 13 -
of Hydraulic Engineering and local officials (Annex 1). A local consulting
firm would be engaged to carry out a hydrographic survey under the Estuary
Study. The project also provides for the services of an advisor (para. 4.02).
Assurances have been obtained that engineering consultants and a management
advisor whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employ-
ment would be satisfactory to the Bank would be engaged, to assist the
Government with construction supervision, the Cimanuk River Estuary Study and
the Flood Control Operations Study (Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement).
Engagement of the engineering consultants would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (Section 5.01 of the Loan Agreement).
Status of Engineering
3.10      In 1976-77, Proyek Cimanuk undertook hydrologic studies, carried out
longitudinal and cross-section surveys, and made an assessment of existing
flood embankments and bank stabilization and river training works along the
course of the Lower Cimanuk River, with local consultant assistance provided
by Gadjah Mada University. At about the same time, other DGWRD agencies
also carried out similar investigations along the courses of the Cipanas,
Ciwaringin, Jamblang and other smaller rivers. From these studies, proposals
have evolved for the rehabilitation and improvement of existing river train-
ing and flood control works, and for construction of new works. These
proposals have been reviewed by SMEC (para. 1.16) and, where necessary,
additional hydrologic studies, surveys, foundation investigations and engi-
neering designs have been carried out to define the project works. SMEC has
completed all conceptual designs, and about 50% of detailed designs, tender
documents and construction drawings for the first year of project execution
(25% of designs for all project works). Detailed designs, tender documents
and construction drawings for the remaining works would be completed in phase
with construction requirements. A contract for the construction of the first
7 km of the Rambatan Channel was awarded locally by the Government prior to
loan negotiations. This work has been excluded from the project cost esti-
mate and loan financing. Land acquisition would mainly involve the purchase
of 260 ha of land along the Cimanuk River and Rambatan Channel and relocation
of almost 1,000 houses. Few acquisition problems are foreseen. Some land
has already been acquired.
Implementation Schedule
3.11      The project would be implemented over a three-and-one-half year
period from September 1979 through March 1983 (Figure 3.1), with the first
four contracts expected to be awarded in mid-1979. The Bangkir structure and
Rambatan Channel contracts would not commence until May 1981. Construction
would be concentrated in the dry-season months of June to December. A
schedule of early events is given in Annex 4.
Cost Estimates
3.12      The total project cost is estimated at US$77.0 million, of which
US$37.7 million (49%) is the foreign exchange component. This cost excludes
the US$2.5 million cost of the portion of the Rambatan Channel already
awarded (para. 3.10). Because the implementing agency is tax exempt, the



- 14 -
above costs do not include local, provincial or national taxes. Civil works
quantities for the Rambatan Channel were estimated from construction draw-
ings; for the Cimanuk and Ciwaringin Rivers, from completed construction
drawings (30%) and preliminary design drawings (70%); and for the Bangkir
control structure and the remaining small rivers, from preliminary design
drawings. Civil works costs were estimated by applying to the estimated
quantities the prevailing unit costs for similar works in the area (projected
to mid-1979 values) and allowing for the probable impact of the November 1978
devaluation of the Rupiah. Costs of consulting services are based on recent
contracts for similar services in Indonesia. The direct costs of foreign
consultants (salaries, overseas allowance, home office overhead and fee)
amount to about US$5,750/man-month. Reimbursible expenses (travel, housing,
field office overhead, reproduction and printing, and other expenses) average
about US$3,750/man-month, for a total cost of US$9,500/man-month (Annex 2,
Table 6). By comparison, total costs of local consultants amount to
US$1,300/man-month. The cost estimates include physical contingencies of 20%
for civil works, 5% lower than for past projects, due to the more advanced
stage of design of the present project; and about 10% for equipment and
services. The cost estimates also include an allowance for expected price
increases during project execution (20% of base cost plus physical contingen-
cies), which are based on the following annual inflation rates projected from
recent trends noted in civil works contracts for irrigation projects in
Indonesia and the likely effects of devaluation:
Civil works, equipment and services:
(a) Local costs: 10% in the second half of 1979; 20% in calendar year
1980; 15% in calendar years 1981 and 1982; and 10% in
1983; and
(b) Foreign costs: 7% per annum throughout.
Details of project costs are presented in Annex 2, Table 1 and summarized
below:
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Local  Foreign  Total   Local Foreign Total  Foreign
---- (Rp million) ---   -- (US$ million) -- exchange
Civil Works                 11,370  15,660  27,030   18.2   25.1   43.3    58
Equipment and Services       4,220   1,490   5,710    6.8    2.3    9.1    26
Base cost                15,590  17,150  32,740   25.0   27.4   52.4    52
Physical contingencies       2,850   3,350   6,200    4.5    5.4    9.9    54
Price contingencies          6,130   3,070   9,200    9.8    4.9   14.7    33
Total Project Cost      24,570  23,570  48,140   39.3   37.7   77.0    49



- 15 -
Financing
3.13      The proposed Bank loan of US$50.0 million would finance the
project's foreign exchange cost (US$37.7 million) and US$12.3 million of
local costs. It would cover about 65% of total project costs and 31% of
local costs. The Government would provide the remaining Rp 16.9 billion
(US$27.0 million) out of annual budget appropriations. In accordance with a
procedure recently established under Irrigation Project XII (Loan 1645-IND),
the Government would prefinance expenditures eligible for Bank reimbursement.
Procurement /1
3.14      Except for two start-up vehicles, which would be purchased by the
consultants following quotations from local suppliers (local shopping),
vehicles for construction and operation (US$60,000) would be procured under
international competitive bidding procedures in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. A preference equal to 15% of the c.i.f. cost of the imported
goods or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to qualified
local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. The equipment for the coastal
and flood control studies and laboratory and office equipment (US$150,000)
would either consist of specialized items or small items required in small
amounts, which would not justify the expense of competitive bidding. This
equipment would therefore be procured by the consultants following at least
three quotations from manufacturers, compared on the basis of c.i.f. Jakarta
costs (international shopping). Expected equipment needs are listed in
Annex 2, Table 8.
3.15      Contracts for the construction of the Bangkir hydraulic control
structure (US$6.9 million) and widening of the Rambatan Channel (US$6.7 mil-
lion) would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Qualified local contractors would
be given a preference of 7-1/2% in the evaluation of bids. The remaining
civil works (US$51.0 million), are rather simple in scope and, in order to be
attractive to foreign contractors, packages would need to be very large,
which would not be practicable, given the large number of worksites and the
need to ensure an even flow of design work. These works would be carried out
following local competitive bidding. Local contracting procedures have been
reviewed under earlier projects and, with the following assurances would be
acceptable to the Bank. Assurances have been obtained from GOI that: (a) the
works would be grouped into a number of suitable contracts (minimum size
US$500,000) that would enable large local contractors and joint ventures of
small local firms to bid within the classes for which Government regulations
require them to be prequalified; (b) to minimize late construction starts
early in the dry season, invitations to bid for such contracts would be issued
as bid documents are completed, and bids would be received and processed
without waiting for the project implementation budget (DIP) to be signed, but
contracts would be awarded only after the DIP is approved; (c) price escala-
tion clauses, which are not normally provided in local civil works contracts,
/1 All costs in this section of the report include contingencies.



- 16 -
would be included in contracts extending beyond one year; and (d) for con-
tracts estimated to cost US$1.0 million and above, documents would be sub-
mitted to the Bank for review before tendering and award (Schedule 4 of the
Loan Agrement). It was also agreed at negotiations that the full flexibility
inherent in the local procedures would be used to ensure that such procure-
ment would be carried out efficiently and economically.
Disbursements
3.16      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported vehicles and equipment, 95% of the ex-
factory cost of locally manufactured equipment, 65% for locally procured
imported equipment, excluding vehicles, and 40% of total expenditures for
locally procured vehicles0 Disbursements for civil works would be at the
rate of 70% of total expenditures. Disbursements for training, consultants'
and advisory services (including two start-up vehicles) and mapping would be
at 100% of total expenditures. In consultation with the Bank, any savings in
the loan account would be used to finance additional flood control works or
equipment in the project area. The estimated schedule of expenditures for
the project, disbursement schedule and allocation of loan proceeds are
presented in Annex 2. The Closing Date would be March 31, 1984.
Accounts and Audits
3.17      Assurances have been obtained from the Government that Proyek
Cimanuk would maintain separate accounts for the project; engage auditors
acceptable to the Bank to audit these accounts; and submit to the Bank,
within six months of the close of each fiscal year, audited financial state-
ments, together with the auditor's comments (Section 4.02 of the Loan
Agreement).
Environmental Effects
3.18      The benefit area of the Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control Project
has been under cultivation for many years; thus the basic land use would
not change appreciably in character, although the quality of agricultural
activity would improve following implementation of the project. There would
be a temporary disruption of the flora and fauna in the vicinity of the
construction sites, but because of the tropical character of the area, the
disturbed areas would be restored to their natural condition within a year.
The impact of the project works on sedimentation and delta formation at the
mouths of the Cimanuk River and Rambatan Channel would be investigated under
the estuary study included in the project. The areas which are annually
inundated for varying periods would become more productive and habitable.
The project works would lessen the dislocation of families or entire villages
due to flooding, render transportation less subject to interruption, and
eliminate the need to relocate previously threatened infrastructure.



- 17 -
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Management
4.01      The proposed project would be implemented by Proyek Cimanuk, an
executive body of the Directorate General of Water Resources Development
(DGWRD).  Proyek Cimanuk shares most of its staff with the long-established
Directorate of Rivers (DOR) which supervised earlier studies and investi-
gations for the project. DOR has responsibility for the control of floods,
river-borne sediments and volcanic mud flows throughout Indonesia. The staff
of Proyek Cimanuk is being strengthened under Loan 1579-IND for the execution
of the Cimanuk Basin Master Plan. With the consultant and advisory assis-
tance provided under Loan 1579-IND and to be provided under the proposed
project, Proyek Cimanuk should have no difficulty in executing the project
works. Proyek Cimanuk is headed by a Project Manager, at present the
Director of Rivers. A full-time Project Manager will be appointed later in
1979. The field organization would be headed by a Subproject Manager sta-
tioned at Jatibarang who would coordinate the flood control works. Working
under him would be a Deputy Subproject Manager and assistants for surveys,
design, construction and administration, who would look after all technical
and administrative aspects. The DGWRD management organization is shown in
Figure 4.1; the DOR management organization in Figure 4.2; and the Proyek
Cimanuk field organization in Figure 4.3.
4.02      Assurances have been obtained that the Government would cause
Proyek Cimanuk to be adequately staffed with competent and qualified per-
sonnel (Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement).
Training
4.03      The project provides for overseas and local training of Proyek
Cimanuk personnel. It is presently estimated that overseas training would be
provided in project management for four senior level staff; in project admin-
istration for three senior level staff; in soil and water conservation and
operation and maintenance (O&M) of flood control and soil conservation works
for two middle level staff each; and in soil mechanics, river engineering,
hydraulic structures design and watershed management for one middle level
staff each. Local training would be given for project planning, construction
supervision and O&M of river training, flood control and soil conservation
works. The details of this program would be worked out in conjunction with
the training adviser provided under Irrigation Project XII (Loan 1645-IND).
Assurances have been obtained that, by December 31, 1979, the Government
would furnish to the Bank a training program satisfactory to the Bank and
would thereafter carry out the program (Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement).
Operation and Maintenance
4.04      Proyek Cimanuk would be responsible for the operation and mainte-
nance of bank stabilization, river training and flood control works in the
Lower Cimanuk Basin during construction and for one year following comple-
tion of the project, to ensure that all defects are corrected and needed



- 18 -
repairs are made. Then the works would be formally turned over to the
Provincial Public Works Directorate, which would thereafter assume respon-
sibility for operating them. While Provincial Public Works arrangements
for staffing and funding the operation and maintenance of irrigation systems
and associated internal drainage works have been established under previous
irrigation projects, similar arrangements for river training and flood
control works on major rivers are unclear and have so far been unsatisfac-
tory. Staff and emergency funds have been available for the repair of dike
breaches and construction of temporary training works, but these have often
been inadequate and untimely. These aspects would be investigated under the
Flood Control Operations Study included in the project (para. 3.08). Assur-
ances have been obtained that the Government would cause all works rehabili-
tated, constructed or modified under the project to be adequately operated
and maintained in accordance with sound engineering practices and, in par-
ticular, by September 30, 1980, the Government would furnish to the Bank for
its review proposals for staffing and funding O&M of bank stabilization,
river training and flood control works constructed under the project,
together with a flood warning system; and, by April 1, 1981, it would begin
to implement these proposals and keep the Bank informed about the progress of
their implementation (Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement).
Monitoring
4.05      A plan for monitoring the technical effectiveness of the project
works would be drawn up tnder the Flood Control Operations Study (para. 3.08).
The local authorities would continue to keep records of flood occurrences and
damages. A program to monitor benefits accruing from Bank-assisted irriga-
tion and drainage works, together with other social aspects, is currently
being implemented under Loan 1100-IND. This program includes the Rentang
irrigation area, the benefit area of the project works. The existing moni-
toring provisions would therefore be sufficient to enable the benefits of the
project works to be measured.
Cost Recovery
4.06      No direct recovery of project costs is proposed.  As floods in the
Lower Cimanuk area are random in their occurrence (para. 2.07), determination
of the direct beneficiaries in any particular year is impossible. Averaging
of benefits over the 1.7 million benefitting population would lead to values
so low that collection of charges would be administratively impracticable.
Moreover, some 90% of the beneficiaries live in absolute poverty (para. 6.02)
and cost recovery from this group would be inequitable. However, the project
would result in some increase in Government revenues from the IPEDA land tax,
which is based on production levels, and from road user taxes. Because yield
and traffic increases would be small in absolute amount but widespread in
incidence these revenue increases would be difficult to quantify.



- 19 -
5. FLOODING CHARACTERISTICS AND FLOOD DAMAGE
Flooding Characteristics
5.01      The Kabupaten Office for Public Works (DPUP) in Indramayu is
responsible for road and infrastructure maintenance and keeps a record of
floods and preliminary damage estimates. The records have been found in
general to agree with those of the Directorate of Rivers (DOR) in Jakarta.
Flooded areas can generally be distinguished from rainfall inundated areas
and floods traced back to one or several breaches in the levees. Areas
flooded from different rivers can overlap, however, and in the following
table of flooded areas some floods are attributed to two rivers (see also
Map 13781).
Table 5.1: AREAS FLOODED BY VARIOUS RIVERS
1970-77
Average
River             1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977            Distrib.
---------------------------- (ha) --------------------------    (ha)   (%)
Cimanuk             -    2,026    6,200        -       75      500    3,600   4,353   2,094   38
Cimanuk/Pangkalan  -        274       -        -        -       -              1,800      259    5
Cipanas /a          -    1,300        500    950        -   1,131         -    6,300   1,273   23
Cipanas/Pangkalan  -        -         -        -        -       -         -    1,050      131    2
Pangkalan           -    1,500        -        -        -       -         -    1,000      313    5
Ciwaringin          -       -         -       650       -       -         -    3,159      476    9
Kumpulkuwista       -       -       3,300      -        -       -         -    1,390      586   11
Karangsambung       -       -         350      -       25        7        -    2,000      298    5
Jamblang            -       -         250      -        -       -         -       549     100    2
Total             -    5,100   10,600  1,600        100   1,638    3,600  21,600   5,530  100
/a  The Cipanas River is excluded from the scope of the project (para. 3.06).
Source: DPUP Indramayu and DOR Jakarta.
5.02      Flood discharges of the Cimanuk have been studied by the consul-
tants as part of the integrated river analysis conducted for this project and
the Jatigede Dam Project. Measurements of actual discharges are regularly
performed at Rentang Weir. The following table shows both the observed
frequency distribution of annual floods over the period 1970-77 and the
result of fitting a widely applied theoretical formula to the distribution.
It will be noted that the fit is quite good and thus the sample period is
reasonably representative of the expected discharges, with only a slight bias
toward lesser floods.



- 20 -
Table 5.2: OBSERVED AND THEORETICAL DISCHARGES OF THE
CIMANUK RIVER AT RENTANG WEIR
Annual maximum   Probability of observed annual maximum diocharge exceeding X
discharge X      Theoretical                             In the 1970-1977 sample
- cu m/s -       --------------------------- (%) ----------------------------
800                90                                          100
900                70                                           87
1,000                48                                           62
1,100                29                                           25
1,200                16                                           12
1,300                 9                                           12
1,400                 5                                            0
1,500                 2                                            0
1,600                 1                                            0
1,700                --                                            0
On this basis, it has been assumed that the period 1970-77 adequately
represents the entire basin.
Table 5.3: CHARACTERISTICS OF ANNUAL MAXIMUM FLOODS AT RENTANG WEIR
(1960-1977)
Date           Discharge (cu m/s)       Area inundated (ha)          Source
1960                    ..                      150               Rambatan
1961                    ..                      225               Rambatan
1962                   900                       -
1963                  1120                       -
1964                  900                       225               Rambatan
1965                  1120                       -
1966                   850
1967                  1150                       -
1968                  1310                      225               Rambatan
1969                   850                       -
1970                   870                       -
1971                   975                     1626               Rambatan
400               Cimanuk
1972                  1060                       -
1973                   950                       _
1974                   975                       75               Rambatan
1975                  1060                       -
1976                  1150                     3600               Cimanuk
1977 Feb.             1310                     2218               Cimanuk
Dec.            1150                     2135                Cimanuk



- 21 -
5.03      The correspondence between maximum floods and areas inundated from
the Cimanuk and/or the Rambatan channel can be studied on the basis of yearly
data (Table 5.3). There is clearly very poor correlation between the areas
flooded and the flood discharge, as shown in the following table:
Table 5.4: CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN DISCHARGES AND FLOODED AREAS
IN ANNUAL MAXIMUM FLOODS FROM THE CIMANUK RIVER AND
RAMBATAN CHANNEL (1962-77)
Maximum annual discharge
at Rentang Weir (cu m/s)    No. of years    Range of flooded areas (ha)
0-  899                     3                   0  -     0
900 -  999                    5                   0  - 2,026
1000 - 1099                    2                   0  -     0
1100 - 1199                     5                  0  - 3,500
1200 - 1299                    0
above   1300                     2                225  - 2,218
This lack of correlation is related to the fact that flooding is not due to
overtopping of levees in a slowly rising flood but to breaches in the
levees. Higher discharges do undermine the banks more severely but the
breaching itself can occur at relatively low discharges. Under present
conditions, floods in the Lower Cimanuk basin are therefore largely
random.
5.04      Randomness in the extent of flooding leads to randomness of damage;
this is compounded by variations in damage per unit area according to the
location of the flood. Apart from levee destruction, the most common damage
is to crops, houses, household effects and animals in rural areas. Usually
water flows through the area according to the local microtopography, as
affected by road and canal embankments. Water levels can reach 75 cm but
would more frequently be around 40 cm. Only on lower ground would the water
tend to remain for more than three days./l Damage therefore is largely due
to flowing water and will be greater if the flood breaks out at night, when
the farmers cannot take preventive measures. Families then retreat to
high ground (for example, primary canal embankments), saving as many effects
as they can carry. Afterwards, they live in temporary huts supported by
neighbors and government emergency assistance (including immunization shots)
until the water has receded and dwellings are made habitable again. In the
process, many household effects will have been lost (for example, mattresses)
/1 Farmers might breach tertiary canals to keep the water flowing out
of their fields and compounds.



- 22 -
and chickens and possibly other animals will have been drowned. Bamboo or
wooden houses are likely to have been destroyed and brick or stone houses
damaged./I
Crop Damane
5.05      Flood damage to crops may take one of two forms, depending on the
month in which the flood occurs. In the first case, where the flood occurs
late in the wet season, the advanced paddy crops inundated by floodwaters
will suffer a yield reduction which may vary from negligible to total depending
on the depth and duration of inundation, the velocity and turbidity of the
water and the age of the crop. For the flood regime of the Cimanuk Basin,
such losses would average about 25% of the normal yield in the area affected
by the flood. Under present conditions, the average loss of wet-season paddy
would be 1.0 ton/ha. As damaging floods do not occur in the dry season,
dry-season cropping would be unaffected. As yields in the project area are
increasing as a result of investments in rehabilitation under Irrigation
Project I (Credit 127-IND) and tertiary development under Irrigation Project
VI (Loan 1100-IND), future paddy losses due to flood damage without the
project would be greater - 1.1 ton/ha on average. The second case is where
flooding occurs early in the wet season, completely destroying the immature
rice crop. There is, however, time for the farmer to replant his crop but,
because of the delay in planting, the paddy yield will be reduced by about 5%
and the opportunity to plant a dry-season crop lost. These losses plus the
sunk costs in inputs and labor of the destroyed crop have been evaluated in
Annex 3, Table 7. Total Losses amount to about 25% of income, approximately
equivalent to the first case. The first case has, therefore, been used to
represent all crop damage in the economic evaluation of Chapter 6.
Damage to Houses
5.06      Damage to houses and household effects has been estimated on the
basis of actual counts of inundated houses and appraisal of the value of
household effects over the period 1970-77. Average damage (in early-1979
prices) is estimated at about Rp 180,000 per house, half of which was to
household effects; given an average ratio of inundated houses to inundated
areas of 1.1 per ha, the average damage per ha is around Rp 200,000. This is
distributed as follows:
/1 In these houses, the damage to household effects is likely to be greater
than for the bamboo houses occupied by the poorer people.



- 23 -
Table 5.5: DISTRIBUTION OF DAMAGE TO HOUSES AND HOUSEHOLD EFFECTS
No. of houses           Amount of damage
 _______________ (%)_________-
Bamboo and wooden houses              55                      20
Brick and stone houses                40                      65
Other buildings                        5                      15
Other Damage
5.07      The other main disruption caused by floods is to traffic.  In
general, roads are elevated above the level of paddy fields and road embank-
ments provide some protection against the spread of floods. There are parti-
cular stretches, however, which are regularly affected by floods, because of
the local topography; they are assessed to cover 19 km of kabupaten roads and
13 km of provincial roads; on these stretches, traffic will be drastically
slowed down during minor floods and stopped for an average of two days during
major floods. Urban and semi-urban activities and social services (especially
health services) will be brought to a near halt.
5.08      Roads, canals and bridges occasionally get washed away but the most
conspicuous damage is to road surfaces. Each flood undermines the road
foundations in a slow process of deterioration culminating in a failure which
may be unrelated to the magnitude of the flood. At present, repairs are
aimed at restoring the standard of road surfaces; the average lag time before
roads are repaired is about six months but, because of financial constraints,
it can be much more. The average road repair cost is about Rp 16 million per
km, while repairs to other structures are about Rp 105,000 per inundated ha.
5.09      Other costs of floods include the disturbance inflicted on the
population over and above material losses, the health hazards (resulting
mainly from the death of animals) and the loss of human lives. Insufficient
data are available to quantify these costs.



- 24 -
6. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
6.01      By providing control over floods up to a recurrence interval of
once in 25 years, the project would substantially reduce average yearly
damage to crops, roads, canals and houses and eliminate re,.urring threats to
production and household activities, as well as prevent loss of human lives.
Floods greater than the once in 25 years event would continue to cause
damage. As such damages would be approximately the same with or without the
project, they have been excluded from the economic analysis. While the
average yearly flooded area (excluding the Cipanas area) was about 4,250 ha
between 1970 and 1977, with a corresponding average affected population of
about 80,000, the threat of flooding extends to virtually all of the 1.7
million inhabitants of the Rentang area, especially to those living close to
the major rivers (Map 13781). Incremental rice production resulting from the
reduction in flooding would be about 6,100 tons per year by 1989. The
project would create a demand for some 27,500 man-years of construction labor
over the construction period. These benefits are additional to those pro-
jected from Irrigation Projects I and VI, as those Projects were evaluated on
the basis that average yields would continue to be depressed by periodic
flooding. While the early projects may not have taken into account the
growth of flood damage (para. 6.07), this would entail only a minor adjust-
ment, as most of the flood damage is non-agricultural.
6.02      Beneficiaries.  At present, the average total income in the project
area is about US$50 per capita for an owner-operator and US$40 per capita for
a sharecropper (Annex 3, Table 8), assuming no flood occurs. About 90% of
the project area farmers have per capita incomes below the absolute poverty
level for Indonesia of US$78 (all in 1978 prices). If the family is subjected
to flooding, about 40% of its annual income will be lost (net of any Government
relief). Taking into account the probability of flooding and the randomness
of its occurrence, the average annual loss (equivalent to the benefits of the
project) is only about US$5 per family but this is expected to rise to
US$15-20 by 1989. By that time, average per capita incomes for non-flooded
farmers would rise to US$70 for an owner-operator and US$50 for a sharecropper,
as a result of the benefits of past investments in irrigation and extension.
6.03      Foreign Exchange.  As the effects of the November 1978 devaluation
of the rupiah and any adjustments to tariff levels which may follow will take
some time to work their way through the economy, a standard conversion factor
of 1.0 has been used for the purpose of economic analysis.
6.04      Labor Pricing.  As in most areas in Java, population pressure is
considerable in the project area. This is reflected in the large proportion
of landless population (30%) and small average farm size (0.4 ha) which
compel farm labor to seek additional off-farm employment. As a result, the
labor supply is overabundant and wages are low, averaging less than Rp 500
per man-day; unemployment is nevertheless considerable and the economic value
/1   More than 90% of the population in Kabupaten Indramayu is rural; the
proportion would be even higher for the project beneficiaries.



- 25 -
of farm labor throughout the year has been assessed at about 50% of market
wage rates at the peak season (the only time for which the concept of market
wages is valid) or about Rp 250 per man-day.  Given the low market wages,
variations in this coefficient have only negligible effects on the rate of
reLarn ipara. 6.12).
6.05      Investment Costs.  Base costs and physical contingencies amount to
Rp 38.9 billion, including Rp 4.4 billion for unskilled labor (Annex 2,
Table 1). After shadow pricing labor (para. 6.04) and adjusting for taxes
paid by civil works contractors, the corresponding economic investment cost
is Rp 35.4 billion or US$56.7 million.
benefits
6.06      Flood control benefits have been estimated on the basis of physical
uamage avoided and reduced costs of repairing and maintaining the existing
embankments. Yearly damage for the period 1970-77 has been estimated from
official records available in Indramayu and Jakarta, from a detailed study of
the 1976 flood by Gadjah Mada University, and on the basis of field investi-
gations (Chapter 5). The arithmetic mean of yearly damage has been used to
estimate average expected damage for the period; this differs from a classic
case of flood damage where a weighted average is used because damage is
correlated with discharges. The simpler method is judged to be correct in
the present case because: (a) the 8-year record of discharges for 1970-77
appears reasonably representative of flooding characteristics in the area
(para. 5.02); and (b) damage is due to random breaks of the levees rather
than overtopping of embankments, as demonstrated by the lack of correlation
between the discharges and the extent of damage (para. 5.03), which would
mainly depend on the location of the levee failure.
6.07      Unit rates used to evaluate 1970-77 damage are discussed in
Chapter 5 and summarized in Table 6.1. Economic rates have been derived by
deducting 15%, to reflect labor shadow-pricing (para. 6.04). Detailed
calculations for crop prices are shown in Annex 3, Tables 1 and 2. Without
the project, damage is expected to increase, due to further deterioration of
river embankments and to general economic development in the area. Levee
failure growth rates of 8% per annum for the Cimanuk and 3% per annum for
the other rivers have been assumed; affected areas would therefore grow at
a1,out 5% p.a. from 4,250 ha in 1970-77 to 8,800 ha in 1989. Physical damage
to roads and other structures, however, would not grow proportionately.
Average road damage has been estimated to reach about 40 km by 1989, compared
to an average 32 km in 1970-77, whereas damage to other structures would grow
at only 2.5% p.a. Unit costs of repairs for roads and other structures are
assumed to remain constant in early-1979 prices; damage to houses is esti-
mated to grow at 7% per annum on a unit area basis due to the expansion of
housing and general development of the area. Overall damage, as summarized
in Table 6.1, shows an increase equivalent to 7.2% per annum between 1970-77
and 1989.
6.08      Without the project, additional costs will be incurred to repair
damaged levees after floods. In financial terms, total embankment repair
costs of Rp 520 million for the Cimanuk and Rp 590 million for the other



- 26 -
rivers have been used for 1978 and escalated over time according to the
assumed growth rates of levee failures. Economic repair costs are 15% lower
as a result of labor shadow-pricing and grow from Rp 440 million in 1978 to
Rp 1,030 million in 1989 for the Cimanuk and from Rp 500 million in 1978 to
Rp 690 mi'lion in 1989 for the other rivers. Using these estimates of
embankment repair costs and an annual growth rate of 7.2% for flood damage,
total benefits were calculated for the period 1974-1989; results are shown in
Table 6.2.
6.09      Development Period.  Based on the construction schedule, major
flood protection works on the Cimanuk would be completed in three years,
starting with the excavation of the Rambatan channel; works on the other
rivers would be completed in two years. Consequently build-up rate of
benefits have been assumed as 0%, 50%, 75%, 100% for the Cimanuk and 0%, 50%,
100% for the other rivers. For the purpose of economic evaluation, a period
of 25 years and salvage value of 20% of initial cost has been assumed.
Economic Rate of Return
6.10      Using the foregoing assumptions, the economic rate of return is
expected to be 16% (Table 6.2). This assessment is conservative, because it
is based on material losses only. Unaccounted for are: (a) loss of life;
(b) the lower standards of infrastructure awaiting repair or not damaged
enough to warrant repair; and (c) the value of a sense of security (especially
to the threatened town of Indramayu).
6.11      Sensitivity Analysis.  Sensitivity analysis was used to determine
which variables would be most crucial to the success of the project. To that
end, crossover values for a 10% discount rate were calculated for a number of
variables. The crossover value is the value of the variable tested for which
the project's net present value, calculated at 10% discount rate, is zero.
or, equivalently, the value beyond which the economic rate of return would be
below 10%. Therefore, the greater the difference between the crossover value
and the value assumed in the analysis, the less sensitive the economic rate
of return is to the tested variable.
6.12      Results of the sensitivity analysis appear in Table 6.3.  Among the
variables tested, the rate of return is shown to be most sensitive to benefit
estimates and least sens-itive to project cost and shadow pricing assumptions.
A security margin of about 28% applies to overall damage estimates, whether
the entire benefit stream is discounted by a single coefficient or if the
growth rate of benefits is lowered with the base damage estimate unchanged.
The project would therefore be still justified if some assumptions proved to
be optimistic. On the operational side, the sensitivity analysis points out
the importance of avoiding implementation delays, so that expected damage
reduction delays are achieved as early as possible, and the need to ensure
proper operation of the works, so that expected damage reductions are
actually achieved.



- 27 -
Risks
6.13      While the economic rate of return of the project is not unduly
sensitive to any of the major assumptions made in its derivation, the
project does bear moderate risks. The most important is the risk of a
damaging flood during the construction period or of a flood exceeding the
design flood in the first few years after completion. In either case,
the project works could be damaged and significant financial and economic
losses could ensue. However, such risks are normal for flood control
projects. There is also some risk that the project works will not be ade-
quately operated and maintained; this risk has been minimized by the inclu-
sion of the Flood Control Operations Study and by requiring specific assur-
ances that its recommendations would be implemented (para. 4.04).
Table 6.1: ESTIMATES OF EXPECTED FLOOD DAMAGE
(early-1979 prices)
Physical                  Financial
damage    Unit rate        loss          Economic loss
(Rp '000)  (Rp million)   (Rp million)  (%)
Average 1970-1977 Damage
Roads                     32 km       16,000         510           430         23
Canals, Bridges
Structures, etc.   4,250 ha            105        450           380         20
Houses                4,250 ha           200         850           720         38
Crops                 4,250 ha       I ton paddy    290            360/a       19
Total                                          2,100         1,890        100
Projected 1989 Damage
Roads                     40 km       16,000         640           540        10
Canals, Bridges,
structures, etc.   6,160 ha            105        650           550         10
Houses                8,840 ha           400      3,540         3,010         57
Crops                 8,840 ha  1.1 ton paddy   1,120           1,240         23
Total                                          5,950         5,340        100
/a At Rp 86/kg, projected back to 1974 from Rp 100/kg in 1979 and Rp 128/kg in
1989.



- 28 -
Table 6.2: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
(US$ million)
Cost                       Benefits _
Year         Capital    O&M   Total   Cimanuk   Other Rivers   Total
1979           9.1               9.1        -           -             -
1980          19.8              19.8       1.8         1.3           3.1
1981          19.9              19.9       2.9         2.8           5.7
1982           7.9    0.8        8.7       4.2         2.9           7.1
1983                   0.9       0.9       4.6         3.0           7.6
1984                   0.9       0.9       5.0         3.2           8.2
1985                   1.0       1.0       5.4         3.3           8.7
1986                   1.0       1.0       5.9         3.3           9.2
1987                   1.0       1.0       6.4         3.5           9.9
1988                   1.0       1.0       7.0         3.6          10.6
1989-2003              1.0/a    1.0 /a   7.7           3.6         11.3
2004         -11.3/b  1.0    -10.3         7.7         3.6          11.3
Present Values
At 10% discount
rate        48.4    7.7       56.1      48.3        30.0         78.3
At 20% discount
rate        43.9    3.4       47.3      22.7        15.0         37.7
Economic rate of return                                             15.5%
/a US$2.0 million in 1992 to account for minor rehabilitation.
/b Salvage value equal to 20% of capital cost.



- 29 -
Table 6.3: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Appraisal value   Crossover value       % change
Average 1970-77 damage
estimate (Rp million) /a            1,890              1,170              -38
Projected 1989 damage and repairs
(Rp million) /b                     7,060              5,060              -28
Yearly growth rate of overall
damage /b                           6.75%               3.7%              -45
Construction costs (US$ million)       56.7              82.7               +46
Pure benefit delay /c                     0              4 yrs.
Shadow pricing of labor
(coefficient)                         0.5                . /d
/a  This figure being the basis for the derivation of benefits, the crossover
value incorporates the implied change in the entire benefit stream.
/b  For this calculation, the overall benefit stream has been used, without any
attempt to distinguish between flood damage and embankment repairs or
between the Cimanuk and other rivers.
/c  In other words, the rate of return is over 10% if protection is provided
starting only in 1984 (with the same build up of benefits).
/d  Shadow pricing of labor is detrimental to the rate of return because labor
saved under the project is in excess of labor employed in project cons-
truction; however, the rate of return remains above 10% when all labor
costs are discarded from the analysis.



- 30 -
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following major points:
(a) engineering consultants and a management advisor whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment would be
satisfactory to the Bank would be engaged to assist the Government
with construction supervision and the Cimanuk River Estuary Study
and the Flood Control Operations Study (para. 3.09);
(b) the Government would cause Proyek Cimanuk to be adequately staffed
with competent and qualified personnel (para. 4.02);
(c) by December 31, 1979, the Government would furnish to the Bank a
training program satisfactory to the Bank and would thereafter
carry out the program (para. 4.03); and
(d) the Government would cause all works rehabilitated, constructed
or modified under the project to be adequately operated and main-
tained in accordance with sound engineering practices and, in
particular, by September 30, 1980, the Government would furnish to
the Bank for its review proposals for staffing and funding O&M of
bank stabilization, river training and flood control works con-
structed under the project, together with a flood warning system;
and, by April 1, 1981, it would begin to implement these proposals
and keep the Bank informed about the progress of their implementa-
tion (para. 4.04).
7.02      Appointment of the engineering consultants (para. 7.01(a)) would be
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (para. 3.09).
7.03      With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for a Bank
loan of US$50 million, with a 20-year maturity including a grace period of
5 years. The Borrower would be the Republic of Indonesia.



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDONESIA
LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Description of Studies
A.  Cimanuk River Estuary Study
1.        Objectives.  In order to assist in the proper design of the project
works and, more importantly, to formulate long-range plans for the development
of the Cimanuk River and its estuaries (under the Master Plan financed under
Loan 1579-IND), it is important to understand the interaction of river
hydraulic and sedimentation processes with the coastal processes of tides,
currents, winds, littoral drift and salinity. Specifically, it is important
to understand the longer-term effect of the project works, which would divert
a larger proportion of flood flows through the Rambatan Channel, on the
pattern of delta growth at the mouths of the Cimanuk River and Rambatan
Channel. The primary objective of the study would therefore be to assemble
basic data to enable a description and analysis of the coastal and littoral
processes in the vicinity of Indramayu to be made. The results of the study
could also be of value to understanding conditions at other river mouths on
the north coast of Java. While the study may make preliminary proposals for
investments, the feasibility of such works would have to be established by
future follow-up studies.
2.        Methodology.  The following types of data would be collected:
(a) wind velocity and direction;
(b) river discharges;
(c) magnitude and direction of currents;
(d) salinity and sediment sampling;
(e) tidal height variation; and
(f) compilation of existing meteorological information and aerial
photography.
These data would be analyzed to gain an understanding of the underlying
processes of sediment transport, delta formation and estuary salinity. The
effects of these processes on the existing and proposed works in the project
area would be analyzed. Further details are given in Reference B-6.
3.        Duration and Staffing.  A 15 month duration for the study is
proposed, beginning in July 1979. Local consultants would be engaged to
carry out a hydrographic survey. The remainder of the data collection work



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
would be carried out by the Directorate of Hydraulic Engineering (DPMA)
within DGWRD, in a team of about six staff, led by an expe-ienced field
hydrologist. The design of the study, supervision of data collection,
analysis of results and the preparation of a report would be carried out by
an international consulting firm. The study would be carried out by the
consultants selected for construction supervision of the project works. The
consulting firm would contribute about 20 man-months of assistance, including
the services of a team leader and specialists in hydrology, wave and coastal
transport analysis, and sediment and coastal history analysis.
4.        Equipment.  Maximum use would be made of existing equipment owned by
Proyek Cimanuk, DPMA and other agencies. Until a detailed equipment list is
drawn up, a nominal sum of US$50,000 has been included in the cost estimate.
B. Flood Control Operations Study
5.        Objectives.  As mentioned in para. 2.07, floods in the Cimanuk
usually occur not from the overtopping of levees but from unpredictable
breaks in the levees, because of poor design, substandard construction or
inadequate maintenance. Until the levees have been repaired or rebuilt to
adequate and consistent design standards, there is little that can be done to
reduce flood damage through improved operation and maintenance. After
completion of the project works, however, it will be important to ensure that
their integrity is maintained and that they function effectively in a flood
emergency. The study would have three objectives:
(a) To devise communications and flood warning systems to ensure that
information on the size and timing of an impending flood is quickly
transmitted to the relevant government officials and to the popula-
tion who may be affected by any overtopping or breaching of the
levees;
(b) To recommend a system for maintaining the project works, including
the use of regular patrols for levees and provisions for emergency
repairs to threatened structures; and
(c) To suggest a program for monitoring the effectiveness of the various
types of works to be constructed under the project, in order to
refine design standards for future projects.
6.        Methodology.  The emphasis of the study would not be on sophisticated
hardware, though telemetry and a computerized flood forecasting model would
be among the options considered. However, the major needs are expected to be
in the areas of organization and training. As floods in the Cimanuk usually
occur at night, provision would need to be made for regular levee patrols
throughout the night, when a flood is imminent, together with the ability to
mobilize a large labor force at short notice to repair or sandbag caving
banks. The study would therefore focus on the best way of achieving these
objectives through the existing governmental structures, communications
system and civil defense systems, strengthened where needed. The monitoring



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
program would focus on measuring the behavior of the project works under
flood conditions, with particular reference to scour, sedimentation,
stability, and river hydraulics. This would probably be achieved by post-
flood surveys of critical reaches.
7.        Duration and Staffing.  The duration of the study would be about
9 months, beginning in July 1979. It would be carried out jointly by a small
consultant team (2 to 3 persons) and a counterpart team or committee con-
sisting of 4 to 5 representatives of Proyek Cimanuk, DPMA, the Provincial
Public Works Office (which is responsible for maintenance of flood control
works) and local officials responsible for civil defense. It is proposed
that the consultant assistance would be provided by the consultants selected
for construction supervision of the project works. About 15 man-months
would be required. The study would result in a Plan for the Operation and
Maintenance of Flood Control Works in the Cimanuk and adjacent rivers, which
would specify any needs for equipment, vehicles and training, as well as
making recommendations on organizational and staffing issues.
8.        Equipment.  Miscellaneous equipment to support the study has been
allowed for, at an estimated cost of US$20,000.



- 34 -
ANNEX 2
INDONESIA
LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Project Costs and Financing
Table No.
I      Cost Estimate
2      Expected Price Increases
3      Schedule of Expenditures
4      Proposed Allocation of Proceeds of Loan
5      Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
6      Breakdown of Costs of Consulting Services
7      Proposed Consulting Services
8      List of Vehicles and Equipment
9      Civil Works Quantities, Unit Prices and Costs



INDONESIA
LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Cost Estimate /a
Foreign      Base
Local   Foreign    Total        Local   Foreign    Total         exchange    cost
------ Rp million  ----- US$ million ------                     ------ (%)
Civil works
River training                  5,040      7,550   12,590          8.0       12.1      20.1          60          38
Levees                          3,220      3,940    7,160          5.2        6.3      11.5          55          23
Rambatan channel                1,400      1,700    3,100          2.3        2.7       5.0          55           9
Bangkir structure               1,150      1,730    2,880          1.8        2.8       4.6         60            9
Channel excavation                410        510       920         0.7        0.8       1.5         55            3
Highway bridges                   150        230       380         0.2        0.4       0.6          60           1
Subtotal                  11,370    15,660  Z2,030           18.2       25.1      43.3         58          83
Consulting services /b               220       900    1,120          0.4         1.4      1.8          80           3
Advisor                               30        140       170        0.1         0.2      0.3          80           1
Vehicles and equipment                 -         70        70           -       0.1       0.1         100           _
Training                              50        130      180         0.1        0.2       0.3          70           1
Land acquisition                  2,190           -    2,190         3.5           -      3.5           -           6
Administration & overhead         1,730         250    1,980         2.7        0.4       3.1          15           6
Base cost               15,590       1,490   32,740        25.0       27.4      52.4          52         100
Physical contingencies /c         2,850      3,350    6,200          4.5        5.4       9.9          54          19
Expected price increases          6,130      3,070    9,200          9.8        4.9      14.7          33          28
Total                     24,570    23,570   48jl40         39-3        37.7      77.0         49         147
/a  Based on estimated mid-1979 prices and exchange rate of US$1.00 = Rp 625.
/b  Based on billing rate of about US$5,750 man-month and reimbursable expenses of about US$3,750/man-month
for foreign consultants and billing rate of about US$1,100/man-month and reimbursable expenses of about
US$200/man-month for local consultants (Annex 2, Table 6).
/c  About 20% for civil works and land acquisition and 10% for equipment and services.                                     (D



INDONESIA
LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Expected Price Increases
Indonesian Fiscal Year /a
1979/80 /b        1980/81           1981/82           1982/83            Total increase
Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign  Total
Annual inflation rate, % /c
Civil works                  15.0      7.0       19.0      7.0     15.0    7.0      14.0      7.0
Equipment and services       15.0      7.0       19.0      7.0     15.0    7.0      14.0      7.0
Compound inflation rate, %
Civil works                   7.5      3.5       26.0    11.0      47.0   18.0      68.0    27.0    38.0    15.0    24.0
Equipment and services        7.5      3.5       26.0    11.0      47.0   18.0      68.0    27.0    24.0        7.0    19.0
------------------------------------- (US$ million) ------------------------------------
Civil works                 0.2       0.1        2.0     1.2       3.6    2.1       2.2      1.3      8.0     4.7    12.7
Equipment and services      0.2        -         0.6     0.1       0.5    0.1       0.5        -      1.8     0.2      2.0
Total             0.4      0.1        2.6      1.3      4.1    2.2        2.7     1.3      9.8      4.9    14.7
/a April 1-March 31.
/b July 1979-March 1980.
A Projected from actual inflation rates experienced in a large number of civil works contracts in Indonesia
and the expected effects of the recent devaluation of the rupiah.
hX^tT
(D 1>
r")It,



INDONESIA
LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditures
Indonesian Fiscal Year /a
1979/80          1980/81           1981/82          1982/83          Total expenditure
Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign  Total
-------------------------------------- US$ million -------------------------------------
Civil works                     2.1     2.8      6.6      8.8      6.7     9.4       2.8     4.1      18.2    25.1     43.3
Equipment and services          2.2     1.2      2.1      0.6      1.9     0.4       0.6     0.1       6.8     2.3       9.1
Base cost                 4.3      4.0      8a7     9.4       8.6     9.8      3.4      4.2     25.0    27.4      52.4 L
Physical contingencies          0.7     0.8      1.6      1.9      1.5     1.8       0.7     0.9       4.5     5.4       9.9
Expected price increases        0.4     0.1      2.6      1.3      4.1     2.2       2.7     1.3       9.8     4.9      14.7
Total                     5.4      4.9     12.9    12.6      14.2    13.8       6.8     6.4     39.3    37.7      77.0
/a April 1-March 31.
m M4



- 38 -
ANNEX 2
Table 4
INDONESIA
LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Proceeds of Loan
Cost            Loan
Total   Foreign      amount
US$ million
I. Civil Works
Baseline costuk                                 43.30      25.10
Expected price increases                        12.70       4.70
Subtotal                                   56.00      29.80    41.00/a
II. Vehicles and Equipment
Baseline cost                                    0.20       0.20
Expected price increases                         0.05       0.05
Subtotal                                    0.25       0.25     0.25/b
III. Consulting Services (including start-up
vehicles), Training and Mapping
Baseline cost                                    2.30       1.70
Expected price increases                         0.70       0.15
Subtotal                                    3.00       1.85     3.00/c
IV. Unallocated
Physical contingencies                            9.90       5.40
Balance of expected price increases               1.25          -
Land acquisition                                  3.50          -
Administration and overhead                       3.10       0.40
Subtotal                                   17.75      5.80      5.75
Total                                      77.00     37.70    50.00
/a  Disbursements would be at 70% of total expenditures.
/b  Disbursements would be at 100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported goods and equipment, 95% of ex-factory costs for locally
manufactured equipment, 65% of total expenditures for locally procured
imported goods and equipment, excluding vehicles, and 40% of total
expenditures for locally assembled vehicles.
/c Disbursements would be at 100% of total expenditures.



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
Table 5
INDONESIA
LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD fiscal year and semester                 Cumulative disbursements
(US$ million equivalent)
FY80
First
Second                                                  1.5
FY81
First                                                   5.0
Second                                                 12.0
FY82
First                                                  20.0
Second                                                 28.0
FY83
First                                                  38.0
Second                                                 43.5
FY84
First                                                  50.0
Second                                                 50.0
Closing date:              March 31, 1984



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Table 7
INDONESIA
LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Proposed Consulting Services
Quantity         Unit          Rate        Cost
(US$)      (US$)
Foreign consultants                 155        man-months        9,500   1,472,500
Local consultants (DPMA)              87       man-months        1,300      113,100
Hydrographic survey                   -            -             L.S.      120,000
Sample analysis                       -            -             L.S.        5,000
Hire of boats                          -            -             L.S.      20,000
Purchase/hire of vehicles              -            -             L.S.      69,400
Total                                                               1,800,000



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
Table 8
INDONESIA
LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
List of Vehicles and Equipment
Method of    Quantity  Unit cost   Total cost
procurement/a            ----------US$---------
Field vehicles - start up          LSH            2         12,500       25,000
- other             ICB            6         8,000       48,000
Motorcycles                         ICB           10           950        9,500
Field laboratory equipment          ISH           -           L.S.       50,000
Coastal study equipment             ISH           -           L.S.       50,000
Flood control study equipment       ISH           -           L.S.       20,000
Office equipment                    ISH           -           L.S.        7,500
Total                                        -                    210,000
/a  LSH = Local shopping (quotations obtained by consultants from several
local suppliers).
ISH = International shopping (quotations obtained by consultants from
several manufacturers and compared on basis of c.i.f. Jakarta
prices).
ICB = International competitive bidding.



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
Table 9
INDONESIA
LOWER CIMIANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Civil Works Quantities, Unit Prices and Costs
Quantity    Unit    Unit price       Cost
(Rp)/a    (Rp million)
River training works                   31.0      km     405,000,000    12,590
Rambatan channel widening
& levee construction                   14     km      222,000,000      3,100
Levee construction, Cimanuk
& other rivers                        175     km       40,900,000      7,160
Channel excavation                  720,000      cu m          1,281       920
Pangkalan and Bankir bridges              -        -            L.S.       380
Total                                                             24,150
Bankir structure
Earthwork                          83,000     cu m          1,540        128
Piles                               1,500      cu m       186,000        278
Concrete                           10,700     cu m         77,500        830
Reinforcement                       1,570      ton        434,000        680
Gates, frames & hoists                415     ton       2,330,000        964
Subtotal Bangkir
structure                                                      2,880
Total                                                           30,610
/a Mid-1979 prices.



- 43 -
ANNEX 3
INDONESIA
LOWER CIM-ANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Crop and Farm Budgets
Table No.
1      Price Structure for Food Crops and Fertilizers
2      Input and Output Price Summary
3      Crop Production:  Physical Inputs
4      Crop Production Costs
5      Cropping Patterns, Yields and Production
6      Illustrative Farm Budget
7      Damage from Flooding of Irrigated Paddy One Month
After Transplanting
8      Project Impact on Typical Farm Family Income



-44 -                             ANNEX 3
Table 1
INDONESIA
LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Price Structure for Food Crops and Fertilizers
Economic prices
Food crop and                                  1979                    1989
Fertilizer prices /a                 '000 Rp/ton  US$/ton   '000 Rp/ton  US$/ton
Rice
Export price, Thai, 5% broken,
f.o.b. Bangkok                       215          344         274          439
Quality adjustment /b                  155          249         199          318
Ocean freight and insurance             12.5         20          12.5          20
Port handling, storage and
transport to wholesaler                6            9           6            9
Handling, transport mill to
wholesaler                            -3.5         -6          -3.5         -6
Rice ex-mill, project area             170          272         214          341
Paddy equivalent (63% recovery)        107          172         135          215
Milling cost less value of
by-product                            -3           -4          -3           -4
Drying and cleaning                     -2           -3          -2           -3
Handling, transport to mill             -2           -2          -2            -2
Farm-gate price of paddy               100          163         128          207
Corn
Export price, f.o.b.
US gulf ports                         84          136          97          155
Ocean freight and insurance             10           16           10           16
Port handling                            4            6           4             6
Corn price, on trucks                   98          158         111           177
Transport, wholesalers to wharf         -5           -8          -5           -8
Transport, farm to wholesalers          -3           -4          -3            -4
Farm-gate price                         90          146         103           165
Urea
World export price, f.o.b.
Europe                                97          155         131          210
Ex-factory price, Palembang /c         106          170         141           225
Handling and distribution to
retail level                          27           43          27           43
Transport to farm                        1            2            1            2
Farm-gate price                        134          215         169           270
Triple Superphosphate
World export price, f.o.b.
Florida                               78          124         111          177
Ocean freight and insurance             14           22           14           22
Handling, distribution to
retail level                          27           43          27           43
Transport to farm                        1             2           1            2
Farm-gate price                        120          191         153           244
/a  Calculated at an exchange rate of US$1.00 = Rp 625.
/b Assumed rice milling standards: 10% high quality (5% brokens);
60% medium grade (25-35% brokens); 30% lower quality (42% brokens).
The resulting conversion factor applied to high quality rice is
0.725.
/c  Indonesian urea sells in Asia and enjoys a transport premium over
European exports estimated at US$15 per ton.



- 45 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
INDONESIA
LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Input and Output Price Summary
1979                        1989
Financial /b   Economic   Financial   Economic
Crops (Rp/kg)
Paddy                                75          100         116          128
Corn                                 46           80          72          103
Seeds (Rp/kg)
Rice -  local                        75          100         116          128
-  HVY                         170          210         210          260
Corn                                 46           90          90          116
Fertilizer (Rp/kg)
Urea                                 91           134        114          169
Triple superphosphate                91          120         114          153
Other Inputs
Zinc phosphide (Rp/kg)            3,000        4,100       3,000        4,100
Agrochemicals (Rp/l)              1,200        6,200       1,200        6,200
Animal labor (Rp/day)             1,300        1,300       1,300        1,300
Farm Labor (Rp/man-day) /a
Land preparation                    800          400         800          400
Planting                            500          250         500          250
Crop management                     500          250         500          250
Harvesting                      800-1,900        400    1,000-3,000       400
/a  Except for harvesting, female labor usually earns half the amounts shown.
/b To be reviewed further.



- 46 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3
INDONESIA
LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Crop Production: Physical Inputs
Wet season                 Dry season
Irrigated   Rainfed         Irrigated
rice         rice            rice       Corn
PRESENT
Cultivation (animal-day) /a            18           18               14          10
Seed (kg)                              40           40              40          60
Fertilizer (kg)
Urea                                150           40             100          75
Triple superphosphate                30           10              25          30
Agrochemicals
Insecticides (1)                      1                            1
Zinc phosphide (g)                   50                           50
Harvesting losses (% crop yield)        3            3                3           3
Interest (%/month) /b                   2            2                2          2
FUTURE /c
Cultivation (animal-day)               18           18              15          10
Seed (kg)                              30           40              40          60
Fertilizer (kg)
Urea                                180           70             130          80
Triple superphosphate                40           15              30          30
Agrochemicals
Insecticides (1)                    1.5            1             1.5           1
Zinc phosphide (g)                   50                           50
Harvesting losses (% crop yield)        3            3               3           3
Interest (%/month)                      1            2               1           2
/a  Hiring cost is Rp 1,300/animal-day for buffalo pair and driver.
/b  Rice - interest is charged on 90% (cash inputs - harvesting costs) for
seven months.
Corn - interest is charged on 90% (cash inputs - harvesting costs) for
three months.
/c  Average conditions in non-flooded areas, taking into account
improvements resulting from Credit 127-IND and Loan 1100-IND.



- 47 -                                        ANNEX 3
Table 4
INDONESIA
LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Crop Production Costs /a
Wet season                           Dry season
Irrigated Paddy   Rainfed Paddy         Irrigated Paddy       Corn
Present
Cash Inputs (Rp'000/ha)/b
Cultivation                     23.4  (23.4)    23.4  (23.4)            18.2  (18.2)   13.0 (13.0)
Seed                             6.7   (6.7)       4.0   (3.0)           8.4   (6.8)    4.8  (2.8)
Fertilizer                      23.7  (16.3)       6.6   (4.6)          16.4  (11.4)   13.6  (9.6)
Agrochemicals                    6.4   (1.4)         _       _           6.4   (1.4)        -      -
Harvesting                      13.1   (2.9)       5.6   (4.2)          12.5   (9.4)    2.2  (1.3)
Interest                           -   (6.2)         -   (3.6)             -   (5.1)        -  (1.4)
Other                            1.7   (1.7)       1.3   (1.3)           1.6   (1.6)    0.9  (0.9)
Total Cash Inputs            75.0  (65.6)    40.9  (40.1)            63.5  (53.9)   34.5 (29.0)
Labor Inputs (man-days/ha)
Land preparation                      45               40                     45             10
Planting                              40               35                     40             15
Crop management                      65                45                    60              30
Harvesting                           60                50                    55              25
Total Labor Inputs               210               170                   200              80
Future
Cash Inputs (Rp'000/ha)
Cultivation                     23.4  (23.4)    23.4  (23.4)            18.2  (18.2)   13.0 (13.0)
Seed                             7.8   (7.8)       5.1   (4.6)          10.4   (6.8)    7.0  (5.4)
Fertilizer                      36.5  (25.1)    14.1   (9.7)            26.6  (18.2)   18.1 (12.5)
Agrochemicals                    9.5   (2.0)       6.2   (1.2)           9.5   (2.0)    6.2  (1.2)
Harvesting                      17.3  (12.9)       7.9   (5.8)          16.5  (12.4)    2.5  (1.7)
Interest                           -   (3.6)         -   (4.4)             -   (3.0)       -  (1.7)
Other                            2.2   (2.2)       1.6   (1.6)           1.8   (1.8)    1.0  (1.0)
Total Cash Inputs            96.7  (77.0)    58.3  (50-7)           83.0  (62.4)   47.8 (36.5)
Labor Inputs (man-days/ha)
Land preparation                     45                40                    45              10
Planting                             40                35                    40              15
Crop management                      70                50                    65             30
Harvesting                           65                55                    60              25
Total Labor Inputs               220               180                   210             80
/a At economic prices. Figures in parentheses are calculated at financial prices
(Table 2).
/b Physical inputs are given in Table 3.



- 48 -
ANNEX 3
Table 5
INDONESIA
LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Cropping Patterns, Yields and Production
Present /a                    Future /b
Crop                   Area    Yield  Production    Area   Yield   Production
(ha)   (ton/ha)   (ton)        (ha)  (ton/ha)    (ton)
Wet Season
Irrigated paddy /c  120,000   4.2    504,000        120,000   4.5      540,000
Rainfed paddy          6,500   1.8      11,700        6,500   2.3       15,000
Corn                   3,500   0.8       2,800        3,500   0.8        2,800
Dry Season
Irrigated paddy       55,000   3.8    209,000        55,000   4.2      231,000
Corn /d               20,000   0.8      16,000       20,000   1.0       20,000
Total           205,000                        205,000
Paddy                           724,700                         786,000
Corn                             18,800                          22,800
Incremental production
Paddy                                                                   61,300
Corn                                                                     4,000
Cropping
intensity (%)            158                            158
/a  Actual averages for recent years - somewhat higher than projections
made in Irrigation Project VI (Loan 1100-IND).
/b  Average conditions in non-flooded areas, taking into account improvements
resulting from Credit 127-IND and Loan 1100-IND.
/c  Paddy at 14% moisture.
/d  Represents a group of secondary crops including soybean, groundnut,
vegetables.



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
Table 6
INDONESIA
LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Illustrative Farm Budget
(0.4 ha farm)
Present                Future Jg
Croped Area (ha)
Wet season:  irrigated paddy             0.37                  0.37
rainfed paddy             0.02                  0.02
corn                      0.01                  0.01
Dry season:  irrigated paddy             0.17                  0.17
corn                      0.06                  0.06
Total Cropped Area                  0.63                   0.63
Cropping intensity (Z)                    158                   158
Crop Production (kg) /a
Paddy                                   2,236                 2,348
Corn                                       56                    68
Farm Income (Rp '000)/b
Gross value of production                 168                   272
Production cost, excluding labor           36                    43
Hired labor (harvesting) /c                20                    33
Net value of production                   112                   196
Land tax _d                                 3                     4
Irrigation O&M costs /e                     1                     2
Payments to landlord                       56                    98
Net Crop Income
Owner-operator                            108                   190
Sharecropper                               56                    98
Other income /f                            80                    80
Total Net Farm Income
Owner-operator                            188                   270
Sharecropper                              136                   178
Total Labor Requirements (man-days)         121                   126
/a  Based on Table 5.
/b  Based on Table 4.
/c  At 12% of gross paddy production.
/d  IPEDA at Rp 8,000/ha.
/e  Water charges at about 50 kg paddy per year; this results in
average water charges of Rp 3,800/ha at present rising to
Rp 4,400/ha in the future.
/f  Based on Bank studies and interviews.
/g  Average conditions in nonflooded areas, taking into account
improvements resulting from Credit 127-IND and Loan 1100-IND.



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Table 7
INDONESIA
LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Damage from Flooding of Paddy One Month After Transplanting
A. Average Economic Value of Inputs Foregone
Present                      Future /b
% of total                  % of total
Amount  seasonal inputs/a  Amount  seasonal inputs/a
Cash Inputs (Rp '000/ha)
Cultivation                  23.4            100           23.4          100
Seed                          6.7           100             7.8          100
Fertilizer                    7.9             33           12.2           33
Agrochemicals                 2.1             33            3.2           33
Harvesting                      -              _              _            _
Interest                        -              -              -            -
Other                         0.5             33            0.7           33
Total cash inputs       40.6            54           47.3            49
Labor Inputs (man-days)
Land preparation             45              100           45            100
Crop management              40             100            40            100
Harvesting                   16               25           18             25
Total labor inputs   101                48          103             47
B. Average Economic Value of Total Loss (Rp '000/ha)
Present                       Future
Amount  % of gross value    Amount  % of gross value
Cash inputs                   40.6           8               47.3           7
Labor inputs                  26.3           5               26.6           4
Yield decrease                21.0           5               28.2           5
Return on secondary           37.5           8               48.0           7
crop
Total loss            125.4          26             150.1          23
/a Refers to Table 4.
/b Average conditions in flooded areas, taking into account improvements
resulting from Credit 127-IND and Loan 1100-IND.



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Table 8
INDONESIA
LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Project Impact on Typical Farm Family /a Income
Present                       Future
Owner-operator Sharecropper Owner-operator Sharecropper
Incomes in absence of floods
Yearly family disposable
income /b                        280            210           390             265
Yearly per capita income               50            40             70              50
Project Benefits in case of floods
(average value of losses
incurred by the typical
family in case of a flood)
Crop losses on the farm                65            35             90              45
(Harvesters share) /c                  (8)           (4)          (11)              (5)
(Village taxes)                        (6)           (3)           (8)              (4)
(Farmer disposable income)            (51)          (28)          (71)             (36)
Damage to house and
household effects /e                       55                           85
Total farm family loss /f             106            83           156              121
Average yearly farm family loss /f
(takes into consideration
the probability of
flooding)                               6             5           20                15
/a  The typical farm family farms 0.4 ha (see farm budget in Annex 3, Table 6),
consists of 5.5 members and lives in a bamboo or wooden house with one other
family.
/b  Takes into consideration the village taxes.
/c  Harvesters share assured 12% of gross product.
/d  Village taxes assumed 10% of gross product less harvesters share.
/e  Average damage to bamboo and wooden houses.
/f  Equivalent to benefits of project.



- 52 -                            ANNEX 4
INDONESIA
LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Schedule of Early Events
Activity                                                         Target date
Complete remaining surveys and foundation investigations               Aug. 1979
Issue tender documents for widening of Rambatan Channel
and Bangkir Structure                                                Oct. 1979
Issue first four tender documents for construction of
river training works, rehabilitation of levees and
channel excavation                                                  May 1979
Sign consultants' contracts for construction supervision
and studies                                                          July 1979
Recruit advisor                                                        Sept. 1979
Award contracts for widening of Rambatan Channel and
Bangkir Structure                                                    April 1980
Award initial contracts for construction of river training
works, rehabilitation of levees and channel excavation               July 1979
Complete construction drawings for remaining works                     Dec. 1979
Complete training program                                              Dec. 1979



INDONESIA
LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Approved O&M Budget for Bank Assisted Projects, FY78/79
Rehabilitated Systems       To be Rehabilitated in 78/79    For Future Rehabilitation                Total
Unit     Total                Unit                             Unit                              Total
No.  Project                          Area    Budget    Budget    Area    Budget    Total           Area       Budget    Total    Area           Budget
(ha)  (Rp./ha) (Rp. Mil.)  (ha)   (Rp./ha)  (Rp.Mil.)  (ha)           (Rp./ha) (Rp. Mil.) (ha)         (Rp. Mil.)
I.  PROSIDA:
1.  Rentang                          90,216   3,800       342.8       -                                                               90,216      342.8
2.  Cisedane                         40,663   3,800       154.5       -                    -            -                    -        40,663       154.5
3.  Semarang-Demak-Kudus:
a.  Clapan Sedadi               46,010   3,800        174.8       -          -           -        -           -          -        46,010       174.8
b.  Semarang-Yudus               13,909   3,800        52.9    1,222    1,400           1.7      1,869    1,700         3.2       17,000       57.7
4.  Way Seputih                      25,000   3,800        95.0       -          -           -        -           -           -        25,000       95.0
5.  Ciujung                          24,300   3,800        92.3       -          -           -        -           -           -       24,300        92.3
6.  Pemali-Comal                    123,283   3,800       468.5       -          -           -                    -           -      123,283       468.5
7.  Sadang                           50,330   3,800       191.3       -          -           -        -           -           -       50,330       191.3
8.  Pekalen-Sampean                 211,165   3,800       802.4    17,945   1,400          25.1       -           -           -      229,110       827.5
9.  Cirebon                          34,111   3,800       129.6    20,764   1,400          29.1    33,640    1,700         57.2        88,515      215.9
10.  Sampean Baru                       -          -          -        -          -           -       8,000    1,700         13.6        8,000       13.6
11.  North Sadang                       -          -          -       2,000   1,400          2.8      4,000    1,700         6.8         6,000        9.6
12.  Madiun (Stage I)                  4,500   3,800        17.1    38,304   1,400          53.6    32,196      1,700       54.7       75,000       125.4
Subtotal (Prosida)             663,487   3,800   2,521.2    80,235   1,400            112.3    79,705    1,700        135.5      823,427   2,769.0
II. OTORITA JATILUHUR
Jatiluhur                      235,000   4,600   1,081.0    13,000   1,400             19.0    40,000      1,300       52.0      288,000   1,152.0



- 54 -
ANNEX 6
INDONESIA
LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General reports and studies relating to the agriculture and irrigation
sector.
A.1   World Bank, "Indonesia--Development Prospects and Needs, Basic
Economic Report," Report No. 708-IND, April 15, 1975.
A.2   World Bank, "Indonesia - Irrigation Program Review," Report
No. 2027a-IND, October 16, 1978.
B. Reports and studies relating to the project.
B.1   DGWRD, Directorate of Rivers, "Master Plan of Cimanuk River Basin
Development," July 1977.
B.2   DGWRD, Directorate of Rivers, "Lower Cimanuk River Flood Control
and River Improvement," July 1977.
B.3   DGWRD, Directorate of Rivers and Gadjah Mada University, "Project
Report on Lower Cimanuk Flood Control and River Improvement,"
September 1977.
B.4   DGWRD, Directorate of Rivers and Snowy Mountains Engineering Corp.,
"Cimanuk River Basin Development Project, Lower Cimanuk, Cipanas,
and Ciwaringin Rivers - Design Review Report," Main Report and
Executive Summary, Jakarta, June 1978.
B.5   Snowy Mountains Engineering Corp., "Implications of Deferral of
Construction of Jatigede Dam," September 1978 (mimeo).
B.6   DGWRD, "Cimanuk River Delta Coastal Study:  Terms of Reference,"
September 29, 1978.
C.  Wlorking Papers
C.1   "Cost Estimates," March 16, 1979.
C.2   "Disbursement Schedule," March 20, 1979.
C.3   "Economic Rate of Return," March 16, 1979.
C.4   "Sensitivity Analysis," March 22, 1979.
C.5   "Cost Estimates for Equipment," March 27, 1979.



INDONESIA
LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
INDONESIAN FISCAL YEAR-/
FY78/79              FY79/80              F Y80 /81            FY81/82               FY82/83               FY83/84              FY84/85
LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL                                 -    -  
Detailed Designs and Construction Drawings2  _I_I       _    _     _    _    _    _
Tender and Award                                                                     + _  __
Construction                                                                milIll           IIIE 30%   EiI BIs 7 INI
Widening of Rambatan Channel                                              _     ill           70% aill isa
Channel Excavation and Levee Augmentation                                 109/%       III    30%    aa  sl         40%    ts  oil    20%         I
River Training and Bank Protection                                       10                  3            ll       40%
Bangkir Control Structure                                                           I4~
Pa'gkalan and Bangkir Bridges                             1                                                                       i 4aa
Associated Studies
Cimanuk River Estuary Study                 I                                                                    I''F'1""
Flood Control Operations Study
I ss a Work done intermittently.
aj Indonesian fiscal year starts April 1 and ends March 31 of following year.
b/ Work being carried out with assistance provided under Loan 1579-IND.
World Bank - 19239
H'
C



INDONESIA
LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
WATER RESOURCES ORGANIZATION
MINISTER OF PUBLIC WORKS
DIRECTOR -GENERAL OF
WATER RESOURCES
DEVELOPMENT
_______________________________ SECRETARIAT ]
DIRECTORATE OF
DLNIRECTOATEDO         DIRECTORATE          DIRECTORATE OF          DIRECTORATE          DIRECTOATEIOF            HYDRAULIC
PROGRANNINGAND   r     OF RIVERS               SWAMPS              OF IRRIGATION           EQUIRPMENT            ENGINEERING
OF IRRIGATION  EQUIPMENT            ~~(DPMA)   j
PROYEK                                                             PR   ;                            PROYEK
|   CIMANUK                                                        PROSIDA                           HIDROLOGI
World Bank-18765



INDONESIA
LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
DIRECTORATE OF RIVERS ORGANIZATION
Director of Rivers
Administration
Division
Technical                Finance              General Affairs
Sub-Division            Sub-Division             Sub-Division
Pr                    River Planning                          1st. Construction                          2nd Construction                            Swamp Operation
Prayeki '              River  Planning                   I       Development                                 Development                              and   Maintenance
1st Section of                             t Sction of                                 ver Rehabili-
Survey Section                           Construction Dev.                          Construction Dev.                            tation Section
Section                                    Section
River Rehabili-                            2nd Section of                             5th Section of                             River Training
tation Section                           Construction Dev.                          Construction Dev.                            River Tainina
Section                                    Section                                    Section
River Control                             3rd Section of                             6th Section of                             River Operation
Design Section                ~~~~ConstructionDev.                       Construction Dev.anMitenc 
SectionSetoScin
World Bank - 18514
11 See Figure 4.3 for field organization of Proyek Cimanuk



INDONESIA
LOWER CIMANUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT
PROYEK CIMANUK ORGANIZATION
Project Manager
_-- _4_qCosltative Body|
Sub-Project Manager
Lower Cimanuk
Basin Flood
Control
Deputy Sub-Project
Manager
Chief
Ch.ef               General                  Chief lr(D
Technical      ~Affairs                  Finance                raue
Division       ~Division                Division
Chief                  Chief                  Chief
Construction           Construction           Construction
Unit                   Unit                   Unit
World Bank - 19240



3ORD 13784
loo.               ~~~~~103                   16i912                                                                        11 502                        B.0olo14    STOO
5%.             ~MALAYSIA4
0 ~~~~~~~~                                                                        MAL~~~~~~~~AYSIA 
7.S0h AS,,.
(05,5,         ~~~S-rG.i D-~h                                                              K/                               
Sub-project                                                                          IMA
050 h.
P,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j.l,20 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ e5k~                  0,0 t
BANGKA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~MAA
200 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ 2Sqsi.                                                      I             E S'
-,  ~Meejr 5000 Area 0,00056                                                                                           eecoc9 



IBRD 13781
r                                             t1080                                   108'20'                    106-                C                 '12   OCTOBER1978
Java  Sa                                                                                                             JA~
rI  dicn                                              -
-96
Oc
lowe               109                 11 2
5 th. readers of the.eport to   t eh,titi a-ttache.d Thfe d--tt,-et,- -d and the
e        -ondeCot shoes a tha map do sot ite. onte the hr t of lthe V!sd baik and tS
11 6'20                                 \                                                                 ON.,g1e_s -e--haie.adr--aa et  astf-any                       ' ay r
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<                               A     OOtesuluag t\  / xend1/ hosdao\
(ToEe~Reni gug               i!/ 1\
By Others )            (oM.d,-\\
fiction  
<iS  5\ A9oA   NJDAE                                                    K    ,
70J~~CREokTOD                                                                 umnation of E\sigLve
1-6 30           =        -'\/                                                                                                                                        630' 
4                                        /   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.tes-y
|~~~~~~~~~17                                                      ___   Rier Stabii _tio  Work\/ 
1974               Channel Excav~~Ation        a
6'40'                                                          -40' 17               E               anals/                                \                         640-
97                              PrNpDON ESIA  Crr o  C
LOW  CMNUK BASIN FLOOD CONTROL 
,'      zo@ >    PROJECT WORKS                                                                                              X                -~r
                                We1972  Constructionrof NewSLevees
J   1973               -        River StabilizationsWorkI
,,        -  - -~1 974
-6o502~~ ~~~~~~                               ~       ~~~~~ -=  197  - ----  Channel Excavation                                                     65t
4   ,',,',l,,,ill/llgii ,//  1976Existing Irrigation Canals 
/'                 ~~~~             ~~1977           Proposed Irrigation CanaisI
X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Weir and Control Structures|
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bridges|
}   /                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Roads
|   /                                                    |  * ~~~~~~~ ~          ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Railways  KILOMETERS '                                  i 
Rivers                     MILES                     1
i10310'               ~t10820'                                                   108,30' 



iBRD- 10867
15000'                            Oa2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                   n~~~~~~EPTUEMER 19/4
iN DONE51IA
C/:MANS/K;00000000;200;002-0 0   :IRRIGATION                         PROJECTS  VI AND  VilI
CIREB0N AND RENIANG. IRRIGATIN SYSE
JAIEDE ~DAM AND FM TUR PHASE  FIRTO
iqwars Sqat#nea aonddr/oss
irrIgation Sc"'eme Basadar as ''    '.' ' . '''-      .... --- :    0 , ; .,,  ;,,   ,6 20
r                                 B         e         5
7^D20\  \--                                                                  _   incial Roads
'' -4     \r,K>:nSho>/r   E't.>       \      ~       Dk \    //              \)      ;   i ;i; t d: ; 23; y ;; .: i i :'     !l9rul i AtgeSs; hiStita0 d:rC]udbdare  h Assss  d ada   o  _dad a he projec
aKo'cioleEF<l;                               !9            '~i\<   /|  >   /a\*qbrJRslL   *.0 i$0-0-40 000 00000  b               '  Rurasl Roads 00 00 t00.00.0000009  .fj   ,    ;  Clt i  i ( i 
,     *< ,                                                                                                                5orvrre    :ved: Canalsd 
040 I/< runar <  v  p  e 
A                                                  je4O                 )                          /
I        -~e                                                       Mo   o5 o k i'                                                                                                            ---'   l 00 i;U :< '' ' i di -'   t'-iX 0l& w r
Seroedaa                                                             'd.                                                              ,,          j       S        . j_                      "'          ''    .
A I' A    4   't jS d'                                  'i -                                                     dC o; i0- i d   0    0    y '0 t   '  t-  ;-  ~~  E [_<-L,0
i sop.3f. ....   ..  -~                  -'         - 0 --g:
j   /A      CC/0   0 0; -    - AN,,$i0:; 0  --7 dt.0  ,,    ,:,3 0 '   0 t. .0;j3 0  3U3d          d'20         I'0'40
7'00'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~02                                                                                                               05



