Report No. PID6015
Project Name             Russia-Development of the State Statistical System
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Statistics
Project ID                       RUPE50487
Borrower                         Government of the Russian Federation
Implementing Agency              Goskomstat and Foundation
39 Myasnitskaya Street,
Moscow 103450
Tel:     (7-095)207-4532
Fax:     (7-095)921-8480
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           January 22,1998
Projected Appraisal Date         September 1998
Projected Board Date             March 18, 1999
Country and Sector Background: The transition from a centrally
planned to a market oriented economy has brought about rapid and
marked changes in all the areas of economic and social life of the
Russian Federation. All the changes in the economy and society have
posed challenges and major data collection and compilation issues
for the statistical system, which has met some of the challenges
systematically and successfully. In the area of macroeconomic
statistics the Goskomstat began preparation of new indicators in
compliance with the 1993 System of National Accounts. It introduced
the compilation of balance of payments statistics, money and
banking statistics, government finance statistics, new types of
social statistics, etc.
The statistical system in the Russian Federation has engaged itself
in the reform process as part of the general reform of the public
sector. However, the data needs for policy and business decisions
are emerging at a higher pace than the statistical system can
develop and deliver. The transformation of the statistical system
will be a lengthy process requiring significant resources to be
placed in all the areas of statistics. It will require introduction
of new survey methods, improvement of management of the statistical
system to systematically cope with the new requirements, to train
and retrain the staff to have a new skill mix, and to procure
massive amounts of equipment to be able to process, store, share and
disseminate information efficiently to meet the needs of the users.
1.      Objectives of the project: a) Improvement in the state
statistical system for the information needs of a market economy; b)
improvement in the statistical organization, its management and the
range, quality and accessibility of statistics for economic and
social policy, business decisions and general analytical work.
2.      Description: The project will consist of several major sub-



projects to finance improvement in the following areas: a)
improvement in organization, management strategy and perspective
planning; b) fostering knowledge of standards and methodologies; c)
strengthening of the statistical infrastructure; d) reorganization
of data collection, processing and dissemination methods including
the systemic introduction of sample surveys; e) improvement of the
government finance statistics and the compilation of the "general
government accounts in the SNA"; f) introduction of the compilation
of financial statistics; g) improvement of the coverage and quality
of balance of payments statistics; h) establishment of an autonomous
foundation on the "support for the development of the state
statistical system"
3.      Financing: The project is financed by the Bank. Co-financing by
the Government in the amount up to 20- of the loan size is planned.
Grant financing from bilateral donors is sought.
4.      Implementation: The project will be implemented over a period
of 4 years. It will be implemented by the created autonomous
foundation and Goskomstat as the major data collection and
compilation agency. Other agencies will also participate in the
implementation.
5.      Sustainability: The sub-projects planned to implement call for
establishment a statistical organization needed to collect, process
and disseminate data in a market economy. It is an integral part of
the Government's commitment for enhanced of economic management.
6.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector: The
Bank has had successful experience in assisting the Goskomstat of
the Russian Federation. In 1994-95, a project was financed with a
World Bank IDF Grant to revise annual GDP figures for the period of
transition. The joint World Bank-Goskomstat report dealt with
issues not only devoted to the macrostatistics but also discussed
general data collection issues, data dissemination and sharing among
Government agencies, as well as revision policy for statistical
aggregates. The Bank is currently financing improvements in
statistical work in the areas of national accounts, input-output
analysis, and household and labor force surveys through the Bureau
of Economic Analysis loan. Survey work to develop a set of poverty
indicators is financed from the SPIL.
7.      Poverty Category: It will affect poverty issues indirectly by
creating better social and economic statistics for the Government to
conduct a more targeted social policy.
8.      Environmental Aspects: The project is environmental category C.
The project, however, will contribute to the Government's
environmental policy by improving environmental statistics.
9.      Program Objective Categories: The project is focusing on the
development of the entire state statistical system of the Russian
Federation, and it will contribute not only to the Government's
economic and social policy but also to the benefit of the business
community and NGO's. Consultations about the project design have
- 2-



been conducted with other government agencies, affected by the
project, Central Bank, Academy of Sciences, chambers of commerce and
other NGO's.
Contact Point:           Misha V. Belkindas, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-7611
Fax No.:         (202) 522-3669
Note:      This is information on an evolving project.    Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 20, 1998
- 3 -



