Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4468 RU
Loan Agreement
(Development of the State Statistical System Project)
between
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 30, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4468 RU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 30, 1999, between the RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein and herein set forth and the following additional terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
“BEA” means the Bureau of Economic Analysis, a legal entity established 
in the form of a foundation registered with the Borrower’s Ministry of Justice on 
August 9, 1996, pursuant to Ministry of Justice Certificate of Registration No. UR-31, 
and supervised by the Board of Trusties, whose members include representatives of the 
founders, and the MOF, MOE, Ministry of Labor, State Committee of  Property, and State 
Committee on Antimonopoly Activity of the Borrower, or any successor or successors 
thereto; 
(b)
“Coordinating Committee” means a coordinating committee to be established 
by the Borrower, and whose members will include representatives of the MOF, MOE, 
Goskomstat and State Customs Committee, and referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement, or any successor or successors thereto; 
(c)
“Goskomstat” means the State Committee of the Russian Federation on 
Statistics, or any successor or successors thereto; 
(d)
“MOE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy, or any successor or 
successors thereto;
(e)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, or any successor or 
successors thereto; 
(f)
“Operational Manual” means a manual, satisfactory to the Bank, to be 
adopted by the BEA, setting forth procedures and rules related to Project 
implementation, as the same may be amended from time to time; 
(g)
“PIU” means the Borrower’s project implementation unit to be established 
and maintained within the BEA, and referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, or any successor or successors thereto; 
(h)
“PMR” means a project management report referred to in Section 4.01 (d) 
(ii) of this Agreement, and  prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement; 
(i)
“Project Implementation Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Borrower, represented by the MOF and Goskomstat, and the BEA, referred to in Section 
3.02 of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements to the Project Implementation Agreement;
(j)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(k)
“State Customs Committee” means the Borrower’s State Customs Committee, 
or any successor or successors thereto. 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the “Project 
implementation entity” shall be deemed as a reference to the BEA. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirty 
million Dollars ($30,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
Page  3
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account (Special Account) in a commercial bank, acceptable 
to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of the said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourth of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) 
the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
Page  4
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project and, to this end, shall carry out the Project primarily through the Goskomstat 
and BEA, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and statistical practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. In order to facilitate the efficient carrying out of the Project, 
the Borrower, through the MOF and Goskomstat, shall enter into a project 
implementation agreement (Project Implementation Agreement) with the BEA, under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, and which shall include, 
but not be limited to the following:  
(a)
scope of responsibilities and description of activities to be carried out 
by the BEA during the execution of the Project, consistent with Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; 
(b)
staffing requirements to be fulfilled by the BEA, including a requirement 
that the BEA shall establish and maintain during the execution of the Project a 
project implementation unit within the BEA with qualified staff and consultants and 
other resources, and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Borrower and the 
Bank; 
(c)
basis of BEA financing related to expenditures incurred by the BEA in 
connection with the Project; and (d)
reporting, accounting and auditing 
requirements. 
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.  
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:  
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and   
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the BEA to maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, 
all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial conditions and to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause the BEA to: (i)
have its records, accounts 
Page  5
and financial statements (balance sheet, statements of sources and uses of funds, and 
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts, and 
report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other 
information concerning such records and  accounts, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
the BEA to: 
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
(1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(d)
The Borrower shall cause the BEA to: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (c) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with auditing principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year the report 
of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors on the project 
management reports (PMRs) 
submitted during such fiscal year, and as to whether 
the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and   
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and  
accounts, and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the BEA to prepare, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five 
(45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, a PMR for such period, which: 
(a) 
(i) sets forth actual sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report, and (ii) shows separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(b)
(i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (ii) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(c) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report.
Page  6
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the Project Implementation Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
the BEA to carry out the Project; and 
(b)
the BEA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Implementation Agreement.  
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely the events specified in Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:  
(a) 
the BEA has adopted the Operational Manual and established the PIU with 
essential qualified staff and consultants and other resources, and under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank;  
(b)
the Project Implementation Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and BEA;  
(c)
the Coordinating Committee has been established; and  
(d)
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement have 
been appointed. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance or Deputy Minister of Finance of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Ilyinka Street 9
103097 Moscow
Russian Federation
Telex:
112008
For the Bank:
Page  7
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
By /s/ Yuri Ushakov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Johannes Linn
Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
  Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants' services,
   8,628,000
100%
including training
(2)
Goods
  18,910,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of foreign
expenditures (ex-
factory cost); and
80% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3)
Works
     384,000
100%
(4)
Incremental
   1,700,000
100% until the
Operating Costs
aggregate amount
disbursed from
Page  8
this Categoey is
equal to $950,000,
85% until the
aggregate amount
disbursed from
this Category is
equal to $1,400,000
and 45% until the
aggregate amount
disbursed from
this Category is
equal to $1,700,000
(5)
Fee
     300,000
Amount due pursuant
to Section 2.04 of
this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
      78,000
TOTAL
  30,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means expenses incurred by the BEA 
on account 
of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office goods and 
supplies, rent, utilities, communication, transportation, travel, PIU consultants 
services, Project-related auditing services, and supervision costs; and
(d)
the term “training” means fees charged by educational or other 
institutions and organizations that provide training services, and related travel 
expenditures, and boarding, lodging and per diem allowances. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods, under contracts costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent each; (b) services provided by firms, under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, services provided by individuals, under 
contracts costing less than $20,000 equivalent each, and expenditures related to 
training and costing less than $20,000 each; and (c) incremental operating costs, 
under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to continue the organizational changes at the 
Goskomstat headquarters and certain regions, improve data collection and processing 
system, start a large scale training effort and initiate needed changes in other data 
collection agencies.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Strengthening of Goskomstat
Page  9
Improvement of organization, management strategy and planning capacity of 
Goskomstat, fostering knowledge of statistical standards and methodologies of 
Goskomstat staff, strengthening the statistical infrastructure of Goskomstat, and 
improvement in the methods and procedures for collection, processing and dissemination 
of data by Goskomstat, through the financing of goods, works and services.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening of and Technical Assistance to Other Data 
Collection Agencies
Rationalization of the data flow between the Borrower’s data collection 
agencies, including the MOF, MOE, State Customs Committee, and the Central Bank of the 
Borrower, strengthening of their capacity to collect, estimate and disseminate 
information on foreign trade, non-banking financial institutions and vital statistics, 
and improvement of their capacity to utilize statistical information to forecast 
economic developments, through the financing of goods and services.
Part C:
Project Management
Assistance in the management and implementation of the Project, including 
institutional strengthening of the PIU, design and implementation of system of 
financial management and accounting, preparation of the accounts and financial 
statements referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, and audit of the accounts 
and financial statements referred to above, through the financing of incremental 
operating costs of the BEA, including external auditing services, and services and 
works.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 2004
through March 15, 2016
1,250,000
Page  10
__________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Sections  4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995, and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. Preference 
for domestically manufactured goods The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the 
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory 
of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $384,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International Shopping
Goods up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $170,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
Page  11
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract procured under Parts B and C.1 hereof, and 
contracts procured under Part C.2 and Part C.3 hereof and estimated to cost more than 
$50,000 equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997, and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for under Parts A and B of the Project, up to an aggregate amount of 
$4,700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-Cost Selection
Services up to an aggregate amount of $1,900,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services up to an aggregate amount of $300,000 may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
Page  12
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
develop, adopt and maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it 
to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set 
forth in the Annex to this Schedule 5, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about November 30, 2001, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the Program and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2001, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
2.
Coordinating Committee.  
The Coordinating Committee shall be responsible for the overall direction and 
strategic oversight of the Project, and approval of annual plans and program of work 
related to Project implementation. 
3.
Goskomstat.  
Goskomstat shall be responsible for monitoring the carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, conceptual and methodological 
activities related thereto, and implementation of specific activities under Part A of 
the Project and, jointly with other data collection agencies of the Borrower, Part B 
of the Project. 
4.
BEA/PIU.  
The Borrower shall ensure that, until the completion of the Project, the BEA 
maintains the PIU which at all times functions in a manner, and with staff, 
consultants, facilities and other resources necessary for the Project and satisfactory 
to the Bank.  The Borrower shall ensure that the BEA shall be responsible for 
Page  13
day-to-day technical implementation of the Project, including financial management, 
procurement, disbursement,  engagement of outside auditors and preparation of 
appropriate auditing reports and their dissemination to relevant agencies of the 
Borrower and to the Bank, and  preparation of progress reports and annual reports in 
respect of or related to the Project, and shall assist Goskomstat in the overall 
coordination of the Project activities. 
Annex 
Project Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators 
Part A of the Project
Law on statistics is adopted 
Coordinating Committee and National Statistical Advisory Board are established 
Federal Statistical Office is restructured 
Goskomstat personnel database is established
Training of Goskomstat staff assessment and plan is completed 
Goskomstat headquarters and regional staff training proceed according to the plan 
Computerized training facilities for Goskomstat is established
Business register is updated in a timely manner and is fully operational in the local 
area 
   network (LAN) environment 
Sample survey design process is developed and adopted 
Master sampling scheme is developed 
Statistical packages is procured and installed
Master program for data collection is developed and approved 
Survey on sample updating is completed and recommendations are implemented 
Data-collection review is finished Questionnaire review is completed 
Computer equipment for the regional processing centers and headquarters is procured 
Training in utilization of computer equipment is provided 
Goskomstat publishing activities are modernized 
Training in data dissemination is completed
Part B of the Project
Economic and functional classification of government accounts is consolidated and 
enhanced 
The sequence of accounts of the United Nations System of National Accounts of the 
general
   government sector is developed 
Mechanism to collect statistics on non-banking financial enterprises is established
Customs-based foreign trade statistics is improved and accessible on-line 
System to collect and process data on foreign trade in services is established and 
operational  Computer equipment and software for the economic forecasting is procured 
and staff trained Forecasting models appropriate to Russian economy are developed
Part C of the Project
PIU is established, properly staffed and staff trained.
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, services, works and incremental operating costs required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to 
Page  14
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
US$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to US$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of US$3,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence acceptable to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.    
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.   
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Page  15
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
