Document of
The World Bank    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2781-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
April 24, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be _ed by recipients only in the performance of
their ofical duties. Its contets my not etherwise be disclosed without Wodd Dank anthorlzaden.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
In August 1979, the Bangladesh Taka was officially devalued relative
to the Pound Sterling to a rate of Tk 34.7 to the Pound. The Pound Sterling
now floats relative to the US Dollar and consequently, the Taka- US Dollar
rate is subject to change, although it has been fairly stable for sometime at
around Tk 15.5 per Dollar. The rate below has been used throughout this report
except where otherwise stated.
US$          = Tk 15.5
Tk 1         = US$0.0645
Tk 1 million = US$64,516
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
acre (ac)                         =        0.405 hectares
foot (ft)                         =       30.5 centimeters
maund (md)                        =       37.3 kilograms
metric ton (ton)                  =        26.8 maunds
cubic foot per second (cusec)   =          0.0283 cubic meters per second
imperial gallon                   =        4.545 liters
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB    -  Asian Development Bank
AFCC   -  Ashuganj Fertilizer and Chemical Company
BADC   -  Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BAI    -  Bresler and Associates, Inc.
BCIC   -  Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation
DAP    -  Diammonium Phosphate
EEC    -  European Economic Community
HYV    -  High-yielding Varieties
IFAD   -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
,JEG    -  Jacobs Engineering Group
KfW    -  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
Mscft  -  Thousand Standard Cubic Feet
ODA    -  United Kingdom Overseas Development Administration
OPEC   -  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
P 05   -  Phosphate Fertilizer Nutrient Unit
P;M    -  Parts per Million
ROP    -  Run of Pile
TEC    -  Toyo Engineering Corporation
tpd    -  Metric Tons per Day
tpy    -  Metric Tons per Year
TSP    -  Triple Superphosphate
UNDP   -  United Nations Development Program
USAID  -  US Agency for International Development
BANGLADESH FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Beneficiary:              Bangladesh Chemical Industry Corporation (BCIC) and
successor corporations to be established to operate
BCIC fertilizer factories.
Amount:                   US$29.0 Million Equivalent.
Terms:                    Standard.
Relending Terms:          Most of the proceeds for Plant Rehabilitation and
Training Components (about US$20.7 million) to be
passed on to the new fertilizer companies at an
interest rate of 10% per annum with repayment over
10 years including 3 years of grace. The fertilizer
companies would bear the foreign exchange risk. A
small amount (about US$2 million) may be provided
as equity to the extent required to maintain debt
financing of these components at no more than 60%
of total cost. About US$8.3 million (for spares,
catalysts and chemicals) will be made available to
the fertilizer companies against payments of equiv-
alent amounts of local currency.
Purpose:                  To assist in increasing production at three operating
fertilizer plants (Ghorasal and Fenchuganj urea plants
and Chittagong TSP plant) through plant rehabilitation,
staff training, and provision of spare parts, catalysts
and chemicals. Production would assist in meeting
farmers' growing demand for fertilizer and would reduce
the need for imports. There are no major risks other
than possible shortage of trained manpower, which the
training component is designed to address.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Project                                                             % Of
Costs: /a                                                                  Total
Local Foreign Total Cost
---(US$ Million)--
I. Plant Improvement
Component
Ghorasal              6.1   11.7    17.8    38
Chittagong            5.3    9.7    15.0    32
Fenchuganj            1.5    3.0       4.5    10
II.  Training Component         0.9    0.1      1.0      2
III. Spares, Catalysts and
Chemicals Component         -     8.3      8.3    18
Total Financing
Required               13.8   32.8    46.6   100
Financing Plan:                                         Local Foreign Total
---(US$ million)---
IDA                           0.9   28.1   29.0
GOB                          12.9    -      12.9
Netherlands                    -     4.7    4.7
Estimated IDA
Disbursements:                                  FY81      FY82      FY83
Annual                 8.1       18.5       2.4
Cumulative             8.1       26.6      29.0
Economic Rate
of Return:             62% (Ghorasal and Chittagong Plant Improvement
Components only).
Appraisal Report:         Bangladesh:  Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation
Project, Report No. 2876-BD, dated April 23, 1980.
/a   The cost estimates for the plant improvement and training components
include about US$5.0 million of taxes and duties. The cost estimates
for the spares, catalysts and chemicals component are net of taxes and
duties.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent of US$29.0
million, on standard IDA terms, to assist in the financing of a Fertilizer
Industry Rehabilitation Project. The proposed project would also be assisted
by a grant of 10 million Netherland Guilders (currently equivalent to US$4.7
million) from the Government of the Netherlands. Most of the proceeds of the
credit for the Plant Rehabilitation and Training Components (about US$20.7
million) would be passed on to three fertilizer companies at an interest rate
of 10% per annum with repayment over 10 years including 3 years of grace. The
fertilizer companies would bear the foreign exchange risk. A small portion of
the proceeds for these components may t,u provided to the companies as equity,
to the extent required to maintain debt financing of these components at no
more than 60% of total cost. About US$8.3 million (for spares, catalysts,
and chemicals) would be made available to the fertilizer companies against
payments of equivalent amounts of local currency.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Current Economic Position
and Short-Term Outlook" was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 21,
1980.
Background
3.        The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.
With its economy already disrupted and its physical infrastructure severely
damaged by the struggle for independence, the country was afflicted by poor
harvests in 1972/73 and by damaging floods in 1974. Foodgrain output fell
drastically during these troubled years and recovered to the pre-independence
level only in 1975/76; foodgrain imports averaging over 2.1 million tons per
year were required between FY72 and FY75 to maintain food consumption levels
near minimum standards. The terms of trade worsened considerably and the
production of jute, the predominant export commodity, declined sharply. Infla-
tion, declining real wages, labor unrest and political instability added to
the difficulties. Relief, rehabilitation, the building of a national govern-
ment from a provincial administation, and the consolidation of Government
authority were unavoidably the paramount concerns of policy makers in the
first half of the 1970s.
4.        Economic improvements in recent years, together with greater poli-
tical stability, have led to a significant shift in the circumstances of
Bangladesh and have somewhat brightened its economic prospects. Although it
was not until FY75 that GDP recovered to the pre-independence level, between
FY75--79 GDP increased (in real terms) by about 25%--an average annual rate of
6% notwithstanding setbacks tc, agricultural production experienced in FY77 and



- 2 -
again in FY79. The late 1970s may, therefore, be characterized as a period of
consolidation and economic recovery following the shocks of the early 1970s.
In recognition of its need for a reorientation of policies, the Government
wisely chose to delay the preparation and implementation of a new Five-Year
Plan by two years.  The current Two-Year Plan (FY79-FY80) was intended to give
the Government time to consider the development strategy and policies to be
incorporated in the next Five-Year Plan to begin in July 1980.
Recent Developments and Near-Term Prospects
5.        From 1975 until March 1979, Bangladesh was governed under martial
law and without a parliament. In elections held in February 1979, 29 politi-
cal parties and groups contested 300 seats in the National Assembly. Roughly
two-thirds of the seats were won by the Bangladesh National Party (BNP) headed
by President Ziaur Rahman, who had won the presidential election held in
June 1978. Thirty additional seats, reserved for women, were subsequently
filled by the BNP. Martial law was lifted following the convening of the
new Parliament in March 1979, and a new cabinet was appointed at that time.
6.        FY78 (July 1977-June 1978) was a relatively good one for the economy.
Mostly as the result of a record grain crop (13.1 million tons) and a 10%
increase in industrial output, GDP grew by nearly 8% in real terms, following a
2% rise in FY77. But the experience of the past two years has again demon-
strated the severe vulnerability of the Bangladesh economy. During this
period, economic developments were dominated and largely determined by the
consequences of unfavorable weather conditions, including droughts and floods.
These conditions affected adversely both the foodgrain crops (which represent
roughly one-third of GDP) and the quality of the jute crop; they also had
repercussions throughout the rest of the economy. Inflation, which was aggra-
vated by the shortfall in food production and consequent rapid rises in rice
prices, increased to a current rate of about 17%; GDP growth in FY79 slowed
sharply, and with population growing at 2.7% annually, real per capita income
rose only minimally. On the positive side, FY79 was characterized by a contin-
uing strong performance of the construction sector, improved budgetary perform-
ance, a substantial increase in development expenditures, the emergence
of stronger balance-of-payments and international reserves positions than had
been expected, further rapid growth in wheat production, and a number of
significant policy adjustments, most notably in the areas of exchange rate
management and public sector pricing. Due to the continuing effect of the
1978-79 drought, the outlook for FY80 is that GDP growth will be about 4-5%,
i.e., well below the rate of 7.3% projected by GOB in its FY80 budget.
7.        The succession of three relatively poor crops in a row (1978/79
aman, 1979 boro and aus) meant that foodgrain available from domestic produc-
tion during CY79 was considerably (7%) below the previous year's level.
Together with a serious slippage in the scheduled arrival of food aid during
the first half of CY79, this resulted in a fall in per capita availability of
food and in an increase in rice prices to levels unrecorded since the food
crisis of FY75. Meanwhile, low domestic foodgrain procurement from the small
crops and high offtakes from the public grain distribution system led to a
rapid depletion of public food stocks which fell to the dangerously low level
of only 209,000 tons at the end of June 1979.



- 3 -
8.        To prevent a serious food crisis in the July-October 1979 lean sea-
son, Government authorities at the highest level took charge of the situation
and directed an all-out effort to import and distribute the massive volume of
foodgrains needed to supplement the reduced domestic crops. This effort was
remarkiably successful. Almost 2 million tons of food, both aid-financed and
commercially purchased, were imported between July and December 1979.  This
placed a heavy burden on the country's port handling capability, its internal
transport facilities, and its public administration and distribution system.
Although the disruptive impact of this massive effort on the other sectors
of the economy was held to a minimum, it could not be entirely avoided. The
internal movement of other bulk commodities and the shipment of exports were
impeded for some time during the peak months of foodgrain imports. Neverthe-
less, the authorities were able to unload and distribute this unprecedented
volume of foodgrain imports in a minimal amount of time, enabling offtake to
be stepped up and stocks to be restored to a more comfortable level. By the
beginning of September 1979, therefore, rice prices had begun to ease and what
might have become an extremely serious food crisis was averted.
9.        The slow growth of agricultural production has become the principal
focal point of concern among Bangladesh's political leadership and economic
planners. The Second Five-Year Plan is expected to give top priority--together
with population control--to agriculture, and especially to food production.
Meanwhile, the short-term food supply outlook is still problematic, although
the public stock position at the end of CY79 was adequate because of the
substantial imnports between July 1979 and December 1979. The 1979/80 aman
crop, also affected by the drought, was no better than last year's, and pro-
curement from this crop--in spite of a recent procurement price increase--
was very small. In order to avert a repetition of the CY79 situation, consid-
erable additional imports will be needed in CY80. The prospects for the FY80
boro and wheat crops appear favorable, but efforts to ensure an adequate stock
of foodgrain to meet 1980 consumption and stock build-up requirements cannot
yet be relaxed. A special meeting of the Bangladesh Aid Group was convened in
late January 1980 to consider the country's food situation, import requirements
and policy measures needed to prevent future repetitions of the recent experi-
ence. A Bank report entitled "Bangladesh: Food Policy Issues," prepared for
consideration at that meeting, was distributed to the Executive Directors in
December 1979. 1/
The Balance of Payments
10.       Repercussions of the 1979 food shortage were reflected also in the
oal&nce of payments, as the need to finance commercial purchases of food
imports was evidently a factor underlying the Government's rather cautious
implementation of its import program. Other factors included a slow rate of
*         utilization of import licenses during the latter part of the fiscal year.  As
a result, non-foodgrain imports in FY79 remained considerably below target.
Because of this and other factors, foreign exchange reserves increased, which
in turn added to the increase in money supply and further aggravated infla-
tionary tendencies. The reserve increase, however, was a temporary phenomenon.
I/   Report No. 2761-BD, dated December 19, 1979.



Even at this higher than expected level, reserves at the end of FY79 were still
not quite sufficient to cover two months of merchandise imports at the projected
levels of FY80. A substantial increase in the current account deficit is
projected for FY80, primarily due to large increases in the volume and price of
foodgrain imports and to significant price increases for imported crude oil and
petroleum products and other imports. Reserves at the end of FY80 are likely
to be equivalent to scarcely one month's projected FY81 imports.
11.       Bangladesh's balance of payments continues to be characterized by
a massive structural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid. Ex-
port earnings in FY79 represented less than 7% of GDP and less than 40% of
the import bill. Moreover, Bangladesh's export structure continues to be
dominated by raw jute and jute goods, which together account for approximately
70% of total export earnings. Although exports increased by about 20% in
value in FY79 and the terms of trade improved somewhat during the year, the
trade deficit widened to $1 billion. The value of raw jute exports increased
by 47% over the previous year's receipts, reflecting increases in both volume
and prices. Export earnings from jute manufacturers rose by 11% in FY79, as a
decline in export volume was more than offset by an increase in unit prices.
Relatively large gains were also recorded in exports of leather, fish and
shrimps and other non-traditional exports. Among the notable developments on
the import side in FY79 was the decline in food imports, owing mainly to the
delays in food aid arrivals noted above. Capital goods imports rose by 21% to
US$384 million; fertilizer imports nearly doubled in value, and there were
significant increases also in imports of petroleum products and cement.
12.       The current account deficit in FY79 was considerably smaller than the
trade deficit, owing mainly to the continued rapid growth of workers' remit-
tances from the Middle East. These receipts are now the second most important
source of foreign exchange earnings, exceeded only by jute goods exports. A
notable development was the US$100 million increase in project aid disburse-
ments in FY79, reflecting in part the country's growing absorptive capacity.
Total aid disbursements, which exceeded US$1 billion for the first time, were
equivalent to 63% of total merchandise imports. Debt service payments rose to
US$95 million, notwithstanding some debt relief measures undertaken by various
donors, and the debt service ratio deteriorated from 13.5% in FY78 to 15.8% in
FY79. 1/
13.       Between August 1978 and August 1979, GOB undertook a series of ex-
change rate adjustments whereby the Taka was devalued by about 24% against
the Pound Sterling. These adjustments served to strengthen somewhat the
balance of payments and the allocation of resources within the economy. In
July 1979, the IMF approved a Stand-by Arrangement for a period of one year
in an amount equivalent to SDR 85 million. Net of repayments, and including
projected disbursements from the IMF Trust Fund and (possible) new SDR alloca-
tions, the IMF is expected to cover about US$59 million of Bangladesh's financ-
ing requirements in FY80.
1/   Debt service as a percentage of merchandise exports.



-5 -
14.       The terms of trade are expected to remain unchanged in FY80 as rising
export prices for jute goods have helped to offset the impact of rising petro-
leum and other import prices. Total FY80 merchandise exports are expected to
increase by about 24% and imports by over 50% in value; foodgrain and petroleum
purchases alone will account for over three quarters of the increase in imports.
The FY80 current account deficit is expected to be largely covered by dis-
bursements of approximately $400 million in food aid, $500 million in commodity
aid and between $450-500 million in project aid--a total aid disbursement of
about $1.4 billion (i.e., roughly 35% more than in FY79). The FY81 balance of
payments situation is likely to be quite difficult even if commodity aid
availabilities increase substantially. The terms of trade are projected to
deteriorate markedly, reflecting mainly an expected fall in jute goods export
prices and a continuing rise in import prices. The FY81 current accout deficit,
therefore, could well be on the order of $1.8 billion.
Public: Finance
15.       The public finances improved in FY79 and are expected to improve
further in FY80. In both years, the contribution of the current budget surplus
to the developrment budget showed a rising trend, in absolute as well as rela-
tive terms. Borrowing from the domestic banking system, which re-emerged as a
source of budget financing in FY78, has since been avoided. Nevertheless,
inflation has again become a serious problem, and the implementation of many
projects, both aid-supported and non-aided, continues to be hampered by insuf-
ficient or tardy allocation of domestic funds. Further improvements in the
mobilization of domestic resources are urgently needed if the ratio of public
investment to GDP is to be raised above the 8-10% level of recent years.
16.       This task of raising additional domestic resources is wide-ranging,
involving not only a strengtherning of the tax effort, but in addition--and
above all--improved performance of the public sector business enterprises and
utilities and reduction of the three key subsidies (on jute, food and agricul-
tural inputs). Reflecting its growing awareness of the problem, the Govern-
ment impaneled a Taxation Enquiry Commission and five special committees to
review various aspects of domestic resource mobilization. The five committees
reviewed, respectively:  (i) gradual elimination of the food subsidy; (ii)
rationalization of the rate structure of public transport agencies; (iii) eco-
nomic pricing by public utilities; (iv) reduction in agricultural input sub-
sidies, including the fertilizer subsidy; and (v) improvement in the financial
performance of public sector enterprises. The committees have concluded their
work, and the final report of the Taxation Enquiry Commission was submitted
to the Government in April 1979.
17.       A start has been made in implementing some of the recommendations
of these advisory groups. Several of the measures suggested by the interim
report of the Taxation Enquiry Commission, especially those in regard to tax
administration, have been implemented gradually from FY78. In mid-1978 the
Government increased railway fares, and in the course of FY79 and FY80 it
raised foodgrain ration prices, several utility rates, and commodity sales
prices of public sector enterprises. Fertilizer prices, for example, were
increased by 9-29% in August 1979 and petroleum product prices by up to 45%
in November 1979. In some cases these price adjustments only kept up with



-6-
inflation, but in others they served to reduce the subsidy burden in real
terms.
18.       Development expenditures (in current prices) increased by almost 40%
and total revenues by about 21% in FY79; development expenditures are projected
to increase by a further 29% and revenues by 21% in FY80.  Increased develop-
ment activity has also been reflected in the increased disbursement of project
aid, which rose by an estimated 35% in FY79 and is projected to rise by a
further 24% in FY80. As noted above, the Government abstained from domestic
budgetary deficit financing in FY79, and it plans to avoid doing so in FY80 as
well. But inflationary pressures, which re-emerged in FY78 (sparked primarily
by too rapid a creation of liquidity by the banking system) continued into
FY79, especially in the latter part of the year when rice prices rose very
rapidly. The cost of living (COL) index for urban consumers rose by an
estimated 19% between June 1978 and June 1979 although the average COL index
for FY79, pushed by a 48% increase in average rice prices, was only 9% above
that for FY78. The outlook for FY80 is that the inflation rate for the year as
a whole will be on the order of 15-16%, with liquidity rising by some 17-18%.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
19.       FY79 and FY80 comprise the period of the Two-Year Plan, which was
meant to provide an opportunity for policy re-appraisal and for preparation
of the Second Five-Year Plan and a Twenty-Year Perspective Plan. In the pro-
cess of preparing the plans, the planners have addressed themselves to the
factors underlying the slow development of the economy over the past decade.
These include poor land use, insufficient irrigation and flood control, inade-
quate administrative capacity, low domestic resource mobilization, and social
impediments to change. The planners have also analyzed those problems posed by
the basic structural conditions of the economy: a unique environment prone to
natural disasters; poor physical capital stock; a high rate of population
growth; mass poverty; a highly-skewed distribution of income and land owner-
ship; a high ratio of population to land; extreme fragmentation of landholdings
and growing landlessness of the predominantly rural population; high illiteracy;
poor health and short life expectancy; high unemployment and underemployment
and scarce employment possibilities outside agriculture; and a heavy dependence
on foreign aid, not only for investment financing, but also for food and other
recurrent inputs.
20.       Although the Second Five-Year Plan is still in preparation, it seems
clear that first priority in this Plan will go to agriculture and, within
agriculture, to the production of foodgrains. The potential for increasing
foodgrain output in Bangladesh is considerable, as yields and cropping inten-
sity are low, and fertilizer use is still very modest. Except for last year,
when it was adversely affected by the weather, fertilizer demand has been
growing at a rapid rate. Wheat production has expanded quickly since FY75 and
is likely to continue to grow significantly, and there seems to be a large
unsatisfied demand for irrigation. Precisely how rapidly food production can
be increased remains to be determined. The Plan's targets have yet to be
announced, but are expected to be very ambitious.



-7 -
21.       Recent projections 1/ indicate that the population of Bangladesh,
estimated at almost 90 million in January 1980, would total 145 million
by the year 2000 if a net reproduction rate of 1 were not reached until 2035.
These projections imply that the population growth rate, currently estimated
at about 2.5-2.7% per annum, would not decline very dramatically over the
next 15 to 20 years--a grim but seemingly realistic prospect in view of
the poor implementation and limited success of birth control efforts in
Bangladesh so far. The implications of such a rate of population growth for
the country's development prospects are staggering. The density of population
on cultivable land would increase from 3.8 persons per acre at present to over
6.2 persons per acre by the end of the century. In a country where the main-
stay of the economy is agriculture and where food shortages are already serious,
the adverse consequences of such overcrowding are obvious. Annual foodgrain
requirements--even at the present low per capita consumption level of about
15.5 ounces per day, would increase from about 14 million tons at present to
roughly 23 million tons by the year 2000. Domestic production would almost
have to double from its record level of about 11.9 million tons (net of seed,
feed and waste) achieved in FY78 to meet this requirement. Substantial in-
creases in cropping intensity and in yields will be required, therefore, even
to maintain food consumption at a subsistence level.
22.       A significant improvement in real incomes, the satisfaction of basic
needs and the provision of improved public services will also be extremely
difficult to achieve without a drastic reduction in the rate of population
growth. By the same token, it will become increasingly impossible to educate
the rapidly growing number of people and to provide gainful and productive
employment opportunities for them. In recognition of these factors, high
priority is being given by the Government to improving the performance of its
family planning program.
23.       Emphasis in the next five years is also likely to be placed on the
satisfaction of a number of basic needs, including the provision of adequate
clothing, universal primary education and rural electrification. The planners
recognize that it will take more than five years to meet these and other
targets, but strides will be made in the next plan period towards their
achievement.
24.       A plan aimed at effecting a significant departure from past trends
will place a severe strain on domestic finance and managerial skills. Even
with the adoption of labor-intensive and low capital-cost techniques, a signi-
ficant step-up in development spending will be required. This in turn will
require sizeable increases in both the mobilization of domestic and the inflow
of foreign resources. A critical factor will also be the extent to which
project implementation capabilities are improved. Although immediate improve-
ments can be made in the ability of the administration to expedite project
implementation, it is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies alone would
be adequate to achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government recognizes
that in certain key areas, greater reliance will have to be placed on the
private sector. It also believes that, to a certain extent, activities such
1/   World Development Report (World Bank, August 1979), Table 17, pg. 158.



- 8 -
as education and rural development should be carried out in a decentralized
fashion, with greater emphasis on local initiative and grass-roots partici-
pation.
The Case for Program Assistance
25.        The proposed credit includes about US$8.3 million of financing for
spare parts, catalysts and chemicals for the existing fertilizer plants,
under arrangements similar to those under which such spare parts have been
financed previously under Imports Program Credits. Even assuming that
Bangladesh were to achieve far superior export and savings levels than in the
past, substantial external aid will continue to be required for some time to
finance a major part of its total development expenditures. A large inflow of
external capital has been, and will continue to be, required merely to achieve
a modest growth of per capita incomes. The level of investment is very low
even by comparison with other low-income developing economies. As accounted
in the budget, external assistance is currently financing about 75% of total
public development expenditure, directly or indirectly in the form of counter-
part funds generated by food and commodity aid.
26.        The corollary of the severe disequilibrium between domestic savings
and investment is the fundamental imbalance in the country's external payments
position outlined above. These structural characteristics, combined with
serious administrative weaknesses, make it impossible in the short and medium
term to transfer the amount of external assistance required solely by means of
project financing--even if such financing includes substantial provisions for
local currency expenditures. There are limits to the extent that components
of any country's overall development program can be formed into projects
suitable for external financing; it is particularly difficult in the case of
Bangladesh where an experienced and efficient development administration does
not yet exist.
27.        Given the severe imbalances in the country's foreign trade struc-
ture, the requirements for imports of general commodities cannot be met by
foreign exchange earnings alone. Without program assistance to finance
imports of general commodities, the supply of non-agricultural goods to the
economy would be greatly reduced. In particular, production in the industrial
sector would have to be cut back substantially. Utilization of existing
industrial capacity has been improving and is now at an average level of about
65%, compared with less than 50% in FY73 and about 70% in FY70. But even with
investment in additional capacity since FY70, industrial production in FY79
was only about 30% above the FY70 level.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH 1/
28.        Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of eleven
1/   Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report for the
Second Chittagong Water Supply Project (Report No. P2732-BD) dated
March 6, 1980.



- 9 -
credits, amounting to US$148.6 million, made originally to Pakistan before
1971. In addition, 40 new credits have been approved, totaling US$1,146.7
million; of these, US$575 million have been for program credits (eight import
program credits and one fertilizer imports credit). Annex II contains a
summary statement of IDA credits and disbursements as of March 31, 1980, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.  On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh
became a member of the IFC, and one investment for a shipbuilding and
engineering company has been approved.
29.       Bangladesh's debt service ratio was 15.8% in FY79. 1/  (If workers'
remittances amounting to US$140 million are added to total merchandise export
earnings of US$602 million, the debt service ratio would drop to 12.9%.) While
the debt service ratio is not expected to exceed 20% before the mid-1980s, it
could do so thereafter, unless careful debt management policies are pursued
and aid is provided on appropriately concessional terms. Bangladesh's total
outstanding and disbursed external public debt amounted to just over US$3 bil-
lion as of June 30, 1979, with IDA credits and the single IBRD loan accounting
for 25% of the total. In FY79, the Bank Group accounted for 9% of Bangladesh's
total debt service payments; and because assistance is now entirely in the
form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
30.       The main focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agri-
culture (14 of the 31 new projects approved since independence, and one
fertilizer imports credit). This is consistent with the country's needs and
the Government's priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on
projects that provide agricultural inputs including in particular the provision
of adequate fertilizer supplies to farmers. Emphasis is also given to pro-
vision of irrigation, improved seeds, extension, credit and storage facilities,
which all tend to increase the demand for fertilizer.
31.       Industry has been the main beneficiary of the eight imports program
credits approved to date. For the reasons summarized in paragraphs 25-27,
program lending will continue to be a desirable component of IDA operations in
Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from a previous fertilizer
production project (see pararaph 43) and from DFC and small scale industry
projects. IFC is currently in the process of identifying further suitable
investment opportunities.
32.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an
extremely high priority sector also, limited only by its absorptive capacity.
The first population project is now making encouraging progress, and a second
population project was approved in FY79.  Improved education and availability
of trained manpower are also crucial, and lending in this field has emphasized
agricultural, technical and vocational training. IDA should continue to
provide assistance to critical infrastructural areas such as transportation,
energy and power, and telecommunications. A first power project was approved
in late FY79 and a second highway project was approved during FY80. A fer-
tilizer transportation project is currently under consideration.
33.       Disbursement of the program credits has proceeded satisfactorily;
however, project disbursements initially lagged behind expectations, owing
1/   As a percentage of merchandise exports only.



- 10 -
largely to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts,
employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays
were serious constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, over-
centralized bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. Some
progress has been made recently on these issues and the disbursement picture
is improving. IDA and GOB have given increased emphasis to regular monitoring
and supervision in order to identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is
providing assistance both under specific projects and under three technical
assistance credits (Credit 409-BD, 622-BD and 872-BD) to assist in improving
planning, project preparation and implementation capabilities.
34.       In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position, IDA
credits should continue to cover all foreign exchange costs; and in order to
direct IDA lending to those sectors - such as agricultural and rural develop-
ment - where the percentage of foreign exchange costs is relatively low, the
financing of local currency expenditures is fully justified.
35.       Economic and sector work continues to provide the basis for a
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on development strategy.
It is also designed to enhance coordination of external assistance within the
framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent activities in this area have
concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy, and increased
domestic resource mobilization.
PART III - THE FERTILIZER SECTOR
The Economic Setting
36.       Agriculture dominates the Bangladesh economy accounting for 55% of
GDP, over 75% of the labor force and, directly or indirectly, over 90% of the
country's exports (mainly jute and jute manufactures). Bangladesh has a gross
area of 35 million acres of which about 22.5 million acres are under cultiva-
tion, at a cropping intensity averaging 135% in recent years. Foodgrains,
mainly rice, comprise the major agricultural crops contributing about 35% of
GDP and constitute the principal source of income of subsistence farmers.
Rice and, to a lesser extent, wheat provide almost 85% of the calorie and 70%
of the protein intake of the population. The size of the grain crops deter-
mine the need for foodgrain imports. During the 1960s foodgrain production
grew at an annual rate of 2.4% lagging behind the population growth rate of
about 3%. As a result, foodgrain imports increased from less than 0.6 million
tons in FY61 to over 1.5 million tons in FY70. Production during the early
1970s remained below FY70 levels necessitating higher levels of imports. In
FY78, due inter alia to favorable weather conditions, higher food prices in
FY77, and a 40% increase in fertilizer sales over FY77, foodgrain production
reached a record 13.1 million tons which exceeded FY70 levels by some 13%.
Nevertheless, even then consumption exceeded production by 1.5 million tons,
which had to be met from imports. Foodgrain output in FY79 and estimated FY80
output have stagnated at about 13 million tons mainly due to adverse weather.
Given increases in population growth and depletion of stocks in FY79, food-
grain imports are expected to increase to about 3 million tons in FY80.



- 11 -
37.       Due to heavy land pressure there is virtually no possibility of
achieving acreage expansion in Bangladesh. Thus growth in food and other
agricultural production depends upon the increased and complementary use of
modern inputs--fertilizers, irrigation, HYV seeds, pesticides and to a lesser
extent upon improvements in cultivation and farm management practices.
Studies made in recent years indicate, however, that for more than half of the
acreage now under rice and wheat, an increase in fertilizer use alone, without
any other inputs or changes in practices, would bring about substantial initial
increases in yields. The Government has set an official target of achieving
foodgrain self-sufficiency by 1985, which would require-average output growth
rates of 4-5% over FY78. This is an ambitious goal. It is estimated that the
achievement of the more modest target of a 3.5-4.0% output growth rate would
require an annual increase in the fertilizer use of about 15%. This would
lead to a fertilizer consumption level of about 1.8 million tons 1/ in 1984/85,
compared with a level of 740,000 tons in 1978/79 2/. Such levels of growth of
fertilizer consumption have been achieved since FY66. However, continuation
of such high growth rates on a sustained basis would be dependent upon assured
supplies, accelerated progress in increasing irrigation and drainage, and
improvements in supporting services. Given the pent-up demand evident in the
past (paragraph 40) the availability of additional fertilizer supplies would
bring about an increase in the effectiveness of other available inputs.
Output response is likely to be quick since fertilizer technology is simple
and well known to Bangladeshi farmers.
Fertilizer Consumption
38.       Significant chemical fertilizer use started in Bangladesh in 1958
and spread rapidly, particularly after the establishment in 1962 of the East
Pakistan Agricultural Development Corporation, which later became the
Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC). The main fertilizers
used in Bangladesh are urea (46% nitrogen nutrient), TSP (46% phosphate
nutrient), MP (60% potassium nutrient), and the recently introduced DAP (18%
nitrogen and 46% phosphate nutrient). At present, urea accounts for 62%, TSP
and DAP for 29%, and MP for 9%x of the fertilizer used.
39.       Fertilizer is used by all categories of farmers in Bangladesh.
Recent surveys 3/ indicate that fertilizer is now used by as many as 64% to
69% of owner-cuttivators and between 43% and 63% of tenants. Although there
are no national data on the quantity used by different land tenure or farm
size categories or on the intensity of use by farm size, regional surveys
suggest that more fertilizer per acre may be used on smaller than on larger
farms and that the frequency of use may be about equal on large and small
farms. Although fertilizer use can be expected to increase as the reforms in
the extension system currently being introduced under the IDA assisted Exten-
sion and Research Project become more widespread, inadequate data for on-farm
1/   Unless otherwise stated, all references to consumption, production and
imports are in product tons (not nutrient tons).
2/   Reduced from a projected 900,000 tons due to drought in mid and late
FY79.
3/   Land Occupancy Survey, 1978; Cost of Production Survey, 1978.



- 12 -
fertilizer use and for farm response functions remain a key constraint to
planning and policy formulation. As a first step in improving data, the
International Fertilizer Development Center (IFDC) has recently begun a
detailed fertilizer adoption-demand study in four districts.
40.        From FY66 to FY78 fertilizer sales increased at an average annual
rate of about 17%. Because of the disappointing performance of the domestic
fertilizer industry imports increased from about 350,000 tons in FY76 to about
615,000 tons in FY79. The growth in sales has been steady except for FY72
when the country was disrupted by war, and FY75 when domestic supply was
reduced by an explosion at the Ghorasal Urea factory (paragraph 42). Between
FY77 and FY78, there was a 40% increase in sales to 715,000 tons of commercial
fertilizers. Factors that explain this sharp growth include: (a) the early
announcement of an adequate procurement price for paddy and sufficient paddy
procurement by Government to support that price; and (b) increased Government
efforts to promote fertilizer - specifically, distributing mini-kits (packages
containing recommended amounts of various fertilizers for small units of
acreage), liberalizing credit and simplifying sales procedures. As a result,
the level of effective demand for fertilizer in FY78 was well above supply
which was restricted because of low domestic production, difficulties in
arranging imports and marketing deficiencies. During the first seven months
of FY79 sales were 20% higher than in FY78 and would have been higher if not
for the recurrence of supply shortages at both the national and local level.
On average 44% of the stocks were at any time at the ports or in transit,
leaving many BADC warehouses empty from time to time. Excess demand in early
FY79 was reflected in black market prices, long lines at supply points, empty
warehouses and numerous farmer complaints of inability to obtain fertilizer.
However, final sales for FY79 were 740,000 tons, an increase of only 3.5% over
FY78, and 18% below the level of 900,00 tons that was projected earlier in the
year. This lower than expected figure was due to severe drought in mid and
late FY79 when farmers were not prepared to risk the waste of fertilizer
because of excessively dry conditions. Drought in the first part of FY80
continued to depress sales which are now expected to reach only 850,000 tons
as compared to the FY80 sales target of 1,000,000 tons. This still represents
growth of 15% in FY79. Demand is reported to have increased substantially in
the second half of the year.
41.       Assuming foodgrain price incentives remain at satisfactory levels,
fertilizer sales should continue to grow by at least 15% per year (comparable
to the average growth rates since FY76) because:
(i) fertilizer use per acre of arable land is one of the lowest
in the world and the incremental output response to fertilizer
use will remain high (for instance, it is estimated that, based
upon current cropping patterns, the use of officially recom-
mended amounts of fertilizer would require supply of 4.9 million
tons of fertilizer annually, compared with FY79 consumption of
740,000 tons); and
(ii) the incremental productivity of fertilizer tends to be raised by
complementary inputs, the use of which is expanding and to the
promotion of which Government gives high priority, particularly
high yielding seed varieties, irrigation and flood protection.



- 13 -
However, sustaining such long-term growth rates in fertilizer sales will
require that sufficient supplies be available both nationally and at the local
level in time for the cropping seasons. This will require both increased
supplies and improvements in the distribution system. Assuming 15% average
growtlh, fertilizer consumption for FY85 would total about 1.8 million tons,
including about 1.1 million tons of urea and about 575,000 tons of TSP/DAP.
The Government is currently planning on a slightly higher growth rate, reach-
ing about 2.0 million tons of consumption by FY85.
Domestic Fertilizer Production
42.       Existing Plants.  Bangladesh has two operating urea plants, which
use natural gas as feedstock. The first plant, at Fenchuganj, was built in
1961 with a design capacity of 115,500 tons per year (tpy) of urea and 13,200
tpy of ammonium sulphate. This plant achieved close to 90% capacity utiliza-
tion during its first nine years but operated much below rated capacity after
1971. It was overhauled in 1975 and has just completed a further four month
shutdown for overhaul. After rehabilitation this aged plant has been produc-
ing at over 80% of its original rated capacity. A second plant, at Ghorasal,
was built in the early 1970s with a design capacity of about 374,000 tpy of
urea. This plant initially encountered mechanical problems and by mid-1974
reached only 80% of its rated capacity. Late that year an explosion in the
plant's control room put it out of commission for most of FY75. From June
1975 until 1978 it produced at well below its rated capacity. A Japanese
engineering company overhauled the plant during the summer of 1978 and it is
currently operating at over 70% of rated capacity. In order to meet growing
phosphate fertilizer needs, two triple superphosphate (TSP) plants were com-
pleted in 1968 and 1970 at Chittagong, based on imported raw materials and
with a combined design capacity of 152,000 tpy. These plants did not begin
trial runs until 1974 and 1975 due to mechanical problems and initial raw
materials shortages. The first plant could not be brought into production
until 1977 after technical problems were corrected. These plants have suf-
fered from technical problems and from raw material shortages. Production
rates have increased substantially in recent months but annual production is
not expected to exceed 60% of rated capacity until the improvements to be
financed under this proposed project are completed. All four domestic plants
are operated now by Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation (BCIC), a
semi--autonomous corporation responsible for management of major chemical
industries in the public sector, including fertilizer production which
accounts for about 40% of the production of BCIC enterprises.
43.       Ashuganj Fertilizer Factory.  In addition, a fifth plant is under
construction at Ashuganj, to be operated by the Ashuganj Fertilizer and
Chemical Company (AFCC). This plant, designed to produce 528,000 tpy of urea,
is being financed by IDA (Credit 527-BD), ADB, USAID, ODA, Iran, KfW, Switzer-
land (the original lenders) and EEC, IFAD, and OPEC Special Fund (the new
lenders).  The Ashuganj project encountered substantial delays and cost over-
runs and is currently expected to be completed in March 1981. The initial
estimated foreign exchange cost was US$142.0 million which was financed with a
US$33 million credit from IDA and US$109 equivalent from the six other original
lenders. The local currency cost of US$46.5 million (net of taxes and duties)
and interest during construction of US$27.2 million was to be borne by the



- 14 -
Government. Due to unforeseen construction requirements, additional equipment
needs and delays (including in particular extra cost and delays resulting from
the need to overcome the earthquake risk at the plant site), the foreign
exchange cost has increased to about US$260 million equivalent and the local
cost has increased to about US$116 million (net of taxes and duties) plus
about US$55 million of interest during construction. In May 1979 IDA increased
the amount of its credit to US$62 million and all the original lenders other
than the United Kingdom and Iran increased their lending proportionately.
Additional finance was obtained from IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund and the EEC
to complete the foreign exchange financing package. (For more details on the
Ashuganj project, see Report P-2568-BD of May 18, 1979). Construction is now
progressing satisfactorily and is expected to be completed within the revised
time schedule (March 1981) and only slightly over the revised cost estimates
presented to the Executive Directors in May 1979.
44.       Agreement has been reached with the People's Republic of China under
which additional BCIC facilities would be set up at Ghorasal for the produc-
tion of 100,000 tpy of urea, with Chinese technical and financing assistance.
The plant is expected to come on stream by early 1984. The Government is also
considering construction of another large fertilizer plant at Chittagong which
is to have an installed capacity of 561,000 tpy of urea. This project is
expected to be implemented by a new company with possible private equity, both
local and foreign. Donor assistance for the Chittagong project is being
coordinated by ADB. IDA has indicated willingness, in principle, to consider
cofinancing the project if additional funds are required. IFC has also been
approached by the Government to assist in identifying possible private equity
participation. The Chittagong urea project is now expected to finalize
engineering arrangements by mid-1981 and the plant is scheduled to be in
operation by late 1985.
45.       With expected implementation of these projects, Bangladesh could
have an installed capacity of 1.1 million tons of urea in 1984 and 1.63 mil-
lion tons by the end of calendar 1985. Since the Chinese financed plant at
Ghorasal and the Chittagong plant are expected to be ready only by 1984/1985,
they are not expected to operate close to their capabilities in FY85 when
domestic urea production may only be 0.93 million tons against projected
demand of 1.13 million tons and some urea import will be required. By FY87,
when production from the two plants should reach full potential, marginal
amounts of urea imports could still be required and it is unlikely that
Bangladesh will have any exportable surplus. Even assuming that urea consump-
tion growth rates would slow down to 10% per year after 1985, Bangladesh would
need to have a further increase in urea capacity by about 1988. No increase
is expected in Bangladesh's current TSP capacity of 152,000 tons per year.
Bangladesh would expect to continue to have to import substantial quantities
of TSP/DAP. Since domestic TSP production would have to be based upon
imported raw materials, no new TSP capacity is recommended beyond improving
productivity of existing TSP facilities.
46.       Production.  Local production since independence has been erratic
and has fallen short of expected levels. While capacity utilization had been
improving, setbacks occurred during FY78 due in part to losses of skilled
manpower to the Middle East. Significant progress in improving production
took place in FY79, particularly following the overhaul of Fenchuganj. Over



- 15 -
the last three years, overall production averaged 310,000 tons, compared to
a combined capacity of about 650,000 tons. For that period imports averaged
345,000 tons or some 50% of supply. In FY78, local production was only
260,000 tons (40% of capacity) and for FY79 360,000 tons (55% of capacity)
despite overhauls of the two urea plants. Fertilizer imports in FY79 reached
over 600,000 tons. For FY80 domestic production is projected to improve to
about 430,000 tons (about 65% of capacity). To assist in meeting the need for
improving productivity of existing plants, IDA financed under the First and
Second Technical Assistance Credits (409-BD and 622-BD) a Fertilizer Works
Improvement Study designed to recommend areas for improving operations of the
domestic fertilizer plants.  Some of the recommendations of this study have
already been implemented and contributed to increasing productivity. Based
upon the results of the study, BCIC prepared a plan including investments to
remove remaining bottlenecks caused by design deficiencies at the plants, and
increased training aimed at offsetting the loss of skilled workers to the
Middle East. This plan to improve production of Bangladesh's fertilizer
manufacturing industry is the basis of the currently proposed project. These
investments would complement a recently approved US$1.7 million UNDP financed
management assistance and training project for the Ghorasal urea factory and
the Chittagong TSP factories.
Marketing and Distribution
47.       The Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC), an
autonomous agency under the Ministry of Agriculture, is responsible for the
procurement, distribution and marketing of agricultural inputs, including
fertilizers, pesticides, seeds, irrigation equipment and diesel fuel and
various types of agricultural machinery. Recently measures have been taken,
however, to increase the role of the private sector in the distribution and
marketing of fertilizer (see paragraph 49), pesticides and irrigation pumps.
48.       While the major problem in most recent years has been inadequate
supply, the fertilizer distribution system has also been handicapped by
inadequate planning and coordination, and insufficient transport and storage
facilities. In order to develop a system capable of effectively distributing
greater quantities in the future, the Government undertook a detailed study of
fertilizer marketing and distribution with finance provided under the First
Technical Assistance Credit (409-BD). The study provided useful information
which is assisting BADC in its fertilizer marketing and storage program. This
program mainly comprises a USAID financed project which includes, inter alia,
construction of additional storage capacity for 350,000 tons, and a phased
program to develop greater private sector involvement in fertilizer distri-
bution described in paragraph 49.
49.       BADC draws supplies from three ports and three factories, from
which it moves the fertilizer to intermediate warehouses or godowns or directly
to thana level godowns.  Until recently BADC handled all distribution except
for the retail level which was handled by private sector dealers and by
cooperatives.  In December 1978, BADC introduced wholesale and retail compet-
ition among private fertilizer dealers (including cooperatives). This new
system was begun for a trial period in the Chittagong Division, which accounts



- 16 -
for one-fourth of the area of the country and a third of total fertilizer
consumption. Following good results from this trial, on January 1, 1980 the
program was extended to cover three of Bangladesh's four Divisions. The new
system will be extended to the entire country by June 30, 1980. Under this
system, BADC sells primarily to wholesalers at primary distribution points
while retaining responsibility for sales to retailers in remote and inacces-
sible thanas.
50.        BADC purchases fertilizer at landed cost (CIF) or at fixed ex-factory
prices, and receives a subsidy from the Government to cover the difference
between its costs and the official price charged to farmers. The average unit
subsidy to a farmer paying the official price is about 40%.  The Bangladesh
farmer enjoys a paddy/fertilizer price ratio (at official prices) of 1.3, one
of the most favorable in the world. While this level of subsidy may have been
helpful initially in encouraging farmers to begin using fertilizer, it is no
longer considered necessary and is causing a growing burden on the budget as
fertilizer usage increases. In FY79 the fertilizer subsidy reached TK 1.3
billion. A 28% increase in fertilizer prices to farmers, combined with
increased fertilizer sales and import prices resulted in a small reduction
in the FY80 subsidy to about Tk 1.2 billion, representing about 22% of devel-
opment expenditures on agriculture. Maintaining this level of subsidy, given
overall fund shortages, reduces Bangladesh's ability to finance other required
agricultural investments. The current levels of subsidization would become
increasingly burdensome as fertilizer consumption increases.  The Government
indicated in connection with the Fertilizer Imports Credit (944-BD) its inten-
tion to decrease over time the level of such subsidies and to eliminate them
entirely by mid-1985. (For more details see Report P-2588-BD of June 8, 1979.)
51.        Assisting the Bangladesh Government in providing adequate assured
fertilizer to its farmers is an important objective of IDA's lending strategy.
Given Bangladesh's abundant and good quality natural gas resources, Bangladesh
should be encouraged to supply its own urea requirements, and eventually (with
sufficient experience and increased productivity) to export. Past activities
in the fertilizer sector have included the Ashuganj Fertilizer Project financed
under Credit 527-BD (see paragraph 43), the Fertilizer Imports Credit (944-BD),
and fertilizer production and marketing studies (see paragraphs 46 and 48)
financed under Technical Assistance Credits (409 and 622-BD). IDA is also
supervising an SDR 19.5 million fertilizer sector credit on behalf of IFAD
(Loan 31-BA) providing for fertilizer imports, improving fertilizer import and
distribution facilities, and staff training aids and technical assistance for
the Ashuganj factory. In addition, over US$40 million of spare parts and
raw materials for the fertilizer industry have been financed to date under
Import Program Credits. A proposed second fertilizer imports credit and a
proposed fertilizer transportation credit are currently under consideration.
The former would be expected to finance both required imports of finished
fertilizer and imported raw materials for the TSP factory, while the latter
would finance investments designed to reduce transportation bottlenecks
impeding the fertilizer distribution system. In connection with these pro-
posed credits discussions are underway concerning further improvements in
fertilizer pricing and distribution.



- 1 7 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
52.       The proposed project was appraised by a mission which visited
Bangladesh in October 1979. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2876-BD dated
April 23, 1980) is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data
are summarized in Annex III. Negotiations for the proposed credit were held
in Washington in April 1980; the Bangladesh delegation was led by Mr. A.K.M.
Mosharraf Hossain, Chairman, BCIC.
Project Description
53.       The proposed credit would assist Bangladesh in increasing the pro-
ductivity of three operating fertilizer units, i.e. the two urea factories
at Ghorasal and Fenchuganj and the TSP plants at Chittagong. The project
includes:
(i) additions and replacements of equipment and plant modif-
ications (the Plant Improvement Component);
(ii) the construction of training facilities at Ghorasal to
increase the supply of skilled staff to operate the plants
(the Training Component); and
(iii) the essential spare parts, catalysts and chemical requirements
for these factories during the two year period ending June 1983.
The plant improvements at Ghorasal would remove equipment inadequacies,
replace equipment having difficult maintenance problems and improve the water
and steam supply systems, the power generating system and some instrumentation.
At Fenchuganj the proposed investments would improve instrumentation for
better process control, replace some heat exchangers for some critical duties
and make some improvements in the power generation unit. At Chittagong the
project would finance improvements in plant utilities (including steam, power,
and treated water facilities) and in instrumentation, material handling equip-
ment and some standby equipment to improve plant reliability. In addition the
project would include granulation facilities (financed under a grant from the
Government of Netherlands) which would make the product easier for farmers to
apply than the powdered TSP currently produced, and would reduce health
hazards to factory workers and farmers from inhaling TSP dust. The training
facilities would include buildings and equipment to complement the technical
assistance and training being financed by the UNDP (see paragraph 58).
54.       Bangladesh's fertilizer production has been substantially below
capacity (see paragraph 42). Significant factors which will affect the future
performance of Bangladesh's domestic fertilizer industry are (i) removing
current bottlenecks to efficient production (which is to be achieved under the
plant improvement component of this proposed project); (ii) availability of
adequate technical management and skilled manpower (which is the objective of
the UNDP and proposed IDA financed programs described in paragraph 58); and
(iii) adequate foreign exchange availability to procure the required imported
raw materials (rock phosphate and sulfur for TSP production) and the spares
and components needed to maintain the plants in good working order.



- 18 -
55.        The Chittagong TSP plants will require about US$20 million per year
(in 1979 dollars) of imported raw materials to achieve production at 80% of
capacity. Failure to obtain sufficient imports has been an important factor
limiting production. In addition all the fertilizer plants have had inadequate
preventive maintenance due to shortages of imported spare parts. Spare parts
requirements are estimated at US$4 million per year (in 1979 dollars) and will
increase to US$7 million per year when Ashuganj is commissioned. For the
reasons given in paragraphs 25-27, Bangladesh will continue to require sub-
stantial amounts of commodity assistance while efforts are being made to
correct basic structural weaknesses in the economy. IDA has, in a series of
program credits, provided foreign currency to finance the import of fertilizer
raw materials, spares and components (see paragraph 51). As part of the
Eighth Program Credit (Report No. P-2664-BD dated January 22, 1980) approved
in February 1980, the Association will provide up to US$10 million for the
same purpose (as compared to US$24 million required for this purpose each
year). Additional financing for fertilizer raw materials is under consider-
ation as part of a proposed second fertilizer imports credit. To assure
adequate availability of spare parts, catalysts and chemicals beyond the
period covered under the Eighth Imports Credit, this proposed credit includes
about US$8.3 million to cover about two years import requirements for the
period July 1981-June 1983. Disbursement for this component of the credit
would be conditional upon presentation of a detailed fertilizer factory
maintenance program satisfactory to IDA (paragraph 4(d) of Schedule 1 to the
DCA). The annual foreign exchange requirements of US$24 million to cover the
operational import requirements of the existing plants will permit fertilizer
production worth about US$100 million (based on present fertilizer CIF prices)
to continue. The Government has agreed to take all necessary steps to ensure
adequate and continuing provision of foreign exchange funds to meet the
plants' requirements for imported raw materials, spares, catalysts and chemi-
cals (Section 4.02 of DCA). This is expected to be achieved largely through
the Government placing priority on the required imports in its requests for
foreign assistance, although some of these imports may have to be financed
from Bangladesh's own limited foreign exchange earnings if insufficient
assistance is available for these purposes. Given the importance of fertil-
izer production, foreign exchange for these import requirements is expected to
receive high priority in lenders' commodity assistance programs.
Project Execution
56.       The plants to be rehabilitated are currently operated by the Bangla-
desh Chemical Industries Corporation (BCIC), a Government-owned corporation.
BCIC currently operates 30 entities engaged in 10 major product areas in the
chemical industry including, in addition to fertilizer, pulp and paper, soap
and detergents, matches, and rubber products. BCIC was formed in 1976 to con-
solidate the management of some 90 independent companies in the chemical
sector which the Government then owned. Since 1976 BCIC has disinvested to
the private sector, merged, or closed down 60 of the original 90 enterprises,
and improved the operating efficiency and levels of capacity utilization of
the remaining 30 units. These units remain decentralized in their day-to-day
operations and each unit operates as a separate profit center and maintains
individual accounts. BCIC management handles policy decisions regarding
capital expenditure and budgeting, and provides support services such as
financial planning, procurement and planning and development.



- 19 -
57.       With the formation of separate profit centers and the assignment
of competent management to the operating units, the first phase of the Govern-
ment's efforts to restructure the chemical industry was completed in mid-1979.
However, the wide range of products of the industry and the relative scarcity
of managerial capabilities at corporate level have made it difficult to respond
quickly to the day-to-day requirements of the individual units, especially in
the technologically difficult fields like fertilizer and paper. The Government
has recognized the need to implement a second phase of reorganization to give
unit management maximum entrepreneurial initiative, and to permit decisions
requiring quick responses to be taken at the plant unit level. In an effort
to decentralize and delegate responsibility, the Government has, therefore,
decided to fonn unit-wise Boards of Directors by restructuring each of the
operating units into an independent company. The establishment of the three
new fertilizer companies is expected to be completed in the summer of 1980,
and is a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of DCA). The
resulting fertilizer companies would be the beneficiaries of the Credit.
Each company will have a capital structure based on a debt/equity ratio not
to exceed 60/40. BCIC has also prepared a detailed plan describing the powers
to be delegated to the individual boards. The Government intends to continue
using BCIC's corporate staff for coordinating the overall budgeting and invest-
ment plans of the units. BCIC is expected to perform this coordinating role
either by holding equity in the units or more probably as an agent of the
Government. During negotiations, the status of the restructuring plans was
reviewed with the Government and BCIC and satisfactory agreements were
reached on the time schedule and overall concept and powers to be delegated
to the three fertilizer entities to ensure efficient management on corporate
and plant levels (Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement).
58.       The three existing fertilizer plants have a total employment of
about 3,600, about half of them with technical skills. The limited availabil-
ity of experienced plant operators and technicians due to the low Bangladesh
industrial base continues to affect the performance of these units adversely.
The absence of an adequate program and related facilities to hire and train
skilled workers in required numbers has been an important constraint. The
problem is further aggravated by the low salary levels allowed in the govern-
ment-owned corporations and the drain of skilled workers to much higher
payin,g jobs in the Middle East. Under a UNDP financed project (paragraph 46)
a corntract has been signed with UNICO International of Japan (UNICO) to
provide operations assistance to the Ghorasal and Chittagong plants. This
project provides technical management assistance to develop the BCIC manage-
ment skills and to train managerial, supervisory, and skilled technical and
operative staff. The UNDP project also includes training advisers who will
assist BCIC in developing proposals for the setting up of an adequate train-
ing center and in assessing the equipment and facilities needed for the pur-
pose. In addition, the Ashuganj Credit (Credit No. 527-BD) and the IFAD
Credit (31-BA') have provided funds for the import of training aids to be used
initially for training technicians for the Ashuganj project and later to
be made available for training technicians for the other fertilizer plants.
Since the UNDP project does not finance the setting up of a training center,
the Government has requested IDA financing under the proposed Credit. Thus
the proposed training component would complement the assistance provided to
Bang:Ladesh in this crucial area through other UNDP and IDA projects. BCIC



- 20 -
would present detailed training proposals for IDA approval by December 31,
1980 (Section 2.10 of Project Agreement). Agreement on training proposals
acceptable to IDA would be a condition of disbursement for the training
component (paragraph 4(c) of Schedule 1 to the DCA).
59.       While the setting up of the training facilities will improve the
available Bangladesh skills, it will be possible to increase and adjust the
training plans and maintain an adequate work force in the fertilizer plants
only if annual staff losses are limited to a small part of total availability
and are spread over the various skill levels and over time reasonably evenly.
In order to reduce staff turnover, BCIC would establish a program of incen-
tives for their skilled technicians (Section 2.09 of Project Agreement)
including a bonus scheme linked to overall production efficiency and reward
for individual performance in the form of advance salary increments, special
promotion and cash payments. The Government would also take appropriate steps
to introduce orderly procedures and schedules governing recruitment of fer-
tilizer technicians and engineers to work abroad (Section 4.04 of DCA). These
steps would include programs requiring newly recruited and trained engineers
and technicians to continue in service for an appropriate period, and restric-
tions on the departure of such personnel to such numbers as can reasonably
be replaced without adversely affecting the companies' ability to operate
and maintain their plants efficiently.
60.       Implementation of the Plant Improvement Programs at Ghorasal (total
estimated cost US$17.8 million) and Chittagong (US$15.0 million) will be the
responsibility of the individual General Managers of the plants, assisted by
their Material Control Managers and separate Project Managers. The engineer-
ing contract management, procurement coordination and material planning will
be the responsibility of the two Project Managers. The civil works and con-
struction will be carried out by the existing maintenance departments of the
plants, each of which will have a coordinator/material controller to coord-
inate the renovation work. A material management cell will be formed to
receive, store and issue, as required, the renovation materials. In critical
areas, specialist erectors and technicians would be drawn from equipment
suppliers or engineering firms. Overall technical coordination will be
provided by expatriate engineering firms selected by BCIC and acceptable to
IDA. BCIC has indicated its intention to enter into negotiations for these
services with Toyo Engineering Corporation (Japan) for Ghorasal and to select
on appropriate engineering firm for Chittagong. The BCIC managers and staff
required for the program implementation will be selected from persons already
with BCIC. Contracts acceptable to IDA for engineering services for Ghorasal
and Chittagong are conditions of disbursement for the respective plant improve-
ment programs at these plants (paragraph 4(a) and (b) of Schedule 1 of DCA).
The Fenchuganj plant improvement program, which is by far the smallest (US$4.5
million), will be carried out by the plant's operating, maintenance and mate-
rial managers without a formal implementation organization.
61.       The proceeds of the credit for the plant improvement and training
components of the project would be passed on to the fertilizer companies in
accordance with project financing agreements satisfactory to the Association
(Section 3.01(b) of DCA). Satisfactory project financing agreements between



- 21 -
the Gcvernment and the three fertilizer companies would be a condition of
effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of DCA). The Government has indicated that
most of the proceeds for these components would be onlent at 10% per annum
with repayment over 10 years including three years of grace. The fertilizer
companies would bear the foreign exchange risk. These terms are appropriate
and are comparable to the terms currently being applied by GOB to other
direct foreign currency loans to industry in cases where the borrower accepts
the foreign exchange risks. The long-term inflation rate in Bangladesh is
projected to average about 9%.  A small amount of the proceeds of the credit
for these components may be provided as equity to the extent required to
maintain debt financing at no more than 60% of total cost. The local cost
of the plant improvement component (estimated at US$12.8 million equivalent)
would be provided by the Government as equity, except for the possibility
that a portion could be provided as debt if equity financing should exceed
40% of the cost of the plant improvement and training components. The US$8.3
million of foreign exchange for spares, catalysts and chemicals would be pro-
vided to the fertilizer companies against payments by them in local currency
(Section 3.01 (c) of DCA). Government approval of the Project Proforma
required to authorize the Government contribution to the project would be a
condiition of effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of DCA).
62.       The three fertilizer companies would follow prudent financial
practices and conform to the following financial covenants: (i) maintain at
all times a debt/equity ratio of 60/40 or better; (ii) maintain a current
ratio of at least 1.3:1.0; (iii) not incur any additional debt if by doing so
the projected debt service coverage would fall below 1.4; (iv) not pay at any
time any dividends, prepay any debt or effect any other cash distributions,
including to affiliated companies, if by doing so the current ratio would drop
below 1.5; and (v) obtain prior agreement of the Association for all new
projects requiring capital expenditures in excess of US$1.5 million until
project completion (Section 3.03 of Project Agreement). The companies
would submit: (i) annual audited financial reports within six months of the
closing of each fiscal year (Section 3.02 of Project Agreement); and (ii)
monthly progress reports and periodic financial statements and projections
according to a schedule and form satisfactory to IDA which was agreed upon
during negotiations (Section 2.05(b) of Project Agreement).
63.       The Government has agreed to review the fertilizer prices of the
three existing fertilizer plants at least once a year and establish the prices
to be paid to each of them for the next year. The prices will be determined
to provide at achievable levels of production and efficiency an agreed mini-
mum return on equity after meeting all costs and providing for depreciation,
taxes and interest on borrowings (Section 4.01 of DCA). For this purpose, the
equity will be determined taking into account revaluation of net fixed assets
from time to time. The minimum rate of return would be 10% unless otherwise
agreed.  The Government would also extend the use of the above pricing stand-
ards for interpreting the "reasonable" rate of return after expenses provi-
sion of the IDA credit for the Ashuganj Fertilizer Project.
64.       The capital structure of the three companies to be formed in mid-1980
to operate the existing fertilizer plants has not yet been fully determined.



- 22 -
The Government has, however, agreed that the initial capital structuring of
each of the three companies will be based on a debt:equity ratio of 60:40 or
better. Since the three companies are required to conform with the financial
covenants (paragraph 62) which would ensure prudent financial management and
their products will be priced adequately (paragraph 63), the financial situa-
tion of the companies will continue to be in an acceptable condition.
Marketing and Distribution
65.       Bangladesh fertilizer sales have (in times of normal weather) been
constrained by inadequate supplies, and no problems are foreseen in selling
all available output of the existing factories. The conversion of the TSP
plant to granulated production in place of current powdered TSP should improve
sales, since farmers have shown a marked preference for imported granulated
TSP which is easier to apply. As noted earlier (paragraph 48), Bangladesh
fertilizer distribution has been handicapped by insufficient storage and
transport facilities. An ongoing USAID financed fertilizer storage project
and the IFAD financed fertilizer sector credit (see paragraphs 48 and 51) are
assisting to meet anticipated storage requirements, but additional storage
capacity to meet long term needs is still expected to be required. Due to the
inadequacies of the transport and storage facilities, strained further by the
unforeseen foodgrain crisis in 1979, BADC could not move adequate quantities
of fertilizers from the BCIC warehouses during the early part of FY80, result-
ing in excessive stock accumulations and forcing production levels below
capabilities. While the problems were caused by factors specific to the
period, coordination between fertilizer production and its movement has not
been adequate, even when such emergency situations are not present. In order
to improve such coordination, there will be a satisfactory formal agreement
between BADC and the fertilizer companies by October 31, 1980 on arrangements
for pickup of fertilizers from company warehouses (Section 4.03 of DCA). Such
agreements would include: (i) compensation to the fertilizer companies if
fertilizer is not picked up to predetermined schedule; (ii) compensation to
BADC for failure to supply fertilizer in accordance with the agreed schedules;
and (iii) provisions for evolving arrangements permitting the fertilizer
companies to sell fertilizer directly to private wholesalers. Additional
measures are under discussion in connection with a proposed fertilizer trans-
port credit appraised in January/February 1980. Assistance to private sector
transport operators, which should improve fertilizer distribution capacity, is
expected to be included in proposed DFC and small industry credits scheduled
for consideration in the near future.
Special Factors Affecting TSP Production
66.       Bangladesh must import the sulfur and rock phosphate required for
TSP production, and new investments for TSP production in Bangladesh would
probably not be economically justified. However, continued operation of
the existing facilities with marginal renovation investment is justified.
Production cost estimates at an annual production level of 122,000 tpy (80%
capacity utilization rate) after renovation, result in annual economic costs
of TSP production in Bangladesh which are lower than the import cost by about
Taka 104.5 million or US$6.7 million (in 1979 dollars).  It is, therefore,



- 23 -
considered economically advantageous to Bangladesh to continue with the
Chittagong Plant TSP production. This conclusion was questioned by a study
carried out by Soros Associates in April 1979 (financed by USAID) which
indicated that an alternative use of the TSP factory facilities for bulk
fertilizer imports (instead of in bags as at present) would result in greater
savings than the savings resulting from continued operation of the TSP factory.
However, a further detailed study by a Bank consultant concluded that the
plant facilities have adequate capacity to handle bulk fertilizer imports and
to continue TSP production. A recent IFAD project (see paragraph 51) includes
a component to upgrade existing facilities at the TSP jetty to handle small
bulk ships, lighters, mini-bulkers and (if the river is dredged) large bulk
ships. The IFAD project bulk unloading component would assist in meeting
immediate requirements while long-term solutions such as an offshore unloading
platform or use of shuttle bulkers with wharf bagging are investigated and
carried out. The presently proposed credit includes a provision incorporating
the Government's commitment to IFAD to implementation of the bulk unloading
component as a commitment to IDA also (Section 4.06 of DCA).
67.       When TSP production gets stabilized at an annual rate of 122,000 tpy
(or about 80% of rated capacity), the Chittagong plant is expected to produce
about 230,000 tpy of waste gypsum. Gypsum is at present slurried and pumped
to a 20-acre pond where it Ts allowed to drain.  About 15,000-20,000 tpy of
gypsum is manually recovered from the pond and sold for cement manufacture.
According to current estimates, the land for gypsum disposal will be adequate
for another 3 or 4 years. Additional land required for subsequent gypsum
disposal would be expensive and could find better uses in the industrially
developed North Patenga area. Alternative arrangements for the use or disposal
of gypsum have to be identified and implemented before the disposal develops
into a serious problem. Under a UNDP financed study, other alternatives for
gypsum utilization have been evaluated and the findings are being reviewed by
BCIC. These include (i) production of ammonium sulfate; (ii) cement and
sulfuric acid production ; and (iii) to a limited extent production of gypsum
wall boards. If economic utilization of gypsum cannot be developed, gypsum
would either have to be pumped to the Bay of Bengal about 3 km away or disposed
of in the present area developing high banks of gypsum material to increase
the capacity. Disposal to the sea would have to be planned carefully to
reduce any adverse impact of marine life, but it would be a relatively perm-
anent solution. The second alternative is expected to enable BCIC to continue
to dump gypsum in the present area for another 6 to 7 more years and is pos-
sibly the cheapest one at least in the short term. In view of the importance
of gypsum disposal to the continued operation of the TSP Plants, during nego-
tiations satisfactory assurances were obtained that the Government will com-
plete by December 31, 1980 and review with IDA an evaluation of alternatives
for gypsum disposal or utilization and a plan for implementation of the
recommendations (Section 4.05 of DCA).
68.       The major environmental problems at the Chittagong TSP plants result
from (i) sulfur oxide emissions; and (ii) dust emissions. The sulfur oxide
emission problems are mainly the result of equipment conditions and power
outages. With completion of the plant renovation program, improved power
supply and better operating procedures the sulfur oxide emissions can be



- 24 -
maintained within acceptable levels. Good housekeeping and better operating
practices would be adequate to minimize dust pollution in the sulfur and rock
phosphate handling and storage areas. Conversion of TSP production from
powdered TSP to granulated TSP (included in the portion of this project being
financed by the Netherlands Government) would remove a serious dust problem
which poses a health hazard to factory workers and to farmers.
Procurement and Disbursement
69.       The proposed credit covers plant improvements in the three existing
plants (US$19.7 million), the setting up of training facilities (US$1.0 million)
and imports of spares, catalysts and chemicals for the operation of the three
existing plants (US$8.3 million). The proposed procurement arrangements have
taken into account the specific needs of the three components and procedures
most appropriate for them. The procurement packages for the plant improvement
component will generally be of small value and in large part of proprietary
nature. It is expected that only about 15 packages will exceed US$50,000 in
value and several of them are best procured from the original equipment vendors.
Only about 7 packages will be appropriate for international competitive bid-
ding (ICB). It is therefore proposed that, except for packages specifically
identified as suitable for ICB following Bank procurement guidelines (US$4.5
million), all other supplies will be procured following international shopping
procedures, or by direct negotiations in the case of proprietary items. The
same arrangements will also cover supplies for the training component. In
view of the nature of the project, such procurement procedures are necessary
to ensure timely and efficient plant renovation. The plant improvement com-
ponent has only limited civil works, foundation and construction requirements
and these will be carried out by the respective plant maintenance personnel
using subcontractors when required. The civil works for the training compo-
nent will be implemented by contractors selected following local competitive
bidding procedures. The catalysts and chemicals will be imported following
international shopping among a representative list of suppliers. Spares and
components will be procured internationally following BCIC's normal procure-
ment procedures for such supplies, which are considered satisfactory.
70.       The proposed credit would be disbursed against 100% of the foreign
costs of equipment, materials, and consultants services for the plant improve-
ment program and 100% of the foreign costs of the spares, catalysts, and
chemicals component. For the training component, the credit would finance
100% of foreign costs and 90% of local costs for equipment, training aids, and
construction of facilities. The consultants for the training component are
being financed under a UNDP project. The credit is expected to be fully
disbursed by June 1983.
Benefits and Risks
71.       The proposed plant improvement component is expected to increase
capacity utilization for the Ghorasal urea factory from 67% to 85% and for the
Chittagong TSP plant from 60% to 80%. For the Fenchuganj factory the proposed
investments are preventive measures designed to avoid or shorten potential
future interruptions in operations which might impair continuation of current



- 25 -
capacity utilization of about 87%. Given the small amounts of the Fenchuganj
component (less than US$3 million of the credit amount), and the preventive
nature of the investments, the economic and financial analysis has been con-
fined to the Ghorasal and Chittagong components. However, the Fenchuganj
component would be economically justified with the savings realized even if
the annual downtime would be reduced by only one week over the plant's economic
life. The proposed components are expected to result in increased output of
close to 100,000 tons per year beginning in 1983. This will result in net
foreign exchange savings of about US$12 million each year, expressed in
constant 1979 dollars. The economic rate of return, based upon world market
prices of fertilizer and imported materials, would be 92% for Ghorasal and
18% for Chittagong (or an average rate of return of 62% on these two compon-
ents representing about 90% of the plant improvement component). These high
returns reflect the project's rehabilitation nature which results in substan-
tial improvements in production through relatively small capital investments.
Even if the capacity utilization improvement was 25% less than anticipated or
the costs should be 25% higher than expected, the economic rate of return
would still be satisfactory. Based upon current price levels to BCIC (which
for urea are substantially below landed costs of imports and for TSP marginally
above landed costs) the financial return on the investments is estimated to be
about 30% for Ghorasal and 22% for Chittagong. The estimated return on assets
before interest and after tax would increase from 10% to 13% for Ghorasal and
from 7% to 10% for Chittagong.
72.       In addition, the proposed investments would be expected to improve
the reliability of supply to farmers. The change of the TSP production from
powder to granules is expected to improve application by farmers (who use
mainly hand distribution methods) and to remove a dust problem providing a
health hazard to plant workers and farmers. Finally, given Bangladesh's
abundant gas resources for which few other economically attractive uses are
available, Bangladesh should eventually be able to manufacture urea for export.
Improving the productivity of existing plants and gaining experience in urea
production at high levels of capacity utilization are important first steps
to this goal.
73.       The project faces only limited technical risks since the technology
associated with the plant improvement component is commercially proven and
will be supplied by internationally experienced firms. However, the sus-
tained performance of the plants at the projected operating levels will
depend to a substantial extent on the availability of an adequate and compe-
tent management and work force. The availability of sufficiently experienced
personnel is expected to be substantially increased by the measures described
in paragraphs 58 and 59. Other risks to the project are expected to be sub-
stantially reduced by (i) the agreement of the Government to pay adequate
fertilizer prices (paragraph 63) and (ii) the improved marketing arrangements
with BADC and the proposed investments expected to be financed under the
fertilizer transport project (paragraphs 65 and 51). There is also some
risk, given the foreign exchange shortage, that in spite of the assurances
given (paragraph 55), the plants might have difficulty in obtaining sufficient
foreign exchange for raw materials and parts. However, it is hoped that the
high foreign exchange savings from the fertilizer produced will encourage the



2 26 -
Government and lenders providing commodity assistance to place high priority
on meeting the plants' foreign exchange requirements.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and BCIC and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
75.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the credit would be
(i) establishment of three fertilizer companies to operate BCIC's existing
fertilizer plants (paragraph 57); (ii) the approval of the Project Proforma
by the Borrower (paragraph 61); and (iii) signature of project financing
agreements acceptable to IDA (paragraph 61). Special conditions of disburse-
ment would be (i) presentation of a satisfactory detailed fertilizer factory
maintenance program prior to disbursements for the spares, catalysts, and
chemicals component (paragraph 55); (ii) presentation of a satisfactory
training plan prior to disbursements for the training component (paragraph
58); and (iii) signature of appropriate contracts for engineering services
prior to disbursements for the plant improvement programs at Ghorasal and
Chittagong respectively (paragraph 60).
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
77.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By: Ernest Stern
April 24, 1980



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 1
TULE 3A
8AZGDESU - SOCIAL  DDICATORS  DA4  SEU?
Bi~ ~ ~ ~~~EPlc  GRr coWS (ADUSTED A1,rUAGs
LAND AREA (ThOUSAND SQ. SI.)                    5G1                                    StsE      naUc    (A
TOTAL            144.0                                                   SAKI        SAM       NMIX?SGRU
hGRICULTIAL       99.9                                 MoSt RICNT      GEOGRAFIC    Dcowe         DCOm
1960  tb    1970 AL hSTIMTE lb    URGIOR /   GROUP I          GROUP la
CNr PER CAITA (USS)                    40.0        60.0      90.0           191.1       209.6       46i.,
EnEOT CONSUMMTON  M  CAPITA
(XLOGRAMS Of COAL EQIVALT)            ..          ..       33.0            69.1       83.9       262.1
POrPsATION AND VrIAL SSATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-TM  OtILLIONS)      51.4         66.3      81.2
3u*  POPLATION (PtC          OF TOTALS )  5.2     7.6       9.3            13.2        16.2        24.6
POPULATION9 PROJETI0NS
PoATIo  IN TYAR  2000 (MILLIONS)                        145.0
STATIONr POPMLATION tXILLIOS)                          334-0
S16  STATIOARY POrPUATION IS l16CD                     2165.0
POPMATIOI DESM
PER SQ. NM.                      357.0       474.0      564.0            86.6       49.4        45.3
PM SQ. Di. AGRICULTURAL LtND    540.0         683.0     813.0           33e.2      252.0       149.0
POPULATIOS AGE MUCTUE (PUOUT)
0-14 YES.                         44.3        46.4        6.0            44.3       43.1        45.2
15-64 Yns.                         52.5        51.0       51.0            52.4       53.2        51.9
65 Ys. AXD ABOVt                    3.2         2.6        3.0             3.1        3.0         2.8
POPULaOR GROWTH RATE (P3?czR)
TOTAL                              2.4          2.9       2.5             2.4        2.4         2.7
A                                   ..         6.7        6.3             4.1        4.6         4.3
CRUDE IIXTR RATE (PR   OSAND)       49.0        4U.0       46.0            44.4       42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH UTZ (PE  THOUSAND)       23.0        20.0      L8.0            16.4       15.9         11.7
GRoss  nIoDuCaio  zATE                3.5         3.1       3.2             3.2        2.9          2.7
PAKILTY PLAMIm
ACCEPTORS, &4UNUL (TaUSARDS)        ..        345.6    1103.1
USES (PERCE    O MARRID Wo     )    ..          ..        .9              7.9       12.2        13.2
rOD AND NUTITION
INDEX of rooD PRobucToll
PU CAPITA (1969-71-LOO)          107.3        101.0      98.0            99.4       98.2        99.6
PU  CAPITA SUMT OF
CALORIS (PtCErT OP
HEQUIRDrrS )                    89. Of      89.0       93.0            93.0       93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GAMS PM DAT)            42.6           -       58.5            56.L       52.1        54.3
OP WRIC! ANIAL AND FULSE         9.2/f         *-       e.0            10.4       13.6        17.4
CRILD (AGES 1-4) M4ONALMIT          29.0         25.0      23.0            19.2       18.5        11.4
HZATH
LIFE EXPETANY AT BRT  (TS)    42.0               45.0      47.0            49.1       49.3        54.7
INFANT KRTALITY RATE (PR
TSOUSAND)                             ..        153.0     140.0              ..      105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WAR  (PERCEN  OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                .         45.0      53.0            31.5       26.3        34.4
NR                                  ..         l3.0      15.0            63.9       58.5        57.9
LL                                  ..         U 47.0    55.0            20.1       15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EZCRTA DISPOSAL (PERCZNT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                .          6.0       5.0            15.7       16.0        40.8
USBAN                               ..          ..       40.0            66.8       65.1        71.3
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..              2.5        3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICAN               ..       7600.0  11350.0          7107.9    11396.4      6799.4
POPULATION PER SUESING PERSON         ..     72030.0LL 53700.0          12064.0     5552.4      1522.1
POPULATION PER BOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                          1100-OiLh   8120.O0p   4430.0           2738.4     1417.1       726.5
AN3                                 ..          ..         ..              ..      197.3       272.7
iDEAL                               ..          ..         ..              ..     2445.9      1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL 8ED            ..         ..         ..              ..       24.8        27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..         ..              ..        5.3         5.4
USAN                                ...-. .                                          ^9          5. 1
iDAL                                 ..         ..         .               ..        5..         5.5
AVERAGE  SlMER OF PERSONS PER HOOlf
TOTAL                               ..          ..         ..
QlIA                                 ..         ..         ..              .           ..
RURAL                                .           .         .                .         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELINGS)
OTAL                                .           ..        .                           d.5      28.',
.9831. .ANO~                                                               .          .         .5.1
RUSAL                               ..          ..         ..              ..                     9.9



- 28--                               ANNEX I
TA.3                               Page  2
AMUADEn - SOCIAL XDCAOSU DATA  HZ         Pg
MMUcz clUam  ( ADJSDTD ApA0ES
- W     QIT nEI EST!AT  -
SANZ       SAJg     M C Da11
190 Lb     1970 /b EBfiT1 /b        1110C  /c /wl Id   CAM  /a
AJUSTED      S         SOLLI i os
Pmun        TOL                  47.0        61.0      83.0           59.5       63.3        82.7
mm1                 66.0        80.0    106.0             74.9       79.1       87.3
lUJA                24.0        42.0      60.0            43.7      44.4        75.8
SR00AR:  TOTAL                    8          19.0     i3.0            19.5       16.7        21.4
MALE                16.0        30.0      34.0            27.8      22.1        33.0
FIXALZ               1.0         8.0      11.0            10.0      10.2        13.3
YOCATIRJ Ot. (1 OF StU      AM)    1.0          1.0       1.0             1.3       5.6         9.
PtIPL-TEADU  RTIO
P&DIDAM                            ..        49.0      35.0           42.2       41.0        34.1
sEN11RT                            ..        26.0     24.0              ..       21.7        23.4
AT LrISACT  Z  (K)                 21.6/1        ..      22.0           25.5       31.2        54.0
CONSDOXP1
PASSWZ  CS PER UNSAUD
POPMATIO                           ..         0.4       0.4/1          2.3        2.8         9.3
UDIO  nICEts P   TUUD
POPULATION                         ..         6.0       ..            15.5       27.2        76.9
TV REeziVES PU UNOAN
POPLATIO                           ..         ..        ..              ..        2.4        13.5
SEPAPnl (MAXLY GeAL
DsMESr)  CLAXIOI PU
TOUSSAD POPULATION                   ..          ..      5.0             6.2        5.3        18.3
CINA ANNUAL    iNDA=  PL  01         ..         ..        ..              ..        1.1         2.5
1.430 FORCE
WTAL-LA80 FRoa    CTBSSAS)    1U516.0    23402.0  29900.0
Fn:ALE (PERCENT)                 15.2        16.5     17.0            21.6       24.8        29.2
AGRICULTURS   (P3W?)             66.8        85.9      76.0           66.3       69.6        62.7
DIDuSm  (YUCT)                    3.3         3.5      7.0             9.6       10.0        11.9
PAATIcIpATion URT  (P11WI)
TOTAL                              36.0        34.6     34.4            35.8       36.9        37.1
MALE                               58.7        55.J      55.3           52.3       52.4        48.8
FENALE                             11.4        11.8      12.1           15.7       18.0        20.4
EconomIC DIEIC    UTrO                1.3         1.4      1.3             1.3        1.2         1.4
El00! OISTRSIVTION
PCEIr r OFPRivAT  105
3EzQIVED ST
HlCg15T 5 PERET 0o 1U8MIDS   18.3/           16.7/k     ..              ..         ..        15.2
RiauES= 20 PUcttT O UDUSEOLDS 4.S           42.37E      ..             ..         ..        48.2
LOUEST 20 PECE   of UISusOtUS    6.9:         7.97w     ..              ..         ..         6.3
LoWSt 40 PUWY 0f NOF SSELDS   179            19.967i    ..              ..         ..        16.3
poVER   TAR? G0t1017
ESTLMATD ABSOtTI PaYSET 1306c
IEVEL (US  PR CAPITA)
URBA                               ..         ..    110.0             86.5       99.2       241.3
RUAT                               ..         ..      91.0            74.2       78.9       136.6
ESTSSmD RELATIVE POn1n  D1
LVEL (s55 PUR CPrTA)
UR034                              ..         ..        ..              ..       91.9       179.7
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..50.4                   54.8       103.7
ESTIMASTD POPULATION 11w    BS5LD
POVERT  fICOMI IVE. ( W)
URBAN                              ..         ..      55.0            44.3      w4.1         24.8
RU7RAL                             ..         ..      74.0            52.4       53.9        37.5
.   ot available
Not appJlc*ble.
/a   The adjusted Sroup sv*r"8a for each indicacor are popWat1ou-wei6hted gemetric ume. eseludio   cth ez
values of the indisccor And the most popuated emytry in each g#oup. Coverage of coUntries           tthe
inaicatore depeads on availabilty of data and is not unifom.
ib    unlems otherwise roted  darA for 1960 refer to sny mer  between 1959 and 1961; for !970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Host Recent Estimate. between 1974 and 1977.
/e   South Asia;  /d  Low Ineo_ (5230 or lose per capita 1976); /e Lo_er Middle Inome (5231-550 per capita.
1976);  if Av. 1961-65;  /s Registered, mot all practicing 7n the courtrv;  th  Govt. establishaets
only;  _1  1972; /   1963-4;  /k  i966-67;  iI  1962;  /n  1973.
most Recent Istimate of ONp per capita is for 1978.
August. 1979



-29-
ANNEX I
pMzyiC  OFsOCw ~InICAOR                                                         Page3
Notes: Althuhthe date. ore drsc  from  so    genrally judged the not sathoritati-e  nd re.ls]., It Iohold sino b. ncted that they  W  not be toteems
holly sonporshle becouet of the lack of oteohdodied defihitions sod concepts used hy dif fern: ouhntries in colleting the dat.. The beta we, nsnstheisso,
osefu.1 to desribe orders of osgoitude, indicate trends, end ohorscterine certolo major differences bgt.ne  countries.
The odlu-ted tru  avernoe  for essh ioicator ore ppsolation-eoghtod geometric non, exluding the  ot..tr  oio cIs of the indicator Ind the meot pepulated
ist-   easth groop.  fil to lot  of bets, grop avrges of nil indiosoor  for lapi~oni rp    Oil hotescd of lodicotoro  f A...o. .oW.innr on   srn
Dispesel, Mousing, income ietribeatios cad Potrty for other country groups are pcp,aIatioo-eeghted goeometric oemem  without exIdoaino of the e-tre- vels  sod
tore ttc doer.e  o  oeicioto tSi          ohe..heestheesor                tl  ,se'is amrostbo  oIeptte   bl.oons  cpain  te   oiio  f  n
ooinootor at . time   Dmeng the ooutry seid refrence. grups.
LInot AFP  th .obIc,Id ackhe.                                                             hocesoto  hr:  cos.]  crea   fos,ltot-cc],  ro    s   ua
fote.i -Total eufsse ors eomprbiog 1os  ores Iod 1sAsad,ater.-                  loeofpoop.ic toal  noon, soUtae.-  se=e  opeort                         Id.pesla
Agr-at-alto     -  net recent esiat   f         -gicotual ores used Tecoreily              poetcntsges of their repective poPasltion. ic-reto dispose.) may Loiude
orP.-Msotyfor orP., paturs  sorit sod kitchen gssdens Of to                            the oo2.1cts    n sd dispose.1..  ith or without treacaet, of bass- s-rret
i_v Oslo-                                                                               and vate-oater by eate-home. cyst.  or the use of pit Ptlid.o sh s.oio
heo.stsl.atios
GNP PER CAPITA (USE) - GNP? p       erpite estimatec an current mareet price.,            Poalation per PoIcs   - Poselaetico cliudd by outher of pvtoticsog payaltiosso
o.icL=At.od by cm  ovrinmthod mi Wain Ions Atlas (1976-T8 hens.);                          ocai bdfoo5sdlos  school .t onscecSity level.
i196 100 . ca,  d 1978 dat..                                                             =aoltc  trNrssPerco  - PcPu.leton divided by oimher of pr-tt-obo   .In.
31EP01 C NUEWTION PEP CAPITA - doesil oooontson of Cooseers-. energy                         s    eaegrdaecre., prs tlo                 usee, end usoetnat nuses-
hoer... cleorrooy) tosilogsoo o  vosi e-ooeiett Per oapit-s                                        Z~.adrrl  oie   yOerreetc  sro   opt.i bed, scIlohie it
1970, nrc I0h dtos.                                                                        Psiic sod priv-te general cad cpecsalced boetpite.]  cad rhas-ttttotro.
opo rls  t  estbkloesmeot  pcraestly ctefed by at inset toe pty.oosso.
POPUISATION5 All VITAL STATISTIC S                                                           &zIstmllaoeto providing prioospe.ly  -oetodsn  one  ore co . oo.-1-e. kae.l
otlppostioo. MsMos                  A.lss   -h  of bu1y it 19bp, 1.970. and         hoepitai., hecevr, sciode bcoIth  -o  med.Ical . cetrs sot  eene tly  tafe
197' onto,se    ddf.  .R by Is saccoiioh  hat by o medical assistant, or.sdaf,eo                                                                                  hioh offer
MeccaF P   etioc  -ereoc oftotal)   R Mtis of ahy to tote.1 popstios;                      Is-patbest m.co-Intioc sod proide a limted rsoge of medical feeoslstscs..
d ffered  cfi-itioco  of uros  sre.s my  iffect oep-bsility of data                   homlealoss Pre  HoPite.L Bed - Total nonor of wodn-oono to Or d-ososges frou
...c soot_so   100   97), and 1975 dat..                                             hocpstuls dIvided by the cober of he"w.
Poonintioc Pvoetso
PoP!i.tioc so yea  2000 - Current popi.mtioo. roetoeore basec to                    MOUSUSS
175 total p-tulatiso by sge cad ceo and toe-r menIsty and fertilty                 vrSic Is  of H-ucenold ipe hesosorhsool)-ttl P.,e.  odnr.-
votes  frojotisopsosm-ee  for mortality vote, ocmrsae of thrce                   A  -onehld oco1st  ofgrop of loin odal  wet ehe  _lvmgqatrso
leei  oouoo  lifo copeotany nt tich--bsec.asg cito ~ovetryn                      these osio  -.1s   A horder or loogee fly Pv my cot ho bonisoo  it too
Prev P opto 1-000  level, cad female ilfe e-pecteny otahoi-og at                      hoosehoic for otatlwtieel pysrpeeo
77'  e-e  Ihis pormenter  for fevtility rat, also have toree ieveio             Averse omrof Remsoo  her I.-n - -tot.]  -OMo  and rua.- Aoerogeowoo-
atcngeo itei  fertility aotoros-g to  ooeieve  and past                      ofpospr re   .n sn   rbso, sod rural occupied osvstoa.  iriios
solid  oleoisgpefrm   ..Ech  .octry io thgo eesgoed one of these                      espectively.  Duellisga. eIoud  non-peroaet strutures sod -oo.it,cP...             o
oboe2 somb-sti    of  mertaity  M.c fevuility treodi for  Ar1oiodo... to Slsotr-ost  tocroen  of uoi1i.s  -cotal uI,a nod roor   -  os
ouose.-                                                                               sessional Uceligs  _st  eietvsoimty   _losgqufer   spe-cotegsos
St.ttocssytonso-tiot - . So    ottolory poplatoos them i, ns g-ouh                      total,  brh.s and mrura  d-eilig   v.espotively.
ooe toe ,,vh rste o   o eanI to too desti rate, sod ab   the agt
strutur  vemoc  c-sooan. This is  ohieved only after fertility votes              0PUEAT505
-             -ot  toth   vep noeet  -ve  of unit net reProductiss rate, onet    Adjucted E-nroloent Rotoo
cot--crtilt of cas     _rroce    -Itef  ea-tly,  The st.,,oosry pops-              Pes      coi-ttl   aesd fomi    Q.Gros  totol, sale  Is f-ome,r c-e.'1-
_ioir  osc  _s  cotsond sothe sIs  ftrpr.tested  hoharoo-tericisme   fnloe   otepsoysve  opretgeo   em iepees
oftepPi      sici the yeor 2000, soc tie rmt  of ..eoise of fertility                    school-age popuatoc..;  -oLenlys incldes oh      Lre     ed 6-u1 fet sot
rat  torpaeeticldjusted for 01ffereto lengths of prsmrp education; Icr oove    ith
leer.  aior   -oosis  ovah- - The pear  h.e. statoary population                          uiversal  duasio e eofegt soy esoed 100 perceo  55cc, etme psole
lose coo cost vemosed                                              ar~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e. beosd r sov --the officio]. som-ci 0g
twlsict te-ity                                                                         itodoyt soot r.-, toal sal  so  fMae   - cMpted a   1  c   coct
eyo. . -YR-yosr poPoolosios per oquar  stocstrS  s-eotre.) of                    euaionr       Ise  aties  foryaso   pprove  prss-y ottott
oooe.l ares                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p-ivdes general  -cotoo..al, or tenher troling  ibotrocoss-  or pupils
Per so  w.ori-rtitrsI lor  - Comeqtec as shoot foe  griclt-orl Iond                       usualy sf 12 to 17 peace of Me;  -crresod-m   sour sean..e g-eerlly
Poacoatis die  truoure (erccs) -Childreon (0-1i'.-pst), oorkoc-sge9              Voostional tcwrolident speroeto.      eodr)-Octce    sttlic   !".0( '0
is-os yooe), sos  etive 5 st  Pen  sod ovr) ac peresotgec of did-yea               trss ,-duotrioa,  Pr other                  prorm ehcopate sccepeosrtly o  a
p     19.atoo  it, 1970, cad 1977 daa...etmnc  fsocmy  ntttso
poo,csttc  Groch Rte ttrce t)-tota  -Abonsa  re-th ratmo of total mid-           Popsi-tabrrto   run=odwonsp-  oa.tdst   ooldo
rest posoc.i_tco  for  1950_&OG  l000-70, so  1970477.                                    pr-mry- ad eson -y cvl  divided my sais f tesohees  ite-ore
Goslto   rooth Pate (Pe-en) - uban -ocAW.M  growth ratesof orso s-pending I.le.i
popolmti... for 1950-cM,  9OG-7O, sod 1970-7.                                          Adult literacy rat   oren)-literate adulto  (shie so reac  Id -.rset.n
CruoPit  Ot   oc .tcosd) - Aeousi 2be  birth. per thousso  of aid-                           I peoentege of tota  adult populatics sgsd it Yeor  son over
year vopulstioc          MO 17, sos 1977 bets.
Irude S.tah Mate  per thousand) - AAtuo  deatho per thoosono ci mo-pet                CO-Sr
t-pUleticon  1000, 1970, soc 1977 oats.                                               Paoee  Core  oc  hosn  oo-tim                  Ps..ecger cas  c-mpr-e  -co.o.r
Gross Meprodotion RtettiMoesg pr     tior of dootes --        oa  cill toot               t..nhg ies. thon esct peso;tolsssolom,hsemsd olt
it~ he  rco-ml -eproc..tv  period if sh.e.tpe-eeot  pres..ot Me-vece.
op_fs_ fertility intent t-cali  fiv-pta- -ceage  coding it 19i,                      badis PRoebvrer  (tec t       duccooiio;-All type, of recesore  frso   .di.
1972, too 1975.                                                                         brscset   eea   oio Pee thoueso  of pepssioc_  _oolda  icli.eniec
Fooily PlIsci" P- OccIor - M           to l tosance, - Amcs.  canmr ci                    v--sre is countries so  so yeses ches.  egtat             of  -sos  sesIni.
-eetors of Mirthconrol deics   oer tupoee of ctosoal  sols,                             effect; dass for vecec.t pests to  sot be opaaiasta...-tt  ccr
'soil,Ploosio - L etet  ev-e  of coroed -oms  - Perce-.sgm   f esrrsd             7 TeVeeocetuss sv,ct,sinc                  - GIVroov    fsrbo.        at ,oort
soe,o   bi-ctorsg ago (il-s  yJr...t trhoovI   tie                                uis   e  huso    ouois  occuhe  t1ioceed TV eroesterloooutrie
-: el enoses  umecis sen   g   ru.sd is peae ohec regiotratice of 7V ses  seo  effect.
tseepser  irclatoo  tee tiusdpeceotilot I- ih-s the sersge oro.to
'505 155  NtoTiPtC                                                                          of  sail  genra Ioere  sepoe  *dfie  s   pro Ica  P.sint
itoe  of Foc o-   octom0e  fotm  lbO-l- -1110           cdec ofpr  sit                     tottd prsem,rily to reoordong gener... stun.  Ic is  -oos-eve  Op to  b"Il'
scoiprottio  fnlfodomdioc    outo  voride  utd sd                                   if it mpona  ot least four tim_c 5 wets-.d_L.JS.oLae  Idk
feted sod to    sdeodr poor  -i., Cofditite cover promay goouo                        fi-es Ao-. Attentan -c   ep 3505teYos  - bEo.d -o the  -bmreeottcos-
e.g.ougvooe isttd  f sUoda) v~hso  see  dible en     .saso      tr-ets            ccidrn   h   e,soohgsoioon   oo-v-nsea   o   c,i
e.g  tofeesodte  ar  -coIced).  Aggregatr crtdot-o  of e.-t cntus                 Qhnto.
booieds Aot oatoi  -reege ords prite  -esghts.-
Per osoit. cocciy of-oniri- .   -etc  of rowireoot   - Cooptssd from                10.00  FORfE
voergyeouivbte   f tep' fooc stptIidre   v-0hi  ic o-tuty peropt                oa  ao   oc   tcoon   dsoson-vlo  sotto- pe                 -s . icldi.soe
per Map.  A-cailsoe  supie  soPr1I-eoet- p-odstssm, emporto  es                       fre  sod.icolYt-  "tooessigoieso,ouet,eo    mic.t
coprto  sd otne   issto.  Pet spplio mcc,hrssa  feed, e-eh,                           il Mrou Pcutries are tot bonabhi..
u-at-ot  oohi fosd ;vc-e-in,aoteeisierhso.Pue-                                      eml  per- eo--~  Pel   nor fore sope-ttegc of total !idor frte.
tent  sere vtiated 1by FAMrbased tt paqenicig-ivl oodo for teoi Aal                   ps:trt.oeott    1.0 rmfrc  to frleiog, forectey. hosting sod
actioioy sod 0051t0 -ooideig eotr,sese  temperstor-, hoop -tigh-L,                    fieh r.ssspere   g    f t.ota  la1bor froe.
ag   oie    'orobti-o of pcouiasi-, sod slios..oc i pcvcet foe             s.odotry ioteoett( - laho- fsro  sooso,vntutc                   . oofourt-.g
1oItentorsl   ee.tie --trii ,  -.,e sod got 5  Percentage of total lsbo Pr 7re
Pernits s-ooly, of protoio  ovgac Per dwo, - Protr.o-tostot .1 Per                 .0rioo       ts   t~ tptr ct -   tt al   ae    sfml   iari-pacioo  or
osoito cot sup~~Pl As oo  per oey. Set soppiy orf Mod is  --dor  sonttitrt ae  -tpotoss   ca,n                                    o   osl.os   oc   sco
Soiroto-to for I1] scort    tsistdby GiDA pro-o  for                           - e,ts0e  of total, -lo sod f tale psiltono          gi  -seve    _rosvip
tociono sliousoce to ti gvsmo of ~toto  protei  Per soy sod 20 gcan  of      1000, I T, cad 1979 data.  Thes   r    fl    aitoso    oe  efeto
anima  sod Pilot Proton,, of uhtich ii gris  esuld be animal protein.                 age-sec strucur  cf tht peuation, and Iog tim  trend.  A fee eatimatee
These  tot,odood.oare Ioce  thon th.ee tf 75 gram  of total prutei  sod               ore .fr tsoicoi sucs
25 grae  of -oita  p"teic  o so avrage for the ca1rd, Propose d by fAO              Eco-iabo  e7oecyRti-      Rtaco  of population wooer i  sod b  sd veer to
icthe Third WlrId  -od S-oe,                                                        tebo  fr s  age group of 15-co pears.
Pe cPsts o         -tt   oopy fros ons-l oo vlise  - Prot-s  supply of food
Chi.  sisAr(tt.ft,Rte0vtcuad                                losoaeths per tioccc       Peoetceo  P tonse . Inom    toht, iocah and "Ac            - Pecesod. by riocet
.0 ag  gecc  -  yeaIr,,yt to  chlie  so this sgt group: for moet dve-Iz prec-n, -iciost  PM pr..o, peoree  20 peneot, sod poores  leG0 percent
ce, E-cttany tt Oceto peers) - Aotroe -osoer ofpoef .-            lieitttdhoooodvrs Inocte Itot  53S0 Per O ota- ocbe  soc rurl
resososig ohi;rtb;ibyM,  777. sd i7.ot.                                        Ab,Issut  povrey  coa   evli  coat Pt - levelk- betobsoc 5oiMal-
ttfstoocrooloc Int   per totosac) - ooldetso  infants wooer Pst                  cotriti....y ctquat  diet PIuseoeta   co-odePsrmooa to
year of ag  ver to laoiio  births.                                                      mfrdi
oosto Smfv W-se  tPer-t of Sp,oitstt -_total, tiia  os, - oal-                      EstimtdPesoePovrt  Lntome-              t    5   e   nis      ra   o   aa
Icteo Propirtotal. ovsoicd nata  isLvsoslF"eot                                      5-lvooeptet-ien    ,,  iate-tte  ofr soraee   o -tt
_of  cater supply (incldes tremoco  orf.oe caters or OOtrateo but                       pero...al It-om   of one ..-tiry. Uerso icve  is wertoedfet  toe rural level
-oocteiotod cater tac  no that from  ro-tetoo borehlet, etrioge,                        s:th sjotetfor cigoer c-t of lioung               -boio- res
as  tni 1r wil ( s  per-cessge  of their re-costoe popoltiooo   oT.             Motooted Fotul.. coh- it M.Ico b.Ii'ot,   c  Icoe evl  pecPt              rbnad
asoinse     piblis foiatoin or o-tiod -c located cot more thisntl-eco   fp.isioubncdorl)ss  r    nouepo
22mter fromh     h sous  ma  bot ocoidered os veing sitio reaonble
asec- f _ts  0000.  in rura  aes  reaoosh..le as-o  -nud inpiy
tttst tie houseIos for meshern 51 tit housocd do cot Moot to opns sElsoo  sod OoS.i- laps Diotosc
i,cpropotihoate par  of the di- =o fethbsg the family. .5eter needo                                                       Ecnoic Ane.lyaia and Profeoctioss Sep-rtoet
As4guot 1979



-30-
ANNEX I
Page 4
Icua                        P-timated         19860-   1965-    193             Av.V
Av. 1967-69  1972/73a  1974/75  1-9=76/7            178               16        90       17             196761974/75 1O77/78
XATI3I(AL ACC                                                                       1777             16 T7              17
In Couutazmt 1972-1973 Prices & Exchange Rate             Averp.Bae                             As Percent of IDI
Grosz Domestic Produact           o,012    2,B]3      6,514       7,255             -7533                      3.        b.vt1         9835   101.8   101.1
-       ains5 fro   Terms Of Tae ()          89               .117        4148                -88                                               1.5    -.1.8    .1.1
GosT,mestic incomea            67!O      5 8~33    6,7         7Y:T07             7`74             5.6      2.5       5.8          100.0   100.0   100.0
Import (Incl. 993)                   879      747       703         30671                            20.6      6.8       0.7           14.4    11.0    10.2
Bmors   imnort cawaity)-   598         369       197         243                315           12.3   .14.6       -3.2            9.8      3.1      4.1
Benuce Gap                           215       378      30-6        2-63              7                                                 4.6    7-       57!
Conssmption Expenditures           5,668    5,817    6,404        6,764              7,521            5.7      3.6       5.2           92.9   100.1    97.1
investment   )1lincl. stocks)    714          394       499         660                700           1.3.3     8.8      12.2           12'.9     7.8      9.0
Domestic Savings                     433        16        -6        343                294            4.3    10.0       72.0             6.6    -0.1      2.9
National Sav-ings                    416        32       10         378                279            8.7    20.5       56.3            7.1      0.2      3,6
9MBCHAIEDISE TRADE                           Aznual Data at Current Prices                                                             As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital goods                       .       100       135         227                318                      .       22.9              .     16.8    23.5
Intermediatei goodB 6Lfusils)    .          176       386         270                459                      .       21.9             .      30.4    34.1I
%uel$ and relxted materials
o' which: Petroleu                .        23       155         141                166              .        .      48.5                    10.0     12 
.CotciLtrgn. g od                           4                                      1,490.                                             _       42.8    31: 
etaots [if)March.                     -134912.2                                                                                      100.0   1.00.0
Erorts
Primary' rodwits Wml. fuels)        .       143       119         220                203              .        .       7.0             .      40.9    40.8
5',ils and related materials
of which: Petroleum
Manufacured godB                        195       239         240               294..                     .       8.5              .     j4       5.
7ntfa Mcoh.IF  EBiports (fob)     U~T                                                497.9                                                   10.    100.0
Tourism  and B,raer  Trace                                                                                               9                   0.      100
Merchandise Trade Indices                      Averae 19372-73   130
Ehport Prict Index                 61       10        13          118               137              .        ..      6.5
Import Price Index                 52       100       215         189               18SO                      .      12.5
Terms of Trade Index              l18       100        62          62                76               .       .      -5.6
Exports Volume index              148       100        80         115               107              .        ..      1.5
VAL1Z .Z.DEIR BY SECTO             Annual. DaLta at 1972-73 Prices end Exchane BaLtes              Average AnnuLal G;rovth Bates       A. -Percent of' Total
Agricultur,                     3,542    3,403    3,712        4,020              4,318               .       .       4.8             59        59       57
industry naMining                 420       412      466         582                642              .       ..       9.2              7         7       8
2.050    1,4       21          2.442              2.645                               7.4            3'        34       35
T ts...                         6.012    5.663    6,324         7,044             7,605                               6.1            100       100      '00,
PUBLIC FI.7AIE!                                                                                                                          An Pei      
C-~r-nt   ~-eipts317               280       469         563               66.5              .        .      34.2           5.3       7.2      s.d
. xDennitires             365       364      419         464                553              .        .      16.8           6.1       6.4      7.1
%r .j~ ;A.-ngE                 -4       -64        s0o         9                 112                                            -0.8       0.8      1.4
. Oile Sector              .          .        .            ..                                .       .
F   :1  ctor In'restumt      421       239       248         516                54.                       .      1.             7.0       3'.8'    6'.6
us $ milliona L-i
I'JRBETT DCGNIT1ARE LDETAII.S                           Actual                 gstlmted       DETA-IL ON                           At Av. 1977/78 P and ER
As   Tctal. Current Expend.)             1969/70 1972/7   947   2~!            1977/7        PhLrC s=wTR                        TWO-year Plan   % of Total
Education                                          1.       145      12.4        1.3.0      TNVETOEIT PROGRAM4                        1978779 - i17E-/so
Otner Locial. Serolc--.                             4.5      3.6      4.2         4.9       Social Sectors                              287        13.2                       -
Agriculture amd                                                                             Agriculture                                 600        27.6
Other Econfmic Services                  .         5.0    12.5      6.6         7.0        Industry and Mining                        380        17.5
Asmc.nistration and Defense                .        70.4    57.1    61.5         61.2        Power                                      314        14.4
Other                                      ..       4.6    1.3    1.-            13.9       Transpor-t and co=mniceticns                387        17.8
Total Current Expenditures                        100.0   1.0 100.0             100.0       Ither                                       206         9.5
_____________________________________ _____________________________________ _____ ToT otal EE x pen ditures22     1174       100.
SELECTED -.V.l.lATORS                               1960-      1965-        1973-              FIXASCING
,Calculated from 5-yewr averaged data)             1965       1970         1976
Average ICOR                                           .       577         0-.-89                 Public S..ctor Saving                   557        23.6
ImPort Elasticity                                     ..       1.29        1.11                   Program aid counterpart                 838        38.6
Margi.nl Dmastic Sa7ings Rate                          ..      0.22        0.05                   ForeIan Project Aid                     605        27.8
Marginal National Savings Rate                         .       0.35        0.05                   0th   (1.001. dom. borroing)            174         8.0
Total Financing                      2,174       1D0.0
IA.? FORCE ANDS                                  Total Labor Force                                  VaueAde Pr, Worker  797 . 7            1 rices o, Ex   ates)
OUTPUT PER WOR1U.                  In Mi.llions        % o2f Tot-al         19 61 - 73         in U.S.Dol dr  Pe,rc.nt of Aver,ge               " 19 '70-7
1960/61  --           9 06    297.     Growth Bate            19 69/70   1972/73    19 69/70   19 72/73   Growth Bite
Agriculture                        16.1        20.5      85        78          2.0                .         166         ..76
Industry                            1.0         1.8       5         7          5.D               .          229         ..         105
Service                             1.8         3.9      10        15          6.7               .          484         ..         222
18.9  26.2    100  100   2.8               248         2~~ ~ ~~~~            ~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~1-7  100  100o  -4.9
-not applicable         -  il or negliibe
not available         --lees than half the smallest unit showo
Note: Figures are on fiscai year basis (July I-JiinW 90).Dees prior to 1972/73 pertain to erstwhile East Pakistan.
1  PIan targets.



- 31 -
ANNEX I
Page 5
i~  0P PAUITJI buRr L  ASSANGI AnD D
18.2t %l0 uil7ln 0i U.S. do7a           t Uct t pricwA1
lottual                        Estlited       Pro1jttd        Average APau l Dro-th RatL
7Y 187e  If72173  1919!75  191P11    1977/78        1978/79                  1974 - 1978
SIMIAN  BAlANCE OF PA7ITS
ISxprts (iDoU  NS7S)                       5U           369           358          S29           56$            648                      13.7
worto  (mel. BPS)                          4739        -747        .1 402         -957        -1,427        -1,779                        9.8
b67    ncT7=-78          -1   -428                                -1 .1                         7.4
Intereat (n t)              I
Dirwt ln      sefft..t  nco_s   I
Workera' Rittnoc             I               .           45             7           66            83             93                         -
Current Trf;w;k(  rt)                                 -                                                                                   0.
ilancW9e                                 o            nGrotAco                              8.-2333 -I03 _l   -I D3 1
Prionte Direct Th.eaotn                                                                                                                  16
Official Capital ant.                                   4U2           397          229           36t            400                      13.6
Public   .T Lona                                         7            527          273           411            695                       5.2
N6t Disbur.si nts                                                   -25          -16           -5D            -54                         -
Othet  IbLT Loam
Di.bursa_t.
Net DisburN 0t5                              .44._ 3.
Capital Tranaoction-  n * i                   .        -205           334          -44            16            _33
chaug. i. Net R1.-    C- itm.et.)                       -20          -196          -W0            24             25                                Act-al Lend Period                   OEtit3ted
Gross tease.v .  (snd patio4)                ..         107           263          293           269        DEP                              197211  -9741n7    1977b6  i7M 7   1977/7B
Public Debt ut.  t Disbursed       229      1,366      1,912     2.065       2.536
ORANT' AND I  DA  iIUETtNfTS 2
OfMiotsl Irants 1 3r nt-like                             514           368         338           452           IOter,St o- Public Debt            -         10        21         25          27
Repa.ySrett o- Public Debt         -         25         78        17          51
ublic MhLT Loans                                                                                             Total Public Debt Db roice          -        35         99         42          78
TO                                        ..                          -            -             - 4ta., Debt    X_rvice (net)
TDA                                        .           68           150           50           211          Total Debt 5-ecvl    (oot)         
Oth-r M8ltilat-eol                                      11           87           8,,taor74(
Go.eaata204                                                         678          200           376       9Drd...     p           9e.    
Supplicr a                                             55            17            2            11
FiP  nci-l Iostitntiot..                                -             -            5            13         Publi.  Debt Service                        9.8        22.4       7.9        13.7
Pubd.                                      TL                         -                                    Ti t _  0.1 Debt Servie.
Public  ea. e.a..                                              -                                           T -S- Dior.ct t-aset. Ie...                  *
toa Lobli  lI'llY  e.                              338           932        --ltei          N1
T-tal WbIl. tiLLT L-                                Average Terea of Public Debt
Actual Dobt Outstniding on J.a 3Q, 1979                            DIt. 6s S Prior Year D0DD                  2.0         1.5        1.4         1.3
_r_l_  DM____                                           Pdro0-                        t                         Aoert. an 6 Prior Yeaw D0OD                 5.0        5.7        0.9         2.5
Worcld B.ek
D4A                                                  554                       217                          7R5RD Debt Out. & Disburoad
Other 6.ltllateral                                     64                        2.5                          "  a9  P Public Debt 08D            -      4.0         3.0        2.7         2.2
Sevaromento                                         1.746                      68 4                              as S Public Dbt Sertee r -                          1.6        7.5         4.4
neenlion                                              111                       4.3
Finoieal Destitotionr                                 26                        1.0                        I4A Dsbt Out. & Disbursed
El.d4                                                   -                          -                            as S Public Debt O4D            7.1     18.7        21.0       22.7        21.7
Pub3ic Nebt, -..                                                                                                as % Pb2i. Debt Serice            -       2.3         2.0       7.5         4.9
Total Public MlLT Debt                                  6100.0
Other MnLT Debts
Short-tser  Debt (disb. oly)
-nt applicable                                                     a   taff eastint
ot  vst.7b3le                                                      - oil or negligible
.not  vaiJbl. sepaately                                           --  lees thn h lf the
but imc7udod in total                                                 soallet -it h5bN9
No.ceebor 1978



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1980)
US$ Million       /a
Amount
Loan or                                                       (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                         Un-
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                 Bank      IDA   disbursed
One loan and 12 credits fully disbursed                     54.9    428.28       -
339    1972   Bangladesh   Cyclone Area Reconstruc-
tion (replaces Credit
No. 228-PAK of 1971)                  25.00      0.94
340    1972   Bangladesh   Chandpur Irrigation II
(replaces Credit No.
184-PAK of 1970)                      13.00      0.36
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                              14.00      1.72
343    1972   Bangladesh   Telecommunications (re-
places part of Credit
No. 145-PAK of 1969)                   7.30      0.16
407    1973   Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                 21.00      3.52
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)                   25.00      4.03
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                               7.50      4.16
424    1973   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport
Rehabilitation                         8.70      0.21
487    1974   Bangladesh   Second Telecommunications                 20.00      9.24
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                       62.00    21.27
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                                15.00      8.81
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                        27.00    18.55
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                      22.00    12.98
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training           12.00      7.31
622    1976   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance II                    7.50      3.46
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                         16.00    13.83
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                    25.00      8.50



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
US$ Million       /a
Amount
Loan or                                                       (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                         Un-
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank      IDA  disbursed
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                         16.00   13.91
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                         21.00   18.59
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research                    10.00    8.23
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II                  5.00    3.89
752    1977   Bangladesh   Imports Program VI                        75.00    3.11
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                                      21.00   16.84
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II                      25.00   24.96
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry II                    7.00    6.97
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research                      6.00    5.55
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control                19.00   17.58
866    1978   Bangladesh   Imports Program VII                       75.00    4.64
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III                  10.00    9.88
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries                      6.00    5.84
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training                       25.00   25.00
921    1979   Bangladesh   Second Population &
Family Health                          32.00   32.00 /c
934    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Greater Khulna
Power Distribution                     28.00   27.93
941    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh 2nd Dacca Water
Supply & Sewerage                      22.00   21.93
944    1979   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Fertilizer Imports             25.00    9.19
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                          25.00   25.00 /b
964    1979   Bangladesh   Second Highway                            10.00        10.00 7
980    1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program VIII                      50.00   50.00 lb
990    1980   Bangladesh   Low-Lift Pump                             37.00   37.00 /b
1001   1980   Bangladesh   Second Chittagong Water
Supply                                 20.00   20.00 /b
Total,                                                     54.9  1,326.28  517.10
of which has been repaid                                  0         0.40    -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                             54.9  1,325.88
Total undisbursed                                           0       517.10  517.10
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
lb   Not effective.
Ic   Became effective in April.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
B.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Multi-Sector Project
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project;  US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date:  January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
After a very difficult start, the project is expected to be com-
pleted by early 1980, about four years behind schedule. Parts A, F, and G
(Inland Water Transport, Coastal Fisheries, and Cyclone Warning System) have
been completed for some time. IDA financed portions of Parts D and E (Primary
and Feeder Roads) have been substantially completed. Some feeder roads orig-
inally scheduled to be financed under the Credit have been financed by World
Food Program as part of an agreed program to meet cost escalation. The
Government has requested WFP finance for additional feeder roads. This
request is currently under consideration. Work on the completion of Part B
and C (Telecommunications and Cyclone Shelters) is reported to have been
substantially completed, except for some minor telecommunications equipment
scheduled to arrive shortly. The credit is expected to be fully disbursed
by June 30, 1980.
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:  US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: July 31, 1980
The project provides flood protection to a gross area of about 130,000
ac and irrigation, by means of low lift pumps, to about 60,000 ac. Drainage
and water control is provided by a main regulator in the south of the project
area on the S. Dakatia River and irrigation water is provided by a pumping
station to the north of the area on the same river. Both structures are comple-
ted and the project includes improved agricultural extension, equipment and
vehicles, housing and technical assistance. Cropping intensity is expected to
rise from 165% to 230%.
After a poor start, due to war, natural disasters, delays in land
acquisition, and weak administration and management, the project has been
substantially completed except for arrival of some additional maintenance
equipment, completion of about six miles of channel remaining to be improved
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
as well as 2,000 ft of borrow pit canal, held up by a land dispute. Project
benefits have been obtained over part of the area and production has increased
from 69,000 tons in 1976/77 to 97,000 tons in 1978/79 and at full development
in 1982/83 it is expected to be up to 203,000 tons. The fisheries improvement
program in the project area (financed under Credit 605-BD) is making satisfac-
tory progress.
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
All 3,000 deep tubewells have now been drilled and will be commis-
sioned in FY80. Approximately $1.2 million from the project and $0.7 million
from the Extension and Research Project (Credit 729-BD) will be consolidated
to fund the Command Area Development (CAD) of the deep tubewells in the
Northwest of Bangladesh.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: September 30,
1980
There has been some improvement in the Bangladesh Agricultural Dev-
elopmeit Corporation (BADC) component; the last installment of processing
equipment will be installed for processing the current season's wheat crop;
all of the revised program of civil works and land development with the
exception of the recently agreed 8,000 tons of additional storage has been
completed. BADC will undertake the construction of these stores on a priority
basis for completion by December 31, 1980. The Seed Certification Agency
(SCA) and Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) components are behind
schedule due to insufficient budgetary release of funds. The main positive
aspect of the project continues to be the success of the contract grower
scheme. Wheat seed sales remain good, but paddy seed sales are well below
appraisal targets. The main problem preventing increased paddy sales are poor
marketing arrangements and lack of suitable improved seeds for multiplication.
Improvements in seed distribution and marketing are in hand and marketing
consultants have been engaged for this purpose. The Seed Certification Agency
continues to be weak, however, and an intensive training programme is currently
under preparation. Future propsects have improved as a result of GOB's recent
strong commitments to stimulate foodgrain production and support intensive
seed production efforts. Closing date at present is September 1980 and
extension to June 30, 1981 would be decided once 1980/81 ADP provisions are
known for SCA and BRRI.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project civil works continue to make good progress and are expected
to be completed within six months of schedule. Poor quality work is being
remedied by contractors at no cost to the project. The 60 primary pump
units are in various stages of arrival and about 30 are in store and ready for
issue. The target for the FY80 boro season is 1,100 pumps in the field or
44,000 acres planted.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is now making good progress having been behind schedule
due to initial delays in hiring project consultants. The consultants for the
irrigation portion of the project began work in September 1976, but their
effectiveness was limited by delays in procurement of vehicles and equipment
and in the assignment of local consultants to assist in the design work. This
has been resolved. After a period of good progress, project civil works have
again slowed down due to shortages of local Taka and a payment dispute with
the contractors. The payment dispute was settled in January 1980 and works
have resumed at normal pace.
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project:  US$16.0 million Credit of
June 3 1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project was designed as a pilot application of the rural devel-
opment approach pioneered at the Comilla Academy in the mid-sixties. It
aims at introducing accelerated agriculture and rural development in seven
thanas in Bogra and Mymensingh Districts. It provides financing inter alia
for rural roads, minor irrigation, buildings, storage, rural credit and
strengthening of rural cooperatives. Initially, despite some teething prob-
lems, the project was progressing satisfactorily. But by June 1977, the
following weaknesses became apparent: (i) lack of cooperation between the
various ministries and agencies involved; (ii) lack of effective organization
and ineffective supervision of the project by the implementing agency, the
Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP); (iii) basic deficiencies in the
cooperative system (complex regulations and procedures); (iv) inadequate
training of project personnel; and (v) conflicting government policies in the
field of rural credit. In November/December 1977, IDA, in association with
IRDP, undertook a comprehensive review of the project, and an Aide Memoire,
setting out an action program to overcome these problems, was presented to the
Government in December 1977.
The Government has made a concerted effort to implement the recom-
mendations of the Aide Memoire prepared in December 1977. A full-time Project
Manager has been appointed who is assisted by three assistants responsible for
credit, cooperatives and training, respectively. International recruitment
is being used to obtain for IRDP technical assistance in project management,
supervision, and monitoring. At the field, two district managers, for Bogra
and Mymensingh, have been appointed to work full time on project activities.
Budgetary and procedural changes have been introduced to enable participating
government agencies to be fully responsible for the implementation of the
project's subcomponents. This, together with a revitalized coordinating
committee of Secretaries of the Ministries concerned has greatly improved
cooperation. Implementation of the physical aspects of the project such as



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
rural works is proceeding satisfactorily but project beneficiaries are, so
far, yet to receive tangible benefits in the form of increased farm inputs or
farm equipment. A proposal has recently been approved to amend the Credit
Agreement to finance incremental fertilizer needs for the project instead of
incremental credit for fertilizer.
Cr. No. 724    Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
There has been satisfactory progress in procurement of engines ana
pumps, tools and equipment, office equipment and part of the transports. Sales
of shallow tubewells will be to both individuals and groups. The project has
procured in its first phase 2,050 pumpsets which have been distributed by
January 1980. Procurement for the second order of about 5,000 shallow tube-
wells will be based on farmers' preference system. The construction of work-
shops is proceeding with only minor delays.
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation Project: US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983
Overall progress, judged by the progress of construction of the Feni
Regulator which is the single most important component of the project, is about
18 months behind schedule due to delays in recruiting the Implementation Assis-
tance Team (for the contractor) and weak project management (Water Development
Board and its Consultants). After many attempts to remove bottlenecks and
improve the management, the performance is beginning to improve. The contrac-
tor has resumed the construction and expects to place a substantial quantity
of concrete for the regulator this season. The revised cost estimate indicates
possibility of higher project cost than given in the Appraisal Reports due
mainly to necessary design changes and additional access roads as well as
price escalation.
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date:
April 30, 1981.
Project implementation has improved. Most of the vehicles have been
procured and Phase I civil works construction is nearing completion.  Contact
farmer attendance has increased by 600 to 100% in most areas. Main achieve-
ment of the extension service has been in expanding wheat cultivation through-
out Northwest. Key problem remaining is the revision of Project Proforma (PP)
to provide adequate funds for completing remaining civil works. The Ministry
of Agriculture has prepared a draft Project Proforma (PP) for Ministry of
Planning approval.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 765    Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Jute Project has been very successful in getting the project
farmers to use higher quantities of fertilizer, resulting in higher yields.
Partly as a result of this, raw jute stocks are high, but the price of deshi
(white) jute variety (70% of area) is low.  Even then, the average project
farmer would make a profit, but non project jute farmers would not, and some
of latter are expected to switch to paddy production as was envisaged in the
project. To maintain jute production levels, further intensification of the
production in the project area will be necessary. Steps for ensuring such
intensification was discussed and agreed with GOB.
Cr. No. 787    Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project actions are proceeding steadily: Batch I of construction
contracts have been awarded; for batch II, administrative approval has been
accorded and for batch III, PWD is preparing the estimates. Evaluation report
for purchase of pest control equipment has been finalized and consultant for
pest control has been selected. Consultant for the monitoring cell has not
yet been appointed.
Cr. No. 828    Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The overall progress of the project is satisfactory. Construction
contracts have been awarded for Bangladesh Agricultural Institute (BARI)
research stations and Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC) head-
quarters building. Procurement of building materials and equipment is in
progress. Reports from BARC Technical Working Groups (outlining research
subprojects), a National Research Plan, and a Five-Year Plan for BARI have
been produced and reviewed by IDA. A total of 16 Ph.D students have been
placed in overseas universities. The appointment of a consultant for research
monitoring has not yet been made. The unsuccessful in-country M.Sc. training
program should be redesigned.
Cr. No. 864    Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Effectiveness was delayed primarily due to delays by the Govern-
ment in approval of the project budget and staffing plan. In Chenchuri
Beel (CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) two regulators have been completed and
in Brahmaputra Right Bank (BRE) a large program of contracts has been prepared,
which are scheduled to start in 1980.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 890    Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date: February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
This credit has only recently been declared effective. Fisheries
and engineering consultants have been engaged and are expected to commence
*          field operations by April 1980.  A detailed Project Action Timetable has been
prepared.
Cr. No. 955    Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project; US$25.0
Million Credit of October 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Effectiveness of this credit has been delayed due to delays in
Government approval of the project budget and establishment of the joint
project fund.
Cr. No. 990    Low Lift Pump Project:  US$37.0 million Credit of April 4,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK
and US, providing a total of about US$190 million equivalent in addition to
the IDA credit. Site preparation work including the necessary dredging and
filling was completed on schedule. However, based on the soil analyses under-
taken by two specialist consulting firms, further preparation of the site
was undertaken to protect the plant against earthquake risks. Currently the
project is about 32 months behind schedule due primarily to the additional
site preparation and initial slow progress in (a) placing orders for time-
critical items and (b) planning for construction. Due to the need for
additional site work, the delays and currency fluctuations, supplemental
financing was required. The required financing has now been obtained. The
soil compaction and foundation work has been completed and plant construc-
tion is now progressing satisfactory. Some additional delays are being
encountered due to delays in the manufacture and delivery of some materials,
but these delays are still within the margin for contingencies provided
in the schedule shown at the time of IDA supplementary financing.



- 40 -                    ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of March 31, 1980, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) has committed
about US$24.6 million from the credit, for 124 subprojects. Disbursements
were about US$16.5 million and Qualified Agreements to Reimburse letters
of credit (QAR) had been outstanding for US$2.5 million.
Cr. No. 752    Sixth Imports Program:  US$75 Million Credit of November 30,
1977; Effective Date: December 13, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980
As of March 31, 1980 disbursements were US$71.9 million and QAR
had been outstanding for US$1.4 million.
Cr. No. 825    Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
There has been good progress in training commercial bank staff, dis-
tributing circulars to commercial bank branches describing project procedures,
and advertising the availability of funds for small industry loans. The
Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implementing Banks have
developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed ahead of
schedule. Staff of the Small and Cottage Industries Corporation have begun
preparation of subsector and area studies for small industry promotion.
Cr. No. 866    Seventh Imports Program:  US$75.0 million Credit of
December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 8, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
As of March 31, 1980 disbursements were about US$69.3 million and
QAR had been outstanding for US$4.1 million.
Cr. No. 944    Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 million Credit of June 29,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
As agreed, fertilizer prices have been increased by an average
of about 28%. A staffing plan and administrative authorizations have been
completed for the provision of staff for the secretariate of the fertilizer
coordinating committee. Credit funds have been fully committed.
Cr. No. 980    Eighth Imports Program:  US$50 million Credit of April 4, 1980;
Closing Date: February 28, 1982
This credit is not yet effective.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 10
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407    Education Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project finances completion of the construction of the Bangla-
desh Agricultural University (BAU), building of five new and equipping of
eight existing technical institutes (polytechnics). The BAU component is
now 80% complete and is expected to be completed by December 1980. However,
construction has stopped since March 1979 due to lack of Taka funds. The
External Resources Division (ERD) of the Ministry of Finance informed the
Resident Mission that the allocation of the required funds (approx. 40 million
Taka) would be released in March 1980. In such case, the project could be
substantially completed by the current closing date, December 31, 1980. The
fellowship program is nearly complete. Civil works associated with the tech-
nical education component, although 30 months behind schedule are virtually
complete and the polytechnics are now operating. About 75% of all equipment
has been procured, installed and is being used by students. Project costs (in
dollar terms) are close to appraisal estimates due to currency devaluation.
Most local cost overruns are caused by taxes imposed on imported goods.
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1981
Implementation of civil works which until the end of 1978 was about
three months ahead of schedule had slowed down in 1979 due to shortage of
local funds. However Funds have now been made available and completion is
still expected within the Credit Closing Date. Training of teachers for the
Agricultural Training Institutes (ATI's) has been set back by transfer
of instructors to the extension staff due to downgrading of salaries.
Little progress has been made on the recruitment of technical assistance
experts, the development of revised curriculum, or the in-service training of
extension staff. The Bank is reviewing the project to determine the relevance
of the technical assistance component, since it appears that the studies of
Agricultural Extension Service (AES) seem to be no longer necessary after the
Training and Visit Sytem (TNV) of extension has been established.
Cr. No. 912    Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 million Credit of
May 31, 1979; Effective Date: November 2, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project has recently been declared effective after having met the
four conditions of effectiveness. The Project Implementation Unit manager and
architect are in post. All sites for project buildings have been made available.
The equipment and office furniture lists are under preparation and master lists
of Technical Training Center equipment are ready to be submitted for IDA appro-
val. Curricula in ten trades have been prepared at Technical Training Center
(TTC). Courses for 110 training officers in on-the-job training have been
concluded. Existing ILO/UNDP experts are assisting project development.



- 42 -             ~~~ANNEX II
- 42 -                     Page 11
Population Project
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 101
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of US$25 million equivalent in addition to IDA credit. Program performance
has improved; and the internal reorganization of the Population Control and
Family Planning Division (PCFPD), as recommended by the management study,
is underway. This reorganization will not be effective in improving program
implementation unless the PCFPD is able to: (a) fill its large number of
vacant technical, managerial and supervisory positions; and (b) simplify the
administrative, financial and recruitment procedures. Actions have been
assured by the Government on both counts. A program has been started for the
retraining of field workers which should improve their performance. While
the pace and quality of construction of 80 Family Welfare Centers, built
through community participation, has been encouraging, the progress on other
buildings in the project has been slower than expected. Due to the slow pace
of construction, disbursement of the credit has also shown less than expected
improvements.
Cr. No. 921    Second Population and Family health Project:  US$32.0
million; Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date: April 1,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This Credit has only recently been declared effective.
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The closing date of the credit has been extended to June 30, 1980,
by which time all works will be completed and the Credit is expected to be
fully disbursed. Reinstatement of shoulders on the Feni Bypass, opened to
public traffic on July 1, 1979, is virtually complete and repair of isolated
pavement failures was to be completed by the end of February 1980. Finishing
works on the RHD Headquarters building are nearing completion and the building
is largely occupied. The revised final report on the Surma River crossing
is still awaited. The arbitrators appointed to deal with the contractor's
claims on the Sitalakhya Bridge were unable to reach agreement and the matter
has now been referred to the umpire. No further problems are anticipated with
the project.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 12
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project:  US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Procurement of spare parts and equipment under the original credit
has been completed. Under the Supplementary Credit, two used lighterage
tankers and the new pontoon berth are being utilized for unloading of crude
oil at Chittagong for the Eastern Refinery.
The oil transfer operations have continued to show a marked improve-
ment over previous operations, due to the sustained drive and initiative of
the new BSC Technical Director, the tankers' crews efforts, the improved co-
operation between the respective agencies and the effective utilization of
the two mechanical engineers provided under technical assistance.
The total amount disbursed to date is US$8.25 million (97% of the
Credit). Processing of bills and submission of withdrawal applications for
the remaining balance of the credit are currently underway.
Cr. No 735      Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date June 30, 1980
The Credit became effective on March 13, 1978 three and a half
months behind the original schedule. Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels,
navigation aids and for hydrographic equipment, and for BIWTC cargo vessels
have already been prepared and most items agreed. All consultants' contracts
have now been signed and work is underway, after initial delays.
Cr. No 964      Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979; Closing Date June 30, 1984.
The Borrower has made good progress in calling equipment tenders and
in inviting proposals from approved short-listed consultants. Appointment of
consultants and ECNEC approval of the project proforma are conditions of
Credit effectiveness. Credit Agreement Effectiveness has been extended from
March 20, to June 30, 1980. No major problems are foreseen at this time.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 343    First Telecommunications Project:  US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Of the four microwave systems provided for under the project three
are completed and in operation. The fourth system required rebidding due to
price changes during the period when the project was interrupted by Bangladesh's



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 13
independence war. Thereafter there were delays due to building construction
and tower erection difficulties; it was due to be commissioned by December
1979, completing the project about four and a half years behind schedule. The
closing date was extended until June 30, 1980 to allow for retention payments.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The project is behind schedule largely due to delays in procurement,
civil works, and reduced output of the domestic switching equipment factory,
combined with difficulties in ordering such equipment and in completing local
construction/installation works due to budgetary difficulties. About two-
thirds of the Credit was committed up to October 1979. The remaining corres-
ponds to national trunk and international automatic switching equipment still
to be procured. TTB and Government have decided on the technique to be adopted
for such equipmient (not manufactured locally) and corresponding commitment is
to be made in 1980 for delivery by mid-1982. The rate of physical installa-
tions during FY1979 was about 13,000 lines, showing no improvement from the
previous year. A new ordinance for the Telegraph and Telephone Board (TTB)
was issued in February 1979 and the board was re-instated to function as a
"Government Board" effective from April 1979. The regulations governing the
functioning of the Board, its powers and responsibilities and relations with
the Government, have recently been drafted, and are being reviewed. Govern-
ment has stated that the decisions in this matter are being worked out actively
and should be made effective in early 1980. In the absence of satisfactory
accounts, it is difficult to assess the financial positions of the beneficiary,
but estimates indicate it may have to be improved, in particular in considera-
tion of TTB's present and future developnent requirements.
Technical Assistance Credit
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit
of April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Twenty-two subprojects have been approved for financing under this
credit thus committing the total amount of the credit. However, due to the
extremely slow rate of commitments during the early years of the credit, an
extension of the Closing Date will have to be considered to complete the
agreed subprojects. The subprojects financed are expected to have a signi-
ficant beneficial impact on strengthening IDA's lending program to Bangladesh.
Cr. No. 872    Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Implementation of this project has just begun, with 13 subprojects
totaling about $4.2 million having been approved. Seven further subprojects
totaling about $3 million have been approved in principle, and would be



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 14
expected to be committed within the next few months. The project is pro-
gressing well with no major problems.
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934    Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This Credit has only recently been declared effective. Consultants
have been appointed as scheduled to begin design work.
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941    Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
This Credit has only recently been declared effective. Consultants
have been engaged to begin design work as scheduled.
Cr. No. 1001   Second Chittagong Water Supply Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit
of April 4, 1980; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 46 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: Contract with consultants
signed June 1977
(b)  Agency which prepared project:  BCIC
(c)  Project first presented to IDA: July 1979
(d)  First IDA mission to review project:  July 1979
(e)  Departure of appraisal mision:  September 28, 1979
(f)  Completion of negotiations:  April 12, 1980
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:  90 days after signature
Section II:   Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:  Special Conditions
(a)  The Government would take all necessary steps to ensure adequate
provision of foreign exchange required for fertilizer plants'
raw materials, spares, catalysts, and chemicals (paragraph 55);
(b)  Three separate companies would be established to operate the
existing fertilizer plants, in accordance with a satisfactory
plan and timetable (paragraph 57);
(c)  A training plan would be submitted for IDA approval by December
30, 1980 (paragraph 58);
(d)  The three fertilizer companies would establish a program of
incentives for skilled fertilizer technicians in order to retain
such technicians (paragraph 59);
(e)  The Government would take appropriate steps to introduce orderly
procedures and schedules governing recruitment of fertilizer
industry technical personnel for overseas positions (paragraph
59);



- 47 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(f) The Government would at least annually review ex-factory
fertilizer prices in accordance with an agreed standard
(paragraph 63);
(g) BADC and the fertilizer companies would enter into agreement before
October 31, 1980 on arrangements for picking up fertilizer from
factories (paragraph 65);
(h) Alternatives for gypsum disposal and plan of action would be
reviewed with IDA by December 31, 1980 (paragraph 67);
(i) Special'conditions of effectiveness would be:
(i)' establishment of three fertilizer companies to operate
BCIC's existing fertilizer plants (paragraph 57);
(ii)  approval of the Project Proforma (paragraph 61);
(iii) signature of on-lending agreements (paragraph 61);
(j) Special conditions of disbursement would be:
(i)  satisfactory detailed fertilizer factory maintenance program
would be disbursement condition for spares, catalysts, and
chemicals component (paragraph 55);
(ii)  satisfactory training plan would be disbursement condition
for training component (paragraph 58);
(iii)  signature of consultants contracts would be disbursement
conditions for Ghorasal and Chittagong portions of plant
improvement component (paragraph 60).






:   40tt  0ta 4\0Ne'00  t; = St.5 0 .  t; ; 300 0  'BANCLADESHI 4
"h      .I N         i ;A                             LOCATtON OF FERTILIZER PLANTS
Tr          |'                                                                                   U e    >-> g   ,9,,$ ->  :.  :  t   .  :    *    Planned, FertilizerPlants
TIA,9                                              4                                          U    Existing Fertilizerplants,
2                                                    )-        , - h                                        Fertiittzer Plant Under Construction
.1  39:   '<            \                's )    s i>  J5Nott';''  fT CS i; i;  i t;  ;    ;9:     =      iPnnmery Roads
4-  -     Intbrnatione Bosndares 
3-,,i,,..,.,!.'..i.L,'                                                             L ft\.  <   ..Z-,  ..   . . . -
./n t                   Nctr;Kcn.                              S S *0    CI)N,,  .     i    .    rLHET
44             '       4   -_*                  0                          -MYMENSIH
Kolyonpi.,                                                     -  r                                      Pe;c sort~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P.
-  I              *.~~~~~~~~~ 
1 ' f X, 0 f 0 j S   R~~~~~~~~~~~I I- 
2tefloml1119tS & -   Itt di                  P           -      <         >gvl   K.R      \CI 1>    Mdtbp,v                      gIro  N 
.::tOr                 5     e b Trt  ayrvtntos2};g.-'- . -;ABNA                                          rt3:?2
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K>                                   >>A ~ <                t   JsCow garOLS )     
ESSORE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IY: N  D    A > gf,2 I r4: j   A-rF^^A                                                                                              , \ /LA     y0T 
0 <St .y          -WA    Ma-LADESH   5A                K                    \, X {3 lJ   M A
X~~~~~~t ;- Sj S,'   .\                                         o M3,o45 50n'.So  
kRI  ~     ~~ KAN t                             YOKt AKIA 112                  <'/   MJ           \                                         3I cn
Mhi In, a  re prepared byteKN  
the coornioeothreteeor1i                                                       9
2r  the yaport' to which it its he 
S'he *enoooatiopo used andth  sI
hounlow MIssown ont rhie-roap,
don-at 0*tA etc the per ftl
~World 4ank and, its aflae.es
A -o     -
-c            -                                         B~~~       ~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a y  o  Be nga
0    10  20  30  43  50                                                    BU M
or
Boy  ofdas                                                  0     4      0     n
Ico



