                                               59951
 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
          International Development Association




MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION

              IN RESPONSE TO THE

 INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT




                        PERU

      LIMA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
             (LOAN NO. 7209-PE)




                  February 23, 2011
           MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
                        IN RESPONSE TO
     THE INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT NO. 58832-PE

                                    PERU
                       LIMA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
                              (LOAN NO. 7209-PE)



Pursuant to paragraph 23 of the Resolution Establishing the Inspection Panel (IBRD Resolution
93-10 and IDA Resolution 93-6), attached for consideration by Executive Directors is
Management's Report and Recommendation in response to the findings set out in the
Investigation Report No. 58832-PE dated January 18, 2011, of the Inspection Panel on the
captioned Project (Lima Urban Transport Project, Loan No. 7209-PE).




                                             ii
                 MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
                            IN RESPONSE TO THE
             INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT NO. 58832-PE

                                               PERU
                                  LIMA URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
                                         (LOAN NO. 7209-PE)


                                                           CONTENTS

Abbreviations and Acronyms ............................................................................................ iv

Executive Summary ............................................................................................................ v
I. Introduction ..................................................................................................................... 1
II. The Project ..................................................................................................................... 1
III. The Panel's Findings..................................................................................................... 7
IV. Special Issues ................................................................................................................ 9
V. Management's Action Plan in Response to the Findings ............................................ 12
VI. Conclusion .................................................................................................................. 15
Annexes
Annex 1: Findings, Comments, and Actions .................................................................. 16
Maps
Map 1:          IBRD 38350 ­ Map of Lima with the Metropolitano Alignment
Map 2:          IBRD 38351 ­ Map of Barranco District in Lima
Map 3:          Map of the Metropolitano
                                         Management Report and Recommendation




                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


BP               Bank Procedures
BRT              Bus Rapid Transit
EA               Environmental Assessment
EIA              Environmental Impact Assessment
GEF              Global Environment Facility
GTU              Directorate of Urban Transportation, Municipality of Lima
                 (Gerencia de Transporte Urbano)
IBRD             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
IDB              Inter-American Development Bank
INC              National Institute of Culture (Instituto Nacional de
                 Cultura), now under the auspices of the Ministry of Culture
ISR              Implementation Status Report
Metropolitano    BRT project implemented by Protransporte with World
                 Bank and IDB financing
MML              Municipality of Metropolitan Lima (Municipalidad de
                 Lima Metropolitana)
OMS              Operational Manual Statement
OP               Operational Policy
OPN              Operational Policy Note
PAD              Project Appraisal Document
PDO              Project Development Objective
PPP              Public-Private Partnership
Protransporte    An urban transport authority of MML (Instituto
                 Metropolitano Protransporte de Lima)
SEA              Strategic Environmental Assessment
TMS              Traffic Management Study
TOR              Terms of Reference
ZRE              Special Regulation Zone (Zona de Regulación Especial)




                              iv
                                                      Management Report and Recommendation




                                 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

On January 18, 2011, the Inspection Panel submitted its report on its investigation of the
Lima Urban Transport Project (P035740, the "Project"), financed by the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD). The Request for Inspection was
submitted by residents of the District of Barranco (the "Requesters") within the
Municipality of Metropolitan Lima (MML).

Background

The Project, known as the "Metropolitano," aims to increase the availability of public
transportation in the Municipality of Lima to serve the mobility needs of its residents,
particularly the poor, and thereby enhance their economic productivity and quality of life.
Specifically, the Project components include constructing a high-performance bus rapid
transit system (BRT) with modern articulated buses fueled by compressed natural gas,
controlled by a global positioning system, using an automated fare collection system, and
operating on segregated traffic lanes with dedicated stations and terminals. The Project is
of major importance to the Government of Peru and Lima's municipal authorities.

Traffic conditions in Lima have significantly worsened in recent years due to the rapid
increase in the number of personal vehicles and the proliferation of small privately
operated buses. Prior to construction of the Metropolitano, Lima was the largest city in
Latin America without a metro or BRT and the largest world-wide without mass transit,
resulting in some of the worst traffic congestion and air quality in Latin America.
Protransporte, an urban transport authority of the MML, is implementing the Project.

The Requesters raised concerns that the Project had: (i) significantly worsened traffic
conditions in Barranco; (ii) caused negative environmental and social impacts that had
not been adequately mitigated; (iii) failed to inform and consult the affected communities
appropriately; (iv) caused irreparable harm to Barranco's designated buildings and areas
of historic value; and (v) been poorly prepared and inadequately supervised. Despite
these concerns, the Requesters stated at the time of their Request that they did not oppose
the Project itself. Management understands, however, that in the Bank's most recent
consultations with the Requesters (February 2011), the Requesters expressed their wish
that the core elements of the Metropolitano, i.e., the dedicated busway and stations, be
removed from Barranco altogether.

Findings of the Panel

The Panel found that the Project had been correctly categorized as "B" and that the
environmental studies on issues directly affecting BRT construction and operation had
complied with OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment. Project supervision, information
dissemination, and consultations with the affected communities had been strengthened in
early 2009, as the construction phase ended, operations began, and the communities


                                            v
                                                        Management Report and Recommendation


started to voice their concerns in a more organized fashion. These strengthened activities
complied with OP 13.05, Supervision, and OP 4.01.

The Panel also found that the initial Environmental Assessment (EA) studies did not
comply with policy with respect to identification, analysis, and mitigation of impacts
beyond the corridor itself, e.g., changes in pedestrian and vehicular traffic flows and their
economic and cultural impacts in Barranco. The Panel felt that a 2005 Traffic
Management Study (TMS) could have analyzed these matters, but did not and that this
lack of analysis did not comply with OPN 11.03, Management of Cultural Property, the
then applicable policy. While commending Management for bringing supervision and
Project performance into compliance with Bank policy from 2009 onward, the Panel
found that during the earlier critical phase of Project preparation and most of the
construction phase, dissemination of information, consultations with residents of
Barranco, and the quality of supervision had not complied with OP 13.05 and OP 4.01.

The Panel concluded that the changes in traffic in Barranco resulting from the Project and
the general disruption caused by the BRT-related construction work had caused
deterioration in the quality of life of many residents in the District and posed a threat to
its historic character. The Panel recognized, however, that these alleged harms, which it
felt were significant, could not be attributed solely to the Project. One of the reasons for
this important finding was that substantial increases in traffic volume had already been
occurring throughout Lima, including Barranco. Moreover, the latter had already been
experiencing an increase in residential and commercial construction that was effecting a
marked transformation of the District from a predominately residential area into a magnet
for recreation and entertainment seekers. Finally, the Panel recognized that some of the
Requesters' complaints might recede and some of the harms might be reversed once the
Metropolitano becomes fully operational.

Management's Response and Recommendations

Management appreciates the Panel's clear exposition of its findings and its concurrence
with the Project's importance and complexity and, thus, the value of the Bank's
engagement. Management acknowledges the Panel's findings of non-compliance and
welcomes the Panel's finding that Management's actions since early 2009 have brought
Project supervision, dissemination of information, and consultations with the Requesters
and other affected persons into compliance with policy. Management also concurs with
the Panel's conclusion that the alleged harms it found cannot be attributed solely to the
Project.

The focus of Management's Action Plan, which reinforces the Plan contained in
Management's November 2009 Response to the Request, continues to be on further
strengthening the Project's development outcomes through compliance with Bank
policies. In implementing the 2009 Plan, the Task Team has supported Protransporte's
dialogue and consultations with residents of Barranco and other stakeholders. It is
advising Protransporte on how to strengthen its consultative practices and its processes
to receive and address residents' grievances regarding the Project. This should help

                                             vi
                                                         Management Report and Recommendation


Protransporte manage issues that may arise in the future. Management is continuing its
close supervision of the environmental, cultural heritage, and social aspects of Project
implementation, including the final works in Barranco, to ensure that they are completed
satisfactorily and in line with designs approved by the National Institute of Culture
(INC).

In addition, Management has financed a new TMS. This study, expected to be completed
by October 2011, is explicitly analyzing changes in traffic patterns and volumes in
Barranco and how to mitigate their adverse impacts so as to preserve the District's
cultural value. Following through on Management's 2009 Action Plan, the Task Team
facilitated consultations on the study's preliminary findings in December 2010 and will
continue to engage with Protransporte to support its community consultations before the
authority implements measures to improve traffic conditions. Protransporte, which has
demonstrated its commitment to adopting an improved traffic management plan, has
stated that it wishes to consider, among other technical inputs, the final 2011 TMS report
and the results of the public consultations before making decisions on specific
improvement measures to implement. Finally, responding to interest expressed by the
Municipality of Barranco, Management intends to advise it on how to incorporate in the
District's Participatory Development Plan 2011-2021 an analysis of Barranco's historical
buildings and monumental areas and measures to preserve them in the service of long-
term dynamic social and economic development in Barranco. Management's actions will
be ongoing through October 2011.

A key challenge that the Bank, the municipalities, and the implementing agencies have
faced in this Project is one that arises in all urban infrastructure projects. This is the need
to formulate and implement designs that maximize positive developmental impacts (such
as, in the case of this Project, access to mobility for the poorest) while reconciling the
inevitable competing interests that exist within the community and minimizing localized
disruptions (such as, in this Project, inconvenience to car drivers and residents in some
areas of the community). The requirement to do so in a consultative and environmentally,
socially, and culturally sensitive manner in order to achieve sustainable outcomes is
appropriate but adds greatly to the challenge. Management believes that the Action Plan
outlined above and further detailed in Section V will effectively address this challenge.




                                              vii
                                        I. INTRODUCTION

1.      On October 14, 2009, the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection,
IPN Request RQ09/09, concerning the Lima Urban Transport Project (P035740, the
"Project"), financed by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(IBRD, the "Bank"). The Request for Inspection was submitted by residents of the
District of Barranco (the "District") within the Municipality of Metropolitan Lima
(MML).

2.      The Executive Directors and the President of IBRD were notified by the Panel of
receipt of the Request. Management responded to the claims in the Request on November
13, 2009. In its subsequent Report to the Board, the Panel found the Request eligible and
recommended that the Executive Directors authorize an investigation. They did so on
December 16, 2009.

3.      On January 18, 2011, the Panel issued its report outlining the findings of its
investigation. Management appreciates the Panel's clear and thorough presentation of its
findings. This Management response to the Panel's findings is organized as follows:
Section II provides an overview of the Project and its context; Section III summarizes the
Panel's findings; Section IV discusses special issues; Section V presents Management's
Action Plan to address the Panel's findings; and Section VI concludes the Report. The
Panel's findings, along with Management's responses, are set forth in greater detail in
Annex 1.

                                        II. THE PROJECT

Context

4.      Transport conditions in Lima have worsened significantly in recent years.
Government statistics suggest that in the 1990s, the car fleet increased by 195 percent to
approximately 402,000 and by another 37 percent between 2000 and 2009 to
approximately 784,000.1 Congestion is endemic, even though 82.5 percent of all trips are
by public transportation. At Project inception, public transportation consisted of a few
standard buses and thousands of smaller privately operated and poorly regulated units of
varying types and with an average age of close to 18 years. As a result, despite Lima's
privileged location by the coast its air quality is one of the worst in Latin America.

5.     Lima's size and overall characteristics make an efficient mass rapid transit system
an indispensible part of the response to these rapidly worsening conditions. Until the
Metropolitano system started operations on May 1, 2010, Lima was the largest




1
 Source: Gerencia de Transporte Urbano, Municipalidad de Lima Metropolitana (Directorate of Urban
Transportation, Municipality of Metropolitan Lima).
                                                                  Management Report and Recommendation


metropolis in Latin America without either a metro or a bus rapid transit (BRT), and one
of the largest world-wide without any mass transit.2

The Project

6.      The Project was approved by the Bank's Board of Directors in December 2003
and became effective one year later. The Project Development Objective (PDO) is to
assist the MML to enhance economic productivity and quality of life within the Lima
Metropolitan Area by establishing an efficient, reliable, cleaner and safer mass rapid
transit system to improve mobility and accessibility for the metropolitan population,
especially in the poor peri-urban neighborhoods. The specific PDOs, as reported in the
Project Appraisal Document (PAD), are to:

         Implement a new mass rapid transit system, the Metropolitano, on the basis of a
         Public Private Partnership;

         Improve access within low income areas by facilitating the use of low cost
         transport alternatives, such as bicycles and walking;

         Strengthen the local institutional capacity to regulate and manage the metropolitan
         transport system on a sustainable basis; and

         Reduce the negative environmental impact of motorized transport in Lima.

7.      The Project financed the first line of an integrated mass rapid transit system that
uses BRT technology. This line has a trunk of 28.6 km, from the Independencia District
in the north of Lima to the Chorrillos District in the south, to which feeder lines connect.
The buses operate in segregated traffic lanes (Corredor Segregado de Alta Capacidad).
The line has 35 stations and 2 transfer terminals, where passengers change from feeder
buses to the trunk line. The trunk line is already carrying approximately 300,000
passengers daily and ridership is expected to rise to at least 600,000 passengers on a
typical weekday once the system becomes fully operational. This will make it one of the
most heavily used in the world. The buses are the modern articulated type, run on
compressed natural gas, use an automated fare collection system, and are controlled by a
global positioning system.

Project Components

8.     The Project was jointly prepared with and supervised by the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) and grant support was also provided by the Global
Environment Facility (GEF). The IBRD-supported Project comprises six components:
Component 1: Mobility and Environmental Improvements (US$ 99.92 million total;
US$ 37.94 million IBRD, US$ 37.94 million IDB, and US$ 24.04 million MML);
Component 2: Social Mitigation and Community Participation (US$ 5.75 million total;

2
  In the late 1980s the Government of Peru initiated the construction of a heavy rail line (Tren Eléctrico),
but this project was not completed. Currently, the Government is completing the first line and planning to
start operations by June 2011.

                                                      2
                                                      Management Report and Recommendation


US$ 1.63 million IBRD, US$ 1.63 million IDB, and US$ 2.49 million MML);
Component 3: Institutional Strengthening (US$ 3.67 million total; US$ 1.5 million IBRD,
US$ 1.5 million IDB, and US$ 0.7 million MML); Component 4: Studies and
Construction Supervision (US$ 8.58 million total; US$ 3.48 million IBRD, US$ 3.48
million IDB, and US$ 1.62 million MML); Component 5: Program Administration
(US$ 5.58 million, all counterpart funding) and Component 6: Grade Separation of Plaza
Grau (US$ 10 million, all counterpart funding).

9.     In addition, a parallel GEF grant for US$ 7.93 million supported the reduction of
greenhouse gas emissions by promoting the retirement of obsolete and polluting buses
and improving bike facilities.

Project Financing

10.     The Project had an overall estimated cost of US$ 142.33 million. It was financed
as follows: US$ 44.4 million from MML; US$ 45 million each in loans from IBRD and
IDB; and the US$ 7.93 million grant from GEF.

11.    In addition, the private sector invested a total of approximately US$ 200 million
to purchase the new articulated buses; build the terminals, maintenance workshops and
depots; and buy back and scrap the old polluting buses.

Executing Agencies

12.    Protransporte, established in 2002 under the jurisdiction of the MML, is the
executing agency, has managed the IBRD and IDB loan proceeds, and now also oversees
the Project's operations. The National Environmental Fund (Fondo Nacional de
Ambiente) received the GEF grant and oversaw execution of that aspect of the Project.

Project Status

13.    The Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) ratings for both PDO and
overall Implementation Progress are satisfactory and, given the outcomes already
achieved, the development objectives are expected to be met.

14.     The Metropolitano system started operations with passengers on May 1, 2010, on
a 10 km stretch. Following international best practice, operations on the entire trunk line
and feeder routes are being gradually phased in. As this process has continued, the
Municipality of Lima has eliminated the old bus routes that unnecessarily duplicated the
expanding service provided by the Metropolitano. The transition has been taking place
smoothly, due to negotiated, signed agreements between the Directorate of Urban
Transportation (Gerencia de Transporte Urbano, GTU) and operators of the old bus
routes. These agreements provided, inter alia, for relocation of the operators to under-
served areas of Lima. Currently, the Metropolitano is transporting 300,000 passengers
per day. Once all the feeder routes are operating, demand forecasts estimate that over
600,000 passengers will use the line on a typical workday, making the system one of the
most heavily used in the world. As illustrated in the box below, Project benefits have
already accrued and are being evaluated. These include: savings in travel time,

                                            3
                                                      Management Report and Recommendation


particularly for the low income population, reduced air pollution and greenhouse gas
emissions, lower noise levels, improved vehicular and pedestrian safety, and an enhanced
sense of security. Preliminary observations suggest that the Project is well on its way to
achieving the key performance indicators outlined in the PAD. Finally, the program of
removing from the streets of Lima and scrapping old buses is proceeding in line with
expectations.

15.     As of February 7, 2011, the Loan is 96.8 percent disbursed. The Closing Date was
originally June 30, 2009, but is now April 30, 2011. Management intends to continue its
Project supervision and its dialogue with MML, Protransporte, and the residents of
Barranco through October 2011.


                                   The Metropolitano
                          Illustrative Preliminary Outcomes

      Rider Satisfaction: According to a user survey, 83 percent of riders rate
      the service as good or very good. Before the Metropolitano started
      operations, only 13 percent of users rated public transportation service as
      good or very good.

      Travel Time Savings: Based on origin/destination data, Protransporte
      reports that users are benefiting from reductions in travel times ranging
      from 25 percent to 50 percent.

      Traffic and Pedestrian Safety: Before Metropolitano, there were on
      average 26 fatal or serious accidents per month along the main corridor. In
      the nine months since Metropolitano commenced operations, there has
      been only one fatality and only three accidents resulting in injury.

      Distributional Impact: At least 50 percent of the users of Metropolitano
      come from low income areas.


The Situation in Barranco

16.     The District of Barranco, a relatively small geographic area, lies adjacent to the
ocean in the southern part of the city of Lima between the Districts of Miraflores
(relatively wealthy) and Chorrillos (relatively low income). Starting in 1972, the then
National Institute of Culture (Instituto Nacional de Cultura, INC, which is now under the
auspices of the Ministry of Culture) gradually designated almost 200 colonial and
republican-era buildings and six areas of historic value in Barranco as "designated
monuments" and "monumental urban landscapes," respectively, all of which are within a
Zone of Special Regulation (Zona de Regulación Especial, ZRE). Despite this
designation, due to pressures from developers and other economic forces, some of the
historic buildings, especially on the west side close to the coast, have been replaced by

                                            4
                                                             Management Report and Recommendation


high-rises, and this trend is likely to continue. The west side also has many bars and
restaurants that attract significant numbers of visitors traveling mostly by car. The east
side of Barranco is mainly residential and not as wealthy as the west side. Its population
largely depends on public transportation, in contrast to the residents of the west side, who
rely primarily on cars. Barranco, as with all districts in Lima, has its own elected
authorities: a mayor and a city council. MML has authority over metropolitan issues,
such as mass transit, in Barranco, as it does in its other constituent districts.

Status of Management's Action Plan of November 2009

17.    As part of its response to the Request for Inspection of the Project in November
2009, Management submitted an Action Plan to address the Requesters' main issues. The
following table summarizes the status of this Action Plan.


ACTIONS                                     STATUS
Traffic Management
                                            Management hired a consulting firm through
                                            international competitive bidding to carry out the study.
                                            The firm has submitted a draft report for Barranco. The
                                            report analyses alternatives for addressing traffic
                                            management problems, including one submitted by
                                            representatives of the community. In accordance with
                                            this Action Plan, the Task Team led a consultation on
Finance through trust funds a traffic       the draft report in Barranco on December 5, 2010, to
management study encompassing such          gather feedback from the Requesters and other
aspects as the management of road           stakeholders. In early January 2011, the additional
closures and detours, the                   information that the community had requested was
synchronization of traffic signals, and     posted on the website of the Bank's local office.
the operation of intersections in order     Management will reflect feedback from the
to improve traffic flow and enhance         Municipality, community, and Protransporte in the
road safety in various districts of Lima,   analysis of the draft report that it is preparing. It is
including Barranco. The results of this     expected that the consulting firm will also reflect these
study will be coordinated with the          inputs in its final report, which should be completed by
implementation of the traffic signal        October 2011. Protransporte is committed to adopting
system of the Metropolitano.                an improved traffic management plan. Management
                                            understands that Protransporte will base its decisions in
                                            that regard on a comprehensive review of the consulting
                                            firm's final report, the results of public consultations
                                            thereon, the recommendations of the 2005 Traffic
                                            Management Study (TMS), and the review of the micro-
                                            design of intersections along the Project alignment that
                                            it is undertaking.
Environmental Management
Continue the active supervision of          Since Management's response to the Request, there
environmental and social aspects of the     have been 6 supervision missions. Missions have
Project in order to ensure that             included staff and consultants with specialized expertise
communication between the MML and           in social, cultural heritage, and environmental aspects.
the local residents improves, with the      Protransporte's communications with the community

                                                  5
                                                          Management Report and Recommendation


ACTIONS                               STATUS
continued support of experienced Bank have improved, as solutions to conflicts regarding
staff.                                Project design in Independencia and La Unificada north
                                      of downtown Lima illustrate. Intensive supervision is
                                      ongoing.
                                      Management has provided draft terms of reference
                                      (TOR) to Protransporte. The latter has indicated that it
Bank follow-up on ex post
                                      will finalize the TOR, obtain the clearance of the
environmental audit at completion of
                                      Ministry of Housing, Construction, and Sanitation and
works.
                                      begin the bidding process soon after the works have
                                      been completed. This is expected by October 2011.
Consultation and Communications Strategy
                                      (a) Management hired a facilitator in October 2009.
                                         (b) The roundtable, or Mesa de Diálogo, was
                                             established with the facilitator's help. Dialogue
                                             broke down on January 30, 2010, as progress
                                             seemed unlikely due to wide and strongly held
                                             divergence of perspectives and interests among the
                                             participants. With the new municipal
                                             administrations of Lima and Barranco in place, there
                                             is a renewed commitment to participatory
                                             consultations, which Protransporte will lead.
Support dialogue and consultation in         Management has offered its support, should
Barranco, between Protransporte,             Protransporte find it helpful.
stakeholders and authorities of
Barranco by:                             (c) Protransporte has established a well-functioning
                                             grievance and redress mechanism for the operational
                                             phase of the Metropolitano. Examples of how the
(a) Hiring an expert on facilitation,
                                             mechanism is functioning effectively include, in
    conflict resolution and mediation.
                                             Barranco, repair of damages to streets caused by the
                                             works and relocation of Project related elements. In
(b) Setting up the operation of the
                                             the areas to the north of downtown Lima known as
    roundtable agreed upon in June
                                             La Unificada and Independencia, Protransporte
    2009.
                                             responded to residents' complaints by making
                                             changes in Project design, including new traffic
(c) Establishing an improved,                patterns for cars and pedestrians, even after
    formalized system of mediation           construction had been completed. The mechanism
    and grievance redress in the             enables users to register complaints at any of the 35
    Project.                                 stations of the Metropolitano, on Protransporte's
                                             website, or via a hotline advertised in each station
                                             and in all buses. In addition, the municipal
                                             administrations in Lima and Barranco channel to
                                             Protransporte any complaints that they receive
                                             directly. Protransporte has a unit that prioritizes,
                                             analyzes, and responds to the complaints. In
                                             addition, Protransporte has partnered with civil
                                             society organizations to gather feedback and receive
                                             complaints.

Continue technical advice to             Protransporte's communications with the community

                                               6
                                                            Management Report and Recommendation


ACTIONS                                    STATUS
Protransporte in the area of               have improved, as indicated above, as have its processes
communications and ensure proper           for consultations and managing concerns of stakeholder
oversight, support, and quality of local   groups. During the most recent supervision mission,
consultations, including record            flower vendors in Barranco expressed their satisfaction
keeping, with the objective of helping     with the way in which Protransporte had listened to and
the agency manage the issues that          acted upon their views on relocation of the flower
could develop in the future with other     market. The phase-out of the old bus routes as the
stakeholder groups, such as existing       Metropolitano has started operations has been
bus operators.                             progressing smoothly without strikes or protests by the
                                           operators, thanks in part to negotiated agreements
                                           between the operators and Protransporte ­ another
                                           indication of improved communications and
                                           consultations. Solutions to conflicts regarding Project
                                           design in Independencia and La Unificada, north of
                                           downtown Lima, also illustrate the improved
                                           consultations and communications.
Supervision
                                           Management has verified that INC approved the route
                                           alignment and design of stations, including the station in
Monitor final works in Barranco in         Barranco, which has a unique design, to minimize
order to ensure that they are concluded    disruption of the historic area. Management has also
satisfactorily and that stations are       verified that the works are being completed in line with
constructed per designs approved by        INC's clearances, procedures and regulations. Intensive
the INC.                                   supervision of the progress on works and of the other
                                           actions described above will continue through October
                                           2011.


                                  III. THE PANEL'S FINDINGS

18.     The Panel assessed the Bank's compliance with the following Operational
Policies and Procedures:

         OP/BP 4.01              Environmental Assessment
         OPN 11.03               Management of Cultural Property
         OP/BP 13.05             Project Supervision
         OMS 2.20                Project Appraisal.

19.      The Panel found areas of compliance and areas of non-compliance. Specifically:

      Compliance

         The Project was correctly categorized as "B" in compliance with OP/BP 4.01.
         The Environmental Assessment (EA) studies had an acceptable quality and
         complied with policy on issues directly affecting BRT construction and operation.
         Management brought the Project into compliance with the consultation
         requirements of OP 4.01 in 2009, when residents of Barranco began to voice their

                                                 7
                                                        Management Report and Recommendation


       concerns in a more organized fashion, by engaging them in consultations,
       including through the roundtable established in 2009, to discuss short- and long-
       term solutions for traffic problems resulting from the Project.
       Supervision activities were strengthened and a number of actions were taken in
       compliance with OP/BP 13.05, once problems were identified through residents'
       complaints and supervision missions. One such important action is the 2011 TMS
       to analyze and compare different alternatives, including an alternative proposed
       by residents of Barranco.

Non-compliance

       Identification, analysis, and mitigation of impacts beyond the corridor itself ­
       such as changes in pedestrian and vehicular traffic flows and their economic and
       cultural heritage impacts ­ were inadequate and fell short of the requirements of
       OP 4.01 with respect to Barranco as a whole.
       In the early phases of the Project and during a good part of Project
       implementation, dissemination of information and consultation with the affected
       people in Barranco failed to meet policy requirements. The lack of adequate
       consultations, particularly during the Project's critical design phase, appears to
       have been a spark for tension and conflict, notwithstanding the Project's
       importance.
       The 2005 TMS offered the opportunity to evaluate and devise adequate measures
       to mitigate the permanent impacts of the Project on traffic patterns in Barranco,
       but had weaknesses, especially with respect to the depth of the evaluation of
       changed traffic conditions and their impacts in Barranco. Furthermore, the traffic
       re-routing pattern recommended in the study, which the Panel experts stated that
       they considered optimal, was not implemented, and a different traffic pattern was
       actually put in place. The Panel found no record indicating when and why the
       2005 traffic re-routing recommendation was changed, nor any analysis of the
       traffic pattern alternative and its impacts.
       Supervision through much of Project construction was not consistently up to
       speed with events and circumstances on the ground.
       Analysis of the potential impacts of the Project on the historic character of
       Barranco was inadequate and not in compliance with OPN 11.03, the then
       applicable policy. In particular, the EAs did not mention the potential problems
       associated with the impacts of re-routed traffic on buildings and public places of
       historic interest in Barranco. To the Panel's knowledge, a detailed study of these
       issues has yet to be carried out.

20.     The Panel concluded that the changes in traffic in Barranco resulting from the
Project and the general disruption caused by the BRT-related construction work had
caused deterioration in the quality of life of many residents in the District and posed a
threat to Barranco's historical character. It recognized, however, that these alleged harms,
while significant, could not, in fairness, be attributed solely to the Project. The reason for

                                              8
                                                        Management Report and Recommendation


this is that significant increases in traffic volumes ­ and associated noise, congestion, and
air pollution ­ had already occurred in recent years, independently of the Project, in Lima
as a whole and in Barranco in particular. The Panel also observed that an increase in
residential and commercial construction had already been occurring in Barranco,
contributing to its marked transformation from a predominantly residential neighborhood
into a recreational and entertainment magnet for tourists and residents of Lima alike.
Finally, the Panel concluded that some of the Requesters' concerns might recede and
some of the alleged harms might be reversed once the Metropolitano became fully
operational and with establishment of a new traffic management pattern.

                                    IV. SPECIAL ISSUES

21.     This section addresses key issues arising from the Panel's Report. They are: (i)
traffic management; (ii) the Project's impact on cultural properties in Barranco; and (iii)
consultation.

Traffic Management

22.     Management acknowledges that the EA studies and the 2005 TMS could have
analyzed Project impacts in Barranco more deeply and explicitly recognized the historic
value of the District and the desirability of a traffic management plan that would protect
it. Management also notes, as did the Panel, that the traffic management plan
recommended by the 2005 TMS, which the Panel found to be optimal, has not been put in
place. The reason for this is that the plan was always intended for implementation when
the Metropolitano became fully operational, not during its construction phase. Because of
this, Protransporte separately proposed plans to GTU for traffic detours during the
construction phase and GTU approved those plans. Management acknowledges that it
should have verified GTU's analysis of alternatives and reflected the outcomes of its
analysis and the results of any discussion of differences in appropriate supervision
documents.

23.     To fill the gaps in the scope of the 2005 TMS with respect to Project impacts on
the historic neighborhood and monuments in Barranco, the Bank committed at a meeting
in Lima in June 2009 during a supervision mission to undertake another TMS (the "2011
TMS"). This TMS will provide additional technical input to Protransporte for its
decision making regarding the traffic management plan to be implemented once the
Metropolitano becomes fully operational.

24.    The TOR for this TMS was consulted upon with representatives of the community
in a Mesa de Diálogo (see below). The study explicitly recognizes Barranco's historic
value. It is analyzing the Project's effects on that patrimony and alternatives for
improvements in the overall design of the Project to mitigate adverse impacts ­ for
example, by reducing congestion and enhancing pedestrian circulation. Consistent with
the PDO, the alternatives are being examined within the broader context of the public
transportation needs of the entire District of Barranco, including those of the residents of
the poorer east side who most depend on access to efficient public transportation, rather


                                             9
                                                      Management Report and Recommendation


than on personal vehicles. One of the alternatives being analyzed was proposed by the
community during consultations.

25.     The consulting firm hired by the Bank through an international competitive
bidding process to conduct the study has submitted a draft report for Barranco.
Management posted the draft study online, transmitted it via e-mail to members of the
community, and also sent letters inviting them to a consultation meeting on December 5,
2010. About 85 people participated, commented, and raised questions, including via e-
mail afterwards. The consulting firm has responded to the comments and provided the
additional information that the participants requested to clarify specific aspects of the
feasibility and costs of the traffic management options being analyzed. Management
posted the material on the website of the Bank's office in Lima in early January 2011.

26.     Management is currently analyzing the draft report. Its analysis will take into
consideration the feedback received during the consultation, as well as the analysis and
perspectives of the municipalities of Lima and Barranco, Protransporte, and GTU.
Management expects that the consulting firm will also reflect these inputs in its final
report and anticipates that the TMS will be completed by October 2011.

27.     Management understands that Protransporte has expressed its commitment to
adopting an improved traffic management plan for Barranco. Protransporte has indicated
that, before making decisions on such a plan, it wishes to have in hand the consulting
firm's final report on the 2011 TMS and the outcome of the consultations thereon. It will
also factor into its decision making the recommendations of the 2005 TMS, which the
Panel stated was "optimal," as well as the report of a consultant specializing in micro-
design of urban intersections that Protransporte is hiring to review and recommend
solutions to problems along the entire Project alignment, with an emphasis on Barranco
and historic downtown Lima. The findings of an international traffic safety expert that
Management hired to recommend short- and medium-term actions to address issues
pertaining to pedestrian flows and access to stations along and beyond the busway will
contribute additional technical inputs to Protransporte's decision making. Protransporte
is already implementing some of the recommended actions (e.g., improving crosswalks
and timing traffic lights). In addition, the new municipal administration of Lima has
assigned resources to continue works and activities to improve pedestrians' safety and
access to stations.

28.     Management will continue to emphasize to Protransporte and the municipal
administrations the importance of consulting with the community on the alternative
traffic routes and micro-design options, including those pertaining to traffic and
pedestrian safety, before reaching final decisions in their regard and implementing
solutions. Management has offered technical support and the services of the facilitator to
support Protransporte as it conducts the necessary consultations.

Impact on Barranco's Cultural Properties

29.     Management confirmed and relied upon the approval of INC for the design of the
Project and the stations in Barranco as required by national law and in accordance with

                                           10
                                                                 Management Report and Recommendation


INC's lead responsibility for protection and preservation of Peru's cultural patrimony.
Management believes that this fulfilled the requirements of OPN 11.03, the then
applicable policy. Management acknowledges, however, that it should have done its own
assessment. It also acknowledges that the EA and subsequent studies, including the 2005
TMS, did not adequately analyze the historical buildings and monumental landscapes of
Barranco and the potential impacts of increased traffic volume and congestion on them.

30.     The 2011 TMS, which is intended as one source of technical input to
Protransporte's decision on a new traffic management plan for the Metropolitano's
operational phase, is addressing this shortcoming. Preliminary indications are that it will
recommend measures to minimize traffic through Barranco, ease circulation of vehicles
that originate within or have Barranco as their destination, and enhance the walkability of
the historic zone. Such measures are expected to reduce overall traffic volume and
congestion and increase traffic and pedestrian safety, with the overall effect of
contributing to the preservation of the historic and cultural value of Barranco, thus
effectively addressing traffic management concerns as the Metropolitano becomes fully
operational.

31.     Adequate traffic management coupled with the efficient and high-quality service
of the Metropolitano, which uses fewer and cleaner buses, should positively affect
Barranco. For example, before the Metropolitano, 344 small buses per hour travelled on
Av. Bolognesi northbound and 261 southbound; 145 on Av. San Martin (southbound);
and 153 on Av. Grau (northbound). With the Metropolitano, only 30 high capacity buses
travel per hour in each direction on Av. Bolognesi. On Av. San Martin and Av. Grau,
once the Metropolitano becomes fully operational, the number of buses is expected to be
lower than before the Project, as only routes that reach destinations not served by the
Metropolitano will be allowed to remain. These changes will provide clear benefits.3/4/5

32.     Finally, during a supervision mission in early February 2011, which included a
staff member with expertise in cultural heritage in urban settings, the Municipality of
Barranco expressed interest in the Bank's support for a review of the District's
Participatory Development Plan 2011-2021, aimed in part at preserving and enhancing
the District's character as a high-quality cultural destination. Management intends to
follow up on this request with advice on a TOR for the planning exercise. This advice
will provide Barranco with state-of-the-art information on urban planning approaches and
practices and financial instruments and incentives that could encourage heritage-sensitive
and dynamic development of the District.



3
  Management is supervising this reduction in redundant bus routes.
4
  The Metropolitano has started operations gradually, seeking to cause minimal disruption. Segments were
added gradually and feeder services are now also being gradually added. Once a feeder route is added the
Metropolitano can replace the service by the old buses and those routes.
5
  The Metropolitano also expects to reduce the total number of old buses in Lima. The concessionaires of
the Metropolitano commit to destroying buses for a total value of US$ 5 million, which is expected to be at
least 1000 small buses. The new administration, moreover, has stated plans to reduce the oversupply of
buses in Lima.

                                                    11
                                                      Management Report and Recommendation


Consultations

33.     Management recognizes that more attention should have been given, during
preparation and early implementation, to the consultation process and dissemination of
Project information to all interested parties. In 2008 and early 2009, when construction
was completed, Management actively engaged Protransporte and other municipal
authorities to address the community's concerns.

34.     On June 11, 2009, the Task Team met with residents of Barranco and
Protransporte representatives to discuss the problems in the District and agreement was
reached to establish the roundtable, Mesa de Diálogo. Some months later, as the parties
had not yet met, Management hired a professional facilitator who began work in October
2009. The Mesa de Diálogo provided the forum for consulting with the community on
the TOR for the Bank-financed TMS. Participants agreed that the study could offer short-
term solutions to their concerns. Unfortunately, reflecting the widely diverging and
strongly held perspectives and interests of the participants, the dialogue broke down and
the Mesa became inactive by the end of January 2010 in the run-up to the municipal
elections.

35.      In December 2010, with the municipal elections over and the community's
renewed interest in consultations, Management restarted the process with a new
facilitator. The consultation on December 5, described above, focused on a discussion of
the consulting firm's draft TMS for Barranco. The Mayor-elect of Barranco attended and
the Mayor-elect of Lima sent representatives.

36.      Protransporte will lead the consultations going forward. Management will
continue its engagement with Protransporte and the Municipalities of Lima and Barranco
to underscore the importance of consulting broadly on the proposed solutions to the
traffic problems in Barranco. Management has indicated that it is prepared to support the
consultations, including through making the facilitator available, should the parties find
the Bank's assistance useful.

37.   Management's supervision and engagement, as described in this Section, will be
ongoing through October 2011.

           V. MANAGEMENT'S ACTION PLAN IN RESPONSE TO THE FINDINGS

38.     Management appreciates the Panel's recognition of the importance of the
Metropolitano for Lima, the complexity of the Project and the local setting, the value of
the Bank´s engagement in this type of project, and the steps Management has already
taken to address the Requesters' concerns. While Management acknowledges that more
should have been done to ensure compliance with Bank policy, it does not believe that
any of its actions or omissions were the sole cause of the harm alleged by the Requesters.
Management concurs, therefore, with the Panel's conclusion that the harms it found could
not be attributed solely to the Project. Management's Action Plan to address the Panel's
findings is laid out in paragraph 43. The Plan was consulted upon with the Requesters, as
described below.

                                           12
                                                          Management Report and Recommendation


Meeting with Requesters

39.    Management met with the Requesters in Lima on February 7-8, 2011, to discuss
the content of the Action Plan. Management wishes to express its appreciation for the
lead Requester's valuable assistance in communicating with other Requesters and in
helping organize the meetings.

40.    To allow for an open dialogue without concern for time limitations, two meetings
were held with the Requesters on February 7 and another on February 8. Six Requesters
attended each of the two meetings on February 7 and thirteen attended the meeting on
February 8. The Task Team explained that the reason for the meetings was to obtain the
Requesters' feedback to Management's Action Plan, which sought to respond to the
findings in the Inspection Panel's report.

41.     Overall, the Requesters expressed concern about what they saw as the limited
scope of the proposed Action Plan and inadequate process. They stated that the Action
Plan focused on the short term and lacked a comprehensive approach to urban mobility
and roads (vialidad, as expressed by the Requesters). Contrary to their earlier statement
that they did not oppose the Project itself, the Requesters now indicated their desire that
the dedicated bus lane and stations ­ i.e., the core of the Metropolitano concept ­ be
removed from Barranco altogether.

42.     Management also met three times with representatives of the MML, the municipal
authorities of Barranco, and Protransporte to discuss the Action Plan. They each fully
endorsed the Plan. They expressed their commitment to consultations on it and to
considering eventual implementation of all the actions in the Plan that fell within their
fiduciary and legal authority with a view to improving traffic management in Barranco.
Management will continue to support these entities in sustaining a dialogue with the
Requesters and other interested citizens on transport matters in Barranco and in other
communities along the Metropolitano corridor until October 2011.

43.    The following table presents Management's Action Plan for following up on the
Panel's findings.

ACTIONS                                            TIMELINE
Traffic Management
Management will supervise finalization of the      The study is expected to be completed by
2011 TMS, taking into account the results of the   October 2011 and will serve as technical
consultation with the Municipality and             input to Protransporte's decisions with
community in Barranco and comments from            respect to improving traffic management in
Protransporte.                                     Barranco.
Protransporte will retain a consultant
                                                   Management has already consulted with
specializing in micro-design of urban
                                                   Protransporte and is satisfied with its plans.
intersections. This consultant will review the
                                                   Protransporte is hiring the consultant.
entire Project alignment, with an emphasis on
                                                   Management will encourage and offer support
Barranco and historic downtown Lima, and
                                                   for the consultations, which are expected to
recommend solutions to any identified problems.
                                                   be conducted within the next eight months.
The report will be consulted upon with the

                                              13
                                                            Management Report and Recommendation


ACTIONS                                              TIMELINE
community.
Management will supervise Protransporte's            Management will continue to supervise
implementation of the traffic safety action plan.    Protransporte's implementation until
Protransporte will report publicly on the            finalization of the Implementation
progress achieved.                                   Completion Report (ICR).
Environmental Management
                                                     Management has already provided draft TOR
                                                     to Protransporte. The latter has indicated that
                                                     it will finalize the TOR, clear it with the
Management will provide technical support to         Ministry of Housing, Construction, and
help carry out the ex post environmental audit of    Sanitation, and begin the bidding process
the Project.                                         once the works have been completed.
                                                     Management has indicated that it is prepared
                                                     to offer additional technical support, should
                                                     Protransporte find it useful.
Consultation and Communications Strategy
Management will support Protransporte as it
organizes, carries out, and records the results of
                                                     Management will continue its support through
consultations prior to adoption and
                                                     October 2011.
implementation of any solutions to traffic
management issues.
Management will continue to emphasize to
                                                     Management will continue its engagement
Protransporte and the authorities in Barranco the
                                                     with Protransporte and the authorities in
importance of an effectively functioning
                                                     Barranco through October 2011.
grievance and redress mechanism.
Management will provide enhanced learning
opportunities for staff to help improve their
                                                     Ongoing.
awareness of, and skills related to, stakeholder
consultations.
Supervision
                                                     Management will continue its intensive
                                                     supervision of the Project and implementation
Management will continue intensive                   of the actions in this Plan until October 2011.
supervision.                                         Results of this supervision will be
                                                     appropriately recorded in ISRs and other
                                                     supervision documents.
Physical Cultural Resources
In addition to supervising completion of, and
consultations on, the 2011 TMS, Management
will advise the Municipality of Barranco on how
to incorporate in the District's Participatory
                                                     Management will continue its engagement
Development Plan 2011-2021 an analysis of
                                                     with the Municipality through October 2011.
Barranco's historic buildings and monumental
areas and measures to preserve that patrimony in
the service of a long-term dynamic economic
and social development of the District.



                                                14
                                                     Management Report and Recommendation




                                   VI. CONCLUSION

44.     Management appreciates the Panel's clear exposition of its findings and its
recognition both of the Project's importance and complexity and the value of the Bank's
involvement in it. Management acknowledges the Panel's findings of non-compliance
and welcomes its findings that Management's actions since early 2009 to address those
shortfalls have brought supervision, dissemination of information, and consultations with
the Requesters and other affected persons in line with policy. Management will continue
to supervise closely and facilitate Project implementation through October 2011, when
the ICR evaluating the Project will be completed, in order to support achievement of its
desired development outcomes, in compliance with Bank policy. Management is satisfied
that the Action Plan outlined above provides a satisfactory basis for doing so.




                                           15
                                                                   Management Report and Recommendation


                              ANNEX 1: FINDINGS, COMMENTS, AND ACTIONS

No. Finding                                                IP Comment/Action
                                                          Para
     Traffic Issues
1.   Traffic Management Study and Plan                    145-   Comment: Management acknowledges that the
                                                          170    Environmental Assessment (EA) studies and the
     The 2005 Traffic Study offered the opportunity              2005 Traffic Management Study (TMS) could
     to evaluate the permanent impacts of the                    have analyzed more deeply Project impacts in
     Project on traffic patterns in Barranco and to              Barranco and explicitly recognized the historic
     devise adequate measures to mitigate them.                  value of the District and the desirability of a traffic
     The Panel finds, however, that the 2005                     management plan that would protect it.
     Traffic Study contains a number of
     weaknesses in its analysis, and as a result it              Management also notes, as did the Panel, that the
     falls short of meeting the requirements of OP               traffic management plan recommended by the
     4.01, especially with respect to the depth of               2005 TMS, which the Panel found to be optimal,
     the evaluation of impacts the Project may                   has not been put in place. The reason for this is
     cause on the traffic conditions in Barranco.                that the plan was always intended for
                                                                 implementation when the Metropolitano became
     The Panel found no record indicating when                   fully operational, not during its construction phase.
     the 2005 Plan was changed to adopt the                      Because of this, Protransporte separately
     existing solution, nor did it find any analysis of          proposed plans to GTU for traffic detours during
     this new alternative and its impacts. This is               the construction phase and GTU approved those
     not in compliance with OP 4.01 on                           plans. Management acknowledges that it should
     Environmental Assessment.                                   have verified GTU's analysis of alternatives and
                                                                 reflected the outcomes of its analysis and the
                                                                 results of any discussion of differences in
                                                                 appropriate supervision documents.

                                                                 Management understands that Protransporte is
                                                                 committed to adopting an improved traffic
                                                                 management plan for Barranco. The latter has
                                                                 indicated that, before making decisions on such a
                                                                 plan, it wishes to have in hand the consulting
                                                                 firm's final report on the 2011 TMS and the
                                                                 outcome of the consultations thereon. It will also
                                                                 factor into its decision making the
                                                                 recommendations of the 2005 TMS, which the
                                                                 Panel stated was "optimal," as well as other
                                                                 studies (see Item 3). Management will continue to
                                                                 emphasize to Protransporte and the municipal
                                                                 administrations the importance of consulting with
                                                                 the community on the alternatives prior to
                                                                 implementation.

                                                                 Action: See action for Item 2.
2.   Inadequate Response to Traffic                       187-   Comment: Management appreciates the Panel's
     Management Concerns (Supervision of                  196    recognition of the Task Team's strengthened
     Traffic Management)                                         supervision since early 2009, and its finding of
                                                                 compliance with OP 13.05 since then.
     The Panel finds that supervision of Project
     activities in the District of Barranco was not              Management acknowledges that supervision
     consistently up to speed with events and                    during construction should have sought more
     circumstances on the ground between 2007                    proactively to identify and mitigate concerns and


                                                      16
                                                             Management Report and Recommendation



No. Finding                                             IP Comment/Action
                                                       Para
    (when construction works started and traffic           problems associated with the construction detours
    re-routing became necessary) and 2009 when             between 2007 and 2009.
    Barranco residents started to raise their
    complaints.                                            Action: Management expects that the 2011 TMS,
                                                           which considers among its alternatives one
    However, the Panel also finds that once                proposed by the community, will be finalized by
    problems were identified in 2009 as result of          October 2011, when the Implementation
    residents' complaints and related monitoring           Completion Report (ICR) evaluating the Project
    of the situation in the context of supervision         will have been completed. The consulting firm has
    missions, supervision activities strengthened          already submitted a draft report for Barranco.
    and a number of actions were taken, including          Management understands that Protransporte has
    contracting a traffic specialist and proposing a       stated its commitment to adopting an improved
    new traffic management study. The Panel                traffic management plan for Barranco.
    finds that this is in compliance with OP 13.05         Management will continue its intensive
    on Project Supervision, which requires Bank            supervision and its engagement with
    Staff to identify problems promptly as they            Protransporte and the municipal authorities of
    arise and to recommend ways to solve them,             Barranco to promote effective consultations on
    as well as to recommend changes in the                 solutions to traffic management concerns. Results
    project concept as appropriate as the project          of supervision will be appropriately recorded in
    evolves.                                               Implementation Status and Results Reports
                                                           (ISRs) and other supervision documents.
    The Panel also notes that Bank Management
    facilitated the creation of a round table ("Mesa
    de Diálogo"), where the traffic problem was to
    be discussed between Protransporte and the
    residents of Barranco, in order to find short-
    and long-term solutions to this issue. The
    Panel finds that this meets the supervision
    requirements of OP 13.05.

    The Panel commends Management for the
    efforts it made to address the concerns of the
    Requesters regarding the traffic conditions in
    Barranco by proposing, among other things, a
    new traffic management study. According to
    its Terms of Reference (TOR), the study
    would analyze and compare different
    alternatives, including an alternative proposed
    by residents of Barranco. The Panel finds that
    Management's supervision of the Project, with
    respect to the efforts made to address the
    traffic problem, is currently in compliance with
    the requirement of the Bank Policy on Project
    Supervision.

    The Panel is also encouraged by recent
    indications from Management that the Project
    now is committed to reviewing not only short-
    term but also medium/longer term options to
    address these issues and shortcomings,
    including the options noted above. The Panel
    notes the importance of this review - and of
    the engagement by affected people - to the


                                                    17
                                                                Management Report and Recommendation



No. Finding                                              IP Comment/Action
                                                        Para
     community in Barranco. In this regard, the
     Panel notes that Management indicated that
     the Mesa de Diálogo, which was interrupted
     in February 2010, is to be reconvened in 2011
     with a new facilitator.
3.   Negative Socio-economic Impacts: Street       171-       Comment: Management concurs that final Project
     Micro-Design and Pedestrian Issues            186        designs, particularly on Av. Bolognesi, were not
                                                              adequately consulted with the community.
     The fact that [the] awkward design was not               Management agrees with the Panel that the EA
     reviewed with the community and does not                 should have addressed issues such as
     appear in the principal reports of Project               connections of vehicular traffic between Barranco
     documentation is not consistent with OP 4.01             and Surco, pedestrian flows, and sidewalk
     on Environmental Assessment.                             conditions.

     Sidewalk conditions are of considerable                   Protransporte is retaining a consultant
     concern for the community. [I]t seems that               specializing in micro-design of urban intersections
     solutions were adopted on site rather than               to review the entire Project alignment, with an
     after a careful review of possible alternatives.         emphasis on Barranco and historic downtown
     In conversation with residents it became clear           Lima, and recommend solutions to identified
     that the community never saw drawings at                 problems. Management has consulted with
     this level, which would have been very                   Protransporte in this regard and finds the scope
     important to their understanding of the                  and arrangements for the study to be satisfactory.
     conditions of pedestrian movements after                 See also Item 6.
     construction. This constitutes an important
     lapse in communication with the community,               Action: Management will monitor execution of
     and is not in compliance with OP/BP 13.05                the study and encourage and offer support for
     and OP 4.01.                                             consultations. Results of supervision will be
                                                              appropriately recorded in ISRs and other
                                                              supervision documents.
4.   Project Appraisal                                        See Item 10.

     Environmental Assessment

5.   Categorization of the Environmental                67-   Comment: Management appreciates the Panel's
     Assessment                                         74    finding of compliance with OP/BP 4.01 regarding
                                                              the Project's environmental screening
     The Panel agrees with Management that the                categorization as "B".
     Project's potentially adverse environmental
     impacts on human populations or                          Issues pertaining to physical cultural resources
     environmentally important areas were not                 are addressed in Item 11.
     such as to warrant "Category A" investigation.
     The Panel agrees with this judgment and
     finds that Project was correctly categorized as
     B, in compliance with OP/BP 4.01. The Panel
     notes however some shortcomings in
     environmental studies, especially with respect
     to the analysis of alternatives and the depth of
     analysis of the Project's impacts on Physical
     Cultural Resources and its impacts on the
     traffic re-routing in Barranco.

6.   Negative Project Impacts on Barranco as a 75-            Comment: Management welcomes the Panel's
     historical and "monumental" area of Lima. 87             findings of compliance with OP 4.01 on


                                                    18
                                                              Management Report and Recommendation



No. Finding                                              IP Comment/Action
                                                        Para
    The Panel finds that Environmental Impact               Environmental Assessment regarding its
    Assessment reports related to the south                 evaluation of impacts such as air quality and noise
    corridor seem to have been carried out with             and their corresponding mitigation measures.
    acceptable diligence regarding certain items
    in those assessments, e.g., impact                      Management agrees with the Panel that the EA
    evaluations on issues such as air quality and           ought to have identified impact and mitigation
    noise, and that mitigation measures identified          measures pertaining to issues beyond the
    to deal with impacts are adequate. In this              busway, such as pedestrian flows, vehicular traffic
    respect reports comply with OP 4.01 on                  re-routing, and economic livelihoods. Also,
    Environmental Assessment.                               Management acknowledges that the EA did not
                                                            adequately analyze "the Project's impact on the
    The Panel finds however that while studies              historical heritage and cultural value of Barranco
    had an acceptable quality on the issues that            and its vulnerability to significant traffic flows in the
    directly affected construction and operation of         proximity of historical buildings." Issues related to
    the BRT, there was little concern and analysis          physical cultural resources are addressed in Item
    of impacts beyond the busway on such issues             11.
    as pedestrian flows, vehicular traffic re-
    routing, and economic livelihoods. The                  Since early 2009 Management has been actively
    studies are also inadequate as to the analysis          raising the issues of traffic and pedestrian flows,
    of the Project's impact on the historical               and vehicular traffic re-routing. The 2011 TMS is
    heritage and cultural value of Barranco and its         analyzing these issues and alternatives for
    vulnerability to significant traffic flows in the       addressing them, including one proposed by the
    proximity of historical buildings.                      community, and will recommend effective
    The Panel finds that the analysis of potential          approaches to minimize impacts on the historical
    adverse impacts of the Project and                      buildings and monumental areas in Barranco's
    identification of mitigation measures fall short        Zone of Special Regulation (Zona de Regulación
    of meeting the requirements of OP 4.01 as far           Especial, ZRE) and on residents' economic
    as the analysis concerns the District of                livelihoods. Management is currently analyzing the
    Barranco.                                               draft report and is awaiting comments from
                                                            Protransporte and the Municipality of Barranco. A
                                                            new report is expected from the consulting firm
                                                            soon after Management provides its comments.
                                                            (See Items 1 and 2 on the 2011 TMS and process
                                                            to implement a new traffic pattern in Barranco.)

                                                            Additionally, Management:
                                                            (i) funded a preliminary traffic safety assessment
                                                                 of pedestrian flows and access to stations
                                                                 along and beyond the busway, which has
                                                                 been presented to Protransporte and shared
                                                                 with Barranco's new municipal government;
                                                                 and
                                                            (ii) hired an international traffic safety specialist
                                                                 to make recommendations for short- and
                                                                 medium-term actions to address these issues,
                                                                 some of which are currently being
                                                                 implemented by Protransporte (e.g.,
                                                                 implementation of crosswalks and timed
                                                                 traffic lights).

                                                            The new municipal administration of Lima has
                                                            already assigned resources to continue works and
                                                            activities to improve pedestrian flows and


                                                     19
                                                                Management Report and Recommendation



No. Finding                                             IP Comment/Action
                                                       Para
                                                              accessibility to the stations, with emphasis on
                                                              vulnerable persons.

                                                              Action: Management will continue to supervise
                                                              Protransporte's implementation of the traffic safety
                                                              action plan. See also the action under Item 3. The
                                                              results of supervision will be appropriately
                                                              recorded in ISRs and other supervision
                                                              documents.
7.   Analysis of Alternatives                          88-    Comment: Management agrees with the Panel's
                                                       99     finding that alternatives should have been studied
     The Panel notes that a review of the                     in more depth, as discussed in Item 1. While nine
     environmental assessments prepared for the               alternatives for Project alignment were evaluated,
     Project reveal that these alternatives were not          the EA analyzed and consulted on only one,
     studied in sufficient depth to be able to                including aspects pertaining to detours during the
     assess their technical feasibility and cost, or          construction phase. The EA should have
     their merits for Barranco as compared to the             documented and consulted on the other options.
     selected route. It is not clear to the Panel to
     what extent these options were put forward               Action: The 2011 TMS is studying alternatives in
     for consideration in the environmental                   depth and is expected to be completed by October
     assessment. The Panel observes that                      2011 (see also Items 1, 2, 3 and 6).
     attention to these alternatives as well as
     adequate consultations with Barranco
     residents during the decision-making process
     could have avoided the tensions and strong
     opposition to Project that arose later and that
     resulted in the Request for Inspection to the
     Panel.

8.   Consultation and Dissemination of Project         100-   Comment: Management recognizes that more
     Information with Barranco Residents               115    attention should have been given, during Project
                                                              preparation and early implementation, to the
     The Panel finds that dissemination of                    consultation process and dissemination of Project
     information and consultation with the affected           information to all interested parties.
     people in Barranco failed to meet the
     requirements of OP 4.01, especially in the               In 2008 and early 2009, when construction was
     early phase of the Project and during a good             completed, Management actively engaged
     part of Project implementation. Only when                Protransporte and other municipal authorities to
     residents began voicing their concerns in a              enhance communications and consultations to
     more organized fashion were their concerns               address the community's concerns. Management
     taken into consideration and a number of                 hired a facilitator in 2009 who established the
     actions were taken to hear their views and               Mesa de Diálogo, a roundtable that provided a
     address their concerns.                                  forum for consultations on the TOR for the 2011
     The Panel notes that this failure of                     TMS. Unfortunately, dialogue broke down in
     consultation likely has had important                    January 2010, when progress seemed unlikely
     consequences in the present case. The lack               due to wide and strongly held divergences of
     of adequate consultations, particularly during           perspectives and interests among the participants.
     the critical design phase of the Project,                With the new municipal administrations of Lima
     appears to have contributed to later tension             and Barranco in place, there is a renewed
     and conflict about this important project for            commitment to participatory consultations, which
     the City of Lima.                                        Protransporte will lead. Management has offered
                                                              its support, should Protransporte find it helpful.

                                                              Communications and consultations have

                                                      20
                                                                Management Report and Recommendation



No. Finding                                             IP Comment/Action
                                                       Para
                                                              improved, as is evidenced, for example, by the
                                                              Barranco flower vendors' satisfaction with the
                                                              process for relocating the flower market, and by
                                                              the fact that the phase-out of old bus routes as
                                                              Metropolitano becomes operational has been
                                                              progressing smoothly, without strikes or protests
                                                              by the operators. Also, solutions to conflicts
                                                              regarding Project design in Independencia and La
                                                              Unificada, north of downtown Lima, illustrate the
                                                              improved consultations and communications.

                                                              Action: Management will continue to emphasize
                                                              to Protransporte and the municipal
                                                              administrations the importance of consulting with
                                                              the community on the alternative traffic routes and
                                                              micro-design options, including those pertaining to
                                                              traffic and pedestrian safety, before reaching final
                                                              decisions in their regard and implementing
                                                              solutions. Management has offered technical
                                                              support and the services of the facilitator to
                                                              support Protransporte as it conducts the
                                                              necessary consultations. Results of supervision
                                                              will be appropriately recorded in ISRs and other
                                                              supervision documents.

                                                               Management will also provide enhanced learning
                                                              opportunities for staff to help improve their
                                                              awareness of, and skills related to, stakeholder
                                                              consultations.
9.   Project did not Respond to the                    116-   Comment: Management is pleased that the Panel
     Requesters' Concerns (Inadequate                  126    recognizes that the Task Team has worked to
     Supervision)                                             improve the mechanisms by which citizens can
                                                              voice their complaints since 2008 and early 2009
     The Panel notes that the project level                   and that the Project has been in compliance with
     grievances system has the potential to be an             OP 13.05 since then.
     important avenue for residents to present
     their grievances and have their issues                   Management agrees that a more structured,
     addressed, but notes that to do so effectively           transparent, and centrally coordinated approach to
     requires a functioning office.                           addressing complaints and grievances should
     The Panel finds that supervision did not                 have been put in place from the outset.
     ensure that Project affected people were
     adequately informed and consulted on the                 Management agrees that a functioning grievance
     Project and its potential impacts until the end          mechanism is important. Protransporte has
     of 2008, when problems started to emerge in              established a well-functioning grievance and
     Barranco as the construction of the                      redress mechanism for the operational phase of
     Metropolitano progressed. The Panel finds,               the Metropolitano. Examples of how the
     however, that Project supervision, since 2008,           mechanism is functioning effectively include, in
     has been more active in addressing                       Barranco, repair of damage to streets caused by
     complaints and reacting to emerging issues in            the works and relocation of Project related
     compliance with the Policy on Project                    elements. In the areas to the north of downtown
     supervision.                                             Lima known as La Unificada and Independencia,
                                                              Protransporte responded to residents' complaints
                                                              by making changes in Project design, including


                                                      21
                                                                  Management Report and Recommendation



No. Finding                                               IP Comment/Action
                                                         Para
                                                                new traffic patterns for cars and pedestrians, even
                                                                after construction had been completed. The
                                                                mechanism enables users to register complaints
                                                                at bus rapid transit (BRT) stations, on
                                                                Protransporte's website, or via a hotline. In
                                                                addition, the municipal administrations in Lima
                                                                and Barranco channel to Protransporte any
                                                                complains that they receive directly.
                                                                Protransporte has a unit that registers, prioritizes,
                                                                analyzes, and responds to the complaints.

                                                                Action: During supervision and until finalization of
                                                                the ICR, Management will continue to emphasize
                                                                to Protransporte and the authorities in Barranco
                                                                the importance of an effectively functioning
                                                                grievance and redress mechanism. Results of
                                                                supervision will be appropriately recorded in ISRs
                                                                and other supervision documents.
10.   Environmental Assessment Process not               127-   Comment: Management is pleased that the
      Approved by Competent Peruvian                     132    Panel found that during implementation the Task
      Authority                                                 Team acted with due diligence on this matter, in
                                                                compliance with OP/BP 13.05.
      The Panel concurs with Management that it is
      a matter for the Peruvian courts to decide                Management agrees that the lack of clarity
      whether the Municipality of Lima was the                  regarding the competent authority to approve EAs
      competent authority to approve the EIA based              should have been recognized during Project
      on the legislation in force. The Panel finds, as          preparation, but is of the view that OP 4.01
      a matter of due diligence and based on OMS                (particularly Annexes B and C), which was
      2.20, this issue should have been part of the             adopted after OMS 2.20, establishes that the EA
      appraisal of the Project and as such reported             itself ­ or the Environmental Management Plan,
      in the PAD. This did not happen and is not in             as the case may be ­ is the document that should
      compliance with OMS 2.20. However, the                    discuss the applicable legal and institutional
      Panel also notes that supervision missions                framework.
      discussed and raised this issue with the
      authorities early in the Project implementation           Management has provided draft TOR to
      and well before construction began. [T]he                 Protransporte. Protransporte has indicated that it
      Bank also requested a legal opinion on the                will finalize the TOR, with further Bank support if
      matter. The Panel finds that during                       needed, clear it the Ministry of Housing,
      implementation Management acted with due                  Construction, and Sanitation, and begin the
      diligence in compliance with OP/BP 13.05.                 bidding process once the works have been
                                                                completed, which is expected by October 2011.

                                                                Action: Management will continue its
                                                                engagement with Protransporte and its technical
                                                                support for this audit. Results of supervision will
                                                                be appropriately recorded in ISRs and other
                                                                supervision documents.
      Physical Cultural Resources
11.   Negative impact on Barranco's Historic
        1                                                197-   Comment: Management confirmed and relied
      Architectural District                             209    upon the approval of National Institute of Culture
                                                                (INC) for the design of the Project and the stations
      The Panel has found no adequate analysis of               in Barranco as required by national law and in


                                                     22
                                                              Management Report and Recommendation



No. Finding                                              IP Comment/Action
                                                        Para
    the historic neighborhood or monuments, nor             accordance with INC's lead responsibility for
    of the potential impacts of Project on them.            protection and preservation of Peru's cultural
    [T]he SEA and EA mention that the Project               patrimony. Management believes that this fulfilled
    will have an impact but go no further in                the requirements of OPN 11.03, the then
    evaluating the nature and magnitude of the              applicable policy.
    impacts. The SEA proposes that a study be
    carried out to address impacts in the historic          Management acknowledges, however, that it
    area. To the Panel's knowledge, such a                  should have done its own assessment and that
    detailed study related to Barranco has yet to           the EA and subsequent studies, including the
    be carried out. The Panel finds that this is not        2005 TMS, did not adequately analyze Barranco's
    in compliance with OPN 11.03 on Physical                historic buildings and monumental areas and the
    Cultural Resources.                                     potential impacts of increased traffic volume and
                                                            congestion on them.
    The Panel notes that the lack of adequate
    studies of the impacts of the Project on                The Bank-financed 2011 TMS, which is intended
    cultural resources of Barranco is a serious             as one source of technical input to the process of
    matter, as high traffic volume crossing the             deciding on a new traffic management plan for the
    District may cause permanent negative                   Metropolitano's operational phase, will address
    impacts to its protected historic area.                 this shortcoming. Preliminary indications are that it
                                                            will recommend measures to minimize through
    In the opinion of the Panel, the Requesters'            traffic, ease circulation of vehicles that originate
    concern that the increased traffic through              within or have Barranco as their destination, and
    Avenida San Martin would cause a loss of                enhance the walkability of the area of historic
    quality of the historic area is well founded.           value. Such measures are expected to reduce
    The Panel finds that the increase in traffic,           overall traffic volume and congestion, and
    leading to congestion through the community,            increase traffic and pedestrian safety, with the
    was not adequately considered in assessing              overall effect of helping to preserve the historic
    the impacts of the Project on the historic area.        buildings and monumental areas of Barranco, thus
                                                            effectively addressing traffic management
    The Panel also finds that the EAs prepared              concerns as the Metropolitano becomes fully
    under the Project do not mention the potential          operational.
    problems associated with the impacts of
    permanently re-routed traffic on buildings and          Action: In addition to supervising completion of
    public places of interest.                              the 2011 TMS and working with Protransporte
                                                            and the authorities in Barranco to encourage
                                                            consultations on traffic management and the
                                                            historical patrimony of Barranco (see Item 8),
                                                            Management will respond to the interest of the
                                                            municipal authorities of Barranco in the Bank's
                                                            advice on how to incorporate in the TOR for the
                                                            District's Participatory Development Plan 2011-
                                                            2012 an analysis of Barranco's historic buildings
                                                            and monumental areas and measures to preserve
                                                            that patrimony in the service of dynamic economic
                                                            and social development in Barranco. Management
                                                            will continue its engagement with Protransporte
                                                            and the Municipality of Barranco on these matters.
                                                            Results of supervision will be appropriately
                                                            recorded in ISRs and other supervision
                                                            documents.




                                                       23
                    77°10'W                                                                                77°05'W                                                                                        77°00'W                                                                    76°55'W




                                                              etta




                                                                                                                       Panamerica
                                                                           Fhiladelfia




                                                                      mb




                                                                                                                         na
                                                                                                                         na
                                                         Av. Nestor Ga
                12°00'S




                                                                                                                          na Norte


                                                                                                                                       Calle Ger
                                                                                                                                         lle G
                                                                                                                                         lle G ar
                                                                                                                             Norte
                                                                                                                             Norte



                                                                                                                                                  do Unger
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PERU




                                                                               Av... F
                                                                                v
                                                                                v a




                                                                                                                                                     Ung
                                                                                                                                                     Ung
                                                                                       ucet
                                                                                                                Independencia




                                                                                        c t
                                                                                        c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    See main map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   for Lima Detail
                                                                                                                                                                                                         El Agustino
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             le
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       o Pria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ramir




                                                                                                                                                        Alfonso Ugarte
                                                                                                                                                                            Rimac
                                                                                                        Carmen de la




                                                                                                                                                                Ugarte
                                                                                                                                                                Ugarte
                                                                                                       Legua Reynoso                                                                                                                          Santa Anita
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ral
                                                                              Av. Argentina
                                                                                                                                                                             Lima                                                                 Carr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      etera
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Cent


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0   1       2     3       4 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Tupac
                                       Callao                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Amaru
                                                                                                                                                                                                         La Victoria                                                                           0       1             2        3         4 Miles




                                                                                                                                                                                 Pase
                                                                                              San Miguel




                                                                                                                                                                                    eo de
                                                                                                                                                                                    eoo
                                                                                                                                     Jesús María




                                                                                                                                                                                         la Re
                                                                                                                                                                                         la
                                                                                                                                                                                         la
                12°05'S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   12°05'S




                                                                                                                                                                                               publi
                                                                                                    Cost                                                                                                                 ado
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Av. Javier Pr




                                                                                                                                                                                                u
                                                                                                                                                                                                u c
                                                                                                        ane
                                                                                                           ra




                                                                                                                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         La Molina




                                                                                                                                                                              Arequipa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Panamerican
                                                                                                  Costa Verde
                                                                                                                                                                                                               San Borja




                                                                                                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                                                                                                     a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      rican
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      rican
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   a Sur
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Angamos oeste



                          O C E A N O PA C I F I C O                                                                                                                      Miraflores

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Santiago

                                                                                                                                                       Playa                                                            de Surco
                                                                                                                                                   La Estrella
                                                                                                                                                                                             Barranco
                                                PERU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     San Juan
                  LIMA URBAN TRANSPORT                                                                                                          Playa Agua                                                                     de Miraflores

                         PROJECT                                                                                                                      Dulce                                                  For detail,
                                                                                                                                                                                                             see IBRD 38351                                                                                                               12°10'S
                                               LIMA                                                                                  La Herradura

                                    BANK PROJECT FINANCING,
                                    METROPOLITANO SYSTEM                                                                                                                       Chorrillos

                                    MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                         La Chira
                                    SECONDARY ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                      Villa el
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Salvador
FEBRUARY 2011




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 38350
                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                           77°05'W                                                                                        77°00'W                                                                    76°55'W                                              76°50'W
                                          PERU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Av. SURCO (Ex ROOSEVELT
                LIMA URBAN TRANSPORT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VEZ
                       PROJECT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                x OOSEVE T)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                x
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         . JO
                          BARRANCO DISTRICT




                                                                                                                                     SA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Av
                                                                                                                                  SO
                                                                                                                                                                                     LU                         Av




                                                                                                                      LIO
                                                                                                                                                                                        NA                        .L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IM                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PERU




                                                                                                                    RE
                                                                                                                                                                                           PIZ                        A




                                                                                                                                                       UD
                                                                                                                 AU
                                                                                                                                                                                              AR




                                                                                                                                                    RA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OTO
                                                                                                             Jr.
                                                                                                                                                              GA                                 RO                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Lima




                                                                                                                                                 HE
                                                                                                                                                                    RC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EZ S
                                                                                                                                           RO
                                                                                                                                                                        IA




                                                                                                                                      ED
                                                                                                                                                                              YG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RIGU
                                                                                                                                    .P
                                                                                                                Jr.                                                                   AR                                                                                                                                                                        LOS




                                                                                                                                   CA
                                                                                                                                                                                         CIA                                                                                                                                                                        SAUC




                                                                                                                                                                O
                                                                                                                       EL



                                                                            A




                                                                                                                                                             ALT
                                                                          ND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ROD
                                                                                         Prl                                    PR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ES

                                                                        IRA
                                                                                            g:                                    OG




                                                                                                                                                        UE
                                                                                               Av                                   RES                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ALFO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FCO.
                                                                   OM




                                                                                                                                                    RQ




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
                                                                                                                                                                              ICA
                                                                                                  .E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LO
                                                                                                                                       O                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NSO




                                                                                                                                                  PA
                                                                                                     LS




                                                                                                                                                                                                 A
                                                                  LIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Av




                                                                                                                                                                         AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          UGA




                                                                                                                                                                                               ALT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                        OL                                                                                                                                                      .L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ELL
                                                             ATA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RTE




                                                                                                                                                                                               .B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Jr. M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T
                                                        .C


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LU                         A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                AN
                                                                                                                                                                                           Av
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IL M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NA
                                                       Av



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DE L




                                                                                                                                                                                                             AV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PIZ                                                                                                           A




                                                                                                                                                                                                          TIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AZO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FUEN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VIG
                                                         Av REPUBLICA DE P
                                                         Av. REPUBLICA E PANAM
                                                                  L CA PANAMA
                                                                    CA                                                                                                                                                                                AR                                                                                                                 TE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ca. P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Av. G                                                                                                                    AUG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        rall. B                                                                                                                 UST                                                  Ca.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OLOG                                                                             Av. L                             O TA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NESI                             A                                                IMA                              MAY                                                 MA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ESC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           O VA                                              LAM
                                                                        URR
                                                                            E                                                                                                                                                                                 FON                                                                                                                                               BIT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IATE
                                                                                                  N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RGA
                                                                   VIDA                 UE B ARRO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S                                                O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MAR
                                                        SENDO                    RIQ
                                                   . RO                   Jr. EN
                                                 Av
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Av Gral BOLOGNESI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Av. Gral. BOLOGNES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LO




                                                                                                                                                                             (EX PIERROSELLO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RO




                                                                                                                                                                                      LA)
                                                                                                              Av. EL SOL ESTE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Jr. 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                J
                                                             DA                                                                                                                                                       NTA



                                                                                                                                                                              EX ERO
                                                      CABA
                                                                                ARRIE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SA

                                                                                                                                                                          Av. PEDRO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DE M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Jr. 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             J




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Jr. IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        r
                                                                                                                                TUMBES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MAY
                                                                                   TA PE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8 DE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A                                                                                       AU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RC                                                                                  te. GR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DEPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MA
                                                                                                               v.


                                                                                                                                      RIQUELLI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Av. Alm
                                                                                    REYA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JULI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NDE
                                                         DELUCCHI                                                                                                          Av. Almte. GRAU                                                                                                                                                  Av. P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EDRO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NCIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DE OS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MA
                                                      Av. REDUCTO
                                                                                                                                                                    Jr. CENTENARIO
                                                                                                                                                  MARTINTO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Av. SAN MART N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RTI
                                                                                                                                                       NTO




                                                                                                                                                                                                CARLOS GARCIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                     S GA CIA




                                                                                        TIN                                                              TACNA CASOS
                                                                                                                                                                                                       GAR




                                                                                 N M AR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CIRCUITO DE PL
                                                                           Av. SA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AYAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Z     OS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Mc PA
                                                                          Mc DIE
                                                                                   Z CAN
                                                                                           ESC
                                                                                              O


                                                                                                                                                                               AS
                                             S




                                                                                                                                                                        Y
                                         INO




                                                                                                                                                                    PLA                                                                                                            O C E A N O PA C I F I C O
                            IZ




                                                                                                                                                                E
                         AR




                                      OL




                                                                                                                                                             OD
                      ND




                                  AR




                                                                                                                                                        IT
                                 SC




                                                                                                                                                     CU
                   ME




                                                                                                                                                 CIR
                                 LO
                AR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0                        200                    400 Meters
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BANK PROJECT FINANCING,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      METROPOLITANO SYSTEM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MAIN ROADS                                                                                                 0                  500            1000 Feet
FEBRUARY 2011




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 38351
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SECONDARY ROADS                                                                                       The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                 Map of the Metropol itano
                                                        .J   Ni'injil
                                                             iZiiuine
                                                             Picltico
                                                             I ndel»ndI'~
                                                             LDS JilrMw.
                                                             Tomo!! Valle
                                                             EIMilaaro
                                                             Honoria    ~Ig.oo


                                                             ""'
                                                             Parq.R*1 Trat>ajo
                                                             Ca~U
                                                              (",lilY




                                        t      North                ,... / ·· De La UniOn


                                                                            ~


                                                             E.titd6n C~ntr.1
                                                             ESUdia Nacion.1l
                                                             Mhk:o
                                                             Caoac18
                                                             JaV'lerPratlo
                                                             (,mav. ly Moreyr.
                                                             Aramtlun)
                                                             Domlri8o an..e

                                                             "".~
                                                             Riuroo Palma
                                                             BKIi.tdes
                                                             28de Julio


                                                             ....
   Stations located in Chorrillos                            I'LIZide   FIor ~ ,

    Stations located in Barranco
                                                             Bulevar
    Stations located in Miranores and SurQuilio
                                                             Estad", UniOO
    Station s located in San Isidro
                                                             EsclRla M ilrtar
    Stations located in La Victori a y Lince                 Terin
    Stations located in Cercado de lima                      ROSirio de Villa
                                                             MiteflO
    Stations located in Rimae and San Martin de Pooes
.) Slabons located in Independenda
