                                                           Report No. 102352




                   Project Performance Assessment Report

                               Republic of Peru

                      LIMA TRANSPORT PROJECT

                      (IBRD-72090 TF-52877 TF-52856)

                               December 17, 2015




IEG Sustainable Development
Independent Evaluation Group
                                                       iii


    Currency Equivalents (annual averages, selected years)

    Currency Unit = Peruvian Nuevo Sol (PEN)

    2003     US$1.00          PEN 3.48
    2005     US$1.00          PEN 3.29
    2010     US$1.00          PEN 2.83
    2011     US$1.00          PEN 2.75
    2012     US$1.00          PEN 2.64
    2013     US$1.00          PEN 2.70
    2014     US$1.00          PEN 2.84

    Abbreviations and Acronyms
    BRT          Bus Rapid Transit
    CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
    CPS          Country Partnership Strategy
    FONAM        Fondo Nacional del Ambiente (National Environmental Fund)
    GEF          Global Environment Facility
    GTNM         Gerencia de Transporte no Motoriado (Non-Motorized Transport Bureau)
    GTU          Gerencia de Transporte Urbano (Urban Transport Bureau)
    IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
    ICR          Implementation Completion and Results Report
    IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
    IEG          Independent Evaluation Group
    JICA         Japan International Cooperation Agency
    LMR          Lima Metropolitan Region
    MML          Metropolitan Municipality of Lima
    MTC          Ministry of Transport and Communication
    PAD          Project Appraisal Document

    Fiscal Year

    Government:               January 1 – December 31




Director-General, Independent Evaluation                              :   Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Financial, Private Sector and Sustainable Development   :   Mr. Marvin Taylor-Dormond
Acting Manager, IEG Sustainable Development                           :   Ms. Midori Makino
Task Manager                                                          :   Mr. Ryotaro Hayashi
Contents
Principal Ratings ................................................................................................................. v
Key Staff Responsible......................................................................................................... v
Preface............................................................................................................................... vii
Summary ............................................................................................................................ ix
1. Background and Context................................................................................................. 1
2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance ........................................................................ 4
   Relevance of Objectives ................................................................................................. 4
   Design ............................................................................................................................. 5
   Relevance of Design ....................................................................................................... 6
3. Implementation ............................................................................................................... 8
4. Achievement of the Objectives ..................................................................................... 12
5. Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 24
6. Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 26
7. Lessons .......................................................................................................................... 33
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ............................................................................................... 36
Annex B. List of WB Urban Transport Projects in Peru ................................................. 40
Annex C. Additional Data Tables and Figures ................................................................ 41
Annex D. List of Persons Met........................................................................................... 45

Figures

Figure 1: Bus Rapid Transit System Development in the World over Time ...................... 3
Figure 2: Metropolitano Articulated Bus and Traditional Minibus .................................. 15
Figure 3: Number of Passenger and Ticket Validation per Month Since July 2010 ........ 17
Figure 4: Metropolitano Users vs All Transport Users by Occupation in 2012 ............... 19
Figure 5: Metropolitano Users in Bus Station and at Fare Card Machines in Morning
Peak-Hour at Naranjal Terminal ....................................................................................... 20
Figure 6: Coverage of Metropolitano in Relation to Socioeconomic Distribution of Lima
Metropolitan Region ......................................................................................................... 21
Figure 7: Distribution of Metropolitano Users vs All Transport Users by Socio-Economic
Status ................................................................................................................................. 22
Figure 8: Future BRT and Metro System in Lima Metropolitan Region ......................... 23

Tables

Table 1: User Satisfaction Rates for Urban Transport Services in 2014 .......................... 14

This report was prepared by Ryotaro Hayashi, who visited Peru during June-July 2015 along with
Ramachandra Jammi. The report was peer reviewed by Fang Xu and panel reviewed by Robert Lacey.
Richard Kraus provided administrative support.
                                                         v


Principal Ratings
LIMA TRANSPORT PROJECT (LOAN 72090 TF-52877 TF-52856)
                                   ICR*                    ICR Review*                         PPAR
Outcome                         Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory              Satisfactory
Risk to                      Negligible to Low                  Moderate                      Significant
Development
Outcome
Bank Performance Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower                 Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
Performance
* The Implementation Completion and Results (ICR) report is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department.
The ICR Review is an intermediate IEG product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.




Key Staff Responsible
LIMA TRANSPORT PROJECT

                                                         Division Chief/
Project                   Task Manager/                  Sector Director                 Country Director
Appraisal                 Paul A. Guitnik               Jose Luis Irigoyen               Marcelo Giugale
Completion                 Arturo Ardila                Aurelio Menendez                Susan G. Goldmark


LIMA TRANSPORT PROJECT (GEF)

                                                         Division Chief/
Project                   Task Manager/                  Sector Director                 Country Director
Appraisal                Pierre Graftieaux              Jose Luis Irigoyen               Marcelo Giugale
Completion               Elisabeth Goller               Aurelio Menendez                Susan G. Goldmark
                                                                vi


                  IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in
                                              independent evaluation.


About this Report
      The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes: first, to ensure
the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is producing the expected results, and
second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the dissemination of lessons drawn from
experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the Bank’s lending operations through field work. In
selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to
upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments;
and those that are likely to generate important lessons.
      To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other documents, visit
the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country stakeholders, and interview Bank
staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower for review. IEG
incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are attached to the document
that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to
the public.

About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
      IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending
instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project
ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional information is available on
the IEG website: http://ieg.worldbankgroup.org).
      Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be achieved,
efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes relevance of objectives
and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s objectives are consistent with the
country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals
(expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies).
Relevance of design is the extent to which the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to
which the project’s objectives were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance.
Efficiency is the extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of
capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or expected outcomes)
will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High, Significant, Moderate,
Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
      Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the operation and
supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements for
regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The
rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision. Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing agency or
agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government performance and implementing
agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately
Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
                                           vii


Preface
This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), prepared by the Independent
Evaluation Group (IEG), evaluates the Lima Transport Project (2003-2011) in Peru.

The project was approved on December 9, 2003 with an IBRD Loan (IBRD-72090) and
GEF Grant (TF-52856, TF-52877) of US$45 million and US$7.93 million respectively.
At completion, all of the IBRD loan and 93 percent of the GEF grant (US$7.35 million)
was disbursed. The final project cost was US$261.9 million, about 95 percent higher than
appraisal (US$134.43 million). The difference (US$171.90 million) was entirely financed
by the Borrower, a substantial increase over US$44.40 million at design.

The project closed on April 30, 2011, twenty two months after the planned completion
date of June 30, 2009 (the delay for the GEF-funded portion was somewhat lower at
twelve months, closing on June 30, 2010). The IBRD-funded portion was restructured
three times to account for delays in satisfying the loan effectiveness conditions; and
harmonization of procurement procedures with the co-financing institution, Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB). The GEF portion was restructured once in order to
modify some activities and add others.

The project supported the goal of the Metropolitan Municipality of Lima (MML) to
enhance the economic productivity and the quality of life within the Lima Metropolitan
Region (LMR) through improving mobility and accessibility for the metropolitan
population, especially in the peri-urban poor neighborhoods by establishing an efficient,
reliable, cleaner and safer Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system operating on segregated
busways. The project also sought to facilitate greenhouse gas reduction from ground
transport in LMR through promoting a long-term modal shift to non-motorized transport.

IEG selected this project for assessment because of potential lessons from the experience
of the BRT system in Lima (also known as “Metropolitano”) with environment-friendly
and pro-poor design features. The findings and lessons from this assessment will be an
important input to IEG’s forthcoming major evaluation; Sustainable Urban Transport
Service Delivery for the Poor.

This report draws upon documentation for relevant Bank-funded projects such as Project
Appraisal Documents, Implementation Completion and Results Reports, legal
agreements, project files and archives. The report also benefited from case studies
prepared by the Office of Evaluation and Oversight (OVE) at IDB, which co-financed
this project. Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) produced the Lima Urban
Transport Master Plan, which provided rich data for this evaluation, although JICA was
not involved in financing this project. An IEG field mission visited Peru during June 20-
30, 2015. Discussions were held with Bank staff in Washington, DC and in Lima, and
government and other officials in Lima. Interviews and discussions were also held with a
cross-section of Metropolitano users including disabled people. The IEG mission
members gained first-hand experience of the Metropolitano BRT by traveling on several
segments of the trunk routes and feeder services at peak and non-peak hours.
                                           viii


The mission expresses its appreciation of the generous time and attention given by the
Borrower and all concerned parties. A list of persons met by the mission is in Annex D.

Following IEG practice, copies of the draft report were sent to government officials and
implementing agencies, and comments from the Ministry of Transports and
Communications were received and reflected in this report.
                                              ix


Summary
This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) assesses the development
effectiveness of the Lima Transport Project in Peru. The project’s objective was “to
enhance the economic productivity and the quality of life within the Lima Metropolitan
Region (LMR) through improving mobility and accessibility for the metropolitan
population, especially in the peri-urban poor neighborhoods by establishing an efficient,
reliable, cleaner and safer mass rapid transit system.” The GEF Grant Agreement
(TF052856) states the objective identically to the Loan Agreement, and adds the
promotion of non-motorized transportation: “enhancing the economic productivity and
the quality of life in the Lima-Callao metropolitan area by improving mobility and
accessibility for its population through the establishment of an efficient, reliable, cleaner
and safer mass transit system and by promoting non-motorized transportation.”

Project performance and ratings

The Project aimed to improve the urban transport system through a public private
partnership in the context of a briskly-growing economy and rapid urbanization. Lima
was the first city in Latin America to pioneer a Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system in the
early 1970s, and this experience was fed into the first modern BRT system in Curitiba
(Brazil). After Transmilenio in Bogota (Colombia) became a showcase to spread the BRT
system, a modern BRT system in Lima known as Metropolitano was developed under the
project.

The overall project development outcome is rated Satisfactory. Relevance of the project
development objective is rated substantial because of its alignment with both the country
and Bank’s strategies and priorities. Relevance of the project’s design is rated modest.
The project had logical linkage between inputs, outputs, intermediate outcomes, and
outcomes, but several indicators and key objectives could have been more clearly and
realistically formulated. Efficacy of the first sub-objective “the establishment of an
efficient, reliable, cleaner and safer mass transit system” is rated substantial due to
tangible achievements in providing such urban transport services through the BRT
system. The second sub-objective, comprising “improving mobility” and “accessibility
for its population, especially in the peri-urban poor neighborhoods”, is also rated
substantial because of increasing traffic volume and usage for commuting to the
workplace and higher education. Although the benefit for the poor might be less than for
the non-poor, and the very poor appear to have benefited hardly at all, the project
improved connections between the poor residential areas in the northern and southern
parts of LMR. The overarching objective of “enhancing the economic productivity and
the quality of life in the Borrower’s municipal territory” has difficulties in measurement
and attribution, but substantial achievements for the other two sub-objectives are likely to
have contributed favorably to the overarching objective. Efficiency is rated substantial
taking into consideration cost-effectiveness in comparison to similar projects across
different countries, through there were operational and administrative inefficiencies,
reflected in large cost and time overruns. Bank and Borrower Performance were both
rated Moderately Satisfactory.
                                              x


Lessons

Improving mobility and accessibility for the poor through Bus Rapid Transit
systems requires integrating the main corridor effectively with feeder services and
other public transport system that reach close to the traveler’s origins and
destinations. While the Metropolitano BRT was able to provide mobility to a significant
number of poor residents, it is not likely to reach its potential for serving this population
segment without extensive penetration of feeder routes with multiple modes, to their
work, school, hospital and residential locations.

Realistic scenarios and sound risk allocation are crucial for public-private
partnerships if high service standards are to be maintained. In this project, the private
bus operator concessions did not include a minimum revenue guarantee from the
Metropolitan Municipality of Lima (MML). The number of passengers was below the
target at project completion even after five years of operation, and the situation was
particularly serious in the initial operating stage. To close the gap between the planned
and actual scenarios, analysis for competition with other transport modes, enforcement of
a sound regulatory framework and communication to citizens needed to be strengthened.

Given the complex urban settings in which rapid urban transport systems are
typically situated, it is important to inform and consult with all categories of project
affected persons, to anticipate and take effective measures to prevent possible
negative environmental and social impacts and related disputes. In this project,
insufficient information was provided to residents of a locality that was eventually
impacted by re-routing of traffic from the project, resulting in a complaint and an
Inspection Panel investigation, which contributed to delays in project implementation.

A shift towards non-motorized transport can be expected to take a long time even
with enabling and supporting factors and facilities in place. The experience with
promoting bicycle usage in the Lima Metropolitan Region demonstrates the slow pace at
which non-motorized transport is adopted. The bikeway infrastructure development and
awareness raising campaigns could be necessary conditions, but they are not sufficient. In
this case, this transformation was delayed further by insufficient attention to other
supporting factors, such as safe parking space and raising drivers’ awareness of the need
to share the road with bicycles. More broadly, the prevailing cultural attitudes toward
using bicycle should be taken into account.



                                                              Caroline Heider
                                                              Director-General
                                                              Evaluation
                                              1


1. Background and Context
1.1    Peru has seen a period of broad-based and rapid economic growth in recent years,
with an annual GDP growth rate of 6.0 percent in 2012 and 5.8 percent in 2013. The
national poverty rate has halved between 2005 and 2013. Income inequality measured by
the Gini Coefficient has also improved, and Peru has made progress in terms of shared
prosperity.

1.2    Lima Metropolitan Region (LMR) – comprising the adjacent jurisdictions of the
Metropolitan Municipality of Lima (MML) and the Constitutional Province of Callao –
has been a key driver of these transformational changes. Approximately one third of
Peru’s population lives in LMR, and this region generates half of the GDP in the country
(INEI 2013). LMR has made some progress in respect of shared prosperity in the 2004-
2012 period as seen in the higher mean income growth of the bottom 40 percent (5.4
percent) as compared to overall income growth (4.0 percent). According to INEI (2013),
the number of people below the poverty line1 in the LMR decreased from 25.1 percent in
2007 to 14.5 percent in 2012, and extreme poverty was less than one percent in the LMR.

1.3     However, LMR still contains large concentrations of low-income groups and
significant socio-economic disparities. In the LMR, there are 1.3 million people
considered poor and an additional 1.7 million are considered vulnerable2 (World Bank
2015). Continued migration into LMR poses new urban development challenges, with the
population expected to increase by around 1.6 percent per year in the near future. Rapid
urbanization, spatial development patterns and inadequate transport services hamper
LMR’s productivity, and constrain the poor’s access to employment opportunities, basic
needs, and social services; as well as making it difficult to improve the environment.

Urban Transport in Lima Metropolitan Region

1.4     Urban transport issues came to the fore in LMR in the years following Peru’s
economic liberalization policies in the 1990s. Inter alia, these policies enabled the
massive import of motorized vehicles in Peru. Together with the deregulation of public
transport, this contributed to a rapid increase in informal taxis, minibuses, and moto-taxis.
While the expanded availability and accessibility of vehicles provided opportunities for
poor people in peri-urban areas to use transportation services, the consequences of
unregulated policy were high congestion, increased traffic accidents, operation cost, noise
and air pollution. World Bank studies in the early 2000s estimated that about US$500




1
 The extreme poverty line in LMR was 139 soles (2007) and 182 soles (2012). Similarly, the
poverty line was 309 soles (2007), 361 soles (2012). The monetary poverty line was determined
based on the basic consumption needs from the viewpoint of food component and non-food
component.
2
  People who are just above the subsistence level and just 23-40 percent of average household
income in LMR are considered as vulnerable. They earn monthly income between 330 soles and
550 soles.
                                             2


million was lost every year in man-hours and operational costs due to congestion and
inefficiencies of LMR’s urban transport system.

1.5      The Bank’s Lima Transport Project, which is assessed in this report, responded to
these needs by supporting a modern Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system, also known as
Metropolitano. Metropolitano BRT is a 26.78 kilometers exclusive busway in a north-
south alignment and operating approximately 500 natural-gas fueled buses with an
extensive feeder bus network. Since its opening in 2010 and as a result of its higher level-
of-service compared to conventional modes, Metropolitano ridership has grown steadily.
However, while the average number of passenger per weekday is still below the target
value, the demand for Metropolitano’s services exceeds its capacity in peak hours and has
prompted the Metropolitan Municipality of Lima (MML) to extend the BRT corridors
toward northern directions. Also, to meet the growing demand for rapid urban transport,
Tren Eléctrico (as known as Line 1 of the Metro system), a 34 kilometers elevated rail
transit line funded by the central government on a different north-south alignment from
the BRT, started limited operations in 2010. The ridership on Metro Line 1 is also
growing steadily, and operating up to available capacity in peak periods. Together, the
Metropolitano BRT and Metro Line 1 carry about a million trips a day but these account
for only 5 percent of the 22.3 million daily trips (including trips in private modes and by
foot). This growing demand for mass transit services supports the case for more public
transport investments in the LMR, particularly on an east-west alignment where currently
no high-capacity services exist.

1.6    In December 2010, with the aim of expanding mass transit provision, the Central
Government approved a Metro Network Plan for Greater Lima and Callao. This Plan
includes Metro Line 1 and five new Metro lines totaling 168 kilometers network.
Following the results of a pre-feasibility study, the Government of Peru approved a new
subway line consisting of the full 27.3 kilometers of Line 2 and a 7.7 kilometers segment
of Line 4 as the top urban transport priority.

Experience and Lessons from Bus Rapid Transit Systems Worldwide

1.7      Around 200 cities in the world have BRT systems to facilitate transportation, and
cities in Latin America are important sources of knowledge and experiences for the
recent global expansion of BRT systems (Figure 1). The modern BRT system first
became operational in Curitiba (Brazil), and Quito (Ecuador) followed by cities in Brazil.
It was, however, Transmilenio in Bogotá (Colombia) that provided a regional and
international momentum to spread the BRT model. Brazil and Mexico support BRT
projects, and BRT projects are expanding other parts of the world under rapid
urbanization with limited fiscal space, such as cities in China and India (Figure 1 in
Annex C). The Bank’s support for BRT has mainly been in middle-income countries
(Table 1 in Annex C).

1.8     Lima pioneered a prototype of the modern BRT system in Latin America. The
concept of segregated lanes was first introduced in Lima along Vía Expresa around 1970.
This concept does not meet the modern BRT criteria, but policy makers in Curitiba in
Brazil visited Lima (Ardila-Gomez 2004), and built their own modern BRT system partly
based on the experiment in Lima. The prototype continued until early 1990s, when
                                                                            3


ENATRU went bankrupt (OVE 2015). The Metropolitano BRT effort supported by the
project was prompted by the BRT success in Bogotá, Colombia.

Figure 1: Bus Rapid Transit System Development in the World over Time

                                18                                                                                    200
                                     Lower-middle-income countries                                                    180
                                16
Number of Cities with New BRT




                                14   Upper-middle-income countries                                                    160
                                                                                                                      140
                                12   High-income countries
                                                                                                                      120
                                10
                                     Cumulative Number of Cities with BRT                                             100
                                8
                                                                                                                      80
                                6
                                                                                                                      60
                                4                                                                                     40
                                2                                                                                     20
                                0                                                                                     0


                                                                            Year

Source: IEG using data from Global BRT Data (http://brtdata.org/)
Notes: The country income categories are based on the World Bank classification. The commencement year and counting cities are
based on Global BRT Data. For instance, BRT system in Lima is counted in 1972 when the prototype of BRT system was
developed. This graph does not include BRT system under preparation.

1.9      Recent literature (Cervero and Dai 2014) suggests that BRT systems have gained
prominence worldwide as a cost-effective alternative to urban rail investments. However,
some people question the city-shaping potential of BRT, in part due to a belief that it
delivers fewer regional accessibility benefits than rail, but also to the social stigma
assigned to bus-based forms of mass mobility. Notwithstanding the success of cities like
Curitiba and Ottawa at integrating BRT and land development, doubt remains over BRT's
ability to promote less car-dependent, more sustainable patterns of urban growth in
rapidly motorizing and suburbanizing cities.

1.10 Notably, the thinking is that BRT should be conceived as more than mobility
investments. They also present opportunities for restructuring urban and regional growth
in more sustainable formats. BRT can serve as a back bone for guiding growth in a more
compact transport model that not only promotes transit riding and less driving, but also
curbs sprawl and the significant costs associated with it. The cases of Bogotá and
Ahmedabad reveal that in the absence of proactive planning and attempts to entice
private development near stations, few land-use changes occur. In both cases, long-range
strategic planning and urban development objectives have been largely usurped by near-
term engineering and cost-minimization objectives, resulting in lines being routed and
stations sited in areas with minimal development potential. This seems to imply that
urban planning needs to strike balance between short-term problem-solving and an ethos
of forward-looking and strategic planning.
                                            4


World Bank Support for Peru’s Transport Sector

1.11 The World Bank Group has played an important role in supporting the transport
sector in Peru over the past two decades providing over US$700 million for investment in
both urban and rural areas, policy reform and technical assistance. A list of Bank-
financed transport projects in Peru since 1994 is provided in Annex B.

1.12 The Bank is supporting two projects in the urban transport sub-sector in Peru after
the Lima Transport Project was completed in 2011. The first is the US$300 million Lima
Metro Line 2 project, which aims to improve connectivity between east and west of the
city for better access to job and services. Between 2012 and 2016, the Japanese Policy
and Human Resources Development Fund (PHRD), is supporting a ‘Universal Mobility
in Lima’ project, managed by the Bank, which provides US$3 million to improve the
capacity of MML and to mainstream the needs of disabled persons in the planning and
implementation of urban walking and public transport facilities, including Metropolitano.

2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
2.1      According to the Loan Agreement dated June 2, 2004 (Loan No. 7209-PE), the
project development objective was “to assist the Borrower in enhancing the economic
productivity and the quality of life in the Borrower’s municipal territory by improving
mobility and accessibility for its population, especially in the peri-urban poor
neighborhoods, through the establishment of an efficient, reliable, cleaner and safer mass
transit system”.

2.2     The GEF Grant Agreement (TF052856) states the objective identically to the
Loan Agreement, and explicitly adds the promoting of non-motorized transportation:
“enhancing the economic productivity and the quality of life in the Lima-Callao
metropolitan area by improving mobility and accessibility for its population through the
establishment of an efficient, reliable, cleaner and safer mass transit system and by
promoting non-motorized transportation.”

2.3    This report assesses the project based on the project development objectives in the
loan agreement.

Relevance of Objectives
2.4    Relevance of the project development objectives is rated Substantial. The project
development objective was relevant to the Government’s priorities as well as to the
Bank’s partnership strategies, both at project appraisal and closure.

2.5     The FY2002-2006 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) covered investment
programs which would have a direct impact on the productive lives of the poor. The
global environmental elements of the objective were also relevant to the CAS’s focus on
environmental issues associated with health and sustainable use of natural resources. The
FY2007-2011 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) aimed at fostering environmentally
sustainable economic growth by reducing urban air pollution and the transport
infrastructure deficit. The strategic areas of the FY2012-2016 CPS covered improved
                                             5


access of the poor to services and markets through better transport and infrastructure to
reduce inequality.

2.6      The project development objective was also consistent with the development
priorities of the Government of Peru at appraisal and at closure. The objective is in line
with the 2006 Municipal Policy Guidelines for Public Transport in the Lima Metropolitan
Area (Municipality Law No. 954), which underlines the importance of: (i) mass transport
systems in corridors with high demand; (ii) the rationalization of public transport supply;
(iii) the operational efficiency of public transport; and (iv) environmental sustainability,
including the promotion of non-motorized transport. The promotion of bicycle use as an
alternative mode of transport is explicitly foreseen in the Strategic Plan for Bicycle
Transport and the new National Bicycle Law. The President’s inaugural speech in 2011
stated that the Government would support the development of urban transport activities in
Lima. These development priorities expressed in these strategies are broadly consistent
with the project development objectives, but specific elements of project development
objectives, such as quality of life, mobility and reliable services, could have been better
articulated.

Design
2.7    The IBRD-funded portion had six components.

Component 1. Mobility and Environmental Improvement (At appraisal: US$99.92
million; At completion: US$203.30 million): This component included physical
infrastructure development for the BRT system with 15 subcomponents; (i) construction
of 28.6 kilometers segregated busways, (ii) repaving of mixed traffic lanes adjacent to the
new BRT corridors, (iii) sign posts and road makings along the corridors, (iv) traffic
signal improvements in the vicinity of the corridors, (v) bus stations and terminals, (vi)
bus depots, (vii) control center to monitor the bus operations, (viii) improvements of
feeder roads to the two bus terminals, with an approximate length of 50 kilometers and
GEF-funded sidewalks and bicycle path construction activities, (ix) road safety measures
along the corridors, (x) improvements to pedestrian and vehicle traffic in five sensitive
areas and recovery of public space, (xi) assistance for the relocation of a flower market in
Barranco and informal street vendors affected by the project, (xii) environmental
mitigation measures at the south-end of the station which is close to the environmentally
sensitive area of Pantanos de Villa swamps, (xiii) improved air monitoring system, (xiv)
road safety strategy development and its partial implementation, (xv) introduction of
environment-friendly pilot vehicle scrapping methods. This component included designs
to take into account the needs of vulnerable users, such as women, elderly, children and
disabled people.

Component 2. Social Mitigation and Community Participation (At appraisal: US$5.75
million; At completion: US$2.42 million): This component consisted of 3 activities; (i)
community consultation with users and operators to promote the use of BRT system, (ii)
mitigation measures, such as training and loans for small-scale enterprises for current bus
operators to minimize the negative impacts, (iii) technical assistance to operators outside
the BRT system to strengthen their capacity in terms of route planning, service provision,
maintenance, road safety and knowledge of laws and regulations.
                                             6


Component 3. Institutional Strengthening (At appraisal: US$3.67 million; At
completion: US$1.35 million): This component aimed to strengthen institutional capacity
through 4 activities; (i) development and implementation of public transport policy (ii)
monitoring and evaluation of the BRT, (iii) formal creation of Protransporte, which is the
implementing agency of the project, and (iv) technical assistance and training for
Protransporte, EMAPE (Empresa Municipal Administradora de Peaje de Lima), GTU
(Gerencia de Transporte Urbano) and police.

Component 4. Studies and Construction Supervision (At appraisal: US$8.58 million;
At completion: US$11.11 million): This component had three types of assistance; (i)
construction supervision, (ii) studies on economic feasibility, environmental impact, and
final engineering design to expand the BRT beyond the 28.6 kilometers scope of the
project, (iii) social impact assessment of BRT system, such as user scorecards to evaluate
its performance, beneficiary assessments through focus group discussions and household
surveys.

Component 5. Program Administration (At appraisal: US$5.58 million; At
completion: US$12 million): This component included operational expenses of the
Protransporte and EMAPE, which were completely funded by the counterpart.

Component 6. Grade Separation of Plaza Grau (At appraisal: US$10 million; At
completion: US$30.82 million): This component was entirely funded by Metropolitan
Municipality of Lima (MML) for reconstruction at the Plaza Grau, which was one of the
congested intersections in Lima and a key node of the BRT. The grade separation was
required for the BRT system, and could reduce the car traffic lanes from three to two in
each direction.

2.8     The GEF-funded portion consisted of four parts: (i) Rationalization of the public
transport fleet. It provided financial incentives and experimented with different methods
to scrap old and polluting public transport vehicles through the establishment of a credit
guarantee fund. The training and micro-credit were also expected to mitigate the negative
impacts of bus-scrapping on transit operators and employees; (ii) Promotion of a bikeway
network. This would be done through physical infrastructure development and
educational awareness campaigns for users and local authorities; (iii) Institutional
strengthening for sustainable transport. This consisted of an awareness campaign for
environmental issues related to transport, trainings for concerned staff in MML, and
capacity development for municipal and local district authorities and staff; and (iv)
Management, monitoring and evaluation, and replication strategy. This included the
design and validation portions of the project monitoring system, implementation of an
automated data processing system, and design of a replication strategy and technical
assistance for municipalities outside MML for sustainable transport.

Relevance of Design
2.9    Relevance of project design is rated Modest. The project results framework
provides a logical link between the activities to be financed by the project and the outputs
and outcomes related to the attainment of the development objectives. The physical
investments in the construction of the Metropolitano BRT system and related
                                             7


improvements under Component 1 could be expected to establish an efficient, reliable,
cleaner and safer mass rapid transit system, thus improving mobility and accessibility for
the metropolitan population, especially in the peri-urban poor neighborhoods. In fact, the
project is designed to connect poor residential areas in the north and south to central part
of Lima where job opportunities, hospitals and educational institutions are located. Other
factors, such as affordability and quality of social services, also play critical roles to
improve mobility and accessibility, but it is reasonable to assume that project activities
contribute to improve these intended outcomes. Interacting with other numerous factors,
this in turn could be expected to contribute to enhancing economic productivity and
quality of life for the region. The choice of BRT as a mass transit system was appropriate
relative to the more capital-intensive options of a metro rail or monorail, particularly
when taking into account the limited fiscal space for the country at the time of appraisal.
The project design was relevant throughout the life of the loan, though it underwent two
loan amendments and reallocation of funds to consultant services and audits as well as
among other categories.

2.10 The GEF grant financed activities were directly linked to greenhouse gas
reductions from ground transport in the Lima-Callao Metropolitan Area. These included
the scrapping of old and polluting buses; and expansion of the bikeway network and
promotion of bike use. The GEF grant was expected to reinforce these efforts by
financing institutional capacity-building for environmental issues and transport planning,
which would contribute to a long-term modal shift toward more efficient and less
polluting forms of transport.

2.11 The project development objective contained several elements that required a
clear definition: cleaner, safer, reliable, and efficient transport; mobility, accessibility,
and access for peri-urban poor neighborhoods; and improvement in economic
productivity and quality of life. Of these, economic productivity, quality of life, mobility,
accessibility, efficient, and reliability were not defined clearly in project documents. Even
if they could be measured satisfactorily, it would be difficult to relate outcomes of
economic productivity and quality of life to the project’s outputs and intermediate
outcomes. In particular, economic productivity is influenced by a number of factors, and
attribution to specific project output and outcome is hard to establish.

2.12 Another design weakness was that some of the key targets were not realistic. For
instance, the project aimed to improve mobility by serving 600,000 passengers per
weekday, but the BRT station infrastructure has already reached its capacity in peak
hours showing, in retrospect, that the physical design was not commensurate with the
forecast usage. Even if this mobility target were achieved, the objective of enhancing
economic productivity and quality of life in LMR was also too ambitious given that the
project impacted only five percent of the population in LMR. In addition, the global
environmental elements of the project objective aimed to double the use of bicycles over
the project period. However, experience from other project situations shows that it would
require more than a decade to bring about such a change, and traffic conditions and
driving habits needed to mature greatly to see such transformational impact.
                                               8



3. Implementation
Planned vs. Actual Costs

3.1     The project cost at completion was US$261.9 million, about 95 percent higher
than the appraisal estimate of US$134.4 million. The increase was attributable to both
exogenous and endogenous factors. The exogenous factors included exchange rate
fluctuation, global price increase of construction materials such as steel, cement, and fuel;
and supply constraints faced by construction firms due to rapid economic growth in Peru
during project implementation. The endogenous factors were complexity of contracts and
changes made in engineering design. For instance, the Central Station on the
Metropolitano BRT was built underground, rather than at ground level as originally
envisaged, because traffic volume in this area is high and limited space is available for
the BRT system. The Bank and Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) provided
US$45 million loan each as planned, and the remaining amount, including the increase in
project costs, was entirely funded by the Borrower. The GEF-funded portion was
US$7.35 million at project completion, which was 93 percent of the commitment amount
(US$7.93 million).3

Implementation Experience

3.2     The project was approved on December 9, 2003. The IBRD-funded portion
became effective nearly a year later on December 15, 2004, while the GEF portion
became effective on August 31, 2004. The effectiveness of the IBRD-funded portion was
delayed because of the initial difficulties faced by Protransporte, a newly created
implementing agency, in completing the preparation of annual operation plan, staffing
plan, institutional cooperation arrangements with other implementing institutions. A mid-
term review was carried out on December 7, 2006. The IBRD-funded portion was
ultimately extended by 22 months and closed on April 30, 2011, while the GEF portion
was completed on June 30, 2010, having been delayed by twelve months. Figure 2 in
Annex C summarizes the important project milestones.

3.3     The first restructuring was carried out on August 26, 2008, and involved
reallocation of funds and extension of closing date for one year (June 30, 2009 to June
30, 2010), to continue the construction of the trunk line and provide time for the start-up
and testing of the BRT system. The second restructuring, on December 17, 2009, also
involved reallocation of funds with the remaining funds were reallocated to consulting

3
  In addition to the US$7.93 million commitment (TF52856), the Japan Social Development Fund
(JSDF) grant provided US$1.145 million commitment (TF52877) for the GEF-funded project,
and US$1.09million was disbursed. The JSDF grant was used to complement IBRD-funded
project with the objective to (a) improve the quality of basic service delivery, (b) build wide
ranging community capacity in poverty analysis, planning and project development, and (c)
introduce institutional and administrative reforms that increase the engagement of poor residents
in the local governance process. Moreover, Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA)
provided technical cooperation to prepare the Lima Urban Transport Master Plan, which
eventually provided useful baseline and endline data for monitoring and evaluation, although
JICA was not a co-financier for the IBRD and GEF-funded projects.
                                             9


services and audits, and an extension of the closing date by 6 months (June 30, 2010 to
December 30, 2010). The final restructuring extended the closing date by another 4
months (December 30, 2010 to April 30, 2011) so that the implementation unit and
consulting services could finalize the contracts through reallocation of funds.

3.4     The GEF-funded portion also went through one restructuring. On March 26, 2009,
the planned bus scrapping program was restructured into a study to integrate and
rationalize public transport system in Lima because MML decided that Protransporte
should undertake this activity with its own funding.

Institutional arrangements

3.5     The IBRD-funded activities were implemented by Protransporte, which was set
up in 2002 (Municipal Decree No. 035) to undertake this project. As a financial and
administrative autonomous agency, Protransporte’s role was to provide effective,
efficient and sustainable urban transport solutions, particularly for the poor or
marginalized people in LMR. Additionally, EMAPE (Empresa Municipal Administradora
de Peaje de Lima), which was a public institution under MML in charge of toll
management, also supported the construction of BRT infrastructure financed by MML
after the cost increase was identified.

3.6     The GEF-funded portion also had a dual implementation structure, which faced
challenges in coordination. The National Environmental Fund (Fondo Nacional del
Ambiente: FONAM), which was created in 1997 as a private autonomous institution
(Law No. 26793), was the implementing agency. Its role was to support environmental
protection activities, including bus scrapping and promotion of bicycle use, through
financing and capacity development. The bicycle activities under the project were co-
implemented with GTNM (Gerencia de Transporte no Motorizado – Non-Motorized
Transport Bureau), which was created in 2003 as a separate non-motorized transport
bureau in MML. GTNM also had a mandate to develop bicycle lanes and to conduct
awareness raising to promote the use of bicycles. Some of these activities overlapped
between FONAM and GTNM, rather than being complementary, leading to tensions in
their working relationship.

Political and government commitment

3.7     The project benefited from strong political commitment during the initial years
especially from the mayor of Lima, who was supportive of BRT system development.
However, this did not always translate into favorable results. There was rapid turnover of
the senior management team and professional staff of Protransporte which changed three
times during the first three years of the project because of slow progress and
disbursement. Following this, after August 2007, there was relative stability. In addition,
because of its high visibility, the project became a magnet for political dispute. While
political candidates agreed on the necessity of mass rapid transit systems in Lima, there
was debate on the relative emphasis on the BRT and metro. Several months after the
Metropolitano became operational in July 2010, the new mayor who took charge was
more inclined towards an integrated transport system (Sistema Integrado de Transporte:
SIT). Metropolitano was a part of SIT, but the focus of Metropolitano became ambiguous
                                                10


which led to delays in extension of Metropolitano and underutilize the maximum capacity
of the Metropolitano BRT system. Partly in anticipation of this change, the previous
administration expedited the procurement of the full complement of 312 articulated
buses4 and 232 feeder buses for BRT. This resulted in an oversupply at a time when
ridership was yet to increase, and therefore placed an additional burden on the private bus
concessionaires (who were engaged for providing Metropolitano BRT services) to service
the debt for buses that had not yet been put into use. MML eventually took on the burden
of interest payments in consultation with banking institutions, Protransporte and the
private bus concessionaires.

Weaknesses in Regulation

3.8     There were weaknesses in enforcing some municipality ordinances relevant to the
financial sustainability of the Metropolitano BRT. An important case in point is the 2004
municipality ordinance (Ordenanza No. 682) which was intended to prohibit other public
transport service operating within 400 meters away on either side of the BRT corridor.
This privilege was granted for private bus operators in order to secure stable revenue
from passengers. Nevertheless, this was not imposed, as it became clear that with
important highways and roads built alongside, it was unrealistic to ban all other public
transport system within 400 meters of the BRT route. Hence, Metropolitano BRT’s
private bus concessionaires compete with other public transport services, with
implications for risk-sharing under the public-private partnership arrangement, and
potential underutilization of Metropolitano BRT services.

3.9    Safeguards. The project was classified as Category B under the Bank’s
environmental and social safeguard policies. Four safeguard policies were triggered:
Environmental Assessment (OP4.01, BP4.01, GP4.01), Natural Habits (OP4.04, BP4.04,
GP4.04), Cultural Property (OPN 11.03), and Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12).
The environmental assessment and resettlement plan were disclosed at the Bank website
on June 30, 2003. Environmental assessments were carried out for both the IBRD and
GEF-funded components. The impact of bus scrapping was analyzed. While there was no
framework included for bikeway construction, the environmental and social
considerations on bikeway constructions were addressed through a pragmatic learning-
by-doing process.

3.10 According to the ICR, involuntary resettlement was carried out for flower market
vendors near the Plaza de Flores BRT station, after initial resistance from them. Although
the vendors were not owners of their original sites, Protransporte provided assistance to
find credit for new land purchase and their relocation. A new flower market was built
close to the Plaza de Flores station, with water and electricity infrastructure, and training
for small business activities was provided to the vendors. The mission visited the
resettled area and was able to confirm that the facilities were superior to those available
to typical vendors in other places. Informal feedback from the vendors during the mission

4
 An articulated bus comprises two rigid sections linked by a pivoting joint in accordion. This
arrangement allows a longer overall length than single-decker rigid-bodied buses, and hence a
higher passenger capacity, while still allowing the bus to maneuver adequately on the roads of its
service route.
                                             11


suggested that they were satisfied with the facilities, and have generally seen their
businesses expand, and their incomes after relocation. The application of the safeguard
policies to the GEF-funded portion faced some procedural issues, but according to the
ICR, no major problems were encountered.

3.11 An Inspection Panel investigation was carried out in response to a Request for
Inspection submitted by residents of the District Barranco within LMR. As described in
the ICR, the requesters claimed health and safety concerns from increased traffic volume
through re-routing as well as inadequate consultations on an environmental management
plan or mitigation measures. The Inspection Panel’s investigation report (2011)
concluded that the project was not solely responsible for the adverse impacts because of
the general increase in traffic volume from economic causes, and that the safeguards
Category B was appropriate. However, the investigation report also pointed to
shortcomings in the analysis of impacts on pedestrian and vehicle traffic flows beyond
the BRT corridor; insufficient information provided to affected residents in Barranco;
non-implementation of the appropriate re-routing traffic pattern recommended in a 2005
traffic study; inadequate traffic impact analysis for the Barranco area; and a lack of sound
analysis on historic and monumental aspect of this district.

3.12 In response to the Inspection Panel’s findings, the Bank provided technical
assistance for traffic management through the consultations with residents in Barranco. A
traffic management expert proposed traffic detours so that pedestrian rights were
respected in the historic quarters. Protransporte officials informed the mission that no
major complaints have been received following these developments.

3.13 Financial Management. The ICR notes that the financial management of the
project was in line with the loan agreement though there were delays in submission of
audit reports and interim financial reports. A high turnover of key financial management
staff affected the continuity of operational procedures, and there were account
reconciliation issues, which led to moderately satisfactory financial management ratings
in Implementation Status Reports (ISRs), including the final one. The final external audit
stated nonetheless that the accounting system and internal controls were in compliance
with the covenants of the loan agreement. The GEF-funded portion encountered minor
shortcomings in the initial stage, but all the audit reports were unqualified.

3.14 Procurement. Since Protransporte was newly established for the purpose of this
project, there was limited procurement capacity in the initial stages. Anticipating this, the
Bank requested Protransporte to employ two procurement specialists who were familiar
with the Bank’s procurement guidelines. According to the ICR, in spite of this,
procurement took longer than the standard processing timeframe, and the Bank prepared
an action plan to accelerate the bidding process. Recommendations through four ex-post
procurement reviews and the Bank supervision mission also improved the management
of procurement processes. The GEF-funded portion did not face major procurement
issues, although there were initial minor shortcomings because of the implementing
agencies’ limited experience with Bank operations. The final ISR procurement rating was
satisfactory.
                                             12



4. Achievement of the Objectives
4.1     Achievement of the objectives is evaluated through outputs, intermediate
outcomes, and outcomes. This evaluation first examines outputs, and then examine the
sub-objective of “the establishment of an efficient, reliable, cleaner and safer mass transit
system” as intermediate outcomes. The evaluation of the sub-objective on “improving
mobility” and “accessibility for its population, especially in the peri-urban poor
neighborhoods” follows as outcomes, and finally discusses the overarching objective of
“enhancing the economic productivity and the quality of life in the Borrower’s municipal
territory”.

OUTPUTS

4.2      Construction of the first Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) corridor in Lima
(Metropolitano): 26.78 kilometers of high capacity bus corridors with segregated traffic
lanes dedicated for use by high capacity buses was completed. The final length was 2.62
kilometers less than the targeted 29.4 kilometers due to a realignment to meet
environmental concerns relating to land used by migrant birds. The route connects the
north and south peri-urban areas of Lima and has 35 BRT stations, including two
terminals at the end of each trunk line stations in north and south. The mission confirmed
that all the station and terminals are fully operational.

4.3     At project completion, 176 high-capacity buses and 197 feeder buses were
operating, compared to the planned 312 and 232 respectively. The mission confirmed that
presently, 300 articulated buses in trunk route and 222 feeder route buses are being
operated collectively by four private bus operators with the concessions totaling US$174
million for 12-year periods. The buses are of the modern articulated type for the trunk
route, run on compressed natural gas (CNG).

4.4   An electronic fare collection system and a central control system for its
management as well as monitoring, has been operational from the very beginning of
Metropolitano BRT. This is managed by a private operator under a concession worth
US$24 million for a 14-year period.

4.5     Under the GEF-funded portion, 32.2 kilometers of bikeway was rehabilitated
almost as planned. Two bikeways were constructed in Chorrillos (south cone). These
bikeways were built on the side of the rehabilitated feeder roads on Avenida Guardia
Civil, among other feeder roads. In the north cone, the Municipality built another
bikeway perpendicular to Avenida Tupac Amaru, along Avenida Los Olivos. The
mission visited selected areas and confirmed that the dedicated bikeways were being
maintained. Bicycle parking spaces for bicycle riders were noted in Matellini bus station,
which is located south end of Metropolitano. A national bicycle law was issued in 2010
to promote the use of the bikeways, parking construction and road safety measures. Three
contracts were executed for reconstructing and repaving several streets in downtown
Lima, and slightly widen sidewalks along these same streets.

4.6      A feasibility study for an east-west Metropolitano corridor was also prepared.
Institutional strengthening activities were carried out for FONAM, GTNM, and district
                                                13


municipalities. In turn, FONAM and GTNM provided training and conducted awareness
raising campaigns to promote sustainable transport options, including the use of bicycles
for school teachers and children. FONAM also worked on creating a brand image through
a “Zoom Club” to promote the use of bicycle.

INTERMEDIATE OUTCOMES

4.7     The sub-objective of “the establishment of an efficient, reliable, cleaner and
safer mass transit system” is rated Substantial. The project produced the following
intermediate outcomes in respect of efficient, reliable, cleaner, and safer mass urban
transport. The definitions of ‘efficiency’ and ‘reliable’ system were not clear in project
documents, and as a result, this report evaluated ‘efficiency’ in terms of travel time
reduction from user’s perspective and operational cost from service provider’s
perspective. The ‘reliability’ was measured through user satisfaction rate and quality
rating of the BRT system. ‘Cleaner’ transport was evaluated in terms of improved air
quality, and ‘safety’ was defined as less serious and fatal traffic accidents.

4.8     Efficiency of BRT Services. With the arrival of the Metropolitano, travel time for
users along the route has been significantly reduced. According to Protransporte, overall
average travel time from origin to destination for users has been reduced from 50 minutes
to 38 minutes in 2013. According to private operators, the reduction varies between peak
and non-peak hours, but with the arrival of the Metropolitano BRT, travel time through
corridor from Naranjal (north cone) and Matellini (south cone) has fallen from 120
minutes to around 65 minutes. More than 65 percent of Metropolitano users5 have
consistently rated “quickness” as the most important value for the annual surveys
conducted by Lima Cómo Vamos in the last three years. This was confirmed during the
mission through informal interviews with Metropolitano users in Naranjal, Canaval y
Moreyra, and Matellini stations.

4.9     A schedule of express and super express services was introduced during rush
hours, to speed up the clearance of passengers from high-use bus stations. The planning
of these schedules was enabled by analysis of large scale data compiled from the
electronic fare collection systems. The electronic fare collection system also improved
efficiency through reduced operational cost, and the project had efficiency gains from
professional services through private concessions though some disputes continue between
Protransporte and private operators related to risk sharing under the public private
partnership.

4.10 Reliable BRT Services. According to Protransporte, ‘user satisfaction’ has
increased steadily every year, beginning from 40 percent in 2010, and stood at 90 percent
in 2014, exceeding the original target of 82 percent. However, a survey conducted by an
independent entity, El Comercio-Ipsos, found user satisfaction with Metropolitano to be
64 percent. Another independent survey which was conducted by Lima Cómo Vamos, a
civil society organization, measured user satisfaction (percentage of user ranking service
as ‘good’ or ‘very good’) across different transport modes. It found that Metropolitano
with 57.5 percent ranked behind Metro Line 1 (elevated electric train) with 70 percent,

5
    The proportion of people who used Metropolitano in the last 12 months.
                                                                14


but exceeded other modes – minibus, mototaxi, bus, and taxi – which ranged between 9.5
percent and 49.2 percent (Table 1).

4.11 Yet, people used Metropolitano (38.7 percent) more often than the metro (30.1
percent). Since 66.8 percent of respondents in 2014 best valued reduction in travel time,
the “reliable” service is highly correlated with “efficient” service, but some users also
acknowledged different aspects of Metropolitano, such as punctuality, low cost of
services, comfort, security and cleanliness.6 Taking into account that the Metropolitano
fare is higher than metro and other short-distance with traditional public transport,7
current user satisfaction rate was substantial even though the rate did not achieve the
original target through independent external surveys. Also, while reliability of service is
often measured by compliance with time tables, this is not possible in the case of
Metropolitano buses, which are operated every three to five minutes depending on the
peak and non-peak hours without specified timetables.

Table 1: User Satisfaction Rates for Urban Transport Services in 2014
                                                                                                     Metro-         Electric
                                      Minibus         Mototaxi             Bus            Taxi      politano          Train
    Share of respondents using
    transport mode in the last             88.7             65.6           80.9           79.4           38.7           30.1
    12 months (%)
    User satisfaction rate (%)               9.5            19.9           21.6           49.2           57.5           70.0
Source: IEG using data from Encuesta Lima Cómo Vamos (2014)
Notes: User satisfaction rate is the proportion of people that have used a transport mode in the last 12 months and responded with
‘good’ or ‘very good’ for its service. Sample size of the respondents is 1,920.

4.12 In 2013, Metropolitano received a gold quality rating from the Institute for
Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP 2013),8 which uses a scorecard system,
based on criteria including service planning, infrastructure, stations, communications,
access and integration. Among 98 BRTs evaluated around the world, only 15 BRTs have
qualified for the gold standard.

4.13 Cleaner BRT Services. Metropolitano BRT’s fleet of high-capacity buses use
compressed natural gas (CNG) for fuel, which is unique among BRT systems around the

6
  For those who used Metropolitano in the last 12 months, the follow-up question was “Can you
tell us what is the best valued aspect of mobility service provided by the Metropolitano?”, and the
interviewee could select one of the following response options: quickness (66.8 percent),
punctuality (6.7 percent), low cost of services (6.5 percent), comfort (5.3 percent), security (4.6
percent), cleanliness (4.5 percent), order (3.0 percent), signals and message guidance (1.9
percent), personal treatment (0.9 percent), Don’t know (0.0 percent). The figures in the
parentheses are based on 2014 survey.
7
 The fare of the metro line 1 was 1.5 soles for adult, which was 0.5 soles less than Metropolitano.
The fare of the metro line 1 was subsidized by the central government, but Metropolitano’s fare
was not subsidized. Other traditional bus fare used distance-based fare systems.
8
 The Institute for Transportation and Development Policy works with cities worldwide to bring
about transport solutions that cut greenhouse gas emissions, reduce poverty, and improve the
quality of urban life. https://www.itdp.org/
                                                     15


world. The use of low-polluting CNG and modal shift from higher polluting motor
vehicles is seen to have contributed to the overall decline in pollutants (such as PM10,
PM2.5, SO2 and NO2) in Lima over the past few years.9 According to the verified carbon
standard monitoring report (2015),10 it is estimated that more than 200,000 tons of CO2
emission reductions were achieved under the project for the last three years between July
2011 and June 2014. The direct observation by the mission also found that an articulated
bus and feeder bus have more carrying capacity than a traditional minibus. They were
also cleaner than other traditional modes of public transport. Figure 2 shows a typical
articulated bus and traditional minibus used in LMR.

4.14 In addition, from 2012, approximately 2,000 old and relatively higher polluting
micro and mini buses were scrapped by Protransporte. The project planned to use GEF
funds initially, but this task was taken over by Protransporte which committed more than
US$12 million to the effort. The majority of people in Lima perceive that serious
environmental problems are attributable to pollution by vehicles (Lima Cómo Vamos
2014). The modal shift to Metropolitano and scrapping of old, pollution-causing buses
would be expected to have a positive environmental impact in LMR.

Figure 2: Metropolitano Articulated Bus and Traditional Minibus




 Source: limaeasy.com.                                    Source: IEG.


4.15 Safer BRT Services. The number of serious and fatal accidents in the main
corridor has fallen significantly from a level of 26 per month that was experienced prior
to Metropolitano BRT commencing operations. During 2012, 2013 and 2014, the
number of fatal accidents was 1, 0, and 2 per month respectively, and the number of
serious accidents were 13, 18 and 16 per month, respectively. While these results did not
meet the goal of reducing the fatal and serious accidents by 40 percent compared with the
baseline value, which was 26 fatal or serious accidents per month on average, the


1.1      9
           Air quality has improved even in the western and eastern part of LMR which was not directly
related to north-south line of Metropolitano. Other factors were the introduction of the elevated electric
train in Metro Line 1 in 2010; restrictions on importing used vehicles; regulations relating to use of low-
sulfur diesel, etc.
10
  The monitoring report was prepared by Carbon Solutions Group Latin America S.A.C. The
monitoring period cover between July 2011 and June 2014, and quantified greenhouse gas (GHG)
emission reductions for the high capacity segregated corridor (COSAC 1).
                                                16


improvement is significant given that the overall traffic volume has increased in this
corridor over the past few years. Professionally trained bus drivers and improved traffic
signage are expected to have contributed to an improvement in road safety in the
corridor.

4.16 However, a clear reduction in traffic accidents could not be seen in the case of the
feeder routes, which do not have the benefit of segregated bus lanes, and have less traffic
safety sign posts than on the main Metropolitano BRT corridor. The feeder private bus
operators expressed concerns that unregulated traffic and bad road conditions were
contributing to traffic accidents, which also pushed up the operational cost of feeder bus
services.

OUTCOMES

4.17 The sub-objective of “improving mobility” is rated Substantial. With respect to
mobility, this evaluation defines it as “movement of people or goods” (Litman, 2011, p4),
and mobility is measured through the number of passengers per weekday and increased
bicycle ridership. The number of passengers using Metropolitano BRT has grown to
about 525,000 per weekday at the time of the PPAR mission. This compares to 340,000
passengers per weekday recorded at the time of preparation of the ICR, and it comes
close to the limit in peak-hour. This figure was still short of the targeted 600,000
passengers per weekday, and the assumption of 713,000 used in the bidding documents
for the bus operator concessions.11 . Estimates at appraisal did not take into account
waiting time at stations and queues to board a BRT bus. This meant that travel time was
underestimated, setting up more difficult targets for the project. One of the important
factors which prevents from meeting the original target values could be underestimation
of total travel timeOverall, there has been a growing trend in usage of BRT over the
years, especially between mid-2010 and end-2013, after which, the growth has been
slower (Figure 3). Currently, the Metropolitano bus runs every three to five minutes for
the main corridor, and all available 300 articulated buses and 222 feeder route buses are
operational.




11
  If the number of people using both trunk and feeder routes is counted separately (validations),
670,000 validations were observed per weekday in June, 2015.
                                                          17


Figure 3: Number of Passenger and Ticket Validation per Month Since July 2010
                                 14
     Monthly Average Number of
       Passengers (Millions)     12

                                 10

                                     8

                                     6

                                     4

                                     2

                                 -
                                         2010   2011   2012            2013   2014   2015

                                                       Calendar Year
Source: IEG using data from Protransporte

4.18 The GEF-funded activities aimed to double bicycle use in LMR. The JICA urban
transport master plan data suggested that the number of people using bicycle as a primary
mode of transport remained 0.4 percent in LMR population in 2012. With 30 percent of
poor households owning bicycles, there was potential for increasing their usage (JICA
2013), but discussions with FONAM and other respondents indicate that the number of
bicycle trips is far below the original target of doubling the baseline value. The project
activities were implemented as planned, but it may require a considerable number of
years to see significant growth in bicycle usage. Experience from other projects suggests
that it requires a major attitude and cultural change.

4.19 The sub-objective of “accessibility for its population, especially in the peri-
urban poor neighborhoods” is rated Substantial. This report defines accessibility as
“ability to reach desired goods, services, activities and destinations” (Litman, 2011, p5).
This evaluation examines the purpose of the trips as a good proxy for assessing
accessibility because it involves the notion of ability to reach desired destinations. In fact,
an analysis of the data for 2012 from the urban transport master plan prepared by JICA
(2013) shows that the largest usage of Metropolitano BRT was for attending work (60
percent) and high school or college (20 percent).12 More specifically, Figure 4 compares
the occupation between Metropolitano users and all transport users, and it is evident that
employee uses Metropolitano far more than general transport users in LMR. The
proportion of users with university or high school student background also stands out.
These findings are also triangulated with the Metropolitano card transaction data, which
suggests that a large proportion of passengers begin their trip in the north or south



12
  For the purpose of the trip, 31.5 percent responded with ‘work’, 10.6 percent answered ‘study’,
and 46.3 percent picked the option “back home”. Assuming that most travel is symmetrical, about
60 percent and 20 percent use Metropolitano for commuting to work and attending
school/college. Other response options included shopping, eating, exercise, outing with family,
walking, and recreation.
                                             18


terminal (including feeder route stations) in peri-urban areas, and head for the central part
of Lima which offers many job opportunities and social services (Figure 3 in Annex C).

4.20 The project also improved accessibility for disabled people through the
Metropolitano BRT. The system has integrated traffic markers and ramps for disabled
people at its stations from the beginning of its operations. The articulated bus has
designated spaces for disabled people. The mission met with four disabled persons that
were involved with an on-going PHRD13-funded Bank project on Universal Mobility in
Lima. While this PHRD-funded project is beyond the scope of this assessment, the
respondents confirmed that this was the first public transport system in Lima that made
systematic provision for disabled people. They noted that Metropolitano is faster and
cheaper transport option for the disabled people to head for job and essential social
services, such as hospital and educational institution. Nonetheless, there is ample scope
for improvements. For instance, while security guards monitored the usage of elevators
meant for use by the disabled, elderly, and women with young children, it is difficult for
disabled people to navigate the station and crowds during peak hours. Physically, there is
certain gap between the edge of the bus station platform and entry to the bus, which is
difficult for wheelchair-bound and blind persons to negotiate. In practice, disabled
persons have to depend on a security guard when available, or voluntary help from other
commuters. Most of the feeder route buses do not have provisions for disabled persons.
These issues are not necessarily unique to Metropolitano, but require attention for
improvements.




13
  The Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund (PHRD) supports, among others, a
technical assistance program for preparation and implementation of many Bank-financed
operations.
                                                              19


Figure 4: Metropolitano Users vs All Transport Users by Occupation in 2012

                   45

                   40                                                      Metropolitano users
                                                                           All Other Transport Users
                   35

                   30
 Percentage of Users




                   25

                   20

                   15

                   10

                       5

                       0




                                                                Occupation


Source: IEG analysis using data from JICA (2013)
Notes: The bar chart shows percentage of people using Metropolitano as primary means of transportation (sample size is 2,326)
versus those using any means of transport except walking (sample size is 117,244).

4.21 Despite substantially increasing accessibility, the Metropolitano BRT system and
infrastructure are showing signs of reaching the limits to their capacity, particularly in the
most frequently used bus stations in peak-hours. The mission observed that during peak
travel hours, the most used bus stations are congested with people and buses, with long
lines in front of ticket counters and buses (Figure 5), though the lines move quickly.
There are some instances where BRT buses do not carry many passengers in non-peak
hours, BRT bus service programming, such as time table and routes, might be improved
to accommodate the growth in demand. However, better use of BRT services might
eventually require additions to the bus fleet, but more importantly, an expansion of
Metropolitano’s infrastructure because carrying capacity of bus stations infrastructure
strained beyond its limit in peak-hours.
                                            20


Figure 5: Metropolitano Users in Bus Station and at Fare Card Machines in
Morning Peak-Hour at Naranjal Terminal




Source: IEG.                                 Source: IEG.

4.22 With respect to the increased access to poor residents in peri-urban area, there is
reasonable evidence to show that it was significantly achieved based on the geographical
location of bus stations. An analysis of survey data from the JICA urban transport master
plan (JICA 2013) shows that Metropolitano BRT connects peri-urban areas in north and
south of the Lima, areas with a relatively greater proportion of lower income residents,
through the central business district in Lima. A relatively larger number of commuters
enter through the bus stations at the northern and southern extremes, especially at the
Naranjal station which is at the northern end of the trunk route. From the north and south
terminals, several different feeder routes link to peri-urban areas (Figure 6).

4.23 Currently, Protransporte estimates that 80 percent of Metropolitano users came
from the relatively lower-income peri-urban areas. A more thorough analysis based on
data from the JICA urban transport master plan (JICA 2013) shows, however, that the
BRT services were more likely to be benefiting the people from middle or even high
socio-economic status, relative to the poor (Figure 7). The master plan classified people
into five socio-economic status, and people from the lowest socio-economic status using
Metropolitano were a lower proportion (2 percent) than non-users in LMR (10 percent).
Similarly, the proportion of people from low socio-economic status classification with
Metropolitano users are nearly half of non-users. When it comes to income distribution
(Figure 4 in Annex C), about 20 percent of Metropolitano users earn between 731 and
1,030 soles (US$280 and US$345) per month; 17 percent of users between 1,031 and
2,700 soles (US$345 and US$900). Only 7 percent of the users came under the poor
income category (less than 731 soles or US$280).
                                                                21


Figure 6: Coverage of Metropolitano in Relation to Socioeconomic Distribution of
Lima Metropolitan Region




Source: OVE (2015)
Notes: OVE (2015) used JICA urban transport master plan data (JICA 2013), and the Socio-Economic Status was developed using
(a) household income level, (b) educational background of the household head, (c) housing conditions, (d) number of rooms, (e)
vehicle ownership and (f) ownership of electrical appliances (JICA 2005). There are five socioeconomic strata, and A is highest and
E is lowest. The black line represents the Metropolitano, and gray line stands for feeder routes from north and south end of
terminals.

4.24 This finding was consistent with the poverty analysis of the Office of Evaluation
and Oversight at IDB (OVE 2015). The OVE conducted a perceptions analysis for the
poor and very poor,14 and 57 percent of the sample from the very poor responded that
they never used the Metropolitano during the previous week, while the figure was only
26 percent for the sample from the poor. Figure 6 shows that Metropolitano BRT
provides access to poor peri-urban areas inhabited by people with relatively lower socio-
economic levels, but the very poor might not get necessarily benefit proportionately.
While the project used geographic socio-economic targeting, it did not necessarily
translate into improved access for the very poor.


14
  In INEI classification, the people who belong to the lowest socioeconomic status (Stratum E in
INEI classification) are considered very poor. Similarly, people with low socioeconomic status
(Stratum D in INEI classification) are considered poor.
                                                               22


Figure 7: Distribution of Metropolitano Users vs All Transport Users by Socio-
Economic Status

                        50
                                                                                          Metropolitano users
                        45
                                                                                          All Transport Users
                        40

                        35
  Percentage of Users




                        30

                        25

                        20

                        15

                        10

                        5

                        0
                             Lowest         Low                   Middle                  High                  Highest

                                            Socio-Economic Status at Household Level


Source: IEG using data from JICA (2013)
Notes: The Socio-Economic Status was developed by (a) household income level, (b) educational background of the household
head, (c) housing conditions, (d) number of rooms, (e) vehicle ownership and (f) ownership of electrical appliances (JICA 2005).
JICA urban transport master plan classified socio-economic status into five, and this graph followed JICA urban transport master
plan methodology and data. If the household includes at least one Metropolitano users, such household is defined as “Metropolitano
users” (sample size is 1,042 households). “Others” did not include any household members who use Metropolitano as primary
means of transportation (sample size is 21,661 households).

4.25 Affordability of fixed rate tariff structure is likely to affect the accessibility for the
poor, and although the Metropolitano BRT does not have targeted direct subsidy for the
poor, a cross subsidy tariff structure was in place since 2014. Initially, Metropolitano
BRT users paid a fixed rate of 1.5 soles (US$0.47) and 1.0 soles (US$0.31) for trunk and
feeder routes, respectively. Because the feeder route traffic volume was less than
expected, the 2014 tariff update incorporated a cross subsidy system vis-a-vis the trunk
routes to enhance accessibility for the feeder route users.15 The profitable trunk route
users (either trunk route only or both trunk route and feeder routes) paid 2.5 soles
(US$0.78), and feeder route only users paid 0.5 soles (US$0.16). In other words, 0.5
soles for feeder routes are not commercially viable given the current number of
passengers, but collecting 2.5 soles from trunk route users can generate profits by
covering the deficit in feeder routes. Another point to note is that students can receive 50

15
  The tariff was first raised in 2012, and an integrated fare system was introduced. More
specifically, people that use only the trunk route, and those who use both the trunk and feeder
routes paid 2.0 soles (US$0.63), and feeder route only users paid 1.0 soles (US$0.31). The fixed
rate tariff was raised in 2012 and 2014, but the 2014 update provided for the poor through cross
subsidy tariff structures.
                                                            23


percent discount for using Metropolitano BRT from the beginning of its operation, which
is the same discount rate for other public transport systems in Lima.

4.26 Despite these efforts to improve accessibility, according to the OVE (2015), 48
percent of the very poor and 40 percent of the poor using other public transport reported
that the Metropolitano BRT did not connect them to the locations they needed to reach in
the city. Metropolitano did not earn a good score for integration with other forms of public
transport. The latter needs to be addressed for better service delivery for the citizens, and
there is some progress in this respect recently. For instance, Metro Line 2, which is under
construction, will have at least one transfer station to the Metropolitano. The central
government and the financiers, including the Bank, are fully aware about the need for
physical and fare system integration because GEF-funded study for transport integration
became one of the important basis for the development of Metro Line 2. As described in
Figure 8, other Metro Line planning and Metropolitano extension plans16 could further
enhance the utilization of Metropolitano if they were designed well. Metro Line 3 will run
parallel to Metropolitano, and this network requires careful design. Better integration with
public bus system is needed to enhance mobility and accessibility, particularly for poor
residents of the peri-urban areas.

Figure 8: Future BRT and Metro System in Lima Metropolitan Region




Source: Autoridad Autónoma del Sistema Eléctrico de Transporte Masivo de Lima y Callao (AATE)

16
  Other than new extension plan to the north, Protransporte has two other plans; (i) 2.59
kilometers to the east connecting Metropolitano’s Central station to the Grau station in Metro Line
1; and (ii) west from Metropolitano’s Thomas Valley station toward the airport (6.5 kilometers).
                                                   24


4.27 The OVE (2015) also found that 82 percent of Metropolitano users considered
that tariff system was either fair or inexpensive, which suggested that affordability was
not a primary driver for a person deciding not to use the Metropolitano BRT.
Nevertheless, it is significant for the very poor because 35 percent of very poor
respondents feel the fare is high.

4.28 The very long queues to access the Metropolitano was the next most quoted
reason for not using the system (OVE 2015). The other transport options,17 such as
minibus or taxi, can bring people directly to the destination with distance-based fee and
less waiting time, and the poor people, particularly the very poor, might have incentive to
use Metropolitano BRT when traveling longer distances that are within reach through the
system. Despite these nuanced heterogeneous effects, the project development objectives
intended to improve accessibility for the population, especially in the peri-urban poor
neighborhoods, which was substantially achieved.

OVERARCHING OUTCOMES

4.29 The overarching objectives -- “enhancing the economic productivity and the
quality of life in the Borrower’s municipal territory” -- are difficult to measure or
attribute to the Metropolitano BRT to any degree of certainty. In this context, it is
important to note that only 1.74 percent of sampled individuals and 4-5 percent of
households in Lima use the Metropolitano (JICA 2013). An analysis of the survey data
by Lima Cómo Vamos does not show a statistically significant difference between users
and non-users in respect of general perception about quality of life in 2014.18 The
economic productivity and quality of life are determined by numerous other factors, and
establishing causality especially relative to the general economic growth over the past
decade in the city, would require additional evidence.

5. Efficiency
5.1      The efficiency of the project in meeting its objectives is rated Substantial. After
implementation began, the project had to undergo design changes that were not foreseen
earlier, contributing to higher costs and time delays. There was a cost overrun of 95
percent at project completion compared to the estimate at appraisal. The basis for the
benefit stream assumed at appraisal proved to be too optimistic, with the original target of
passengers per weekday being almost reached five years later than expected. The full
complement of high-capacity buses were procured upfront, and it took significant time to
fully utilize them. The project preparation took seven years, and in addition, the project
closing date experienced a total extension of 22 months. Despite the preemptive action to

17
  The affordability of other transport options affect the choice of transport mode, but it’s difficult
to pin down and compare the cost because other transport options are distance-based fee except
Metro Line 1. Metro Line 1 is fixed rate and users need to pay 1.5 soles.
18
  The result of a t-test for this hypothesis is not statistically significant at 10 percent level. Note
that Metropolitano users are defined as those who used Metropolitano in the past 12 months
(Lima Cómo Vamos, 2014), and unlike JICA master plan data, they do not necessarily use
Metropolitano as primary means of transportation.
                                             25


employ procurement staff as part of effectiveness conditions, the complexity of contracts
and changes made in engineering design also contributed to cost overrun and delays.

5.2     The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) at project completion was an estimated 19.5
percent compared to 20.7 percent at appraisal. However, the figures are not strictly
comparable due to some differences in assumptions. At appraisal, the benefits of the
system were calculated by estimating the demand and calculating the benefits in time
savings to users and savings in vehicle operating costs for the new buses. The ex-post
analysis, however, additionally included benefits stemming from generated demand, from
the reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and from fewer accidents along the
corridor. In addition, the ERR at completion benefited from other factors, such as fewer
buses than initially estimated being required to replace the larger, aging fleet. The project
team clarified that the monetized value of “other benefits” in the ex-post analysis due to
reductions in GHG emissions and road accidents are a very small share (5%) of the total
benefits of the project.

5.3     However, the project fares relatively better in overall cost-effectiveness. The
total cost per kilometer is US$9.8 million for Metropolitano, which is significantly lower
than Bogota (Colombia) and Chengdu (China). (Figure 9). According to the project team
at the World Bank, a cross country case study also suggests that the relatively long
demand ramp-up period observed in Metropolitano is not unique, and other BRT system,
such as Bogota (Colombia) and Monterrey (Mexico), experienced similar take-off period
from initial operation.



 Figure 9: Benchmark of capital costs in BRT systems.




 Source: BRT Data (brtdata.org)
                                              26



6. Ratings
OUTCOMES

6.1     Overall project development outcome is rated Moderately Satisfactory.
Relevance of the project development objective is rated substantial because of its
alignment with both the country and Bank’s strategies and priorities. Relevance of the
project’s design is rated modest. The project had logical linkage between inputs, outputs,
intermediate outcomes, and outcomes, but several indicators and key objectives could
have been more clearly and realistically formulated. Efficacy of the first sub-objective
“the establishment of an efficient, reliable, cleaner and safer mass transit system” is rated
substantial due to tangible achievements in providing such urban transport services
through the BRT system. The second sub-objective, comprising “improving mobility”
and “accessibility for its population, especially in the peri-urban poor neighborhoods”, is
also rated substantial because of increasing traffic volume and usage for commuting to
the workplace and higher education. Although the benefit for the poor might be less than
for the non-poor, and the very poor appear to have benefited hardly at all, the project
improved connections between the poor residential areas in the northern and southern
parts of LMR. The overarching objective of “enhancing the economic productivity and
the quality of life in the Borrower’s municipal territory” has difficulties in measurement
and attribution, but substantial achievements for the other two sub-objectives are likely to
have contributed favorably to the overarching objective. Efficiency is rated substantial
due to relatively favorable cost-effectiveness compared to other similar projects in other
countries, even though operational and administrative inefficiencies, reflected in large
cost and time overruns, are significant. On balance, the project development outcome is
rated Satisfactory.

RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

6.2     The main risks relate to financial sustainability, service quality, and politics. They
are rated Significant. Private bus operators report that their operations are profitable, but
they still face financial risks stemming from their obligation to repay their debts in full
and eventually replace their bus fleets. Financial sustainability may be undermined by
the fact that the municipality ordinance No.682 restricting competing public
transportation services within 400 meters on either side of the Metropolitano corridor has
yet to be enforced. Moreover, neither MML nor Protransporte have provided minimum
revenue guarantee in the private concessions.

6.3      The unbalanced risk allocation between private and public components could
affect the sustainability of service quality since private operators have no other choice but
to reduce operational cost or postpone to repayments of the debt relating to the bus fleet
to the financing banks (OVE 2015). The performance of Metropolitano is strongly
influenced by variations in policies and preferences that have accompanied changes in
political leadership, particularly in the mayoralty of Lima. There is also a risk of turnover
of top management with changes in political leadership as shown by the abrupt
replacement of members of Protransporte’s top management in June 2015.
                                             27


6.4     In addition to political risk within MML, there are political tensions between
MML and the Ministry of Transports and Communications (MTC), which appears to
have prioritized the Metro over BRT extension. The metro network plan can help
Metropolitano enhance its sustainability if physical and fare collection integrations are in
place through sound institutional coordination. The demarcation of responsibilities
between MTC and MML used to be ambiguous and not well coordinated.

6.5     However, there are recent positive developments. An agreement on institutional
cooperation mechanisms between MTC and MML was concluded in May 2015, and
long-term sustainability may result from, successful implementation of this mechanism.
MTC mentioned that it is currently examining the feasibility of establishing a
Metropolitan Transport Authority to oversee the development of transport system in
Lima, which would improve institutional arrangements and strengthen integrated urban
transport system. This conceptually sound idea will require strong, consistent and
sustained political commitments from both MML and MTC as well as understanding
from implementing agencies. Detailed plans for integrating the fare collection system
have yet to be finalized, but a study on this subject was conducted in 2014, and a working
group consisted of key agencies, including MTC, MML and Protransporte, continues to
discuss technical and financial aspects of tariff integration with the support from the
World Bank. These are positive steps toward integrated urban transport system, but
political commitments from all concerned parties are indispensable to make it happen.

BANK PERFORMANCE

6.6     Quality at entry is rated Unsatisfactory. The project took more than seven years
to prepare. In spite of this lengthy preparation time, several issues remained after
effectiveness, relating to the realism of cost estimates, identification of risks, and
feasibility of the implementation schedule. Project cost estimates were based on pre-
feasibility study levels, and were not revised, so that actual values were nearly twice the
appraisal estimates. The studies conducted during preparation did not sufficiently
consider coordination issues with public utility services, such as electricity. Risks
associated with private concessions were not spelled out clearly, which made it difficult
to have a sound risk allocation between the public and private sides of the partnership.
Harmonization of procurement guidelines between the Bank and IDB was not taken up
seriously at the design stage, which led to difficulties and delays at the bidding stage.
Loan effectiveness was delayed, partly for the above reasons.

6.7     The institutional capacity needed to execute a project of this complexity was
underestimated, and the limited experience of Protransporte staff in this regard was not
sufficiently taken into account. The steep learning curve faced by the high turnover of the
implementing staff added to the delay in implementation during the initial years. The
consequences of the fact that the Borrower did not own the lands earmarked for the
construction of two planned transfer terminals and yards were not foreseen. The process
of land purchase delayed construction of transfer terminals and yards to the last two years
prior to project completion. The cost and efforts required for pre-operation were not
adequately taken into account at design.
                                             28


6.8      A further design weakness related to environmental and social safeguard policies.
An Inspection Panel investigation was triggered by a complaint from residents of the
Barranco locality of Lima, claiming insufficient attention to negative impacts on quality
of life in the project. This could have been avoided by more careful preparation.
Ultimately, the Bank took steps to the address the concerns of the residents and the
Inspection Panel.

6.9     The utilization scenario for Metropolitano BRT was optimistic in assuming that
passengers per weekday would reach 600,000 soon after the project completion. Despite
the fact that capacity reaches its limit in peak-hours, this target is yet to be reached even
five years after Metropolitano BRT commenced operations. With respect to non-
motorized transport, represented by the use of bicycles, insufficient attention was paid to
supporting factors, such as safe parking space, raising drivers’ awareness for sharing the
road with bicycles, and broader cultural attitudes toward bicycle usage in society.

6.10 Project design nonetheless benefited from the lessons learnt from Bogotá’s
TransMilenio BRT system. These lessons related to hard infrastructure design, regulation
and implementation aspects, such as traffic signage and regulation as well as automated
fare collection and monitoring systems.

6.11 The design and preparation of the GEF grant drew on the technical background
analyses partially financed through a Project Development and Preparation Facility
Grant. A large number of participatory events helped outline and fine-tune the design,
prepare terms of reference and technical specifications, and disseminate information
relating to the planned activities under the GEF grant. However, the identification of
most new bikeways was left to the Bicycle Master Plan and other studies developed
under the project, thus pushing the construction of new bikeways towards the end of the
project, leaving insufficient time for their promotion.

6.12 The Bank’s quality of supervision during the project is rated Moderately
Satisfactory. The intensity of Bank supervision in terms of staff weeks was relatively low
in the first few years of project implementation, but picked up pace thereafter. The task
team identified implementation problems such as high turnover of upper management in
Protransporte and the lack of results on the ground. The team focused on institutional and
procurement issues and was proactive in finding ways to accelerate project
implementation. However, during the initial years of implementation, supervision in the
areas of environmental and social management was inadequate.

6.13 Supervision of the Metropolitano’s operations was also focused on traffic safety
matters and pre-operation of the system. For example, the Bank, together with local staff,
carried out station-by-station analyses of pedestrian and vehicle traffic safety. To further
strengthen the supervision in this area, the Bank hired an international urban road safety
expert, whose plan of actions and recommendations were taken on board by
Protransporte.

6.14 The Bank supervision teams did not regularly include environmental and
safeguard specialists until late 2007, impairing its ability to identify problems with
environmental and social issues early in implementation. However, supervision relating
                                            29


to safeguards was substantially strengthened following the problems identified in 2009 in
response to complaints from residents of District of Barranco and the subsequent
Inspection Panel investigation (see section on ‘safeguards’ paras 2.22-2.26). A number of
actions were taken, including contracting a traffic specialist and proposing a new traffic
management study. The Inspection Panel found that this was in compliance with OP
13.05 on Project Supervision, which requires Bank staff “to identify problems promptly
as they arise and to recommend ways to solve them, as well as to recommend changes in
the project concept as appropriate as the project evolves”. The project team worked
proactively in preparing and focusing on the Management’s Plan of Action in response to
the Inspection Panel report.

6.15 Supervision of the GEF grant was carried out twice a year by appropriately
staffed teams. In addition to the regular supervision missions, the Bank team followed up
on commitments through monthly conference calls documented in detailed minutes.
When in Lima, the Bank team met with different local stakeholders to promote ownership
of project activities and products after grant closure. It would have been beneficial to
have prepared environmental guidelines for civil works to facilitate bicycle traffic, even
though there was no formal requirement to do so.

Overall Bank Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

BORROWER PERFORMANCE

6.16 The Borrower’s performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The Borrower
was the Metropolitan Municipality of Lima (MML), with the loan being guaranteed by
the Government of Peru. MML demonstrated leadership and commitment to the project
during pre-operation and project implementation. It allocated budget resources for
communication campaigns to the public and bus operators who would be impacted by the
construction of the BRT. During the construction phase, MML made significant
contributions to the resources needed for project implementation, and raised its local
counterpart contribution from US$44.4 million to US$171.9 million to meet the
escalation in costs.

6.17 However, during the first years of project execution, frequent changes were made
in the top management and senior staff in Protransporte. While these changes may have
been necessitated by weak performance and slow disbursements, they added to
implementation delays.

6.18 MML worked on establishing the regulatory framework for the BRT system, but
it was poorly designed and not enforced evenly. A case in point is the municipality
ordinance (Ordenanza No. 682) of 2004, which disallowed other public transport services
within 400 meters on either side of the BRT corridor. The design of this ordinance did
not take sufficient account of the need of many citizens, particularly the poor and the very
poor, to rely on traditional urban transport modes, which are both cheaper and more
flexible. The ordinance has not been enforced. With regard to other regulations, the
Urban Transport Bureau (Gerencia de Transporte Urbano, GTU) has recently made
efforts to optimize bus routes and regulate informal taxi drivers. The national bicycle law
                                            30


was passed, although, as noted earlier, it has not been seriously enforced, and there has
been a lack of accompanying measures to encourage bicycle use.

6.19 While there is a plan to extend Metropolitano network to the north by 10.8
kilometers, coordination between MML and central government was not always smooth
in the past. Even though the north extension was considered as an integral part of the
concession agreement with private operators, the limited fiscal space in MML required
funding support from the central government. The discussions have been taking place for
a long time, but the previous administration of MML did not consider the plan seriously.
The political leaders in Peru, including MTC, were also keen to develop the metro
network.

6.20 However, the political and institutional situation shows sign of improvement.
According to the MTC, an agreement was signed in May 2015 to establish cooperation
mechanisms between MTC and MML for the development of mass transit systems in
Lima. Under the agreement, the northern extension plan is being actively discussed by
the current administration, and the integration of Metropolitano with metro and other
transport system is also being studied.

6.21 MML provided adequate financing for the entity in charge of non-motorized
transport (Gerencia de Transporte no Motorizado, GTNM), which maintained and
extended the existing bikeway network, and promoted separate non-motorized transport
initiatives. However, the municipalities benefitting from the project tended to favor
motorized transport over non-motorized transport when it came to allocating scarce road
space for bikeway construction. Although they generally supported bikeway construction,
the municipalities did not always make sufficient efforts to keep parked cars off the
bikeways. A few district municipalities in Lima delayed authorizations for bikeway
works or changed their minds when the bikeway design was ready to be implemented.
The Provincial Municipality of Callao strongly supported the bicycle promotion activities
throughout project implementation, but invested less in non-motorized transport than it
had originally committed to. This delayed the approval and completion of GEF-financed
bikeways in Callao.

6.22 MML changed its mind several times on how to proceed with the scrapping of old
buses, thus delaying project implementation. Moreover, during the implementation of the
Study for the Consolidation of the Integrated Public Transport System in Metropolitan
Lima, some of the issues did not receive immediate attention at the highest level.

6.23 Implementing agency performance during the project is rated Moderately
Satisfactory. The MML initially delegated project implementation to a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), which later turned into an executing agency called
Protransporte. During the first three years of project implementation, Protransporte
experienced difficulties in achieving the results due to its lack of experience in managing
BRT projects, including procurement, in accordance with the requirements of
international financial institutions. The high turnover of key staff hurt the agency’s
implementation capacity; in 2006, more than 50 staff members were changed, thus
delaying project implementation. During this period, the project was considered to be at
risk.
                                             31


6.24 However, since 2007 with a new board of directors and upper management staff,
Protransporte demonstrated improved implementation capacity. It carried out the large
and complex civil works, bus-concession and fare collection bidding processes. It
assisted the bus concessionaires assisting in obtaining a line of credit from a Peru’s
national development bank (COFIDE). For these tasks it coordinated effectively with the
Urban Transport Bureau (GTU) in charge of administering and supervising the
concessions of transport routes and taxis, and the Lima Municipal Enterprise for Fare
Management (Empresa Municipal Administradora de Peaje de Lima, EMAPE).

6.25 In addition to Protransporte, MML established a dedicated unit for non-motorized
transport (GTNM). While its budget was limited, GTNM actively engaged with civil
society and educational institutions to promote awareness of bicycle use. This
institutional set-up demonstrated the strong support by the MML, but tensions between
FONAM (Fondo Nacional del Ambiente – National Environmental Fund) and MML
during project implementation suggested that implementation arrangements could have
been streamlined if MML had taken this issue more seriously at the design stage.

6.26 Although both FONAM and GTNM suffered from weak institutional, technical
and managerial capacity during project preparation, they grew considerably over the
lifetime of the project. The commitment of the project staff in both institutions and the
strong personality of the project coordinator became key assets. Nevertheless, insufficient
attention was paid by both institutions to environmental and social safeguard issues. An
environmental impact assessment was not prepared for the bicycle lane constructions.
Protransporte took a rather reactive approach for the safeguard issues in Barranco.
Protransporte’s unit for overseeing environmental and social safeguards has not been
functional since the main work of the Metropolitano was completed, and would need to
be revived were the northern extension plan to be implemented. Lessons from the
Barranco experience need to be absorbed.

6.27 Implementing the Study for the Consolidation of the Integrated Public Transport
System in Metropolitan Lima was satisfactory conducted under GEF-funded portion
through restructuring, despite some delays in making decisions and reviewing the
respective deliverables. The study did not result in an east-west BRT corridor, but it was
utilized in preparation for the Metro Line 2 project.

Overall, Borrower Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

MONITORING AND EVALUATION

6.28 Monitoring & Evaluation Design. The project's indicators were appropriately
linked with outputs and intermediate outcomes (efficiency, reliability, clean and safe
transport; and usage by low-income residents) in the project’s results framework and
measurable targets. The “efficient” and “reliable” aspects required more clarity, but the
indicators included well-defined measurements for “cleaner” and “safer” mass rapid
transit system. The key performance indicators for the intermediate objectives were: (i)
reduced travel times in the project traffic corridor; (ii) reduction of fatal and serious
accidents; (iii) reduction in air pollution emissions from the transport sector in the main
trunk corridor; and (iv) increased percentage of users satisfied with the current transport
                                             32


service; (v) percentage of low-income population benefited from the project. User
satisfaction rate and proportion of beneficiaries coming from low-income population
were appropriate to understand the quality of service delivery and access to the poor in
per-urban areas.

6.29 However, there were no explicit indicators for enhancing economic productivity
and quality of life. Metropolitano users accounted for only a small percentage (1.74
percent) of the population in LMR, and it was difficult, though not impossible, to observe
the impact attributable to the project for this higher-level objective without clear
definition and measurements. The M&E framework did not have appropriate outcome
indicators for accessibility, which was critical for the project. The baseline data was not
collected at design, and the project team subsequently clarified that, despite the project's
long preparation time, baseline data had not been collected during preparation as a result
of financial and human-resource constraints.

6.30 The indicators linked with GEF-funded portion were mostly output-based, such as
number of concessionaires of the high-capacity segregated busway system that were
offered buses for scrapping; number of aged and polluting public transport vehicles
retired through Protransporte's own scrapping scheme; kilometers of bikeway
rehabilitation and extension, etc. Only one indicator directly measured the modal shift
toward non-motorized transport, i.e., percentage increase in number of bicycle trips in the
project financed bikeway in comparison to the baseline.

6.31 M&E Implementation. The Borrower and the Bank team collected output
indicators on a regular basis. Protransporte has a unit to collect and analyze project
performance indicators. During the first year of project implementation in 2004, an urban
transport master plan funded by JICA was prepared, and comprehensive urban traffic
data in LMR was collected to set-out baseline values for respective indicators. The Bank
team utilized this information for its Mid-Term Review in 2006.

6.32 Operational data was also collected through the central control system. All
Metropolitano users have to use a special card for entry, and through the card
information, Protransporte and the fare collection company could monitor and analyze
travel patterns and statistics on a daily basis.

6.33 Protransporte conducts user satisfaction surveys on an annual basis. A civil
service organization, Lima Cómo Vamos (“How Goes Lima”), has been conducting
annual household surveys since 2010 to assess the quality of life in LMR, and short user-
satisfaction survey with urban transport modes is included as one of the main items of its
questionnaire. Apart from providing detailed information on various characteristics and
perceptions of ridership, the availability of two sources of information that are
independent of each other is valuable for drawing more objective conclusions.

6.34 Regarding the GEF-funded portion, data were regularly collected and presented
during supervision missions. Periodic M&E reports were prepared. Bicycle counts and
bicycle-use surveys were conducted at approximately two-yearly intervals due to the high
cost and taking into account the progress in bicycle infrastructure provision and bicycle
promotion activities.
                                             33


6.35 M&E Utilization. The M&E system was used for making managerial decisions
during the implementation of the project. For instance, the mobility data was utilized to
develop super express, express and all stations bus lines to reduce travel time and
congestion. Feedback from FONAM suggests that information collected during project
implementation was used to improve bicycle promotion strategy and activities.

Overall, M&E is rated Substantial.

7. Lessons
      Improving mobility and accessibility for the poor through Bus Rapid Transit
       systems requires integrating the main corridor effectively with feeder services
       and other public transport system that reach close to the traveler’s origins and
       destinations. While the Metropolitano BRT was able to provide mobility to a
       significant number of poor residents, it is not likely to reach its potential for serving
       this population segment without extensive penetration of feeder routes with
       multiple modes, to their work, school, hospital and residential locations.

      Realistic scenarios and sound risk allocation are crucial for public-private
       partnerships if high service standards are to be maintained and the use of the
       assets providing the service is to be maximized. In this project, the private bus
       operator concessions did not include a minimum revenue guarantee from the
       Metropolitan Municipality of Lima (MML). The number of passengers was below
       the target at project completion even after five years of operation, and the situation
       was particularly serious in the initial operating stage. To close the gap between the
       planned and actual scenarios, analysis for competition with other transport modes,
       enforcement of a sound regulatory framework and communication to citizens
       needed to be strengthened.

      Given the complex urban settings in which rapid urban transport systems are
       typically situated, it is important to inform and consult with all categories of
       project affected persons, to anticipate and take effective measures to prevent
       possible negative environmental and social impacts and related disputes. In this
       project, insufficient information was provided to residents of a locality that was
       eventually impacted by re-routing of traffic from the project, resulting in a
       complaint and an Inspection Panel investigation, which contributed to delays in
       project implementation.

      A shift towards non-motorized transport can be expected to take a long time
       even with enabling and supporting factors and facilities in place. The
       experience with promoting bicycle usage in the LMR demonstrates the slow pace at
       which non-motorized transport is adopted. The bikeway infrastructure development
       and awareness raising campaigns could be necessary conditions, but they are not
       sufficient. In this case, this transformation was delayed further by insufficient
       attention to other supporting factors, such as safe parking space and raising drivers’
       awareness of the need to share the road with bicycles. More broadly, the prevailing
       cultural attitudes toward using bicycle should be taken into account.
                                           34



References
1. Ardila- Gómez Arturo 2004 Transit Planning in Curitiba and Bogotá. Roles in
   Interaction, Risk and Change, Ph.D. dissertation at Massachusetts Institute of
   Technology

2. Carbon Solutions Group Latin America S.A.C. 2015 Monitoring Report High
   Capacity Segregated Corridor (COSAC1)

3. Cervero, Robert, and Danielle Dai 2014. BRT TOD: Leveraging transit oriented
   development with bus rapid transit investments. Transport Policy 36, pp127-138

4. Comité de Gestión Iniciativa Aire Limpio Lima-Callao 2010. II Plan Integral de
   Saneamiento Atmosférico Para Lima-Callao Pisa 2011-2015. Lima

5. Custodio, Paulo Sergio 2012. Proyecto de Análisis de Demanda y Modelo Financiero
   del Metropolitano de Lima

6. EMBARQ 2014. Social, Environmental and Economic Impacts of BRT Systems Bus
   Rapid Transit Case Studies from Around the World. World Resources Institute

7. JICA, Yachiyo Engineering Co., Ltd, and Pacific Consultants Internation, 2005. The
   Master Plan for Lima and Callao Metropolitan Area Urban Transportation in the
   Republic of Peru

8. JICA, Nippon Koei Co., Ltd, and Nippon Koei Latin America – Caribbean Co., Ltd
   2013. Data Collection Survey on Urban Transport for Lima and Callao Metropolitan
   Area

9. IDB 2011. Informe de Terminación de Proyecto PCR. Washington D.C.

10. IEG 2011. Peru: Country Program Evaluation for the World Bank Group, 2003-09.
    World Bank, Washington D.C.

11. IEG 2013. Improving Institutional Capability and Financial Viability to Sustain
    Transport An Evaluation of World Bank Group Support Since 2002. World Bank,
    Washington D.C.

12. IEG 2013. Implementation Completion and Results Report Review (ICRR) for the
    Lima Transport Project. World Bank, Washington D.C.

13. INEI (2013) Evolucion de la Pobreza Monetaria 2007-2012

14. Litman, Todd 2011. Measuring Transportation Traffic, Mobility and Accessibility,
    Victoria Transport Policy Institute

15. Santiago Mejía-Duganda, Olof Hjelm, Leo Baas and Ramiro Alberto Ríosb, Lessons
    from the spread of Bus Rapid Transit in Latin America, 2012, Journal of Cleaner
    Production, (50), pp82-90
                                          35


16. OVE 2015. Comparative Case studies of Three IDB-Supported Urban Transport
    Projects, Inter-American Development Bank, Washington D.C.

17. OVE 2015. Case Study: Lima, Inter-American Development Bank, Washington D.C.

18. OVE 2015. Poverty Analysis: Evaluation of the Effects of Bus Rapid Transit (BRT)
    Systems on Accessibility and Mobility for the Poor in Cali and Lima, Inter-American
    Development Bank, Washington D.C.

19. The Inspection Panel 2011. Investigation Report Peru: Lima Urban Transport Project
    (Loan 7209-PE). World Bank, Washington D.C.

20. World Bank 2002. Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the
    Republic of Peru. Washington D.C.

21. World Bank 2003. Project Appraisal Document for the Lima Transport Project.
    Washington D.C.

22. World Bank 2012. Country Partnership Strategy of the World Bank Group for the
    Republic of Peru for the Period FY12-FY16. Washington D.C.

23. World Bank 2012. Implementation Completion and Results (ICR) Report for the
    Lima Transport Project. Washington D.C.

24. World Bank 2015. Performance and Learning Review of the Country Partnership
    Strategy for the Republic of Peru for the Period FY12-FY16. Washington D.C.
                                                   36


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
LIMA TRANSPORT PROJECT (IBRD-72090 TF-52877 TF-52856)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                               Appraisal                Actual or               Actual as % of
                                               estimate              current estimate          appraisal estimate
Total project costs                             134.4                     261.9                     195.4%
Loan amount                                         45.0                       45.0                  100%
Co-financing                                        45.0                       45.0                  100%
Cancellation                                            -                       -                      -


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (P035740)
                                FY04       FY05      FY06           FY07        FY08        FY09     FY10     FY11
                           a
Appraisal estimate (US$M)        2.2        13.2            27.1     40.5           45.0     45.0     45.0     45.0
                 b
Actual (US$M)                    0.0         2.4             1.8      5.4           13.7     32.4     42.5     45.0
Actual as % of appraisal           0        17.8             6.7     13.2           30.5     72.1     94.5     100
Date of last disbursement: May 2, 2011

a. Appraisal estimate (cumulative) are taken from the Project Appraisal Document.
b. Actual disbursements (cumulative) are based on “Disbursement Schedule” in SAP system.

Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (P074021)
                                FY04       FY05         FY06        FY07        FY08        FY09     FY10     FY11
                            a
Appraisal estimate (US$M)         3.2          5.7            7.2        7.7          7.9      7.9      7.9         7.9
                 b
Actual (US$M)                          -       0.7            1.9        3.2          4.0      5.1      7.3         7.4
Actual as % of appraisal               0      12.7           26.5     40.9          50.4      64.2     91.5     92.7
Date of last disbursement: August 20, 2010

Note: In addition to US$7.93 million support through TF-52856, the Japan Social Development Fund
(JSDF) provided US$1.145 million support through TF-52877 for the GEF-funded project.
a. Appraisal estimate (cumulative) are taken from the Project Appraisal Document.
b. Actual disbursements (cumulative) are based on “Disbursement Schedule” in SAP system.

Project Dates (P035740)


                                                             Original                            Actual
Appraisal                                                   06/24/2003                         06/24/2003
Board approval                                              12/09/2003                         12/09/2003
Effectiveness                                               12/15/2004                         12/15/2004
Closing date                                                06/30/2009                         04/30/2011
ANNEX A                          37




Project Dates (P074021)


                                       Original                    Actual
Appraisal                             06/24/2003                 06/24/2003
Board approval                        12/09/2003                 12/09/2003
Effectiveness                         12/15/2004                 08/31/2004
Closing date                          06/30/2009                 06/30/2010




Staff Time and Cost
                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                           USD Thousands (including
                               No. of staff weeks
                                                       travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                  7.11                        39,081.47
  FY02                                 15.01                        70,026.34
  FY03                                 16.46                        74,436.29
  FY04                                  8.44                        36,074.95
Total:                                 47.02                       219,619.05
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                  5.83                        35,200.28
  FY05                                  8.57                        47,378.19
  FY06                                  7.68                        52,300.16
  FY07                                 20.28                        80,327.64
  FY08                                 16.24                        58,641.20
  FY09                                 11.46                        48,999.98
  FY10                                 12.16                         9,252.42
  FY11                                  4.10                        13,151.69
  FY12                                 17.00                        76,000.00
Total:                                103.32                       461,251.56
   ANNEX A                                       38


Task Team Members
            Names              Title                             Unit    Responsibility
Lending
Andrés Pacheco                 Consultant                        LCSTR   Transport
Gerhard Menckhoff              Consultant                        LCSTR   Urban Transport
Judy L. Baker                  Lead Economist                    FEUUR   Poverty
Keisner De Jesus Alfaro        Sr. Procurement Specialist        LCSPT   Procurement
Kirsten L. Oleson              Consultant                        LCSEG   Consultant
Mark Delucchi                  Urban Transport Consultant        LCSEN   Urban Transport
Oswaldo Patiño                 Institutional Consultant          LCSTR   Economist
Patricia McKenzie              Institutional Consultant          MNAFM   Financial Management
Paul Procee                    Sr. Infrastructure Specialist     EASCS   Environment
Paulus A. Guitink              Consultant                        AFTTR   Transport
Pierre Graftieaux              Sr. Transport Specialist          AFTTR   Transport
Pierre Werbrouck               Consultant                        LCSAR   Consultant
Sophie Sirtaine                Sector Manager                    ECSF2   Sector Manager
Walter Vergara                 Lead Chemical Engineer            ENV     Environment
Supervision/ICR
Alonso Zarzar Casis            Sr. Social Scientist              LCSSO   Social
Ana Lucia Jimenez Nieto        Financial Management Specialist   LCSFM   Financial Mgt.
Andrés Pacheco                 Consultant                        LCSTR   Transport
Arturo Ardila                  Sr. Urban Transport Specialist    LCSTR   Urban Transport
Aura Marcela Ariza Rodriguez   Junior Professional Associate     MNCA4   Team Assistant
Carlos F. Pardo                Consultant                        LCSEN   Non-motorized Transport
Cidalia Brocca Financial       Analyst                           CTRDM   Disbursement
Elisabeth Goller               Sr. Transport. Spec.              LCSTR   Transport
Qays Hamad                     Sr. Operation Officer             OPCS    Operations
Enrique Millones               Consultant                                Environment
Oswaldo Patino                 Institutional Consultant                  Economist
Evelyn Villatoro               Sr. Procurement Specialist        EAPPR   Procurement
Francisco Rodriguez            Procurement Specialist            LCSPT   Procurement
Gabriela Arcos                 Environmental Spec.               LCSEN   Environment
Gerhard Menckhoff              Consultant                        LCSTR   Urban Transport Specialist
Harvey Manuel Scorcia          Junior Professional Associate     LCSTR   Transport
Jean-Jacques Verdeaux          Sr. Procurement Specialist        LCSPT   Procurement
Keisgner De Jesus Alfaro       Sr. Procurement Specialist        LCSPT   Procurement
Luis M. Schwarz                Sr. Finance Officer               CTRFC   Financial Mgt.
María Catalina Ochoa           Junior Professional Associate     LCSTR   Transport
María Elizabeth Dasso          Sr. Social Development & Civil    LCSSO   Social
María Lucy Giraldo             Senior Procurement Specialist     LCSPT   Procurement
Michael J. Goldberg            Sr. Private Sector Devt. Spec.    LCSPF   PrivateSector
Miriam Cespedes                Program Assistant                 LCSPT   Program Assistant
Nelly Ikeda                    Financial Management Analyst      LCSFM   Financial Mgt.
Nicolas Francisco Estupinan    Junior Professional Associate     LCSTR   Transport
Oswaldo Patiño                 Consultant                        AFTTR
Patricia McKenzie              Manager Financial Management      MNAFM   Financial Mgt.
Paul Procee                    Sr. Infrastructure Specialist     EASCS   Environment
Paulus A. Guitink              Consultant                        AFTTR   Transport
Pierre Graftieaux              Sr. Transport Specialist          AFTTR   Transport
Pierre Werbrouck               Consultant                        LCSAR   Consultant
Raul Tolmos                    E T Consultant                    LCSEN   Environment
ANNEX A                          39


            Names   Title                            Unit    Responsibility
Tomas Socias        Sr. Procurement Spec.            OPCPR   Procurement
Sandra Arzubiaga    Communications Officer           LCREA   Communications
Xiomara A. Morel    Sr. Financial Mgmt. Specialist   LCSFM   Financial Mgt.
                                                     40


      Annex B. List of WB Urban Transport Projects in Peru
Table 1.         World Bank Lending for Transport sector in Peru (1994-Present)

No.   Project            Name             Approval   Closing          Instrument           Project   WB
        ID                                  FY         FY                                   Cost Commitment
                                                                                          (US$M)   (US$M)
 1    P008045 Transport Rehabilitation      1994      2000     Specific Inv./Maint Loan    256       150
 2    P035740 PE Lima Transport Project     2004      2011     Specific Investment Loan    134       45
              Rural Road Rehabilitation
 3    P037047 & Maintenance                 1996      2001     Specific Inv./Maint Loan    250       90
              PE Second Rural Road
 4    P044601 Project                       2001      2007     Specific Inv./Maint Loan    151       50
              PE GEF Lima Transport
 5    P074021 Project                       2004      2010     Specific Investment Loan     8         8
              PE Regional Transport
 6    P078813 Decentralization              2006      2014     Specific Investment Loan    200       50
              PE Decentralized Rural
 7    P095570 Transport Project             2007      2014     Specific Investment Loan    150       50
              PE Safe and Sustainable
 8    P116929 Transport                     2010      2015     Specific Inv./Maint Loan    540       150
              PE Universal Mobility in
 9    P129561 Lima                          2012      2016     Technical Assistant Loan     3         3
           PE Cusco Transport
10 P132505 Improvement                      2014      2019     IPF                         153       120
                                                               41


Annex C. Additional Data Tables and Figures
 Figure 1: Operational BRT System in the World




 Source: IEG using data from BRTdata.com



Table 1: World Bank Support and Bus Rapid Transit System in Developing Countries
 Income
 Category     City Country Note
                                              Brazil (31), China (19), Mexico (10), Colombia (6), Ecuador (2), Iran (2),
 Upper-middle            79             12 South Africa (2), Malaysia (1), Panama (1), Peru (1), Thailand (1), Turkey (1)
 Lower-middle            12              5 India (8), Guatemala (1), Indonesia (1), Nigeria (1), Pakistan (1)
 Low                      0              0 NA
 Total                   91             17 Including high-income countries, 194 cities in 43 countries have BRT.
Source: IEG using data from Global BRT Data (http://brtdata.org/)
Notes: The country income categories are based on the World Bank classification. The country name with italic indicates that World Bank
was active to support at least one BRT system in the country. The number in the parenthesis means number of cities with BRT in the
country.
ANNEX C                                                 42


 Table 2: List of World Bank BRT Projects Since Fiscal Year 2002




 No    Country          Project Name                                              Year    Commit        Funding
   1 Nigeria            Lagos Urban Transport Project                              2003            100 IDA
   2 Mexico             Introduction of Climate Friendly Measures in Transport     2003              6 GEF
   3 Chile              Sustainable Transport & Air Quality for Santiago           2004              7 GEF
   4 Peru               Lima Transport Project                                     2004             45 IBRD
   5 Chile              Santiago Urban Transport Development Policy Loan           2006             30 IBRD
   6 Colombia           Bogotá Urban Services Project                              2003            100 IBRD
   7 Colombia           Integrated Mass Transit Systems Project                    2004            250 IBRD
   8 Ghana              Urban Transport Project                                    2007             45 IDA
   9 Tanzania           Second Central Transport Corridor Project                  2008            190 IDA
 10 China               Urban Transport Partnership Program Project                2008             21 GEF
 11 Viet Nam            Hanoi Urban Transport                                      2008      155.21 IDA
 12 China               Xi’an Sustainable Urban Transport Project                  2008            150 IBRD
 13 Bangladesh Clean Air and Sustainable Environment Project                       2009            62.2 IDA
 14 Ghana               Transport Sector Project                                   2009            225 IDA
 15 India               Sustainable Urban Transport Project                        2010      105.23 IBRD
 16 Nigeria             Lagon Uurban Transport Project 2                           2010            190 IDA
 17 Senegal             Transport and Urban Mobility Project                       2010             55 IDA
 18 Uganda              Transport Sector Development Project                       2010            190 IDA
 19 Mexico              Sustainable Transport and Air Quality Project              2010              5 GEF
 20 China               Taiyuan Urban Transport Project                            2010            150 IBRD
 21 Argentina           Urban Transport in Metropolitan Areas                      2010            150 IBRD
 22 Mexico              Urban Transport Transformation Project                     2010            150 IBRD
 23 China               Wuhan Second Urban Transport Project                       2010            100 IBRD
 24 Viet Nam            Danang Sustainable City Development Project                2013       272.2 IDA
 25 Philippines         Cebu Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Project                       2015            116 IBRD
                                                                                                        
Source: IEG.
Note: IFC supports another BRT project in Guatemala
                                                                                                  43                                                        ANNEX C


Figure 2: Key Project Milestones




Source: IEG.

Figure 3: Number of Entry at the Metropolitano BRT Stations by Hour of the Day

                                                       80000
                                                                                                   Center     Terminal and feeder        Others
                                                       70000
   Number of Entry at the Metropolitano BRT stations




                                                       60000


                                                       50000


                                                       40000


                                                       30000


                                                       20000


                                                       10000


                                                           0
                                                               5   6   7   8   9   10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   18       19    20      21   22   23   24
                                                                                                       Hour
ANNEX C                                                           44

 Source: IEG using data from Protransporte
 Notes: The data covers all the entry to the Metropolitano BRT station on June 22 (Monday), 2015, which is first working day during the
 PPAR mission in Peru (similar traffic pattern was observed for the rest of the weekday for the week of June 15, 2015). The entry
 information is recorded through Metropolitano card which every passenger has to use it to get on the Metropolitano bus. The data
 identifies the time of entry and entry station (though no information available for exit station), and “Terminal and feeder” includes entry
 information for Naranjal (north terminal), Matellini (south terminal) and all feeder route bus entry information. The “Center” means
 central part of Lima, which is defined as the Metropolitano stations between “28 de Julio” and “Jiron de la Union”. All other
 Metropolitano bus stations are categorized as “Others”. The Metropolitano cards which has more than 20 transactions per day are
 considered as outliers and dropped. While there is no information available for exit stations per trip, large proportion of people using
 “Terminal and feeder” buses in the morning peak-hour as well as “Central” buses in the evening peak-hour suggests that people use
 Metropolitano to commute for job and schools which are mainly located in the central part of Lima. However, interpretation of this
 graph needs to be careful because both transactions are recorded in one trip for those who use trunk route and feeder route, and
 certain proportion of “Terminal and feeder” users are likely to be double counted in this graph.



 Figure 4. Metropolitano Users and All Transport Users by Monthly Income Level

                        25

                                                                                                        Metropolitano users
                        20
                                                                                                        All Transport Users
  Percentage of Users




                        15


                        10


                         5


                         0



                                                        Monthly Income Level (Soles)


Source: IEG using data from JICA (2013)
Notes: If the household includes at least one Metropolitano users, such household is defined as “Metropolitano users” (sample size is
1,010 households). “Others” did not include any household members who use Metropolitano as primary means of transportation (sample
size is 20,686 households). The households who could not answer this question were excluded (sample size is 1,007).
                                              45



Annex D. List of Persons Met
Metropolitan Municipality of Lima
Ms. Jenny Samanez Gonzáles Vigil, Sub-Gerente de Transporte no Motorizado
Protransporte
Ms. Víctor Pacahuala Velásquez, Presidente, Presidencia de Directorio
Mr. Jaime Romero Bonilla, Gerente Gerencia General
Mr. Tulio Gálvez Escudero, Gerente, Gerencia de Operaciones
FONAM
Ms. Julia Justo Soto, Directora Ejecutiva
Ms. Inés Mendoza Cámac, Coordinator, Area of Climate Change and Promotion of Carbon Market
Private Operators
Mr. Ralph Pollandt, ACS Solutions Peru, S.A
Mr. José Luis Díaz León, Gerente General, Lima Bus International 1 S.A.
Mr. John Fredy Domínguez, Gerente de Operaciones, Lima Bus International 1 S.A.
Mr. Otto Augusto Sarmiento, Gerente General, Lima Vías Express S.A.
Civil Society / Disabled People
Ms. Gladis Macizo Gomez, Committee for Clean Air
Ms. Mariana Alegre Escorza, Coordinadora General, Lima Cómo Vamos
Mr. Juanjo Arrué, Coordinador de Proyectos Perú y Latinoamérica, Community Design Group
Mr. Arq. Jaime Huerta Peralta, Coordinator de Panel de Expertos
Ms. Barbara Ventura, Especialista en Communicaciones
Mr. Luis Miguel del Aguila, Especialista Social
Ms. Angela Marin, Especialista en Interpretación
JICA
Mr. Makoto Kanagawa, Sectorista Senior
Mr. Tatsuro Iwahashi, Sectorista Senior
IDB
Ms. Lynn Scholl, Economics Specialist, Office of Evaluation and Oversight
World Bank
Mr. Alberto Rodríguez, Country Director, World Bank
Mr. Arturo Ardila Gomez, Lead Transport Economist and Task Team Leader, World Bank
Mr. Georges Bianco Darido, Lead Transport Economist, World Bank
Mr. Felipe Targa Rodriguez, Senior Transport Economist, World Bank
Mr. Oswaldo Patino, Consultant, World Bank
Mr. Gerhard Menckhoff, World Bank (Retired)

Note: During project site visits, IEG mission members had conversations with several Metropolitano
users. The conversations were facilitated through translators.
