Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 3052 UG
Development Credit Agreement
(Nutrition and Early Childhood Development Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 15, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3052 UG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 15, 1998, between THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated December 11, 1997, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
and strengthen nutrition and early childhood development in the Borrower’s territories 
(the Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program; 
and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
Page  2
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended 
with 
respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty 
days, 
or (b) at any time, the Association determines, after consultation with 
the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Credit will not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at 
any time, the 
Association determines, with respect to any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent 
practices were 
engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary 
of the Credit during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation, and establishes the 
amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have 
been eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any 
time, the 
Association determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures  set forth or 
referred to in the Development Credit Agreement and establishes 
the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (e) 
after the 
Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit 
Account, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate 
the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. 
Upon the 
giving of such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be canceled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"District" means an administrative subdivision of the Borrower’s 
territory as defined in the Borrower’s 1995 Constitution; 
(b)
"ECD" means early childhood development; 
(c)
"FY" and "Fiscal Year" mean the Borrower’s fiscal year beginning on July 
1 and ending on June 30 of the following year; 
(d)
"First Project Year" means the twelve-month period beginning from the 
Effective Date and ending twelve months thereafter, and "Project Year" means any 
twelve-month period beginning at the end of the First Project Year or the subsequent 
Project Years; 
(e)
"Memorandum of Understanding" means each of the memoranda of 
understanding, referred to in Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, to be entered into 
between the Borrower and an NGO (as hereinafter defined), as the same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Memorandum of 
Understanding;
(f)
"MOPED" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Planning and Economic 
Development; 
(g)
"NGO" means any one or several non-governmental organization(s) selected 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, to carry out 
Parts B and C of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
(h)
"Project District" means a District selected in accordance with criteria 
set forth in the Project Implementation Manual and in which the Project, or any part 
Page  3
thereof, is to be carried out; 
(i)
"Project Coordinating Office" or "PCO" mean the office within MOPED, 
established by the Borrower in September 1997, to coordinate the implementation of all 
components of the Project; 
(j)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
July 22, 1997, and July 29, 1997, between the Borrower and the Association;
(k)
"Project Implementation Manual" means the Project Implementation Plan, 
dated December 15, 1997, prepared by the Borrower and including, inter alia, detailed 
procurement and disbursement arrangements, performance indicators and other 
administrative, financial and organizational arrangements to be used in the course of 
implementation of the Project;
(l)
"Project Account" means the Project Account referred to in Section 3.03 
of this Agreement;
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(n)
"Uganda Shilling" and "Ug. Sh." mean the currency of the Borrower. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty five million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 25,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
Page  4
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2008, and ending 
March 15, 2038. Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 
2018, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end: 
(i)
shall carry out Part C of the Project through the PCO, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and technical practices and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for Part C of the Project; and
(ii)
without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower may cause Parts A and B of the Project to be 
implemented in each Project District (A) by one or more NGO(s), 
selected in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement and the provisions of the Project Implementation Manual 
or (B) by the administration of the relevant District, where it is 
unable to select an NGO under subparagraph (a) (ii) (A) of this 
Section 3.01.
Page  5
(b)
Where the Borrower chooses to implement Part A or Part B of the Project 
in the Project Districts through one or more NGO(s), the Borrower shall: (i) cause 
such NGO(s) to carry out such Part of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency, 
and in conformity with appropriate technical, financial and administrative practices; 
(ii) take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable such 
NGO(s) to carry out the Project; and (iii) not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the Project by such NGO(s).
(c)
Where an NGO has been selected to implement Part A or B of the Project in 
a Project District, the Borrower shall conclude a memorandum of understanding 
(hereinafter called Memorandum of Understanding) with such NGO for the implementation 
of such Part of the Project, whereby the Borrower shall make available to such NGO the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated to such Part of the Project for such Project District 
on a grant basis and on such other terms and conditions as shall be acceptable to the 
Association.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Memorandum of 
Understanding in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive such Memorandum of Understanding or any provision thereof.
(e)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and, except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project, or shall cause the relevant NGO(s) to carry out, Parts A 
and B of the Project, all in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall open and maintain an account (the Project 
Account) in Uganda Shillings in a commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable 
to the Association, and in accordance with the schedule described in paragraph (b) of 
this Section, shall deposit therein its annual counterpart contribution.
(b)
Without limitation upon its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall make appropriate budgetary provisions to finance its 
counterpart contribution to the cost of the Project in accordance with the following 
Schedule: 
Fiscal year following Effective Date
Amount expressed in 
   Dollars  First Fiscal 
Year
400,000 Second Fiscal Year
600,000 Third Fiscal Year
    1,000,000 Fourth Fiscal Year
    1,000,000 Fifth Fiscal Year
    1,000,000
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than one hundred eighty days after 
the Effective Date, set up Project District coordination committees in twenty-five 
Project Districts.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Page  6
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;  
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause NGOs to maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations and 
financial condition of such NGOs and to register separately the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause NGOs to: 
(i)
have their records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;  
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for such year as so audited and (B) the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Borrower and the Association such other information 
concerning such records, accounts and financial statements and the 
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Page  7
ARTICLE V 
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause NGOs: 
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other 
provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice; 
(b)
to carry on their operations and conduct their affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative, financial and technical practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; 
and
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain any machinery, equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound technical and financial 
practices. 
ARTICLE VI 
Remedies of the Association 
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that as a result of events which have 
occurred after the date of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof 
will be carried out. 
ARTICLE VII 
Effective date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association a satisfactory sample form 
of a Memorandum of Understanding; and 
(b)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and deposited therein the 
Uganda Shillings equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) as part of the 
Borrower’s counterpart funding for the First Project Year. 
Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VIII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 8147
Kampala, Uganda
Cable address: 
Telex:
FINSEC
61170
Kampala
Page  8
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
By /s/ Edith Ssempala
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ James Adams
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   750,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
75% of local
expenditures
(2)
Grants to
 4,900,000
75%
Communities
(3)
Equipment and
 2,650,000
100% of foreign
Material
expenditures and
75% of local
expenditures
(4)
Learning and IEC
   550,000
100% of foreign
materials
expenditures and
75% of local
expenditures
Page  9
(5)
Consultants' Services
 3,800,000
100%
and Studies
(6)
Training
 3,500,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(7)
Operating Costs:
(a) At District and
 6,500,000
100% of foreign
Communities level
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(b) Other
   650,000
100% in FY98/99;
75% in FY99/00;
50% in FY00/01
and thereafter
(8)
Refunding of
   750,000
Amounts due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
of this Agreement
(9)
Unallocated
   950,000
TOTAL
25,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "operating costs" means the incremental costs incurred on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office 
supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision costs, but excluding salaries of 
officials of the Borrower’s civil service; and
(d)
the term "IEC" means all information, education and communication 
activities carried out under the Project. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) goods, works and services of 
consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and (ii) services 
of individual consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the implementation of 
its (a) 1993 National Program of Action for Children, and (b) 1997 Poverty Eradication 
Action Plan through improved child health and nutrition, improved cognitive and 
psychosocial development, growth and development of children under six years of age.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Integrated Community Child Care 
1.
Development and implementation of programs designed to improve parental 
awareness of major aspects of child care, growth and development through parental 
education, child growth monitoring and promotion, training and sensitization.
Page  10
2.
Strengthening the capacity of communities to support child development programs 
through: 
(a)
the carrying out of community planning sensitization workshops; 
(b)
child day campaigns; and 
(c)
training in savings and credit group formation to support child 
development, including training in basic accounting and management skills and skills 
in microenterprise development.
Part B:
Grants for Child Development and Innovation
The provision of grants to finance the partial establishment costs of: (i) early 
childhood centers; and (ii) other activities to be identified by communities, 
including the (A) construction and operation of community child care centers, (B) home 
based child care centers, (C) the production and marketing of weaning foods, and (D) 
other initiatives identified by communities to support children.
Part C:
National Support for Child Development 
1.
Development and implementation of a monitoring and evaluation scheme to 
systematically monitor inputs and outputs under Parts A and B of this Schedule, as 
well as to evaluate impacts on children and parents. 
2.
Development and implementation of specific activities for (a) the prevention of 
micronutrient deficiencies, (b) development of curriculum guidelines for center-based 
early childhood development (ECD) and training of trainers on ECD, (c) communications 
and IEC strategy to support project goals, (d) studies to strengthen policy 
development for children, and (e) carrying out child rights advocacy campaigns. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, vehicles, motorcycles 
and bicycles shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures. 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
2.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods under Part A of the Project may be procured from the Interagency 
Procurement Services Office (IAPSO) in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 
of the Guidelines. 
3.
Community Participation 
Page  11
Goods and works required for Part B of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association. 
4.
National Shopping
Goods and materials required under Parts A and B of the Project estimated to 
cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $3,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines. 
5.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $7,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services under Part A of the Project, estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection 
Page  12
Auditing services under Part C of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection 
Services for technical assistance, implementation and training under Part A of 
the Project and evaluation and baseline surveys under Part C of the Project which are 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Service Delivery Contractors 
Services to be provided by social workers or medical personnel under Part B of 
the Project shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association. 
4.
Individual Consultants 
Services for technical assistance under Part C of the Project shall be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms and 
NGOs estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms and 
NGOs estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the 
equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the 
second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
establish and maintain, until the completion of the Project: 
(i)
a Project Steering Committee (PSC) by not later than three months 
after the Effective Date, under the chairmanship of the Permanent 
Secretary, MOPED, whose functions, composition and terms of 
Page  13
reference shall be satisfactory to the Association, and which 
shall, inter alia, be responsible for providing overall policy 
guidance and make recommendations on the timely and 
satisfactory 
implementation of the Project,
(ii)
district coordination committees, not later than six months after 
the Effective Date, which shall be responsible for coordinating 
and supervising Project activities in each Project District; and
(b)
maintain its Project Coordinating Office (PCO) established on September 
8, 1997, headed by a suitably qualified Project Coordinator, accountable to the 
Permanent Secretary, MOPED, which shall be responsible for (i) coordinating all 
activities under the Project, and (ii) preparation of periodic reports on the 
implementation of the Project. 
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, in carrying 
out the Project, apply the guidelines and procedures specified in the Project 
Implementation Manual and shall not amend such Project Implementation Manual or waive 
any provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Association, will materially or 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators satisfactory 
to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b) 
not later than March 31 of each year, undertake, in conjunction with the 
Association and NGOs, a joint annual review of the Project (or, in the case of the 
annual review to be undertaken not later than March 31, 2001, a midterm review), 
during which they shall exchange views generally on all matters relating to the 
progress of the Project and the performance by the Borrower of its respective 
obligations under this Agreement, including: 
(i)
the progress achieved by the Borrower in the implementation of the 
Project, having regard to the performance indicators referred to 
in the Project Implementation Manual,
(ii)
a review of the proposed work plans and budget for the forthcoming 
fiscal year, and 
(iii) in the case of the midterm review, proposals for such strategic 
adjustments to the Project as may be deemed necessary or 
appropriate in furtherance of the objectives of the Project;
(c)
not later than one month prior to each annual review, furnish to the 
Association, for its comments, a report, in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the progress and status of the Project and giving details, in 
particular, of the various matters to be discussed at such review; and
(d)
following each annual review, undertake to act promptly and diligently in 
order to take, or cause NGOs to take, any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy 
any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project or to implement, or cause 
NGOs to implement, such other measures as may have been agreed upon between the 
parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
4.
The Borrower shall submit to the Association, for its review or approval, as the 
case may be:
(a)
not later than January 31 of each year, proposed annual work plans and 
budget for the forthcoming fiscal year, giving details of proposed budgetary 
allocations and disbursement estimates, proposed procurement and training activities 
and such other particulars as the Association may require, including, where 
applicable, an evaluation of the results of the training program for the current 
fiscal year;
(b)
semiannual progress reports on the status of the Project to be submitted 
not later than January 31 and July 31 of each year, including semiannual procurement 
reports, giving details of: 
(i)
revised cost estimates for individual contracts and for the 
Page  14
Project, including best estimates of allowances for price 
contingencies; and
(ii)
revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, 
bidding, contract award and completion time for individual 
contracts, reports, as needed, on the award of contracts under the 
Project.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (7) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of, each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
Page  15
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions. 
