                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 33529

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (PPFI-Q0580 IDA-30520)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 25 MILLION
                                   (US$ 34 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO

                                                UGANDA

                                                 FOR A

                NUTRITION AND EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                              June 21, 2006




Human Development 1
Country Department 4
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                   (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                   Currency Unit = Ugandan shillings
                                UgShillings 1100 = US$ 1.00

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                        July 1   June 30

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAO         Chief Administration Officer
CAPS        Community Action Plans
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CBO         Community-Based Organization
CCW         Community Child Worker
CDD         Community-Driven Development
CHILD       Community and Home Initiatives for Long-term Development
DCA         Development Credit Agreement
DHS         Demographic Health Survey
DO          Development Objective
ECD         Early Childhood Development
ECE         Early Childhood Education
GMP         Growth Monitoring and Promotion
GOU         Government of Uganda
IA          Implementing Agency
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association
IEC         Information, Education & Communication
IFMS        Integrated Financial Management System
ISR         Implementation Status and Results
LACI        Loan Administration Change Initiative
LGDP        Local Government Development Program
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MoES        Ministry of Education and Sports
MoFPED      Ministry of Finance, Planning, and Economic Development
MoH         Ministry of Health
MTR         Mid-Term Review
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
NTA         National Technical Assistance
NUSAFNorthern Uganda Social Action Fund
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PCO         Project Coordinating Office
PEAP        Poverty Eradication Action Plan
PIM         Project Implementation Manual
PMR         Project Management Report
PRSC        Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PSC         Project Steering Committee
RC          Resource Center

SOE    Statement of Expenses
Ugx    Uganda Shillings
VHT    Village Health Team



                          Vice President:  Gobind T. Nankani
                         Country Director  Judy O'Connor
                          Sector Manager   Dzingai Mutumbuka
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Carla Bertoncino

                                           UGANDA
                         Nutrition and Early Childhood Development


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 33

Project ID: P040551                                                  Project Name: Nutrit. Child Dev.
Team Leader: Carla Bertoncino                                        TL Unit: AFTH1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 21, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Nutrit. Child Dev.                                       L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q0580; IDA-30520
   Country/Department: UGANDA                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Health (65%); Other social services (31%); Central government administration (4%)
                  Theme: Child health (P); Nutrition and food security (P); Participation and civic engagement (S);
                            Gender (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/31/1996                                     Effective: 07/04/1998                11/13/1998
     Appraisal: 05/26/1997                                         MTR: 05/15/2001                  04/15/2002
      Approval: 03/24/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Judy M. O'Connor                               James W. Adams
Sector Manager:                 Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                           Ruth Kagia
Team Leader at ICR:             Carla Bertoncino                               Marito H. Garcia
ICR Primary Author:             Helle M. Alvesson; Carla
                                Bertoncino; Meera Priyadarshi


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
The ICR-team used the new six point rating scale and rated the outcome Moderately Unsatisfactory, Bank
Performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory and Borrower Performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.
Quality at Entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The development objective (PDO) of the Nutrition and Early Childhood Development Project (NECDP,
hereafter referred to as the Project), as stated in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), was to assist
the government of Uganda in improving growth and development of children who are less than 3 years old
with regard to their nutrition, health, and cognitive aspects. The PDO against which the project is to be
assessed is (1) reduce the prevalence of underweight children under three years old by one-third; (2)
improve their cognitive development; and (3) increase enrolment of 6 years olds in primary school, and
their promotion to the second grade.

The unusual history of this Project warrants the following introductory paragraphs to set the background
against which the rest of the report should be read and interpreted.

The Project design was conceived to pilot the integrated approach to child development advocated by
UNICEF in a fully decentralized implementation structure, across four levels of government. This was the
first time this approach had been piloted on a relatively large scale. Successful implementation would
depend on the coordinated actions of four ministries [Agriculture (MoA), Education and Sports (MoES),
Health (MoH) and Labour, Gender and Social Development (MoLGSD)] both at the central and local
levels. The integrated approach at the community level could only take off and be sustainable with buy-in
from non-governmental entities as well. Finally, capacity needed to be built at all levels of implementation.

The challenges of piloting simultaneously a new paradigm and a decentralized implementation structure
were not lost on the preparation teams on both sides, and a great deal of thought and resources went into
risk mitigation over more than two years of preparation. A Task Force comprising representatives from
UN agencies and NGOs was formed for the Project preparation, and implementation would be a
public-private partnership's responsibility; to overcome potential turf issues, the Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning (MoFED, now MoFPED) led the Borrower's Task Force, instead of one of the future
implementing line ministries; and the issue of capacity was addressed by the early decision to have a pilot
Project limited to the 12 districts most advanced in the decentralization process. The choice of MoFED as
the Project's Coordinating Agency also reflected the promoters' desire to raise the profile of an operation
targeting traditionally disadvantaged groups, i.e. mothers and very young children, and to make the
connection between ECD and development more explicit.

However, three decisions were taken during the period immediately prior to Project negotiation and Project
effectiveness which would have a major impact on the Projects success.

First, the mitigation measures for the capacity risks were undermined by political pressures which, shortly
before negotiations, doubled the number of Project districts (from 12 to 25). Though 25 districts from a
total of 40 was hardly a pilot anymore, the Project's chance of success could have been maintained by
simplifying its design, but no attempt to do this either before or after negotiations was made. This increase
in Project districts also had a major impact on the sufficiency of Project finance in each district.

Second, the choice of MoFED as a neutral, accountable Coordinating Agency was overturned by
Parliament which, while ratifying the Credit, decided that the Ministry of Health would be the
Implementing Agency (IA) instead. The Parliamentary debate over which ministry should be in charge of
the Project was very heated and long, thus delaying effectiveness by four months.

Third, the day before effectiveness, IDA approved an amendment to the DCA reflecting the change in IA,



                                                        - 2 -

and ratifying a transfer of US$ 1.2 million to the Uganda Bureau of Statistics. Like the increase in Project
coverage, this transfer further stretched the original IDA envelope, thereby jeopardizing the achievement of
the PDO.

It took the Ministry of Health several years to internalize and accept the nature of the Project (see sections
5 and 7 for more details), and the Ministry's less than full ownership further compromised the prospects of
success. Meanwhile, the number of LC1s (the community level administrative units) and of districts kept
growing in the country, and so did the Borrower's demand that the Project's coverage increase accordingly.
IDA's resistance delayed this until midterm, but then the coverage was expanded. The ICR team could find
no evidence that either the Borrower or the Bank sought to restructure the Project as a result of these
additional strains on the original objectives.

The initial implementation hurdles common to all operations were compounded by the above factors
However, the Borrower's Project team coped remarkably with and finally overcame the obstacles, setting
the Project on a course of success. Positive impacts on malnutrition and other indicators emerged after less
than two years of Project activities at the grass roots level. A shortage of funds brought implementation to
a halt after two years from the beginning of activities at the community level, and disbursement of grants to
the communities was suspended. Eventually funds were obtained to resume implementation, but the Project
closed without attaining full completion.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The PDO was never formally revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The Project consisted of three main components, as follows (allocations are actual):

Component 1: Integrated Community Child Care Package ($24.06 million, or 60 percent of total costs).

The component's original design included support for the government's two primary goals:
    l Improvement of parental awareness of child care, growth, and development through parental
         education, training, sensitization, and through child growth monitoring and promotion (GMP).
         Children under three years old in Project communities were to be weighed monthly, and children
         between four and five years old were offered quarterly GMP. "Child Days," which were organized
         as one-stop shops of preventive integrated childcare, was another key element in the
         implementation strategy.
    l Empowerment of communities to support child development programs through capacity building,
         income-generating skill development, and subproject grants. The objective was to reduce
         malnutrition (i.e., to improve the weight-age ratio) in children, and to increase child readiness for
         primary schooling. Achieving these goals would increase the drive for Universal Primary
         Education (UPE). The component activities also included the construction of Early Childhood
         Development (ECD) Resource Centers (RC) at the sub-county level.

The choice of activities was based on the understanding that income growth alone would take too long to
radically reduce malnutrition rates, which is why emphasis was put on influencing behavioral changes to
improve child nutrition and care.

Component 2: Community Support Grant and Innovation Grant for Child Development ($7.72 million, or
19 percent of total costs).




                                                       - 3 -

Two types of grants were originally offered to communities that showed interest in preventing malnutrition
and/or in Early Childhood Education (ECE) services, and that provided counterpart contributions. The
first, community support grants, could be used to develop Community Action Plans (CAPs) in order to
increase food security or to start informal, community-based ECE facilities. The second, innovation grants
, could be used to support new ideas and plans on how the lives of children in the community could be
improved. At the design stage elaborate consultations with Project stakeholders had determined the need for
these grants to support specific interventions for children in difficult circumstances, or for severely
malnourished children. The innovation grants were to be used over and above the community grants, and
would be provided to those communities that had demonstrated the ability to successfully take CAPs to
completion.

Component 3: National Level Program Support ($ 7.64 million, or 19 percent of total costs).

This component was designed to support national-level ECD-related activities as well as cross-cutting
subcomponents (e.g., advocacy, M&E). Interventions under this component primarily focused on the
following:
   l Support for micronutrient programs (related to preventive and promotional activities only)
   l National-level ECD activities (e.g., learning framework development, teacher training, training of
         trainers)
   l National communications strategy for behavioral change (including Information Education
         Communication (IEC) activities and advocacy for children's rights)
   l Strengthening central-level Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E).


3.4 Revised Components:
The DCA was amended in November 1998 to add one component, the "National Household Survey", with
an allocation of $ 1.18 million, or 2 percent of total cost. Also after approval, support to MoES to produce
the ECD Policy was added to Component no. 3, without DCA amendment.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
QERs were not part of the process at the time of the Project preparation. However, a QAG-type
assessment was conducted in 1997 as background for the Regional Operations Committee (ROC) decision
meeting. Though it did not rate the quality at entry explicitly, the assessement noted that "the Project
proposal is well-thought, technically sound and clearly presented", and pointed out "the ambitious
implementation pace, outcome and expectations reflected in the proposal".

In 2000, a QAG report rated the conceptual and technical design of the Project Satisfactory as part of its
Quality of Supervision Assessment.

This ICR rates Quality at Entry Moderately Satisfactory.

In agreement with the two assessments above, the ICR-team notes the following innovative issues at design:

The Project adopted several innovative approaches, including the use of the log frame in the PAD, and a
state of the art Monitoring & Evaluation plan. It was also the first project to be negotiated via
videoconference in Uganda itself, a practice that has subsequently been adopted by many other projects.
Specifically:

Alignment with the development goals Uganda was pursuing at the time. The Project was planned to
contribute to the goals of: (i) the Ugandan National Plan for Action for Children (UNPAC) and the



                                                      - 4 -

National Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP), developed in the mid-1990s, which stressed the
importance of child health and education; (ii) Universal Primary Education (UPE), introduced in 1997,
through improved school readiness; (iii) the Uganda Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, 1997), which
emphasized poverty reduction through economic growth, improved social services, and interventions in the
North, all of which were addressed in the Project; and (iv) the introduction of a comprehensive
decentralization process to strengthen the subnational levels of government, with the ultimate aim of
bringing service delivery to communities and households.

Integrated, Multisectoral approach. The Project embraced a broad range of very important, relevant
aspects of nutrition and ECD. It supported specific policies that had been enacted in the relevant sectors of
health, nutrition, gender, community development, agriculture and food security, justice and governance,
and was one of the most prominent interventions in the national drive for the eradication of poverty among
communities. As such, the Project was included in the Strategic Areas of the Public Investment Program.
The integrated approach aimed to maximize impact on young children's welfare, while its strategic
positioning was intended to ensure sustainability

Inclusive and participatory preparation process. The Project was amongst the first IDA projects to
have a preparation Task Force comprising representatives from government, UN agencies, and local as
well as international NGOs. The Project designed followed the integrated ECD model advocated by
UNICEF, and the spirit of the process was participatory.

Public Private Partnership. Building capacity for NECDP issues by contracting with National Technical
Assistance (NTA) at the regional level and with Non-Governmental Organizations (NGO)/Community
Based Organizations (CBO) at the district and sub-county government levels was a highly innovative
approach.

The Project was one of the first in the region to take a Community-Driven Development (CDD)
approach that focused on rural areas. Based on the Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) of 1995,
which showed high poverty rates and greater vulnerability to child malnutrition in rural regions, the initial
plan was to implement the Project in these areas, and this general targeting mechanism was followed.
However, the design reflected limited community targeting mechanisms. The selected rural communities
went through a participatory planning process to determine which needs would be targeted by the available
community grants. Resources were also set aside to evaluate the process. As a "best practice" example, the
Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) training manuals developed for this Project were later used for other
CDD projects.

The ICR team notes that the QAG panel rated the quality at entry (1) before the main Project activities
were implemented, and (2) without the benefit of a field-based assessment that tested the workability of the
multi-sectoral design given both Uganda's existing institutional framework and its limited capacity for
implementation. This led to the QAG panel's underestimation of the negative impact the expansion of the
Project's scope and coverage during preparation would have on the Project's intended achievements,
considering that no financial and/or technical adjustment was made to offset the coverage expansion.
Bearing this in mind, the ICR team notes that the following issues were not adequately addressed at entry:

Ambitious PDO and indicators. Though theoretically very sound, the second and third parts of the PDO,
on improved cognitive development, and improved primary school entry and progression to the second
grade did not factor in the necessary time for the Project to achieve such results. Even with flawless
implementation, and on a pilot rather than full scale, the Project period was too short to see the effects of
integrated ECD (GMP, ECE, and other Project activities) on children's school readiness. Cognitive


                                                     - 5 -

development in particular would take even longer to manifest than higher school entry and retention.

Underestimation of risks. The two most critical risks - inadequate future budgetary allocations at the
district level, and ambitious pace, outcome and expectations - were identified but rated low to moderate at
appraisal. Considering that a) though the Decentralization Law was passed in 1993, there was very little
knowledge of its impact on the flow of funds to the districts, and b) the number of Project districts had
doubled, this was not a realistic risk assessment.

Short Project implementation period. Given the ambitious design of the Project, and a standard five-year
project period, some of the most time consuming activities to prepare for grass roots implementation (e.g.
procurement of NGOs), should have taken place before effectiveness. Spending almost half of the life of
the Project setting up an effective implementation structure made it impossible for sustainable behavioral
changes to take place, or for community grants to evolve from earnings-in-kind to earnings-in-cash, and
then to engender local savings and lending establishments.

Consequently, the quality at entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Progress towards the Project Development Objective is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory. This rating is
largely based on evidence of positive impact in a set of evaluation pieces conducted in 2003, and on the
subsequent disruption of Project implementation caused by the shortage of funds detected in mid-2003.

The last ISR rated the PDO Moderately Satisfactory, At the time the ISR was drafted and archived
(April/May 2005), the Project was to be extended until December 2005, and the PDO rating reflected the
incremental impact of the additional six months of implementation.

The PDO and indicators were modified during negotiations, though the PAD was not updated to reflect the
revised DCA. The ICR team decided to base the evaluation on the PDO and indicators in the negotiated
document, the DCA, rather than on the PAD. Briefly, it was agreed that (i) focusing on younger children
(under 3 instead of under 6) would yield the most immediate and greatest results in terms of underweight
interventions; (ii) it would be better to concentrate on cognitive development and omit the psychosocial
aspect; and (iii) besides progression to the second primary grade, an increase in enrollment of six years olds
in P1 would also be evaluated. The DCA indicators are as follows (see also Annex 1):

(i) Prevalence of underweight (%<-2sd weight for age) in children less than three years old. Target:
reduction by one-third of baseline levels in the Project areas by the end of the Project.

(ii) Improved children's cognitive development. No target.

(iii) Increased entry of 6 years olds in P1, and increased progression to P2. No target

The evaluation instruments were: a Longitudinal study based on a baseline survey and re-survey, a
Community Participatory Evaluation, a Communication Strategy Evaluation, and Anthropometry
(underweight) data collected from a cohort of children 0-72 months. IDA and the Borrower had to collect
and use the Project data between June and September of 2003, at the peak time of Project implementation,
because of pressure from bad publicity caused by an international NGO. The finalization of the studies,
and their dissemination further accelerated when the government gave indications that it might close the


                                                       - 6 -

Project in December 2003 as a result of the shortage of funds (the causes of the shortage are discussed in
detail in sections 5 and 7). At the time the Project closing date was June 2004.

On the first indicator, the anthropometry cohort data show that from July 2002 to July 2003 the percentage
of children within two standard deviations below the norm was reduced from 24.4 percent to 17.1 percent
in the 0 to 36 month olds. This result, which corresponds to a 29.9 percent reduction, almost met the end of
project target and indicated a clear positive trend towards eliminating malnutrition. The older children in
the cohort, 37-72 months, experienced a less dramatic improvement in their nutritional status, a 14.8
percent reduction in the number of underweight cases ­ a result that further supports the existing evidence
of highest rates of returns from focusing on the younger children.

An additional source of data on malnutrition is available that includes control groups (the Longitudinal
Study, Eastern Region, Baseline: January-March, 2000; Re-survey: January-March 2003). The children,
0-72 months old, were grouped into "receiving all Project services plus deworming" (group A), "Project,
but no deworming" (group B), and "no Project, no deworming.nothing" (group C). The proportion of
children who were wasted declined from 4% to 2% in group A, from 4.6% to 3.0% in group B, but there
was no change in the control group. Stunting declined by 2.6% in group A, 4.9% in group B, but only
1.7% in the control group.

Surprisingly, and in contrast with the findings from the anthropometry cohort, the study did not show a
clear trend in underweight for age in the aggregate data by age. The percentage of underweight children
increased in the Project group that had received all the program services, including de-worming children
(+2.4 percent), whereas it decreased marginally (-0.2 percent) in the group that had received program
activities but no de-worming. Finally, the underweight percentage decreased (-1.0 percent) in the control
group, which resulted in a combined 0.4 percentage increase. However, when the data were disaggregated
by age group, it was found that infants under 12 months of age showed a significant improvement relative
to the same age group in the control group. In particular, younger children seemed to benefit most from
deworming, with the treated children's weight growing 10 percent more than the average monthly gain of
non treated children. The limitations of this study are that it covered the Eastern region only and the timing
did not coincide as well with the project implementation as originally planned.

On the second indicator, as part of the Longitudinal Study in 2003, the British Abilities Scale and Verbal
Fluency Test measured children's cognitive development in the project areas. In the test on overall cognitive
skills and related school performance, children in Project areas 50.3 percent mean score showed improved
performance compared to a 48.9 percent mean score in non-Project areas. As explained in the section 3.5,
on Quality at Entry, it was highly unlikely to see progress in an indicator that moves very slowly, especially
if it is measured before the completion of the Project.
Also noted in section 3.5 is the fact that the third and fourth indicators, on primary enrolment and retention,
are not appropriate to capture the effects of the Project because the implementation period is too short.
Differently from the case of cognitive development, even if it had been the right indicator, no baseline and
control groups were established.
A second best alternative would be to use data from the MoES's Education Management Information
System for the project subcounties. Though the ICR team was informed that such data exist, its attempts
to obtain them were unsuccessful.

Considering that better nutrition and weight gain in the youngest children is the first step toward better
school readiness and cognitive development in the older children, and how fast the outcome was achieved,
the results from the evaluations in 2003 are rated Highly Satisfactory.




                                                       - 7 -

The abrupt cessation of community grant disbursement in June 2003 (see sections 5 and 7 for details)
nearly brought Project implementation to a halt. This included disruption in collecting cohort data. The
latest data from the anthropometric cohort (May-June 2005) were irregular, incomplete, and generally
unreliable. Regional information on moderate underweight (-2SD) children 0 to 36 months old is: Central
(20.9 percent), Eastern (22.9 percent), Northern (25.3 percent), and Western (20.4 percent), and for all
Project areas (21.6 percent). All regions except the Northern have a lower underweight prevalence
compared to the baseline. However, none met the Project target.

While there is anedoctal evidence on the effects of the implementation disruptions started in 2003 on the
achievement of the PDO, the ICR team could not quantify them as there were no funds left in the Project to
conduct a thorough end of project evaluation. Under normal circumstances this would warrant a rating of
Unsatisfactory, but the ICR team feels that the clearly positive impact the Project had in 2003 justifies a
rating of Moderately Unsatisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The rating of output achievement, or Implementation Progress (IP) to use the ISR terminology, is
Satisfactory. The results are summarized in the second table of Annex 2, and the overall rating is a
weighted average which takes into account the resource allocation across components and subcomponents
as well as their relative importance. This rating is apparently inconsistent with the assessment of the PDO
(Moderately Unsatisfactory). However, when timing is of the essence, as in the case of services for
pregnant mothers and young children, implementation that takes place too late and in a disjoint manner can
have little bearing on the impact of the interventions in general, and certainly if the project closes
immediately after the inputs have reached the beneficiaries. This explains the disconnect between PDO and
IP rating in the Project.

In the last ISR the IP rating remained unchanged at Moderately Unsatisfactory. The funds to complete the
Project had just been released to the districts, and there was no evidence of their having reached the
communities (differently from the PDO, the IP rating cannot be forward looking).

Component 1: Integrated Community Child Care Package:
Progress on this component is rated as Satisfactory. The indicators measuring this component's
achievements fall into three main groups: parental education, district and community capacity building, and
savings and credit group formation.

Subcomponent one: parental education. This subcomponent is rated Satisfactory. The initial 12 and
subsequent 25 Project districts were selected based on infant and under-five mortality rates, the prevalence
of malnutrition, and severe and moderate stunting based on DHS 1995 data. The Project reached parents
in the Project areas through community-based GMP activities carried out by Child Care Workers (CCWs),
"Child Days", subcounty ECD Resource Centers (RCs) outreach, radio spots, printed material, and a pilot
on radio listening clubs. These last three inputs will be discussed as part of the Communication Strategy
for behavioral change in Component 3.

4,591 communities were reached by the Project out of a target of 2,500; before the implementation halt, on
average 326,000 children were weighed monthly, or about 90% of the target population; 1,709 Child Days
were conducted out of a target of 2,000; 48 out of 54 RCs were completed. By midterm the percentage of
mothers adopting appropriate childcare practices had increased by 24 percent (target: 25 percent), but there
are no end-of-project data.

Data from the Longitudinal Study and a Participatory Evaluation suggest that parents associated the


                                                       - 8 -

Project with increased awareness of the benefits of exclusive breastfeeding, nutritious weaning foods, and
good hygiene and sanitation practices. Parental awareness of child health and stimulation was also
substantive, whereas children's rights awareness was very low. A significant difference was found between
the Project and control group for 5 out of 15 statements on attitudes towards schooling and education,
parental role and parent-child interaction. Similar results appeared in 7 out of 14 statements on caregivers'
interaction with children. Exclusive breastfeeding until infants reached six months old had increased by 14
percent in the Project areas (compared to a 1.1 percent increase in non-Project areas) and rose overall from
44.1 percent to 58 percent. The percentage of children breastfed until 18 months old (an official Project
recommendation) decreased in all areas, but less in the Project areas (a decrease of 6.2 percent compared to
16.3 percent in non-Project areas). The possession of growth monitoring cards in Project areas grew by
72.4 percent compared to 35.8 percent in the control areas. It was also found that Vitamin A
supplementation increased 13.6 percent in Project areas compared to a 17.1 percent decrease in non-Project
areas. There are no data (and no target) on the number of malnourished children referred to health facilities.


These behavioral changes were achieved after only 18 months of Project implementation, and indicate the
great potential for reaching the PDO had Project implementation continued as planned. Child Days were
well received and appreciated in the communities because they offer an integrated package of key
interventions for children, including Vitamin A supplementation, de-worming, routine and catch up
immunization, and promotion of family care practices. Owing to their popularity and demonstrated
usefulness, MoH mainstreamed Child Days before the Project closed.

The concept of ECD RCs was new in Uganda, and the sub-counties were overwhelmed by the work
involved in completely utilizing and maintaining the facilities. Compared to sub-county government's
resources, RCs constitute a large investment that requires a high level of funding to maintain. Construction
and completion of the structures were delayed, which shortened the Project funding period for the
sub-counties to set up the RCs and take full advantage of using them. The ICR mission found evidence that
sub-counties overall are either not utilizing the structures, or utilizing them for purposes other than ECD,
and no examples of proper utilization.

The second subcomponent addressed the district and community capacity building and empowerment for
childcare, and stakeholder sensitization. It is rated Satisfactory.

Capacity building was designed as a cascade training. The NTAs provided training and general capacity
building to the Project districts and the implementing NGOs on GMP, participatory planning,
micro-enterprises development, psychosocial and cognitive development, and community health. The NGOs
were in charge of passing on knowledge and capacity to the CBOs which, in turn, would train the CCWs.
A total of 9,182 CCWs (target number: 5,000), of which half were women, received 10 days of initial
training. Refreshers were provided on the basis of continuous assessments carried out as part of the
implementation support and supervision routines.

The third subcomponent - savings and credit group formation, and income-generating activities is rated
Unsatisfactory. The indicator for measuring this was "Increase in amount in Uganda shillings of all
savings groups formed by 50% at midterm and 100% at final year. Although the Longitudinal Study cited
substantial progress in creating savings groups in Project areas (16.5 percent compared to only 6.5 percent
in non-Project areas), the ICR team could neither find data on the amounts being saved, nor conclude
definitively that the savings groups were a direct result of the Project. The authors were told, in fact, that
the Project dropped this activity in the early phase of the implementation, because it found that (i) similar
activities were being carried out under several rural development schemes; and (ii) the logical sequence was


                                                      - 9 -

for this subcomponent to take place after the full implementation of community grants. The delays in the
latter partly prevented the subcomponent from being implemented.

Component 2: Community Support Grant and Innovation Grant for Child Development:
Progress on this component is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

The first subcomponent, Community Support Grants (from now on Community Action Plans, CAPs), is
rated Highly Satisfactory on the basis of the indicator chosen - No. of CAPs awarded. CAPs were
awarded and fully disbursed to 4,591 communities, thus greatly surpassing the target of 2,500. A large
part of the funds reached the communities only at the end of the Project, preventing the completion of the
subproject cycle before Project closure, and therefore denying the possibility of an end of project impact
evaluation of this important subcomponent. This, however, has no bearing at the output level assessment,
and is reflected instead in the PDO rating.

The participatory planning process through which the grants were distributed was unique for the region at
the time. The level of beneficiary satisfaction with the process was high. The majority of beneficiaries
viewed the decision-making process involved in identifying and appraising the CAPs as a participatory one,
but involvement by women and the poorest households in the communities was lower than during
implementation. The latest Poverty Assessment (2005) found that the gap between rich and poor has
increased in the last 10 years, a trend that heightens the need to target the poorest areas and households in
the country. The need to integrate marginalized community households was a point that was repeated
during supervision missions, but a systematic approach to do so was not arrived at.

The communities were required to contribute 25 percent of the CAPs cost. According to the participatory
evaluation, in most cases, the entire community agreed to the contribution amount and form. The 25
percent contribution level was overshot in many communities and took four forms: labor, local materials,
land, and cash. The Project developed and funded a total of 4,591 CAPs (target number: 2,500), as shown
in Table 1 below.

Table 1. Type of Community Action Plans funded by NECDP by 2005 by region

 Region                                    Type
                          ECE                       Food Security
                    No.             %             No.               %
 Northern           195           23.6            630              76.4
 Central            189           12.6           1,310             87.4
 Eastern            264           23.6            853              76.4
 Western            534           46.4            617              53.6
 Total             1,182          25.7           3,410             74.3

The ECE centers were the first systematic initiative in rural areas to meet the needs of preschool children.

The second subcomponent, Innovation Grants, is rated Unsatisfactory. This subcomponent was supposed
to take place after completion of a full subproject cycle for the community grants. The delays in the latter
meant that the innovation grants never made it to the implementation stage.

Component 3: National Level Program Support: Progress on this component is rated Highly Satisfactory.
This component supported: (1) micronutrient programs (through MoH), (2) national-level ECE/ECD
activities (through MoES/NCDC), (3) advocacy and sensitization for children's rights (through



                                                     - 10 -

MoGLSD/NCC), (4) national communications strategy for behavioral change, and (5) a comprehensive
monitoring and evaluation plan. All the targets were reached (with one exception, discussed below) and
sometimes surpassed, like in the case of the number of training sessions on Child Rights based on the Child
Rights Statute sponsored by the Project.

The first subcomponent aimed at delivering training sessions on micronutrient deficiency control to health
workers. The total number of training session conducted was 9. As there was no target, this
subcomponent is rated Highly Satisfactory.

The second subcomponent was intended to produce an ECE Learning Framework, develop training
manuals and train ECE teachers. After approval, a fourth deliverable was added, the ECD Policy.
Training of ECE teachers fell slightly short of the target (3,800). A total of 3,650 caregivers were trained
using an innovative, non academic Learning Framework developed by the Project. The ICR team was
informed that the one-off, 10 day training was found to be insufficient, and that continuous training and
materials were needed to ensure better understanding of the Child Caregiver Manual and to strengthen the
emphasis on age-appropriate approaches. Albeit with a few years of delay, the ECD Policy was finalized,
and approved by the Ugandan Cabinet. This subcomponent is rated Satisfactory.

The third subcomponent supported the production of the Child's Rights Statute and training sessions,
mainly for Probation Officers. The delivery of the Statute was successful, and a simplified version was
translated into four vernacular languages. 94 training sessions were conducted out of a target of 90, and
several sensitization sessions were held for Police Officers dealing with children. This subcomponent is
therefore rated Highly Satisfactory.

As part of the fourth subcomponent the Project developed a communication strategy based on three
formative research studies: complementary feeding, de-worming, and positive and negative caring practices.
Communication materials were produced in six languages, and were channelled through nationwide
campaigns via radio spots, radio listening clubs, booklets, posters, and newspaper inserts. The Project also
tested interesting new approaches like road shows and story telling contests in which communities were
encouraged to relate anecdotes about their traditional child well-being practices. Radio listening clubs were
piloted in 25 communities, with some success, but were never scaled up due to lack of funding. To
measure the strategy's effectiveness, communication activities were evaluated in six iterations between
2001 and 2003 in four randomly selected districts. The main findings were that (1) radio is the most
cost-effective medium, and (2) about 70 percent of the respondents had heard of the Project and 60 percent
had seen the logo.

All the evaluations in the M&E pipeline were satisfactorily delivered and provide a formidable amount of
knowledge on community based integrated ECD. The anthropometric cohort was an ambitious task that
was initially difficult and time consuming to make operational. Collecting monitoring data could have been
simplified by collecting the last two months' worth of data on inadequate growth instead of the more
complicated data on the prevalence of malnutrition under two standard deviations (see Lessons Learnt).

Component 4: the National Household Survey of 1999/2000: This component was not in the original
Project plan. It consisted of financial support to the Uganda Bureau of Statistics (UBOS) for the National
Household Survey of 1999/2000 which was successfully delivered according to the timetable.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
A cost-benefit analysis conducted at the Project's design stage indicated NPV US$23.6 million, and ERR
at 18.5 percent, indicating that the Project was strongly justified on equity grounds since ECD programs



                                                     - 11 -

are more likely to benefit the poorest children. The calculated benefits included (1) benefits to children in
terms of incremental lifetime earnings, improved primary school performance measured by lower drop-out
and grade repetition, which, in turn, contribute to financial savings for parents, and (2) benefits to parents
in terms of incremental earnings as a result of income-generating activities. This analysis received
prominence to motivate the government to make the investment. However, having concluded that (i) the
number of established ECD services are lower than anticipated, (ii) income-generating activities were not
fully implemented, and (iii) no reliable data on school enrollment and progression can be attributed to the
Project, a repeated analysis would not have yielded definitive results.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the Project has been Substantial.

Policy Reform: The Project's dialogue and support for developing the National Food Security and
Nutrition Policy and the National ECD Policy are commendable project outputs. Nutrition as a field has
tended to fall between the established fields of food distribution and health services, and as such it has
never achieved the prominence it deserves. The Project helped bring to the fore Nutrition as intrinsic to
growth and human development and that effective progress was the result of multisectoral, complementary
interventions.

Institutional and Technical: NTA involvement in the Project has led to improved technical capacity in
districts, subcounties, and communities for ECD and nutrition. The NGOs and CBOs were tasked with
developing a coherent strategy to improve the health, nutrition, psychosocial and cognitive status of
children in Ugandan subcounties. The CBOs were responsible for developing grassroots capacity by
selecting and training CCWs who, in turn, implemented some of the Project activities. These capacities, in
place in many districts, are an asset to projects currently being implemented for local governments, such as
the Bank-assisted Local Government Development Program (LGDP) II and NUSAF. The broad network of
CBOs that were organized and trained to handle micro-enterprise initiatives are prepared for the next
generation of program planning, which will come from concrete links to poverty alleviation programs. This
can be done by developing community business plans with the 4,500 CAPs that were initiated under
NECDP, 75 percent of which address household food security needs.

Additional institutional impact was achieved by developing the ECE Teachers' Training curricula and ECE
Learning Framework, which is a major departure from the academic approach to pre-schooling and has
demonstrated the need to reform the primary school framework as well.

The MoH's acknowledgment to make preventive healthcare services more accessible for the beneficiaries
during "Child Days" is a conceptual change that could affect other services it provides. The dialogue on
ECE teacher service standards was ongoing at Project closure, but no solution had been found. Overall, the
coordination of actions for women and child health and nutrition between the MoH and MoFPED remains
weak.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The continuing insurgency in the North of Uganda made the work environment for government agencies
and the assigned NTA and NGOs dangerous and inaccessible. The exchange rate loss, which led to a US$
1.4 million decrease in the credit value, was another factor beyond government control.


                                                      - 12 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The series of delays and decisions which ultimately led to the funding crisis, and an inadequate response to
it (see 3.1), were under the government's control. Table 2 below summarizes the main events referred to.

Table 2: Major Delays, and Decisions which Contributed to the Funding Crisis
Event/Decision                                            Consequence
No. of Project districts doubled during preparation,      Serious implementation delays due to overburdened
without change in design or IDA envelope                  local capacity (see section 5.3)
Lengthy Parliamentary approval of the Credit (August Effectiveness delayed by four months
1998)
Change of Implementing Agency in Parliament               Insufficient institutional ownership
DCA amended to reallocate Credit funds to UBOS for        US$ 1.2 million that was not factored in at appraisal
the National Household Survey, without restructuring
(November 1998)
The number of LC1s went from 2,500 to 4,500 in the        The combined cost was US$ 2.0 million, also not
100 Project subcounties                                   appraised
At the Mid Term Review (April 2002), 9 more
districts were added for full implementation
arrangements and facilities
Supplemental Credit could be obtained to offset the       Implementation came to halt. Disbursement of CAPs
exchange rate loss (US$ 1.4 million), but government      stopped abruptly with considerable distress to the
chose not to take the opportunity (June to December       communities, and disruption of the GMP activities
2003)                                                     which had proved effective in reversing the
                                                          malnutrition trend
Very lengthy process to approve a transfer from the      It took 22 months (from May 2003 to March 2005)
LGDP II Credit to the Project for its completion, and tofor implementation to resume and the communities
release the funds to the districts (January 2004 to      to be able to access their share.
March 2005)
The Project was not exempted from the pilot Integrated Once MoFPED settled the arrears in counterpart
Financial Management System (IFMS) in MoH                 funds with the Project, the funds flowed extremely
(November 2004 to June 2005)                              slowly, and part of them were used for non-Project
                                                          related activities
Four districts received less than their share of LGDP II Some subcounty ECD Resource Centers and CAPs
funds (March to June 2005)                               could not be completed (more precise information
                                                         awaited in the Borrower's completion report)

Stretching the IDA envelope so much meant that when the exchange rate loss occurred, there was no means
to cushion it. This will be discussed more in detail in sections 7.4 and 7.5 (Borrower Performance).

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Most of the implementation delays could be attributed to the overburdened capacity caused by the
enormous increase in the Project's coverage from identification to negotiations in the absence of a
corresponding revision of the Project design and/or intended achievements ­ a factor beyond the IA's
control. However, the ICR team decided to list the delays in this section, because the IA was the party
officially responsible for them. Table 3 below summarizes the main occurrences/

Table 3: Implementation Delays


                                                    - 13 -

Delay                                                       Consequence
Delay in development of accounting and                      Bank suspended disbursement for six
disbursement manual.                                        months, from January to June 1999
Delay due to District NGOs not being able to provide July-December 1999
Bank Guarantee.
Insufficient counterpart funding and accounting            Project implementation was delayed,
difficulties at district level delayed the transition from December 1999 to June 2000
SOE based to PMR based disbursement.
Even after the transition was completed, insufficient      In general, these flow of funds issues
counterpart funding and accounting difficulties at         resulted in the preparation phase being
district level were an issue until the end of the Project stretched unduly, and Project activities did
                                                           not start on the ground until the end of
                                                           2000
Cost overruns in construction of subcounty ECD             US$ 2.0 million, by definition not
Resource Centers                                           appraised

Section 7.5 discusses these issues and their consequences on the achievement of the PDO.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Three budget reallocations were applied for and approved in November 1998, April 2002 and November
2004. The total Project cost of the six-and-one-half year program was US$ 40.6 million of which US$
35.14 million was financed by IDA (US$ 32.6 million and US$ 2.56 million from the Project and LGDP II
respectively). US$ 5.46 million was the overall counterpart contribution (Central Government : US$ 2
million; district governments: 1.86 million; and communities: US$ 1.6 million).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The chance to achieve sustainability is Unlikely. The rating is mainly based on the fact that there is no
clear indication that adequate financing is being planned to sustain the Project activities (see subsection
6.2). While the institutional impact of the Project, as described in 4.5, is substantial, it does not constitute
a sufficient condition without continuing financial support until the desired behavioural changes have taken
place at the household level      The Project's early exit from the communities and districts (for two years)
can be viewed, with some modifications (i.e., a short implementation period and unprepared exit), as a
pre-test for the likelihood of sustainability. In addition to the financing aspect, the prospects for
sustainability are assessed based on the following:

"Child Days" are integrated as a program in the MoH's preventive community health, and are likely to be
sustained countrywide. However, community-based GMP will likely not be sustained unless it is
re-strategized and integrated into primary healthcare services. The demand from households was not strong
enough and no initiatives to voluntarily reactivate GMP were observed when the community grants finally
reached the communities in early 2005. The extent to which CCWs are absorbed in and sustained by the
healthcare system is limited. Their integration into the Village Health Team (VHT) approach or other
convergent programs would require additional training and supervision.

There is evidence that the CAPs fostered innovation and proactivity at the community level, pointing to the
likely sustainability of the intervention. Although CAPs benefits appeared highest in communities with
ECE centers, an interesting variety of programs arose from the food security CAPs, including livestock
improvements through cross-breeding, cooperative farming, multi-cropping, and community granaries. The


                                                        - 14 -

CAPs that established fish ponds developed new technical skills in some subcounties. During the two years
of implementation suspension, some of the communities that had received full funding for their food
security CAP decided to use their own resources to complement it with an ECE center. This phenomenon
was particularly apparent in the Western region after they saw how ECE benefited neighboring
communities. Local government will need to follow through with the CDD approach. Technical as well as
budgetary support should be in place to prepare concrete business plans for the food security CAPs and
caregiver training to the ECE CAPS. Since the grants were just recently distributed, a quick response
would increase the likelihood of Project sustainability. The districts visited in the ICR mission did not
mention LGDP II as a strategy for sustainability. It appears that this source of funding for community
activities must be actively promoted for districts and communities to perceive it as a future basis for
NECDP activities.

The sustainability of ECD RCs is unlikely. The centers were only recently completed and handed over to
the subcounty administration. The RC's intended purpose and their actual use diverge and the subcounties
have difficulty delivering funding to maintain the buildings. If no targeted follow-up of NECDP is
approved and its activities have an opportunity to continue under the Local Government Management and
Service Delivery Program (LGMSDP), the usefulness of RCs as subcounty administrative facilities for
child and family development should be reassessed from an institutional and logistical standpoint.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The immediate consequence of the shortage of funds and the uncertainty about the Project closing date was
that the contracts for the NGO/CBOs could not be renewed and the Project had to be handed over to the
districts nearly two years earlier than anticipated. However, the PCO communicated officially with the
local government to provide detailed guidelines on mapping the Project's implementation structure into the
local government structure.

The first draft of a concept note for the financial support for future ECD activities was developed in 2004
for a follow-up project, but it is no longer being considered. The current LGDP II will be closed during
2006, and preparations for LGMSDP have been initiated. This project's design will continue to support the
decentralization process to make funding available for the districts. A broad menu of eligible funding
options will be open to communities, which could include NECDP-related activities. The continued
financial support of NECDP activities remains uncertain at ICR time. The prospects would improve greatly
if the PEAP reflected more clearly the role of NECD in breaking the intergenerational poverty trap (as
argued in the World Development Report of 2005), and reducing malnutrition were included in the Uganda
PRSC results matrix.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank lending performance was Moderately Satisfactory. As explained under Quality at Entry, the
Bank delivered a Project design that was analytically sound, aligned with the PEAP and the CAS, and
based on extensive consultations with both civil society and other development partners with a stake in
ECD, overall a highly satisfactory performance. However, Bank performance was below standard in
allowing the planned district coverage of the Project to double within the same IDA allocation and without
a restructuring to match either of the interventions or of the targets. The Project went from being a pilot to
large scale, purporting to achieve the same results, and there is no evidence in the Project's records of any
attempt on the part of the Bank to seek remedial action. Hence the MS rating.

7.2 Supervision:



                                                     - 15 -

The Bank supervision performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The inputs that went into
supervision were satisfactory both technically and financially, the team's proactivity in identifying and
addressing the implementation issues is laudable, and the Bank tried to resist the Borrower's pressure to
keep expanding the Project's coverage. However, when it became apparent that its efforts to contain the
expansion of the Project's coverage were unsuccessful, the Bank did not insist on a formal restructuring to
accommodate the expansion.

Under normal circumstances the Bank's decision to make the Project the first LACI-compliant would have
been commendable. Nevertheless, given the Project history, it was not timed strategically as it taxed an
already overburdened implementation capacity, causing cash flow problems during the lengthy process of
converting from the SOE based disbursement system to the LACI, PMR based system.

Due to staff turnover the recommendations agreed upon during the ROC discussion were not adhered to.
The major one of these was that the Project be appraised and completed as a first phase of a larger national
program (Phase II) that would be approved as a follow-up IDA operation with shorter credit processing
requirements. Six years later, when the shortage of funds was uncovered, the Bank agreed with the
Borrower's decision to close the Project before completion of the key activities. Later on the Bank
reconsidered its position and sought to avoid a premature closure of the Project. Once a decision was made
to complete the Project, the Bank opted not to initiate a dialogue with the Borrower for a second phase of
the Project.

Unfortunately the Bank's response to the funding problem was slow, and the funds were disbursed to the
districts in March, 2005. One more extension of six months (from June to December, 2005) would have
probably enabled the orderly completion of the activities, but the Bank decided not to grant the requested
extension.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall performance of the Bank is Moderately Unsatisfactory. Although the Bank's efforts to limit the
Project's coverage were unsuccessful during preparation, it had the opportunity to advocate for
restructuring during implementation and did not take it. This, and the delay in addressing the funding issue,
are the main factors in determining the overall rating. To some extent, this was offset by the high quality of
technical inputs at all stages of the Project's cycle.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower performance at preparation is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. Though the technical
inputs were satisfactory, the Borrower failed to create an environment conducive to the success of such an
innovative and complex Project.

The root causes of this were: (i) The Borrower's pressure to maximize the Project's coverage, which
resulted in 25 Project districts at appraisal, as opposed to the 12 proposed at identification, without
additional technical and/or financial provisions; (ii) The change in IA from the MoFPED to the MoH
during Parliamentary approval of the Credit; and (iii) The inclusion of a fourth component, a National
Household Survey, which decreased the funds available for nutrition and early childhood activities by
US$1.2 million.

The first and third points mentioned earlier stretched the original IDA envelope to the limit by exhausting
all the Unallocated funds and reducing the total allocation for community grants. As the Unallocated funds
were intended for physical and price contingencies, this meant that the exchange rate loss of US$ 1.4



                                                      - 16 -

million that was detected in May 2003 could not be cushioned.

As to the second point, MoH had not figured prominently in the Project design process, and the
consequences on ownership of its multisectoral and preventive nature was a source of risk throughout
implementation. The ownership issue became the most significant factor when it came to finding a solution
for the funding shortfall. The MoH's immediate reaction to the shortage of funds was to close the Project
and start afresh with a second phase whose design they could guide. After a decision was made not to close
the Project, MoH started owning the Project, and advocated for a Supplemental Credit, for which the
Borrower was eligible. However, MoFPED decided that a Supplemental Credit was not appropriate for
Uganda's macroeconomic framework, and the Bank did not receive a request. Finally, after the Bank
suggested to use part of the IDA Credit for LGDP II instead, it took a long time for MoFPED to develop
ownership of the Project and negotiate with the Ministry of Local Government a prompt transfer of LGDP
II funds to the districts for the completion of the Project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government implementation performance is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.

Over and above the issues discussed in the preceding section, the Project took a long time to commence
implementation due to severe flow of funds problems (see section 5.3 for a list of individual issues), most
of which were caused by insufficient counterpart funding and accounting difficulties at district level. In the
absence of a mitigation measure in the Project design, the government could have been more proactive in
seeking alternative sources of funds which the districts could tap. Central government counterpart funds
were inadequate throughout the Project, though MoFPED settled the arrears in full before the Project
closed.

The inadequate accounting capacity at district level could have been dealt with more effectively had
implementation been staggered in practice. The fact that the Project ended up being implemented in a "big
bang" manner also resulted in a substantial lag between development and implementation of the CAPs,
which had a negative impact on the motivation of the beneficiaries. Considerable procurement delays were
caused by the Borrower's decision to use SWIPCO as a procurement agency. Granting nine new districts
equal implementation status during the MTR further delayed implementation and drained the credit
allocation.

It took the Borrower nearly two years to agree on and operationalize the agreement for additional funds to
complete the Project. By then the Project had lost its ability to access central funding directly, because the
Borrower did not exempt it from the IFMS pilot in MoH which started in November of 2004. As the PCO
and the NTAs needed to use the funds to facilitate a speedy completion of the various decentralized
activities after a long absence from the field, the loss of financial autonomy made it impossible for the
Project to complete by the end of June, 2005 December. It also resulted in partial diversion of the
counterpart funds that the MoFPED released to the MoH's Accounts Department instead of transferring
them to the Project Account. Furthermore, out of the US$ 2.7 million IDA agreed to transfer from the
LGDP II Credit to the MoFPED to complete the Project, the MoFPED did not release to four districts
about US$ 230,000.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the MoH is rated Moderatly Satisfactory.

The negative impact of the institutional issues on the Borrower's side discussed in the preceding sections
occurred in parallel to a successful performance on the part of the MoH's Project team. The team,



                                                      - 17 -

consisting of a Project Coordination Office (PCO) and four NTAs, executed the Project admirably once the
Project activities and services finally started reaching the ground, at the end of 2000. This was
demonstrated by the results of the evaluation studies carried out in 2003 (discussed in section 4.1). The
advocacy efforts of the Project team had also proved very effective at the beginning of implementation,
when MPs and other local elected officials were being negative about the Project (it is on record that they
thought a Project with the word Nutrition in its title should be about distributing food).

Management of the Project was satisfactory from the beginning, and improved in the course of
implementation. Audit Reports have always been on time and unqualified, and the progress reports were
submitted to the Bank regularly. Financial management was the weakest point of the Project's team
performance, even though it should be given credit for how it handled the unplanned LACI conversion.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The key factors in the
rating are the Borrower's strategic lapses both during preparation and implementation, mainly stemming
from institutional constraints. This is partly offset by the achievements of the MoH's Project team.

8. Lessons Learned

Appropriate indicators for ECD operations. The Project taught us that: (i) a focus on the most
appropriate age range makes it more likely that Project objectives will be achieved. Narrowing the Project
age range to children between the ages of 0 and 2 years old might have made it easier to achieve
measurable impacts reducing the prevalence of malnutrition within the Project period. This age range has in
recent research been emphasized as the most promising window of opportunity for reducing malnutrition
among children; and (ii) improved cognitive development and school readiness cannot be properly evaluated
unless the implementation period allows for an entire 0-5 year cohort to benefit from the Project. This is
generally not possible in project mode which makes the indicators inappropriate. More suitable measures
would be, for instance, predictors of cognitive development for which children of preschool age can be
tested.

During implementation, it is important to pay continuous attention to the link between PDO and
outcome indicators, and between components and key performance indicators. Project subcomponents
were evolving during implementation, and one of the original outcome indicators turned out to be
inappropriate. This underscores the need for flexibility in the indicators against which Project outcomes are
measured. A project's rating, that is, whether it is considered a success or a failure, depends in part on
selected indicators and the degree to which they have been adjusted to match the experience of project
implementation. Since such changes are small enough to be accommodated by amending the DCA without
going through a formal restructuring, the benefits reaped at the final evaluation stage far outweigh the cost
of the process.

Nutrition as a field has tended to fall between the established fields of food distribution and health
services. Nutrition should be viewed as intrinsic to growth and human development and, therefore, be
prominent in national poverty eradication and development strategies, and their implementation plans. In
Uganda, this would mean its inclusion as one of the most important indicators in the PRSC results matrix
and in future operations in support of local service delivery.

Project design consultations are necessary both before and after Parliamentary approval. The
Ugandan Parliament made a substantial change to the Project design after negotiations, but before the
Project effectiveness, and this change affected the likelihood of reaching Project goals. In countries where



                                                      - 18 -

parliamentary approval of a foreign credit is required, it would be beneficial if Bank management
systematically assessed the impact of eventual changes as well as the time taken for approval, and factored
them into the number of months lost between Project negotiation and effectiveness. This would ensure that
Project objectives, components, and performance indicators are synchronized.

Large-scale participatory community planning can increase the impact and sustainability of the
grassroot development process. Involving a a large number of communities in a PRA exercise is very
challenging, but the Ugandan experience demonstrated that it is possible. There is reason to believe that the
implementation structure that delivered in Uganda could be adapted for replication in other developing
countries. This mechanism turned out to be very time consuming. In spite of this, the approach has been
given high ratings from all involved in implementation and should be encouraged.

Where communities are involved, it is crucial to complete activities once they commence. For two
years, Project communities were unsure if the Project would continue. This lowered Project credibility and
raised planning fatigue. Such uncertainty places community motivation in jeopardy. The original plan to
phase-in activities in different districts might have prevented the time gap between CAP planning and
implementation. Also, to regain project credibility in the communities, it was important to complete
community grants that were already planned.

It is possible for a lower-performing project to demonstrate important, innovative and sustainable
activities. The Project was able to establish the "Child Days" initiative in the Project areas. In turn, this
success resulted in institutionalization and integration of "Child Days" into the MoH's program on
community child health. In addition, specific food security CAPs (especially fishponds) in the Project
spurred the local government to integrate NECDP-related technical capacity building modules and micro
planning into other efforts in selected districts. It is important to isolate and asses the effects of specific
Project activities in order to capture all successful strategies no matter what the Project's overall
achievement. The Project also showed that the integrated, multisectoral approach implemented at the
community level has the potential to maximize the impact and the sustainability of the interventions on
young children.

When data are generated at the community level it is especially important to ensure that the
indicators/instruments used are simple. The M&E aspect of operations is in general the most difficult
(and yet crucial) part for implementers to understand and internalize at all levels. This is particularly true
in a fully decentralized setting where implementers are at all levels - from the beneficiaries themselves all
the way to policy makers - and they have to use data routinely collected at the community level to guide
their decision making. Specifically, it is extremely hard to put across the concept that the indicators for
evaluation in most cases are too sophisticated to be used for grassroot level monitoring. The classical
example is community based Growth Monitoring and Promotion to reduce malnutrition. Policy makers
would monitor the percentage of children moderately and severely malnourished using the classic standard
deviations method, but the same instrument is extremely difficult for community level promoters and child
caregivers to grasp. A simpler indicator, e.g. adequate vs. inadequate growth during the preceding two
months from the date of the GMP session, would significantly increase the effectiveness and efficiency of
the promoters training, and the likelihood that the data generated can be understood and used by all
community members.

Public-private partnerships have strengths and weaknesses. The Project's primary asset was
establishing an elaborate institutional mechanism of public-private partnerships. NGO contracting made
implementation possible even in difficult to reach districts (North). Funds from district CAO offices were



                                                        - 19 -

transferred to the communities through the district NGOs, and the subcounty CBOs, a process that enabled
a genuine grassroot approach to be implemented for the first time in Uganda. The selection of NGOs and
the fact that they held Project funds in large amounts initially met with resistance from some district
functionaries. Once the government officials understood the role of an outside force in giving the initial
"thrust" the necessary strength to reverse a long term trend (malnutrition in this case), this resistance was
overcome. In the end all parties involved recognized that this model generated a powerful transfer of
knowledge at several government levels.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Annex 8 contains the Borrower's Completion Report. The Borrower's comments on this ICR are
forthcoming.

(b) Cofinanciers:
There are no co-financiers in this project

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

A review of the Project log frame in the PAD shows 46 key performance indicators associated with a three-
pronged strategy, including a whole range of activities in health, education, rural development, and poverty
reduction, which means that the design was poorly focused to address stated development outcomes. The
complex design relied heavily upon a process-oriented approach.

Contributing to the design complexity was the fact that none of the Project documents contain a list of key
performance indicators representing outputs/inputs/processes in an orderly manner. This was solved by
introducing new terminology into the ISR ("intermediate outcome indicators" instead of "key performance
indicators," with a maximum of five). Table 1 deals with the problem by eliminating from each source any
indicator other than those linked to outputs. The indicators presented in Annex 1 are extracted from Table
1 after the elimination of duplicates.

Table 1. Synopsis of Output Indicators in different documents (The Indicators Used For Component
Performance Assessmentare in italics.Selection criteria: indicators that are not duplicates)


PAD                   DCA                       PMR              ISR                       OTHER
                                                                                           These are indicators that
                                                                                           would normally be
                                                                                           measuring inputs, e.g.,
                                                                                           the Learning Framework
                                                                                           is an input into
                                                                                           producing trained ECE
                                                                                           teachers. However, in
                                                                                           this Project they also
                                                                                           represent the outputs of
                                                                                           the National Level
                                                                                           Program Support
                                                                                           Component, and as such
                                                                                           are included in the
                                                                                           tables.



                                                     - 20 -

Increased budget      No. of children         No. of Child     No. and percentage of
allocation in         referred to health      Days conducted   children <3 yrs of age
project districts     facility for growth                      weighed monthly
toward programs       faltering as a ratio of                  (reporting period
for children by       the no. of                               average)
25% from current      malnourished children
levels                identified
                     No. of community grants 1) No. of         1) No. of food security  1) Development of
                     awarded by type          community grants community grants fully   ECE Learning
                                              awarded;         funded                   Framework; 2)
                                              2) No. of        2) No. of ECE            Development of ECD
                                              communities      community grants fully   Policy
                                              reached          funded
No. of ECE teachers No. of ECE teachers       No. of ECE
trained              trained                  teachers trained
                                              No. of training                           Development of
                                              sessions on Child                         Child's Rights statute
                                              Rights held                               translation
Increase in          Increased awareness of   No. of training  Percentage of mothers
percentage of        child development        sessions on      adopting appropriate
mothers practicing   needs and increased      Micronutrient    childcare practices
appropriate          parental involvement in Deficiency        (intro of solid food
childcare practices, child development        Control          after 6 mo old, washing
by 25% at midterm needs and activities                         hands prior feeding
and 50% at final                                               child, and a set of
year in Project                                                interactions with child,
districts                                                      e.g., play, give physical
                                                               care)
Increase in amount                            No. of
in Uganda shillings                           Community
of all savings                                Innovations
groups formed by                              Grants awarded
50% at midterm
and 100% at final
year
                                              No. of subcounty                          Development and
                                              Resource Centers                          implementation of
                                              constructed                               communication
                                                                                        strategy
                                                                                        M&E: 1) evaluation of
                                                                                        communication strategy;
                                                                                        2) longitudinal study; 3)
                                                                                        anthropometry cohort; 4)
                                                                                        participatory evaluation.




                                                     - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



   Outcome/impact indicators
       Development Objective                 Target              Latest information    Comments
Reduced prevalence of              Reduction by 1/3 of        Children 0-36 months: DHS 1995: 25%
underweight (%<-2SD weight for baseline                       17.1% (July 2003)         DHS 2000/01: 22.5%
age) for children under 3                                     Corresponds to            The anthropometric cohort data
In PAD: No. of children under 6    Baseline                   reduction of 29.9%.       collection came to a halt in 2003 due to
yeas old less than -2SD weight for Anthropometric cohort 20.7% (May 2005)               funding shortage. Some subcounties
age                                (all Project areas, July   21.6% (June 2005)         continued periodically but data from
                                   2002), children 0-36       Corresponds               2005 are unreliable. The Monitoring
                                   months: 24.4%              respectively to           Officer took samples from the cohort
                                                              reductions of 15% and and extrapolated. Data are only available
                                                              11.5%                     for 0-36 month's old children.
                                                                                        No control group.

                                                              Resurvey in eastern       Baseline and resurvey in
                                   Baseline in eastern        region 2003:              eastern region:
                                   region 2000:               Underweight <72           A=all services including
                                   Underweight<72             months                    de-worming
                                   months                     A: 23.7                   B=all services but no
                                   A: 21.3                    B: 23.7                   de-worming
                                   B: 23.9                    C: 22.6                   C= no services, control
                                   C: 23.6                                              group
Improved cognitive development     No target.                                          The British Abilities Scale
In PAD: Improved psychosocial      February 2000:            February 2003:            and Verbal Fluency Test
and cognitive development          Block building: 3.13      Block building: 5.1       was conducted in the
                                   Verbal. Exp.:11.61        Verbal. Exp.:11.96        eastern region in 2000 and
                                   Picture similarities:8.23 Picture similarities:8.66 2003 but not repeated at end
                                   Naming vocabulary:        Naming vocabulary:        line due to funding shortage
                                   11.25                     12.18                     and lack of activity.
                                   Pattern construction:0.8 Pattern construction:
                                                             1.45
                                   Early number              Early number
                                   concept:5.26              concept:5.68
                                   Recall of digits: 8.24    Recall of digits: 8.93
Percent of 6 year old children     No target                                           No data are available due to
entering primary school                                                                lack of disaggregated data
No. and percent of children                                                            at the subcounty level.
progressing to grade II                                                                It may take longer than the
In PAD: Increased primary school                                                       length of the project for
retention and improved primary                                                         ECD benefits to have an
school progression                                                                     impact on primary school
                                                                                       quality; the indicator should
                                                                                       have been revised.



Output indicators per               Target                   Latest information       Comments
Component
Integrated Child Care Package




                                                        - 22 -

 No. of communities reached                2,500                 4,591
 No. of Child's Days conducted            2,000                 1,709                     Child Days launched nationally
 No. and percent children <3 yrs of age No target               326,000, approximately
 weighed monthly (reporting period                              90%
 average)
 No. of children referred to health       No target                                      No data are available.
 facility for growth faltering as a ratio
 of the no. of malnourished children
 identified
 No. of subcounty Resource Centers        50                    48                        Target changed to 54 in PMR
 constructed
 Percentage of mothers adopted            increased by 25%      increased by 24%          Resurvey 2003 (midterm). The end of project
 appropriate child care practices (intro                                                  target was an increase by 50% but no data are
 of solid food after 6 mo of age,                                                         available.
 washing hands prior feeding child, and
 a set of interactions with child, e.g.,
 play, give physical care)
 Increase in amount in Uganda shillings                                                   The savings group subcomponent was
 of all savings groups formed by 50% at                                                   supposed to take place after the full
 midterm and 100% at final year                                                           implementation of community grants. The
                                                                                          delays in the latter prevented the
                                                                                          subcomponent from being implemented.
 Community Support Grants
 No. of community grants awarded          2,500                 4,591
 No. of Community Innovations Grants       No target            zero                      See explanation on savings groups above.
 awarded
 National Level Program Support
 ECE-learning framework                                          Satisfactorily produced
                                                                 and launched
 ECE-teachers trained                     3,800                  3,650
 ECD policy                                                      Satisfactorily produced included after appraisal
 No. of training sessions on               No target             9
 micronutrient deficiency control
 Child's Rights statute                                          Satisfactorily produced  Translation in four languages
 No. of training sessions held on Child    90                    94
 Rights
 Development of communication                                    Satisfactorily           To support the strategy an enormous number
 strategy and implementation support                             completed                of materials were produced and disseminated
                                                                                          using multi-media channels.
National Household Survey of                                    Satisfactorily produced  included after appraisal
1999/2000
 Evaluation of communication strategy                            Satisfactorily produced
 Longitudinal study                                              Satisfactorily produced
 Anthropometry Cohort                                            Satisfactorily produced
 Participatory evaluation                                        Satisfactorily Produced




                                                           - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
1.(a) Parental Education Intervention                       12.20          15.83             1.3
1.(b) District & Community Capacity Building                 8.60            8.23          0.96
2.(a) Community Support Grants                               6.00            7.72          1.29
2.(b) Innovations Fund                                       4.50                              0
3.(a) IEC & Advocacy & Technical Assistance                  3.50            4.96          1.42
3.(b) Project Mgt & Coordination, Monit. & Evaluation        1.50            1.78          1.19
3.(c) Support to Micro Nutrient Deficiency Control           0.10            0.13            1.3
3.(d) Support to MOE & S for ECD Learning Framework          0.30            0.77          2.56
4.   National Household Survey                               0.00            1.18

Total Baseline Cost                                         36.70          40.60
 Physical Contingencies                                      3.30
                          Total Project Costs               40.00          40.60
                  Total Financing Required                  40.00          40.60




                                                                     1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB
                                                    NCB               2               Total Cost
                                                               Other          N.B.F.

1. Civil Works                       0.00           2.18          0.46                 2.64
                                                   (1.89)       (0.37)                (2.26)
2. Grant to Communities                             0.00          6.86                 6.86
                                                   (0.00)       (4.66)                (4.66)
3. Equipment & Materials             1.09           3.22          1.16                 4.31
                                    (1.09)         (3.17)       (1.04)                (4.26)
4. Learning & IEC Material                          1.38          0.56                 1.94
                                                   (1.03)       (0.42)                (1.45)
5. Consultancy Services &                                         9.97                 9.97
Studies                                                         (9.97)                (9.97)
6. Training                                                       8.34                 8.34
                                                                (8.07)                (8.07)
7A. Operating Costs-                                              2.97                 2.97
Districts & Communities                                         (2.30)                (2.30)
7B. Operating Costs -                                             2.42                 2.42
Others                                                          (1.13)                (1.13)


Total                                1.09           6.78         32.72                40.60
                                    (1.09)         (6.09)      (27.96)                (35.14)



                                                - 24 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    Percentage of Appraisal
       Component              Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                           IDA      Govt.       CoF.     IDA       Govt.       CoF.  IDA    Govt.   CoF.
1(a) Parental Education   11.68     0.52                14.35       1.48             122.9  284.6
Intervention
1(b) District & Community  6.80     1.80                 7.00       1.23             102.9   68.3
Capacity Building
2(a) Community Support     5.10     0.90                 6.48       1.24             127.1  137.8
Grants
2(b) Innovation fund       3.83     0.67                                             0.0     0.0
3(a) IEC &Advocacy &       2.81     0.69                 4.05       0.91             144.1  131.9
Tecchnical Assistance
3(b) Project Mgt &         0.96     0.54                 1.24       0.54             129.2  100.0
Coordination, Monitoring
& Evaluation
3(c) Support to Micro      0.09     0.01                 0.12       0.01             133.3  100.0
Nutrient Deficiency
Control
3(d) Support to MOE & S    0.28     0.02                 0.72       0.05             257.1  250.0
for ECD Curriculum (&
Policy)
4 National Household                0.00                 1.18       0.00                     0.0
Survey
TOTAL BASELINE COST       31.55     5.15                35.14       5.46             111.4  106.0
Physical & price           0.38     0.00                 0.00                        0.0     0.0
contigencies

TOTAL PROJECT             34.00     6.00                35.14       5.46             103.4   91.0
COSTS
TOTAL FINANCING           34.00     6.00                35.14       5.46             103.4   91.0
REQUIRED




                                                 - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not assessed. See Section 4.3 of the main text.




                                              - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              12/4/1995                 7    TASK TEAM LEADER,                S               S
                                             MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (2),
                                             SAVING/INCOME
                                             SPECIALIST(1);
                                             NUTRITIONIST & TRAINING
                                             SPECIALIST(1)
                                             CONSULTANTS (2)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/26/1997              10     TTL (1) IMPLEM.                  S               S
                                             SPEC.(1); OPERATIONS
                                             OFF.(1)
                                             CONSULTANTS(4); RES
                                             REP (1); EDU. SPEC. (1);
                                             COMM. SPEC (1)
              12/07/1997                9    TTL(1); OPERATION OFF.(1);       S               S
                                             PROC. OFF(1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPEC.(1);
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC.(1);
                                             PRINCIPAL ECONOMIST(1);
                                             NUTRI/PARASITOLOGY
                                             CONS.(1); NUTRI/TRAINING
                                             CONS(1); RES REP(1)

 Supervision

              05/19/1998                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH (1);
                                             CONSULTANT - TRAINING
                                             (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1)
              12/11/1998                7    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             OPERATONS OFFICER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT-TRAINING (1);
                                             FIN. MANAGEMENT SPEC.
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT SPEC.
                                             (1); ECD SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROJECTS ASST (1)
              05/06/1999                3    PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);           S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             NUTRITION/TRAIN CONS. (1)
              09/17/1999                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);



                                              - 27 -

                                           FMS (1); ECD CONSULTANT
                                           (2)
               09/17/1999              3   OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);            S    S
                                           FIN. MGT. SPECIALIST (1);
                                           ECD/NUTRITION SPECIAL.
                                           (1)
               11/09/2001              6   TASK-TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           CO-TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                           FMS (1); ECD IMPLEM.
                                           SPECIALIST (1); TASK
                                           PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1)
               10/25/2002              5   CO-TTL (1); FMS (1); TTL (1);      S    S
                                           ECD IMPLEM. SPECIALIST
                                           (1); PROCUREMENT
                                           ANALYST (1)
               11/07/2003              6   OPERATIONS SPECIALIST              U    S
                                           (1); FMS (1); LEAD OPERAT.
                                           SPECIALIS (1); TTL (1);
                                           CONSULTANT (1); CO-TTL (1)
               06/12/2004              4   TTL (1); ECD Implement. Spec.      U    S
                                           (1); FMS (1); co-TTL (1)
               11/19/2004              9   TTL (1); CO-TTL (1); LEAD          U    S
                                           OPERATIONS OFFICE (1);
                                           TEAM MEMBER (1); FMS (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); IMPLEMENTATION
                                           CONSULT (1); TEAM
                                           ASSISTANT (1);
                                           CONSULTANT (1)


 ICR
               11/07/2005             7     TTL(1); Ag. COUNTRY               S    S
                                            MGR(1); Sr.SOCIAL DEV.
                                            SPEC. (1); ECD
                                            CONSULTANT(1); FM
                                            SPECIALIST (1); TEAM
                                            ASSISTANTS (2)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            39.9                            67
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 84.5                         169.8
  Supervision                          262.9                         644.1
  ICR                                  12.06                           28.8
  Total                              399.36                          909.7




                                            - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU
The ICR-team has been using the new six point rating scale and has rated the Bank performance
Moderately Unsatisfactory and the Borrower performance Moderately Unsatisfactory except for the
Borrower's Implementation Agency performance which is rated Satisfactory.




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

  1. World Bank. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in the Amount of Sdr 25 Million
     (US$34 Million Equivalent) to the Republic of Uganda for a Nutrition and Early Childhood
     Development Project. Report No. 17182-UG. Washington D.C. 1997.
  2. Minutes of ROC Appraisal Decision Meeting, April 1997.
  3. Agreed Minutes of Negotiations. The Republic of Uganda. Nutrition and Early Childhood
     Development Project (NECDP). World Bank Group, Washington D.C 1998.
  4. World Bank. Aide-Memoirs' from Project Identification Mission in 1995 to last Supervision
     Mission in November 2005. Washington D.C.
  5. World Bank. Implementation Status and Results for Investment Projects. Uganda, (Sequence
     1-18).
  6. World Bank. Back To Office Reports for. UG-Child Nutrition Dev SIL (FY98) Project ID:
     P040551 ­Loan/Credit No.:30520). Washington D.C.
  7. C.H.I.L.D. Project Implementation Manual. NECDP. Ministry of Health, Republic of Uganda.
  8. Kisauzi, Dan, Godfrey Kayobyo, Noe Dankaine, Peter Fuuna. Consultancy on Participatory
     Evaluation of Community Projects under the Uganda Nutrition and Early Childhood Development
     Project. Final Report. Nkoola Institutional Development Associates Ltd, Kampala, 2003.
  9. C.H.I.L.D. Guidelines for Use and Management of Early Childhood Development Resource
     Centres. Ministry of Health, Republic of Uganda.
 10. Makerere University. Baseline Survey Report for The Nutrition and Early Childhood Development
     Project. Uganda Ministry of Health. Kampala 2000.
 11. Save the Children (UK). Thin on the Ground. Questioning the evidence behind World Bank-funded
     community nutrition projects in Bangladesh, Ethiopia and Uganda. The Save the Children Fund
     2003.
 12. Save the Children (UK). Anna Taylor. Malnutrition in Uganda. A review of the causes and
     discussion of programming implications. July 1998.
 13. Wolfensohn, J. Response to Save the Children report Thin on the Ground. World Bank Group,
     Washington D.C. 2003.
 14. Uganda Debt Network. The Nutrition and Early Childhood Development (NECD) Project. Civil
     Society Statement. Kampala 2003.
 15. C.H.I.L.D. Semi-Annual Reports covering the period July 1999 to January 2004.
 16. Skolnik, Richard. Uganda Nutrition and Early Child Development Project (NECDP). Synthesis of
     Evaluation Reports. George Washington University, Washington D.C. 2004.
 17. Steering Committee meeting of the Nutrition and Early childhood Development Project (NECDP).
     Minutes from meetings held between July 1999 and December 2003. Kampala, Uganda.
 18. Development Consultants International Limited. Consultancy Services for the Development of an
     Early Childhood Development Policy and Costed Policy Options. Final Report. Ministry of
     Education and Sports, Republic of Uganda. Kampala 2004.
 19. Nkoola Institutional Development Associates Ltd. Evaluation of Activities under the Nutrition and
     Early Childhood Development Project. Final Report. NECDP, Ministry of Health, Republic of
     Uganda. Kampala 2002.
 20. Nkoola Institutional Development Associates LTD. Evaluation of the Performance of Agencies
     contracted by the NECDP. Kampala.
 21. Makerere University. Re-Survey Report for The Nutrition and Early Childhood Development
     Project (NECDP). Final Report. Uganda Ministry of Health, Kampala 2003.
 22. Ministry of Health. Implementation Strategy for "Child Days Plus". Theme: "A Healthy Child, a
     Happy Family". Republic of Uganda. Kampala.
 23. Kisauzi, Dan. Concept for a Partnership for Early Childhood Development Project. Kampala


                                                - 31 -

    2004.
24. NTA Eastern Region. End of Project Report: August 2004 ­ June 2005. NECDP Kampala 2005.
25. Makere University, Institute of Public Health. Re-Survey for the Nutrition and Early Childhood
    Development Project (NECDP). Uganda Ministry of Health. Kampala 2003.
26. NECDP. Community and Home Initiative for Long-term Development. C.H.I.L.D. Wave 1 to 6.
    Kampala.
27. Alderman, Harold, Pia Britto, Patrice Engle and Arjumand Siddiqi. Longitudinal Evaluation of
    Uganda Nutrition and Early Child Development Program. World Bank Group, Washington D.C.
    2003.
28. Ministry of Health. Health Sector Strategic Plan II 2005/06 ­ 2009/2010. Volume I. The Republic
    of Uganda, Kampala.
29. Ministry of Health. Annual Health Sector Performance Report. Financial Year
30. 2004/2005. The Republic of Uganda. Kampala, 2005.
31. NECDP. Story Telling Competition. Kampala.
32. NECDP. Helping your Children Learn in Uganda. Republic of Uganda, Kampala.
33. Child Health & Development Centre. Final Report National Technical Assistance Consultants for
    Western Region. Makere University, Kampala 2005.
34. ALFA Development Contractors and Consultants. National Technical Assistance Consultants for
    Northern Region for the Nutrition and Early Childhood Development Project 2000-2006.
    Kampala, 2005.
35. Development and Management Consultants International. Completion Report and Handover of
    Project Assets. Kampala, 2005.
36. AMREF. NTA Eastern Region. End of Project Report: August 2004 ­ June 2005.
37. Bushenyi District. A report on Completion of Nutrition and Early Childhood Project (NECDP)
    using LGDPII Funds. Uganda, 2005.
38. Kanungu District Local Government. Nutrition and Early Childhood Development Project
    (NECDP). Final Project Status Report. Uganda, 2005.
39. Masaka District. Report on Implementation and Completion of Nutrition and Early Childhood
    Development Project, Community Action Plans/Activities with LGDP II Funds. Probation and
    Social Welfare Masaka, Uganda 2005.
40. CHILD. Knowledge, Attitude, Behaviour & practices on the Children Statute & Children's Rights
    in Uganda. Survey Report. Prelude to the Joint Communication Strategy. Kampala, Uganda 2002.
41. Cababero-Verzosa, Cecilia. Counting on Communication. The Uganda Nutrition and Early
    Childhood Development Project. World Bank Working Paper No.59. Washington D.C 2005.




                                              - 32 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Completion Report




                               THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA




   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION FINAL REPORT (ICR)
                          CREDIT NO. 3052-UG




NUTRITION AND EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT
             PROJECT (NECDP) CREDIT 3052-UG



                        MINISTRY OF HEALTH
                         KAMPALA ­ UGANDA




                                            - 33 -

Project Co-ordination Office
Plot 36 Nile Avenue
P.O. Box 22813
Kampala




                                April 2006




                                      - 34 -

Abbreviations and Acronyms

ACAO        Assistant Chief Administrative Officer

ANC         Antenatal Care

BECCAD      Basic Education, Child Care and Adolescent Development

CAO         Chief Administrative Officer

CBIS        Community Based Information System

CBMIS       Community Based Management Information System

CBO         Community Based Organisation

CBSC        Community Based Services Coordinators

CCA         Community, Co-ordination, Advocacy

CCW         Community Childcare Workers

CDA         Community Development Assistants

CDD         Control of Diarrhea Diseases

CSM         Community Services Manager

DANIDA      Danish International Development Assistance

DCA         Development Credit Agreement

DCC         District Coordinating Committee

DHSP        District Health Services Project

DISH        Delivery of improved Services for Health Project

DPAC-SPA    District and sub-county Plans of Action for Children

ECD         Early Childhood Development

ECE         Early Childhood Education

GC          General Conditions of Contract

GPM         Growth Monitoring and Promotion

GMT         Grassroots Management Training

HMIS        Health Management Information System

IEC         Information, Education, Communication

IA          Implementing Agency

IAPSO       Inter Agency Procurement Services Office




                                                  - 35 -

ICB    International Competitive Bidding

IDA    International Development Association

IGA    Income Generation Activities

IMCI   Integrated Management of Childhood Illness

IMR    Infant Mortality Rate

KABP   Knowledge, Attitude, Beliefs, Practice

LBW    Low Birth Weight

LC     Local Council (1,2,3,4,5)

MAAIF  Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industries and Fisheries

MOES   Ministry of Education and Sports

MFPED  Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development

MGLSD  Ministry of Gender, Labour and Social Development

MIS    Management Information System

MOH    Ministry of Health

MOLG   Ministry of Local Government

MOU    Memorandum of Understanding

NCB    National Competitive Bidding

NCC    National Council for Children

NCDC   National Curriculum Development Centre

NECD   Nutrition and Early Childhood Development

NECDP  Nutrition and Early Childhood Development Project

NGO    Non Government Organisation

NTA    National Technical Assistance

PC     Project Coordinator

PCO    Project Co-ordination Office

PCP    Participatory Community Planning

PDC    Parish Development Committee

PIM    Project Implementation Manual

PMIS   Project Management Information System

PSC    Project Steering Committee




                                             - 36 -

PWO     Probation and Welfare Officer

RC      Resource Centre

RFP     Request for Proposals

SC      Special Conditions of Contract

SCC     Sub-county Coordination Committee

SD      Standard Deviation

TOR     Terms of Reference

TOT     Trainers of Trainers

U5MR    Under Five-Mortality Rate

UBOS    Uganda Bureau of Statistics

UHSSP   Uganda Health Sector Support Program

UN      United Nations

UNEPI   Uganda National Expanded Program for Immunisation

UNHS    Uganda National Household Survey

UNICEF  United Nations Children's Fund

UNPAC   Uganda National Programme of Action for Children

UPE     Universal Primary Education

USAID   United States Agency for International Development

WHO     World Health Organisation




                                              - 37 -

                                      EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

1.      INTRODUCTION

The Nutrition and Early Childhood Development Project (NECDP) is an input into the 1993 Uganda
National Programme of Action for Children (UNPAC) and the 1997 Poverty Eradication Action Plan,
whose overall goal is to improve the quality of life of children less than six years together with the people
who provide them the necessary care.

The project also supported specific policies that have been enacted in the relevant sectors of health,
nutrition, gender, community development, agriculture, justice and governance. These policies provided
the guidance and the overall framework under which the project was implemented. It was one of the
projects government has put in place to contribute towards the national drive for the eradication of
poverty among communities.

The primary target group is children under 6 years of age, and those who influence their growth and
development on a day-to-day basis, such as their parents and other child caregivers. Implementation of
the project was to a large extent, based at the community level, with the full participation of families and
communities.

1.1     Project Goals, Objectives, and Strategies
The overall goal of the NECD Project is to improve the quality of life of Ugandan children less than 6
years of age.

The purpose is to improve the nutrition, health, cognitive and psychosocial development of the children
covered in the project areas.

1.2     Specific objectives of the Project
1.      To create awareness in families and communities of children's rights and needs.

2.      To build on the knowledge and skills of families and communities so as to provide proper health
care, appropriate child nutrition, early child development and protection.
3.      To increase the skills and capacity of families and communities to mobilise resources and manage
        their own income generating activities, thereby enhancing their ability to care for children.

1.3     Project Strategies

(a)     Helping communities to organise services for children less than six (6) years, through growth
monitoring and promotion and establishment of Early Childcare and Education (ECE) facilities.
(b)     Strengthening the capacity of families and communities through sensitisation, education and skills
training on early childhood development, nutrition and training for savings and income generation.
(c)     Providing support to communities through community grants and incentives, including an
Innovations Grant, which will respond to special local initiatives for children.
(d)     Supporting ongoing national programs that are related to the growth and development of
children.




                                                        - 38 -

1.4     Project Coverage
For reasons of financial constraints, thirty-four (34) districts were selected for inclusion into the project
over an initial five-year period. The criteria used to rank and select the beneficiary districts was based on
the following:

1. The Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) and

2. Under Five Mortality Rate (U-5MR) of a district,

3. The prevalence of malnutrition, severe and moderate stunting,

4. Population of children under six years of age,

5. Regional representation.

The project was implemented in the following thirty-four districts by region during the initial five-year
period:

Arua, Bugiri, Busia, Bundibugyo, Bushenyi, Gulu, Iganga, Kabarole, Kamwenge, Kanungu, Kiboga, Kitgum,
Kotido, Kumi, Kyenjojo, Masaka, Mayuge, Mbale, Mbarara, Moroto, Mpigi, Mubende, Nakapiripirit,
Nebbi, Ntungamo, Pader, Pallisa, Rakai, Rukungiri, Sembabule, Sironko, Tororo, Wakiso, Yumbe

1.5     Project Activities
Activities implemented under the project fall under the following components:

1.      Community Based Interventions
2.      Parish Level Activities
3.      Support to National and District Programs
1.5.1 Community Based Interventions

(a)     Integrated childcare training for child caregivers:

This training involved parental education on relevant childcare needs, training for resource mobilisation,
together with growth monitoring and promotion including nutrition counseling.

(b)     A community grants:

The project provided grants to communities (LC-1) for use on interventions that benefit development of
children less than six years of age.

The objectives of the community grant were:

1.      To provide childcare and education facilities that will enable children to come together to interact,
play and also participate in activities that stimulate their cognitive, motor and language skills.
2.      To improve food security all year round at the household level in order to improve the food intake
and nutritional status of children.
The community through a participatory community planning process selected the specific intervention for
which the grant was to be utilised.




Graph 1



                                                          - 39 -

                            T ype of Community Action Plan Selected by Communities




                               ECE
                               25%




                                                                           Food Security
                                                                                75%




    Source: NECDP/MIS

A total of 4591 Community Action Plans (CAPs) were reviewed and approved for funding. Early
Childhood Care and Education Grants made up to 25% and Food Security Interventions 75% (see graph
1). Of the UGX 9,182,000,000 approved for the CAPs, 5,638,080,693/= was disbursed to communities
by June 31st 2003. This was 62% of the total amount allocated to grants and as a result many
communities received partial funding for their grants. A further 3,140,609,587 was disbursed in February
2005, which enabled communities to complete their grants.

The processes for the CAPs mobilized communities and strengthened grassroots institutions. Many self
motivated sub-projects including savings groups which resulted from this process. A total of 1,781
groups were formed and some of them were linked to credit firms.

1.5.2 Parish Based Interventions
Parish level activities where essentially of two kinds:

(a)      The "Children's Day", which gave an opportunity to communities to access an integrated service
         that benefits children. This activity will also provide an opportunity for the study of the effect of
         de-worming on child growth and development, together with effective delivery mechanisms.

(b)      Exchange visits within and between parishes for experience sharing.
1.5.3 Support to Existing National Programs

·        Ministry of Education and Sports
Early Childhood Education activities were supported. The National Curriculum Development Centre
(NCDC) developed, tested and distributed Early Childhood Education curriculum and training manuals.
The Ministry of Education and Sports also carried out training of Early Childhood Educators at national,
district and sub-county levels through a cascading arrangement.

·        Ministry of Health (MOH)
Support to activities aimed at the prevention of micronutrient (Iron, Iodine and vitamin A) deficiencies by
the Ministry of Health.




                                                             - 40 -

·       Ministry of Gender, Labour and Community Development (MGLCD)
Child Rights and Advocacy activities by the Ministry of Gender, Labour and Community Development
and the National Council for Children (NCC) were also supported. The department of Probation and
Child Welfare sensitised the population on the recently enacted children's statute through organised
seminars at national, district, and sub-county levels.

·       Uganda Bureau of Statistics (UBOS)
The National Household Survey undertaken by the Uganda Bureau of Statistics (UBOS). This activity
was introduced by Ministry of Finance when the project was moved to Ministry of Health.


2.      CROSS CUTTING NECD PROJECT INTERVENTIONS

2.1     The Communications Strategy for the NECD Project

The aim of the communications strategy was to promote appropriate behaviour for early childhood
development. Besides specific messages on nutrition and early childhood development, awareness and
advocacy campaigns included messages on the control of micronutrient deficiencies in communities.

2.3     Establishing and Strengthening Linkages

The main objective of establishing and strengthening inter-sectoral linkages was to provide a
comprehensive and integrated service for the holistic approach to early childhood development. The
project scope was limited to a few critical interventions and may not have provided for all the needs of
the target children. Consequently, relevant linkages with other service providers in the project area have
to be identified and taken advantage of.


3.      PROJECT COORDINATION AND MANAGEMENT

At the national level, Government counterparts especially the line departments like DHSP, CDD-IMCI,
Agriculture, Gender, and Education were involved.

The Project Coordination Office (PCO) headed by a Project Coordinator, was established in the Ministry
of Health to coordinate the implementation of all project activities. The overall responsibility of the
Project Coo-ordination Office was to guide the implementation of the project towards achievement of its
goals in compliance with the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and the Project Implementation
Manual (PIM).

The organizational structure of the PCO was designed to keep it lean, as the main function is project
coordination. The implementation activities were at the District and sub-county level.     Other services
including technical assistance and special studies not directly implemented by districts and sub-counties
were contracted out to specialised individuals and firms by the PCO.




                                                       - 41 -

3.1      District Level Co-Ordination
3.1.1 The IA Implementation Arrangement
An IA selected as per the agreed procedures implemented the project at the district level. Under this
arrangement, selected IAs participated as co-implementers with the district government. The IA (also
called the Lead NGO) was selected through competitive bidding and contracted to co-implement the
project in the district. One of the roles of the IA was to facilitate the implementation of project activities,
in close collaboration with technical and administrative staff in the district.

3.1.2 The District Co-ordination Committee
A District Co-ordination Committee (DCC) coordinated project activities in the district.

The following persons were included as members of the committee.

·        Representatives from the District IA
·        The secretary for children's affairs
·        The District Focal Person
         The specific role of the DCC in relation to the NECDP were to:

Ø        Review implementation of the project in the district
Ø        Review district-level annual work plans and make recommendations to the District Council.
Ø        Ensure co-ordination with all line Departments at the district levels for inter-sectoral linkages.
Ø        Review project activities and progress reports prepared by the IA, in consultation with the CAO
or his/her representative.
3.2      Sub-County Level Co-Ordination

The project was implemented through a NGO/CBO at the sub-county who was willing to carry out many
of the community education activities even when the credit assistance to the project closes, and was
supervised by the Sub-county Committee and the Parish development Committee.

3.3      Community Level Coordination
Co-ordination of community activities was the primary responsibility of the LC-1 executive, supported by
the CCWs and representatives from the NGO/CBO at the sub-county. The community itself with
facilitation and technical assistance from NGO/CBO at the sub-county carried out community activities.
The CCWs were the Community Resource Person (CRP) to assist NGO/CBO at the sub-county
facilitators in getting the community mobilised and trained to achieve the stated project objectives.


4.       NATIONAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE (NTA)

The PCO hired Technical Assistance for capacity building, monitoring and supervision of the IAs. One
consultancy was awarded per group of districts, and undertook both technical and management training
in the districts.

The NTA consultancy lasted the entire project period i.e. five years. However, the initial contract was for
a period of twelve months, which was extended for periods of twelve months at a time, subject to
satisfactory performance in the previous year.

The NTA consultants were provided with an orientation in a workshop organized by the PCO before the
preparatory work for training activities begun. The NTA consultants collaborated and agreed on a
common framework for developing the training modules.



                                                        - 42 -

The selected NTA consultants submitted a monthly progress report on the activities undertaken in each
district. The reports defined outputs, and state the strengths and weaknesses in the activities undertaken
by the consultants. The PCO reviewed the activities once a quarter or more often if necessary.

4.1      Training Carried out by NTAs

NTA provided Capacity building in the form of training to selected local government staff of all cadres,
Implementing Agencies, and CBO staff

Trainings included:
·        Nutrition
·        Community Health
·        Psychosocial Development
·        Early Childhood Care & Development
·        Project Design, Planning and Management
·        Small & Micro Enterprises
·        Growth Promotion & Monitoring
·        Organising Child's days
·        Advocacy & Communication
·        Participatory Planning &
·        Data Collection, Research techniques & Reporting
·        Management information System (MIS)
·        Micro-Nutrient deficiency & prevention
·        ECE Teachers on ECD Learning Framework
·        Conflict Resolution and Quality Control
·        Financial Administration, Budgets & Computerised Accounting


5.       RESOURCE CENTERS (RCS) CONSTRUCTION

This is a government of Uganda intervention under the Nutrition and Early Childhood Development
Project (NECDP) to promote pre-school education while preparing children for Universal Primary
School Education. It is also responding to government of Uganda policies of quality healthcare and
poverty eradication under various programs. The resource center employs a multisectoral approach
providing wide sector education and information on health, education, agriculture and production to help
solve problems related to early childhood development. The ECD RC belongs to the communities in the
Sub-County.

Being a demonstration center, the Resource Centre (RC) will serve to empower caregivers, Early
Childhood Education (ECE) teachers and the community to be able to promote holistic child
development. Using the skills acquired, these people will be able to go back to their communities and
work towards better health, nutrition and education of the children 0 ­6years. Its hoped that with this
arrangement in place, the facility will be effectively and efficiently utilized to stimulate children's leaning
potentials enabling them to become healthy, happy and successful adults later on in life.

The RC will serve the following functions:
·        Demonstration of good ECD practices, nutrition, psychosocial development, food security, home



                                                        - 43 -

improvements for caregivers and for trainers of trainees, etc.
·      Venue for Sub-County Project Office
·      Training Venue for project activities and other trainings
·      Venue for Child's Day for the parish in which the center is located and other ECD activities.

5.1    Completion of Sub-County Resource Centers.
RCs in the following districts Bugiri, Busia, Pallisa, Tororo and Sembabule have not been completed
because either the districts have failed to meet their counterpart obligations or the contractors were.


6.     ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES

6.1    Development Objective

1.     Reduced Prevalence Of Underweight (% 2sd Weight For Age) For Children Under Six By One
Third Of 1998 Rates In 2003, In Project Areas
   The baseline Survey, Jan-Dec 2000 and the Resurvey Jan 2003 show that there was a reduction in the
   prevalence rate in project areas. Due to financial constraints, this was done in the Eastern region only.
   The study results indicated a reduction in wasting from 4% to 2% in project areas with no change in
   non- project areas (control group). Stunting declined more in project areas ( 2.6% -A, 4.9% - B: than
   in the control group which only had a 1.7% decline. Analysis of the data by age group indicated that
   there was more impact in children less than 36 months.

   Growth Monitoring and Promotion was carried out as a major community activity and the skills for
   measuring, recording and interpreting the weight of children were good. A total of 326,000 children
   under six years of age were covered monthly during the GMP sessions in the project areas. A cohort
   of 8,998 children was followed up and data (weight for age) collected regularly. The analysis based
   on this data (July 2002 ­July 2003) shows that the project has had an impact in reducing malnutrition
   among children. The data indicated that the percentage of children within 2sd below Norm was
   significantly reduced from 24.4% to 17.7% for children 0 ­ 36 months. Due to the shortage of funds,
   a number of community based activities were stopped which included the stoppage in collecting
   cohort data by some CCWs. Therefore the anthropometric data collected in may and June 2005 is
   incomplete and is therefore not very reliable (Table 3).

2.     Improved Children's Psychosocial And Cognitive Development
   From the Baseline Survey and resurvey, study findings show that children in the project areas
   performed better in a test with a mean score of 50.3% as compared to the non-project areas with a
   mean score of 48.9%. This could be due to cognitive development campaigns in the project areas like
   early childcare and education.

3.     Increased Primary School retention and Improved Primary School Progression
   The project aimed at increasing school enrolment for children. The Baseline Survey and the resurvey,
   children six years old who were enrolled into school at the time were used as an indicator of school
   enrolment and the findings during both the baseline and resurvey are shown in the study findings
   (Appendix 1). The results indicate that non-project areas started off at much higher school enrolment
   (before project implementation) than project areas, but that after three years of project
   implementation, the enrolment levels in the project areas have almost caught up.



                                                        - 44 -

    Over the three year period, the 6 year olds who had just enrolled into Primary One in the study areas
    increased by 1.5% overall. The increase in the project areas was 0.7% and in the non-project areas,
    there was a decline of 5.9%.

    Due to the late reception of Education data from MoES, results were not considered during project
    review and implementation. The quality of the data collected was poor however, it has been included
    in the report, table 4.

6.1.1 Project Outcomes
Apart from the set objectives, the following are some of the achievements not specifically targeted:

§        The processes used in planning for and implementing the community grant projects had generic
benefits to the communities in the areas of building their capacities for analysis of food security problems,
participatory planning, project management including monitoring and evaluation of project
implementation
§        Bringing fathers on board: On Occasion, it has been recorded that fathers brought children to the
Child's day, where most activities are targeting caregivers. Also when it came to the CAPs, the
participants included many men and women, which showed increased involvement of the fathers/men in
child development.
§        Child days were applauded by leaders at District and Sub-county levels for taking the services
closer to the people. Outcomes included increased immunization. Due to their success, the Ministry of
health has adopted Child Days as a strategy to take health services to the communities.
§        Growth Monitoring and Promotion (GMP) was actively taken up and requested for by parents.
Benefits acknowledged by the parents include early warning in case of faulty growth, encouragement to
continue feeding during illness and improved child rearing skills.
6.2      Major Factors Affecting the Project

Despite the above achievements, the project also faced some challenges:

§        There were start up delays due to the transfer of the project from MoFPED to MoH and the
expansion of coverage of project districts to 25 and sub-counties to 100.
§        Districts were experiencing problems in meeting their counterpart requirements for project
activities which slowed the implementation process
§        There was a shortfall in funds to complete project activities that curtailed the implementation
progress in 2003.
§        Education data to measure indicators was made available very late in the project period so it was
not considered during implementation.
§        Insecurity in northern region which greatly posed a challenge in the implementation process
§        To-date, the ECD policy has not been put in place, which has hindered the establishment of ECD.
§        Hand over of project implementation to the district not properly done due to shortage of funds
6.3      Project Sustainability
For sustainability, the responsibility to implement and mainstream project activities was given to the
district. A number of measures were put in place for sustainability and these include:

·        Capacity building was done for the District and Sub-County officials as well as community
members so that they can eventually run project activities. A Focal Person was assigned by each district
to run the project. At Sub-county level, an extension worker was the focal person, and involved other
extension workers in the community activities, especially CAPs.



                                                        - 45 -

·        Volunteers from the community, CCWs were used as implementing agents at community level.
CCWs are part of the community and with the equipment provided by the project (scales, Bicycles,
radios) are able to continue GPM as well as community sensitization on ECD. Also due to the training
provided by the project, many of the CCWs have been absorbed into other community development
programs, some have even become community leaders.
·        The ECD resource Centers built by the project, located at the sub-county headquarters to ensure
continued support to ECD
·        Due to the use of the participatory approach in project implementation, the communities to some
extent owned the project and have ensured that some activities continue.
Due to abrupt stoppage of project activities in 2003, the transition from project coordination unit to
district was not very smooth. Handing over responsibility to the district was done earlier than planned and
was done through official communication from Ministry of Health, supported by visits to the district by
PCO staff.

7.       Future Operations

Due to overwhelming appreciation of the project, recommendation has been to scale up project activities
to cover the whole country. The Government of Uganda is in the process of formulating a concept note
for a follow on program.

8.       Key Lessons Learnt

·        Through Public Private partnership, there was institutional capacity building, of NGOs/CBOs who
eased the process of implementation at District and sub-county levels.
·        Monthly GMP showed more impact for children less than 2 years and is therefore more relevant
to this age group.
·        Due to the design of the project, a lot of training was required for proper implementation. The
training period was therefore long, which shortened the implementation period resulting in uncompleted
activities. Therefore, in project/program design, this should be considered when determining project
length.
·        Working directly with the community; Community Driven Development CDD - broadly defined -
is an approach that gives control over planning decisions and investment resources to community groups
and local governments. Enhancement of the social capital within the communities by fostering collective
action that embraces community members across all socio-economic strata such that the communities
now have a basis to collectively demand that resources for other projects intended for their benefit be
brought near their control.
·        CCWs were volunteers from the community, and they were given lunch stipend for the days they
were working in a month. Many considered this an allowance and when there was shortage in project
funds (2003), they stopped working for not receiving the allowance. This resulted in incomplete GMP
Data, as well as a stoppage in supervision of project activities.
·        CAPs were good as examples of projects for income generation, but there has been no recorded
indication of increased household income. As this was the intended outcome, measures should have been
put in place to establish increment in household incomes
·        Local leadership can play an important role in project monitoring and supervision. The project
tried to involve the leaders in more than ceremonial aspects; they were included in the committees that
were overseeing the project, as well as in the management of community projects.
·        Use of mass media to disseminate messages and information resulted in increase in knowledge of


                                                          - 46 -

project targets as well as those that were not specifically targeted thus increasing project impact.
·      There was ripple effect in the areas that were neighboring the project areas. There were
communities/ households that started income generating projects on the knowledge of their implementing
neighbors. Other communities in addition also started demanding for services like Child's days and
extension services for their own projects.

9.     Completion of uncompleted Community Activities, 2005

Government released USD 2.7 million to project districts through LGDP II to complete unfinished
project activities. The project date was extended from December 2004 to June 2005 for purposes of
completing all project activities - CAPs and Completion of Resource center construction.

From the released funds, there was an under release to the tune of 403,309,720/= made to the districts of
Kumi, Pader, Ntungamo and Tororo as indicated below;

1.     Shs 234,475,000/= was released to Kumi district instead of 424,183,678/=, less by
189,636,678/=.
2.     Shs 201,299,000/= was released to Ntungamo District instead of 383,169,120/=, less by
181,870, 120/=
3.     Shs 184,551,000/= was released to Pader District instead of 214,518,849/=, less by 29,967,847/=
4.     Shs 234,761,000/= was released to Tororo District instead of 236,594,074/=, less by
1,833,074/=.
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development is handling this issue.

9.1    Misallocation of funds by Kiboga District
Money sent to Kiboga District by Ministry of Finance Planning and Economic Development (MoFPED),
to complete NECDP activities was misallocated. MoFPED is following up this issue.


                                                                                                        .




                                                        - 47 -

                                                                                    APPENDIX 1

SPECIAL STUDIES AND SURVEYS
To assess achievements of project objectives, the Ministry of Health commissioned a number of studies.
To a great extent these were achieved as is summarised below.

1.      The Baseline Survey/Resurvey by Institute of Public Health Makerere University
The baseline survey and final resurvey were designed to assess the effect of the project on early childhood
nutrition, childcare practices, household incomes, food security and community services. The study
covered Iganga, Pallisa, Mbale, Tororo and Busia, Sironko, Bugiri and Mayuge districts. Households
were recruited from both project and non-project sub-counties in each district. Each district contributed
450 households to make a total of 2250 households. Because of the experimental design of the whole
study, the households were divided into three equal groups. The groups were determined on the basis of
which NECDP services would be received by the communities as follows:

·       The communities that were going to receive all the program services including de-worming of
children at parish days were classified as group A.
·       The communities that would receive all the program activities but no de-worming of children
during parish days were categorized as group B.
·       The communities that would not receive any program activity (located in non project
sub-counties) were labeled as group C (the control group).
The households in each group were obtained through a multistage random sampling process. An adult
from each household responded to a pre-designed questionnaire, to enable us to assess standards of
living, food security and child care practices. The resurvey took place in the same households as the
baseline survey. Children below six years of age had their weights and heights recorded to assess their
growth and nutrition status in both surveys.

Results

There have been big improvements in socio-economic conditions in all the districts in the study over the
three years follow up period, although some of them are not directly related to the project. The
improvements are reflected in employment levels, household incomes, food security, access to safe water,
childcare practices and childhood nutrition. For many indicators the changes were bigger in project areas
than in non-project areas.

The most striking changes that may be directly related to the implementation of the project over
the 3 years period include:

·       Increase in household incomes, household assets and food security
Savings groups

Savings groups are some of the mechanisms through which households can access loans to finance their
development activities. The proportions of saving groups are given here below.

Table 51. Percentage of communities with saving groups

                    Project areas             Non project areas      Overall



                                                      - 48 -

 Baseline            15 (20.3%)                5 (18.5%)               20 (19.8%)

 Resurvey            21 (36.8%)                5 (25.0%)               26 (33.8%)

Increase              18.3%                    6.5%                    14.0%

The number of communities with savings groups has increased by 16.5% in project areas and by only
6.5% in the non-project areas.

The increase in savings groups is usually related to improvements in community organization and
household incomes. The project aimed and apparently succeeded to promote both of these.

Household assets

Ownership of bicycles increased in project areas by 4.3% but remained virtually unchanged, with a small
decrease of 0.1%, in non-project areas. Ownership of radios also increased more in the project areas
(increase by 10.1%) as compared to non-project areas (increase of 8.4%). The noticeable larger increase
in the proportion of households with bicycles and radios is partly attributable to the project programs.

Food Security

There has been a big improvement in food security in all the study districts and in all sub-counties, both
project and non-project. While in the baseline 74% of the households reported major food shortages of
food in the past 12 months, this fraction declined to 52 % during the resurvey. The decline was 27.4%
in project areas and 10.2% in non-project areas. The proportion of households that owned domestic
animals such as chicken or goats increased more in project areas than in non-project areas.

·       Improvement in childcare practices especially breastfeeding
Nutrition practices for children

Looking at the proportion of children who had stopped breastfeeding at 18 months or later during the
resurvey, project areas were doing better at 58.4% than the non-project areas at 49.3%. There was a big
increase in the proportion of children who received exclusive breastfeeding up to 6 months of age. The
increase was significantly larger in project areas (an increase of 13.9%) compared to the non-project
areas (an increase of only 1.1%). The larger improvements in the nutritional practices for children within
project areas, is attributable to project programs.

Childcare knowledge and practices

Some of the most striking differences between project and non-project areas can be seen in the practices
related to growth monitoring. During the resurvey, children with growth monitoring cards were 72.4%
in project areas while in non-project areas they were 35.8%. Up-to-date vaccination was 73% in project
areas and 59% in non-project areas. Vitamin A supplementation in the project areas increased from
58.8% during the baseline survey, to 72.4% during the resurvey (an increase of 13.6%). It decreased in
non-project areas from 66.4% to 49.3% (a decrease of 17.1%). De-worming of children below 72
months in the previous six months increased from 24.8% to 25.7% in group C, it increased from 22.8%
to 30.8% in group B, and the largest increase was from 20.4% to 58.6% in group A.

·       Improvement in the nutrition status of children - reflected by lower stunting and lower
wasting levels
Nutrition Status of Children



                                                       - 49 -

There have been significant improvements in the nutrition status of children reflected by a decline in
stunting and wasting levels. The declines were significantly larger in project than in non-project areas. In
group A, the proportion of children who were wasted declined 2%, from 4.0% to 2.0%, and in group B it
declined 1.6% from 4.6% to 3.0% (group A and group B were project areas). The proportion in the
non-project area of group C did not change over the 3 years. It was 3.7% in the baseline and again 3.7%
in the resurvey. Stunting declined in group A by 2.6%, in group B by 4.9% and in the non-project area of
group C by only 1.7%. When the nutrition of children was analyzed by household income, it was found
that poorer households had significantly higher levels of underweight and stunted children.

Table. Percentage of stunted children < 72 months by group

                          Group A           Group B           Group C         Overall

Stunted children           461              475              446            1382

Total                      1169             1165             1151           3485

Baseline %                 39.4             40.8             38.7           39.7

Stunted children           329             321               356            1006

Total                      895              895              963            2753

Resurvey %                 36.8             35.9             37.0           36.5

Decline                    2.6%             4.9%              1.7%            3.2%

Stunting declined in the project areas, more especially in group B where the decline is (4.9%). Group C
has a slight decrease.

Table.          Percentage of children < 72 months who were wasted by group

                             Group A          Group B         Group C         Overall

 Baseline

 Wasted children             49              55              44             148

 Total                       1224            1207            1181           3612

 % Wasted                    4.0             4.6             3.7            4.1

 Resurvey

 Wasted children             18              27              36             81

 Total                       904             903             968            2775

 Resurvey %                  2.0             3.0             3.7            2.9

 Reduction                   2.0%            1.6%            0.0%           1.2%

The number of wasted children declined by nearly half between baseline and the resurvey for children in
the project areas and no change was realized in non-project areas.

·       Higher immunization rates among children



                                                       - 50 -

·      Higher rates of vitamin A supplementation and more regular de-worming for the children
below six years
The provision of vitamin A supplements to young children is now recommended as a routine measure in
Uganda. The project supported the vitamin A supplements at child days.

Table. Percentage of children (6 ­ 72 months) that received vitamin A in the last 6 months

                       Project areas         Non project areas     Overall

Baseline              1957 (58.8%)           1096 (66.4%)          3053 (61.0%)

Resurvey               1984 (72.4%)          714 (49.3%)           2698 (64.3%)

Change                       +13.6%               -17.1%              +3.3%



The percentage of children that received Vitamin A is much higher in the project areas (72.4%) than in
non-project areas (49.3%). It increased by 13.6% in project areas while there was a reduction of 17.1%
in the non-project areas.

Community Services

An increase was recorded for most community services in all study areas. This was so for primary
schools, kindergartens and health facilities. This is a sign of improvement in government programs.
However, the number of communities with savings groups increased more in project areas than in
non-project areas.    The increase was 16.5% in project areas as compared to only 6.55% in the
non-project areas, probably due to higher household incomes and the programs of the project, which
promoted savings groups.

School Performance

The project aimed at increasing school enrolment for children. Children six years old who were enrolled
into school at the time of the survey were therefore used as an indicator of school enrolment and the
findings during both the baseline and resurvey are shown in table below. The results indicate that
non-project areas started off at much higher school enrolment (before project implementation) than
project areas, but that after three years of project implementation, the enrolment levels in the project
areas have almost caught up.

Table Six year olds who have just enrolled into Primary One


                   Project areas               Non-Project areas      Overall
 Baseline        90 (25.6%)                    63 (33.9%)             153 (28.4%)
 Resurvey        119 (26.3%)                   71 (28.0%)             190 (26.9%)
Change             +0.7%                       -5.9%                  +1.5%

Over the three year period, the 6 year olds who had just enrolled into Primary One in the study areas
increased by 1.5% overall. The increase in the project areas was 0.7% and in the non-project areas, there
was a decline of 5.9%.




                                                         - 51 -

Children in the project areas performed better in a test with a mean score of 50.3% as compared to the
non-project areas with a mean score of 48.9%. This could be due to cognitive development campaigns in
the project areas like early childcare and education.

Conclusions

There have been big economic and social improvements in the region where the study was based over the
3 years period. The improvements occurred in all the districts but they were generally larger in the
sub-counties where the NECDP project was active as detailed below.

Household incomes increased more in the project areas than in the non-project areas as reflected by the
higher proportions of households with better housing conditions (such as cement floor, brick walls and
iron roofs), and ownership of household assets such as bicycles and radios.

Food security improved more in project areas than in non-project areas.
Good childcare practices such as longer periods of breastfeeding improved much more in project areas
than in non-project areas.
The proportions of children with growth monitoring cards, vitamin A supplements and those who were
de-wormed during the previous six months increased more in project areas than in non-project areas.
The nutrition status of children, as reflected by a decrease in the proportion of wasted and stunted
children, improved more in project areas than in non-project areas.

Recommendations
The economic and social improvements that have been manifested in the project areas need to be
sustained so as to have a lasting impact among the children and the communities.
The improvements in food security, childcare practices and household incomes, which were realized in
the project areas, should also be extended to the non-project areas.

2.      Community Participatory Evaluation By Nkoola Institutional Development Associates Ltd

One strategy developed and implemented geared at achieving the objectives of NECDP was the provision
of Community Grants (CGs) to communities to support local community action plans (CAPs) for
interventions that address local needs of children. The interventions under the CGs fall under the broad
categories of Food Security and Early Childcare and Education (ECE).
Three years down the road of project implementation the Government of Uganda (GOU), through the
Project Coordination Office (PCO), engaged the services of Nkoola Institutional Development Associates
(NIDA) to undertake a Participatory Beneficiary Assessment (PBA) to obtain the beneficiary's own
perceptions of the CGs. In the process of doing this NIDA was also tasked to undertake a PBA focusing
on the effectiveness of the other NECDP interventions namely; training of Community Childcare Workers
(CCWs), awareness promotion of community members on childcare practices, growth promotion
monitoring (GPM), and implementation of parish level activities.

Study Findings

Training Of CCWs By CBOs

CBO Facilitators across all study districts did provide training to CCWs but, according to the facilitators,
the effectiveness of the training was impeded by the "trainability" of the CCWs. A good number of CCWs
were quite "raw" that could neither read nor write. Their knowledge retention for subsequent use could,



                                                        - 52 -

therefore, be based on memory recall. Furthermore, the time for training CCWs was inadequate. The
CBOs were expected to transfer knowledge and skills that they had themselves acquired in six months to
the CCWs in a matter of days.

Community Participatory Planning
Community participatory planning process was effectively done and was acclaimed as having been
beneficial but the involvement of women and the poor in the process was lower than in the training and
sensitisation activities. All wealth categories were equally represented indicating absence of poverty
targeting. The time devoted to the exercise did not allow for effective participation of the community
members in all stages. Hence the plans developed lacked depth and essential details and in some cases
community members were not fully aware of the final plans.

Community Co-funding of CAPs
In the majority of cases the entire community agreed on the amount and form of community contribution
but there were instances where the PMCs dictated the modalities and forms of contribution. The process
of developing detailed budget estimates was not exhaustive enough and key cost elements were
ignored/left out creating subsequent problems in implementation. Community co-funding took the forms
of labour local materials, land and cash. Many communities contributed over and above their mandatory
25%. Little if any consideration was placed on household ability to contribute, number of expected
beneficiaries from the household, and willingness of the households to contribute.

Benefits from Community Grant Projects
·       The processes used in planning for and implementing the community grant projects had generic
benefits to the communities in the areas of building their capacities for analysis of food security problems,
participatory planning, project management including monitoring and evaluation of project
implementation.
·       The physical assets associated with the food security projects (fishponds, poultry houses, animal
pens) have the potential to become the nuclei of technology development and demonstration sites.
·       Enhancement of the social capital within the communities by fostering collective action that
embraces community members across all socio-economic strata such that the communities now have a
basis to collectively demand that resources for other projects intended for their benefit be brought near
their control.
·       Communities with ECE centers appear to have realised higher levels of benefits compared to
those with food security project apparently stemming from the fact that most food security projects had
not been on the ground for long enough. Observed behavioural changes among children were attributed
to the interactions they were able to have with others.
·       Benefits from crop-related food security projects appeared to have accrued from access to
improved seed of various crops and advice on agronomic practices. Some of the outcomes of the food
security projects included improved food availability in the households and cash from sale of surpluses.
·       Perceptions from livestock-based food security projects express benefits more in terms of
improving wealth status in addition to improving standards of living.
·       To a limited extent the projects helped in embedding the communities into the innovation system
that will enable them to sustain the same activities particularly through improved access to services from
their local governments but less so to other sources of knowledge, technologies and support.
Mechanisms for Sharing of Benefits

·       Mechanisms for sharing out benefits have not been fully worked out by the communities but two



                                                        - 53 -

main modes are emerging namely, "all inclusive" (regardless of participation) and the "exclusive" based
on household participation in the day-to-day running of the CAPs. The inclusive approach is dominant in
the ECE projects
·        Although the community grants projects were intended to benefit children, procedures for sharing
benefits do not take into consideration presence and number of children in a household.
Factors Influencing Benefits from and levels of Satisfaction with the Community Grant Projects

·        Use of participatory approaches in the designing and implementation of CAP and the concomitant
sense of ownership by communities.
·        Implementation status of the CAPs. The three main causes of variation in CAP implementation
were: timeliness of release of funds; inadequacy of funds provided and the type of project selected.
·        Style of management used in implementation of CAPs. Where the whole community agreed at the
outset to participate in the management of the project, benefits have continued to flow to those who
sustained participation. Where the management was by groups of members with similar interests and
focus on the aspect of the CAP that they are interested in, more harmony has tended to lead to even flow
of benefits to the members. Where management is by an individual member of the community (e.g. for an
animal) the flow of benefits to other community members was determined by the effectiveness of the rules
set by the communities on how the benefits would flow to the other members.
·        Continued guidance and regular backstopping to the communities by some CBOs facilitators and
other extension officials after the initial sensitisation and training.
·        Commitment of the communities to the projects and the capacities, particularly the transparency,
of the PMCs.
·        Grant amounts not taking into consideration the type of project or population size in the
community.
·        No clear indication from the interactions with the beneficiaries that importance was put on lesson
learning despite the fact that the NECDP has had many innovative approaches to development processes
and has collected a wealth of experience across the regions of the country.
Mechanisms Developed for Sustainability

Generally sustainability mechanisms were not well thought through in most communities. In particular, no
viable deliberate effort is put in place to link up with other development players. However, measures are
being introduced in some communities to solve immediate problems that, if successful, could lead to
some degree of sustainability. These included user charges, sales of products/services, sourcing for
support from outside the community, and continued mobilisation of community participation.

Good Child care Practices

Awareness of childcare practices: Enhanced awareness and use of knowledge and skills in childcare
practices. Changes are highest for child feeding, household hygiene and sanitation practices closely
followed by awareness of child health and child stimulation while child rights have the lowest awareness
levels.

Child nutrition: Appreciation of the association between child health and exclusive breast-feeding for the
first six month, weaning after two years, proper child nutrition and correct feeding of pregnant mothers
has increased. So has awareness for the need to give children a balanced and a fair grasp of knowledge of
nutritional values from different foodstuffs.

Household sanitation and hygiene practices Increased knowledge of household sanitation and hygiene



                                                           - 54 -

practices in the areas of maintaining clean compound, removing bushes around the house, washing of
hands, washing children's clothes and bathing children. Boiling drinking water was the area where there
was the lowest level of behavioural change.

Child health: Communities are knowledgeable about the need to de-worm children. Of the 66% who use
chemical drugs 59% started de-worming as a result of NECDP interventions in or after 2000. Project
accredited with having contributed to enhanced immunisation rates of children resulting from increased
understanding of the advantages of and removal of misconceptions about immunisation.

Child Stimulation and Rights of Children: High awareness levels of child stimulation practices, increased
involvement of men in caring for children and acknowledgement of the right of children to go to school.

Perceptions on Change in Lives of Children: Improved perceptions of qualitative changes for the better in
the livelihoods of children compared to 3 years ago. Beneficiaries attribute this to putting into practice
the knowledge/skills on childcare practices.

Growth Promotion and Monitoring (GPM)

Weighing of Children: CCWs weighing children was widely acknowledged.

Recording of Weights Plotting of child's weight on Child Health Cards or recording in the community
register (book) was, to a very large extent, confirmed.

Counseling: Counseling has been provided both during home visits and during weighing

Perceived Benefits from GPM: Parents/caregivers whose children have been weighed acknowledge the
benefits of early warning system in case of faulty growth, encouragement to continue feeding children
well, and acquisition of improved knowledge and skills, among others.

Implementation of Parish Level Activities

Child's Days: Child's Days had been conducted. Acknowledged benefits associated with Child's Days
include bringing public services nearer to the people by creating functional linkages between service
provider departments in the district and the communities.

Exchange Visits: Exchange visits have not been conducted as widely as the Child's Day.

RECOMMENDATIONS

Training of CCWs

Criteria for selecting CCWs ought to include some aspect of literacy. Training methods should be
appropriate for individuals with low levels of literacy

Training of community members

Formation of cohesive and inclusive groups may not be possible under all circumstances. Attempts should
be made to ensure that the poor and vulnerable are targeted whatever method of convening community
members for training is used.

Community Participatory Planning
Participatory planning approaches need enough time and resources to ensure that community members
participate in all the stages. Measures should be taken to ensure that no group dominates the process and




                                                       - 55 -

that the outcomes reflect the needs of the women and the poor.

Community Co-funding:

Decisions on amounts and forms of contribution by the community ought to be made by the communities.
Mechanisms should be built into the process of deciding the forms and amounts to be contributed by the
women, the disadvantaged and the poor households to reflect their ability to bear the burden.

Enhancing and Sharing of Benefits from the Community Grant Projects

·       Develop and use mechanisms for targeting children and poor households in the sharing of
benefits.
·       Sharing of benefits mechanisms should take into consideration the number of target children in
households to ensure equitable distribution of benefits
·       Increase the focus on children
Enhancing Benefits and levels of Satisfaction with the Community Grant Projects

·       Employ management approaches that foster sustained commitment. Communal/ group fields
should largely be used as demonstration sites.
·       Prescribe management approaches that ensure transparency and develop grant-project
management systems that assure information flow to the beneficiaries.
·       Introduce Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation whereby the communities identify their own
performance indicators, develop their M&E plans and routinely monitor not only the use of project inputs
and the delivery of project outputs but also the changes that are taking place in their communities as the
project is being implemented.
·       Improve funds disbursement to communities to increase the responsiveness of the funding
mechanisms.
·       Institute measures/criteria taking into consideration the demographic aspects of the communities
and the type of project selected in deciding the grant amount.
·       Widen the scope of the grants from food security and ECE to embrace other areas that impact on
the children 0-6 years of age and are situation specific.
·       Introduce/ enhance lesson learning and sharing of experiences for the project to benefit from cross
fertilisation with other projects. Value could be added to its outputs when the innovations it has
developed are scaled up by others.
Mechanisms for Sustaining Benefits

·       Embed communities into innovation systems that can enable them to solve future problems on
their own.
·       Communities create wider linkages and partnerships which process should start at the planning
stage by involving and considering roles and responsibilities of other stakeholder institutions working in
the child development and food security areas within their sub-counties and districts apart from the
community, public servants and project functionaries.
·       Food security projects should, as a rule, link with the processes and interventions of the Plan for
Modernisation of Agriculture particularly the National Agricultural Advisory Service.


3.      Evaluation Of Communication Activities By Steadman And Associates




                                                        - 56 -

CHILD has developed communication campaigns targeting the primary care takers of children aged 6
years and below. The campaigns mainly focused on personal hygiene & sanitation, Early Childhood
development and complementary feeding practices. Communication activities aim at increasing
knowledge; develop positive attitudes and causing positive behavior change.

Communication of these messages has been done through multiple channels of communication, which
include: mass media - radio and newspapers. In addition, posters and booklets have been distributed. All
communication materials used to disseminate information were pretested to the target audience to ensure they were
understood and would lead to comprehension of the intended message. Interpersonal channels of communication
have also been adopted where local NGOs, community based childcare workers are trained and charged
with the responsibility of sensitizing their communities. There was also use of drama/ road shows and
Child's days at sub county level.

6 waves of research have been carried out over a period of 2 years. For each wave, 4 randomly selected
districts were sampled and in each district, 3 randomly selected sub-counties were considered. Districts &
sub counties sampled represent those area which CHILD had conducted localized campaigns This methodology has
been used for all the waves for this study.
The following indicators were measured over time:

·       To determine the percentage of those who claim to have been exposed to the CHILD messages.
·       To track the percentage of those who recall any of the messages they have been exposed to.
·       To track the percentage of those who correctly recall the organization responsible for bringing
any of the messages they claim to have heard.
·       To establish the percentage of those who correctly comprehend the messages that they claim to
have heard.
·       To establish the percentage of the exposed target that has adopted the recommended behavior
against those that are reluctant to change their current behavior.
·       To determine the percentage of those exposed and who intend to adopt the new behavior in the
near future.
·       To identify hindrances, if any, to positive change in behavior.

This report represents findings of the 6th wave of research. Data for the previous waves has also been
included for comparison purposes.

Methodology
A total of 480 interviews were conducted spread over 4 districts in equal proportions. The districts where
the survey was conducted include Sembabule ­ Central, Kumi ­ Eastern, Kabarole ­ Western and Nebbi
­ Northern. In each of the district 120 interviews were conducted spread over 3 sub counties. In each of
the sub counties 40 interviews were conducted with a gender split of 50% male and 50% female. The
areas that were considered for the evaluation are the ones where CHILD communication activities had
been launched and they were recommended by the CHILD project. Considering that the CHILD project
areas were many, random sampling was done at each wave to select four districts (One from each
region).




                                                           - 57 -

Demographics of the Sample
The sample for all the waves comprised of caregivers of children of 0 ­ 6 years of age. Comparison of
the data with the previous waves has been done in order to track changes in Knowledge, Attitude and
Practice over time.

Languages
The local language of the area determines the language most well understood and spoken. Overall,
Luganda is the most preferred language for radio listening. Luganda and English have been identified as
the main languages preferred for reading materials and radio listening overall. Wave 1had the highest
mentions of Luganda as a language preferred for radio listening and reading materials than in other waves
at 38% and 35% respectively. However looking at the specific regions we see that the local languages in
those areas are the ones likely to be used.


 Waves    Regions             Language preferred for         Language preferred for
                              radio listening                reading materials
 Wave1    Central            Luganda(98%)                   Luganda(88%), English (7%)
          (Masaka)           Lusoga (42%), Luganda          Luganda (50%), lusoga(13%)
          Eastern            (50%)                          Karimajong (36%), Ngaupe
          (Iganga)           Karamajong(72%)                (5%), Pokot(2%)
          Northern           Ngaupe(7%), Pokot(50%)         English (28%), Rutooro(56%),
          (Moroto)           Rutoro(57%), English(15%),     Rukiga(7%).
          Western            Rukiga(17%)
          (Kabarole)
 Wave     Central            Luganda                        Luganda (53%), English (23%)
 2        (Sembabule)        (58%),Runyankore(13%)          Luganda(40%), English (18%),
         Eastern (Bugiri)    Luganda(33%),Lusoga (45%) Lugwere(26%)
         Northern (Arua) Lugbara(46%)                       Swahili (18%), English (14%),
         Western             Runyankore(85%)                Lugbara(18%)
         (Bushenyi)                                         Runyankore(64%)
 Wave     Central (Mpigi)     Luganda(83%)                   Luganda(79%), English(16%)
 3        Eastern (Kumi)      Ateso(72%)                     Ateso(44%), English (43%)
          Western             Runyankore (29%), English      Runyankore (20%), English
          (Rukungiri)         (19%)                          (25%)
          Northern            Alur(64%)                      Alur (51%), Emglish(30%)
          (Nebbi)
Wave 4    Central            Luganda (95%)                  Luganda (65%), English (21%)
          (Masaka)           Lusoga (60%), Luganda(13%) English (36%), Luganda (11%),
          Eastern            Karimajong (35%), Pokot        Lusoga(43%)
          (Iganga)           (26%), Swahili (23%)           English (11%), Swahili (18%),
          Northern           Rutoro (58%), Luganda          Karimajong (27%)
          (Moroto)           (23%0, Runyankore(9%)          Rutoro(31%), English (31%),
          Western                                           Runyankore(19%)
          (Kabarole)
Wave 5    Central             Luganda (85%), English         Luganda(76%), English(21%)
          (Kiboga)            (9%)                           Ateso(43%), English (13%)


                                                     - 58 -

           Eastern 9Kumi)      Ateso(79%), English(14%)     Runyankore(65%), English
           Western             Runyankore(87%),             (13%)
           (Bushenyi)          Rukiga(7%)                   Karimajong(29%), English
           Northern            Karimajong(81%), English     (22%)
           (Moroto)            (8%)
Wave 6     Central             English (2%), Runyankore     English (7%),
           (Sembabule)         (12%), Luganda (85%)         Runyankore(10%),
           Eastern (Kumi)      Ateso(88%), English(4%)      Luganda(76%)
           Western             Rutoro (49%), English        English (21%), swahili(15%),
           (Kabarole)          (23%)                        Ateso(60%)
           Northern (Nebi)                                  Rutoro(45%), English (31%),
                               Alur(75%), English(8%)       Runyankore(2%), Swahili(2%)
                                                            English (29%), Swahili (17%),
                                                            Alur(38%)

Radio Ownership & Listenership
Ownership of radio is generally high through out all the 6 waves of evaluation. The highest mention of
owning a working radio is recorded in wave 6 at 80%.
Looking at radio listenership, the radio stations listened to vary per wave mainly because different
districts were visited at each wave a part from W1 and W4 where the districts were the same.
Wave1          Wave2            Wave 3        Wave 4         Wave 5           Wave 6
CBS 88.8 -     Radio West ­ Rukungiri FM Voice of Toro ­ Voice of Teso ­ Voice of
12%            31%              ­ 18%         21%            55%              Toro ­
                                                                              28%
CBS 89.2 ­     CBS 88.8 ­       Paidha FM ­ Simba FM ­       CBS 88.8 ­       CBS 88.8
9%             24%              18%           20%            47%              ­ 24%
Voice of       Capital FM ­ Capital FM ­ CBS 88.8 ­          Gulu FM ­ 36% Capital
Tooro ­ 7%     22%              17%           19%                             Radio ­
                                                                              22%
Equator FM ­ Blue channel Voice of Toro Capital Radio ­ Voice of Toto ­ Voice of
5%             ­ 18%            ­ 17%         19%            34%              Teso ­
                                                                              22%
Red Channel ­ Simba FM ­        Bunyoro       Green Channel Radio West ­      Paidah FM
4%             17%              broadcasting ­ 18%           28%              ­ 21%
                                ­ 13%
               Voice of Toro Radio West ­ CBS 89.2 ­         Red channel ­    Radio
               ­ 12%            13%           18%            26%              west ­
                                                                              12%

Sanitation and personal hygiene: In Wave 6 the major source of information on sanitation and personal
hygiene was radio at 80%. Radio has been found to be major source of information in all the waves.
There is also a remarkable increase of the caregivers who mentioned Medical health workers and LCs as
sources of information on personal hygiene and sanitation. There is a slight decrease in the role of
informal sources of information such as family members and friends and neighbors on comparing the



                                                      - 59 -

figures with those of wave 5.

Nutrition and feeding of children: The most outstanding sources of information are radio, family
members, medical health workers and friends and neighbors. The role of the Local councils is relatively
low compared to the other sources of information with the highest mention in W2 at 67%. Mention of
family members has also decreased compared to the W5 scores.

Child Development: Radio remains the most prominent source of information throughout all the waves
apart from W1 where family members were the highest at 47%. Other sources of information that
recorded high mentions are Friends and neighbors (70%), family members (65%) and medical health
workers at 62%.

How parents should interact with their children: Just like the other topics, radio is the most prominent
source of information for this topic, followed by Medical health workers and friends and neighbors.

General knowledge on health matters
Disease and malnutrition are still the major problems affecting children. The most common disease is
malaria at 75%. This has also been the highest mention in all the waves.

Access to health workers

55% of the caregivers in wave 6 rated the health worker as very near or near. Wave 1 and Wave 2 had
the highest mention of accessibility to the health worker.

EXPOSURE TO COMMUNICATION MESSAGES
Complementary feeding practices

The topic of the type of food to give to young children is seen as the main topic heard on complementary
feeding practices, while the role of an adult in feeding a sick child had the lowest mention overall. There
are no significant differences between waves regarding the recall of messages on complementary feeding
practices.



Sources of information on these topics are many. The main source of information however is r
adio, followed by CCWs and the Medical health workers. Mention of the LCs as sources of information
on complementary feed is very low throughout all the waves.

Balanced Diet

A balanced diet was on of the indicators of the type of foods to be given to children. 95% of the
respondents said the y know the type of food to be given to children with the highest mention in the
North (100%).

Animal proteins and foods rich in carbohydrates recorded the highest mentions.

There is very low mention of vegetables, while mention of fruits has increased significantly from 35% at
wave 5 to 48% at wave 6.

Enriching Porridge

In wave 6 90% of the caregivers enrich the porridge they give their children and this has been the highest
throughout all the waves. Caregivers in the Northern region registered a high incidence of enriching the


                                                        - 60 -

porridge they serve to children.

Meals and Two Healthy Snacks

There is a slight increase in the mention of giving a child three meals and 1 healthy snack from 82% in
W5 to 84% in W6. It should be noted that although the same districts visited at W1 and W4 there is a
significant difference in the percentages with W1 being higher than W4.

Across regions there are no significant differences in the mention of giving a child three meals and 1
healthy snack per day.

Breast-feeding

Mention of introducing a child to solid foods at 6 months is relatively high throughout all the waves of
research. However the highest is at W6 (84%). There are no significant differences between the regions.

Role of Adults in feeding young children.

Knowledge of the role of an adult in feeding a child it very low in all the waves. At W6 29% mentioned
having heard of the role of an adult in feeding a child. Across regions the central had the highest mention
of knowing the role of an adult in feeding a child at 38% while the rest were at 26%.

Feeding a Sick Child

There are no significant differences across waves in terms of those who have heard of the role of an adult
in feeding a sick child. W6 had the highest mention at 56%. Across regions the Central and the Northern
recorded low mention at 43% for both. The Eastern had the highest at 76% followed by the Western at
63%.

Personal Hygiene & Sanitation
Symptoms of worms
A wide range of the symptoms of worms was identified. However, there was high mention of a swollen
potbelly through out all the waves of research.

Causes of worms in children

Eating dirty food and drinking dirty water were identified as the main causes of worms in all the waves.
There were also other causes mentioned such as eating or licking soil, not washing hands before eating
food and using dirty utensils.

Ever Dewormed Children

Incidence of deworming children is high in all the waves apart from W1 where only 48% of the caregivers
claimed to have ever dewormed their children.

Deworming After 6 Months

Although the percentage of those who have given deworming medicine to their children in high, there is
low incidence of deworming children after every 6 months. On comparing the 6 waves, W6 has a high
percentage of those who claimed to deworm children every 6 months at 51% followed by W5 at 46%.

Sources of information on deworming and worm prevention are health centers, health workers and
medical personnel and radio. Although radio has been a major source of information for most topics the




                                                        - 61 -

major source of information on deworming has been health centers and hospitals.

Sanitation

There is high mention of having heard messages on provision of proper sanitary facilities in a home and
no significant differences are noted between waves. Practice of the behaviour heard in the messages on
the provision of proper sanitary facilities in the home is high in W5 (87%)as compared to the other
waves.

Sources of information on these messages are health centers, LCs, radio, friends and neighbors.

       Benefits of having a clean home                         Wave 6

        My children will achieve healthy growth               70%

       Cutting on the expense of treating illness             69%

       It reduces the frequency of sickness in my family 69%

Early Childhood Development

The topic that recorded the highest mention is talking with children at 68%. Comparison with the other
waves indicates that W2 had the highest mention of this topic at 70% as compared other waves.

Message heard -                              Wave 6
                                             N=480
Talking with your children                   68%
Showing love and affection to young          59%
children
Young children learning through play         49%
Spending time with children                  52%
How parents should interact with children 45%
Sources of information on Early Childhood Development include radio, childcare workers (CCWs),
family members and health officials.

On the benefits of freely interacting with children, there is an increase in the perceived benefits.

                                                          Wave
                                                          N=480
        Increase the child's self esteem                  52%
       Increase the child's confidence                    72%
       To develop a child's talents and prospects         44%
       It improves family unity                           51%
       It reduced the potential for conflict in the       25%
       family
       It promotes communication skills for the child 38%

On ways of interacting with children, "playing with children", "speaking with their children " and "telling
them stories" recorded the highest mention at W6.



                                                         - 62 -

       Ways for a parent to interact           Wave
       freely with their children              N=480
        Playing with children                  70%
        Speak to their children                53%
        Tell them stories                      52%
        Sing to them                           42%
        Conversing/talking freely              37%
        Tell riddles and proverbs              31%
        Provide local toys                     26%

Sources of information on Early Childhood Development
Radio is by far still the main source of information on Early Child Hood Development though other
sources of information also come into play.

Knowledge of The CHILD Project
There is a significant increase in the percentage that have heard of the CHILD project as well as those
who have seen the Logo in W6 (70% - Heard of CHILD, 59% - seen the Logo) if compared with the
other waves. The Central region recorded the highest incidence of seeing the Logo and hearing of the
CHILD project.

Child's Day
In Wave 6 mention of hearing of the Child's day is at 53%. There is a significant difference between those
who have heard of the Child's day and those who have attended (27%).

Road show

Significant differences appear between waves for those who have mentioned attending the road show. At
wave 6 only 10% have attended a road show. Across regions, attendance of the road show is high in the
Central (18%), foll0wed by the Western (12%) and the Northern at 9%. The Eastern had the lowest
mention at 1%.

Conclusions

Findings of this survey indicate the change over time in the effectiveness of the communication activities
that have been running for over a year and they offer guidelines on strengths and weaknesses of the
strategy. While some topics have increased significantly, others have either dropped or remained the
same.

Radio has remained the major source of information. However, there is a high tendency of forgetting the
messages communicated on the radio and the sponsors of the messages. IT is also noted that the role of
informal sources of information such as family members, neighbors and friends in disseminating
information on various issues is high. Despite the fact that the LCs are closer to the people than the other
players in the local communities their role is low as regards giving information on various issued. It is
important that in addition to the health workers and the CCWs the LCs be empowered to undertake
localized activities in the community.

Knowledge of the CHILD project has increased considerably. However this seems to be concentrated
more in the Central than the other regions. CHILD project intervention activities are not distinguished



                                                        - 63 -

from the Health workers for both waves. In addition the project does not have a common name used in
all the areas. There is therefore a possibility of misunderstanding the actual intervention activities of the
CHILD project. There should be ways of distinguishing the various players from the CHILD officers so
as to track the effectiveness of the intervention programmes.

Exposure to the communications materials should be done through out the regions uniformly and in the
language that is locally spoken in the region. It is therefore not fair to compare the regions that have had
more intervention with those that have had less intervention activities.

It is also noted that some of the materials had relatively low recall percentages especially those that were
stopped mid-term. There is need to be consistent with the materials that are being used in the
communication strategy or remove those that have been stopped from the evaluation scale if change in
behavior or recall trends are to be tracked.




                                                        - 64 -

TABLES
Table 1:       National Technical Assistance (NTAs) Consultants, Project per Region, Project
Districts and their IAs supported by the NECDP (1999 ­ 2003)
No    National    Technical    Assistance District        Name of NGO
      (NTA)

1     Development     and    Management Kiboga            African   Medical   and   Research  Foundation
      Consultants International (DMCI) ­                  (AMREF)
      for Central Region

                                          Masaka          Uganda National Association of Community and
                                                          Occupational Health (UNACOH)

                                          Mpigi           Buganda Cultural and Development Foundation
                                                          (BUCADEF)

                                          Wakiso          Buganda Cultural and Development Foundation
                                                          (BUCADEF)

                                          Mubende         National Association of Women's Organisation in
                                                          Uganda (NAWOU)

                                         Rakai            World Vision International

                                         Sembabule        MINNESOTA International Health Volunteers

2     African   Medical    and   Research Tororo          National Association of Women's Organisation in
      Foundation (AMREF) ­ for Eastern                    Uganda (NAWOU)
      Region

                                          Iganga          Idudi Development Association

                                          Kumi           National Association of Women's Organisation in
                                                         Uganda (NAWOU)
                                          Mbale          National Association of Women's Organisation in
                                                         Uganda (NAWOU)
                                          Sironko        National Association of Women's Organisation in
                                                         Uganda (NAWOU)
                                          Pallisa         Africa   Resource    Development   Organisation
                                                          (ARDO)

                                          Busia           National Association of Women's Organisation in
                                                          Uganda (NAWOU)

                                          Bugiri         Idudi Development Association

                                          Mayuge         Idudi Development Association

3     Alfa Development and Consultants Moroto             Moroto County Association for Development
      ­ for Northern Region                               /Save the Children U.K

                                          Nakapiripirit   Moroto County Association for Development




                                                      - 65 -

                                                          /Save the Children U.K

                                          Kitgum          World Vision International

                                          Gulu            World Vision International

                                          Kotido          World Vision International

                                          Nebbi           Africa   Resource    Development     Organisation
                                                          (ARDO)

                                          Pader           World Vision International

                                          Yumbe           Africa   Resource    Development     Organisation
                                                          (ARDO)

                                          Arua            Africa   Resource    Development     Organisation
                                                          (ARDO)

4     Child health Development Centre Bushenyi            Integrated Community based Initiatives (ICOBI)
      (CHDC) ­ for Western Region

                                          Kabarole       Uganda National Association of Community and
                                                         Occupational Health (UNACOH)
                                          Kamwenge       Uganda National Association of Community and
                                                         Occupational Health (UNACOH)
                                          Kyenjojo       Uganda National Association of Community and
                                                         Occupational Health (UNACOH)
                                          Mbarara         Agency    for  Cooperation   and    Research   in
                                                          Development (ACORD)

                                          Rukungiri       Runkungiri Gender and Development Association
                                                          (RUGADA)

                                          Kanungu         Runkungiri Gender and Development Association
                                                          (RUGADA)

                                          Bundibugyo      African   Medical   and   Research    Foundation
                                                          (AMREF)


Resource Centers
   The Project Consultants prepared simple Construction Guidelines that pointed out what was
   contained in the Technical Specifications, indicated the stages when the District Engineers and Project
   Consultant have to inspect the sites, the approvals required and at stages at which payment
   certificates are to be raised.


Table 3: Percentage distribution of the nutritional status of children from the Cohort (May - June
2005) for Children aged 0 - 36 months
                                 May-05        May-05          Jun-05          Jun-05
District        Number of      Percent      Percent         Percent        Percent



                                                      - 66 -

                       Children                 below -2SD            below -3SD             below -2SD             below -3SD
                       selected
 Arua                                  249
Bugiri                                   339
Bundibugyo                               262
Bushenyi                                 313                    17.4                   4.0                   16.8            3.6
Busia                                    231                    21.4                   6.9                   19.4            5.0
Gulu                                     189
Iganga                                   398                    23.5                   6.7                   21.5            5.3
Kabarole                                 328
Kiboga                                   238                    20.3                   5.9                   19.6            3.5
Kitgum                                   275                    26.4                   7.5                   26.0            6.9
Kotido                                   256
Kumi                                     521
Masaka                                   793                    19.5                   4.1                   18.9            3.9
Mbale                                    368                    22.7                   4.8                   21.4            5.8
Mbarara                                  289                    21.3                   4.3                   20.7            5.1
Moroto                                   217
Mpigi                                    204                    22.1                   5.0                   21.7            4.0
Mubende                                  638                    20.3                   4.7                   19.8            4.2
Nebbi                                    255                    24.1                   4.0                   22.9            4.3
Ntungamo                                 387                    20.5                   4.2                   19.3            5.2
Pallisa                                  301
Rakai                                    227                    21.8                   5.1                   20.6            4.0
Rukungiri                                541                    22.2                   5.3                   21.9            6.5
Sembabule                                643                    21.6                   4.6                   20.8            5.3
Tororo                                   536                    21.3                   6.1                   20.7            6.1


Region
Central                                3071                     20.9                   4.9                   20.2            4.2
Eastern                                2694                     22.2                   6.1                   20.7            5.6
Northern                               1441                     25.3                   5.8                   24.5            5.6
Western                                1792                     20.4                   4.5                   19.7            5.1


 National                            8998                     21.6                    5.2                   20.7            4.9

Note:   SD= Standard Deviation. Figures in the table relate to children aged 0 - 36 months.
The targeted reduction of prevalence of underweight of children less than 6 years in project districts is 16% (SD < -2)
Children 0 - 36 months are weighed monthly, while children 37 - 72 months are weighed quarterly
We were not able to get data from all the districts thus the gaps
The high malnutrition level is higher in northern region due to dry season in April, May as well as insecurity reasons.




                                                                                     - 67 -

- 68 -

