CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 307 DA
Project Agreement
(Zou-Borgou Cotton Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
SOCIETE NATIONALE AGRICOLE POUR LE COTON
DATED MAY 24, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 307 DA
Project Agreement
(Zou-Borgou Cotton Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
SOCIETE NATIONALE AGRICOLE POUR LE COTON
DATED MAY 24, 1972


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 24, 1972, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and SOCIETE
NATIONALE AGRICOLE POUR LE COTON (hereinafter called SONACO).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Dahomey (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association (hereinafter referred to as the Development Credit Agreement), the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to six million and one hundred thousand dollars ($6,100,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that SONACO agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association and hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS SONACO, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SONACO shall (i) perform all its obligations under this
Agreement and the SONACO Contract with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound administrative, financial and agricultural practices and (ii)
conduct its operations and affairs under capable and efficient management mutually
satisfactory, at all times, to the Association and SONACO.


﻿4
Section 2.02. SONACO shall comply with the agricultural lending procedures
set forth in Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. SONACO shall, in consultation with PWD, annually propose
to the Association, a portion of the feeder roads included in Part D of the project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement to be carried out
by the Borrower pursuant to paragraph (d) of Section 3.13 thereof.
Section 2.04. SONACO shall have the Agricultural Credit Fund audited in
accordance with the principles set forth in Section 4.02 of this Agreement.
Section 2.05. SONACO shall open an account with a banking institution
satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SONACO
Section 3.01. SONACO shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.
Section 3.02. SONACO (i) shall at all times employ in the positions of
Directeur General, Directeur General Adjoint and Directeur Financier persons with
experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Association and (ii) shall employ
CFDT, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, to assist it in setting
up its accounting system.
Section 3.03. Before SONACO shall undertake or execute, for its own
account or for the account of any third party or parties, any new major project
or development other than the Project, it shall first have satisfied the Association
that such action would not interfere with its obligations under this Agreement.
For the purpose of this Section, the term "major project or development" means
any project or development involving an investment of more than the equivalent
of 25 million CFAF or such other amount as shall be agreed from time to time
between the Association and SONACO.
Section 3.04. SONACO shall not, without the consent of the Association,
contract any debt maturing more than one year after the date on which it is
incurred.
Section 3.05. (a) SONACO shall, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers


﻿5
and franchises which are necessary or useful for the purpose of carrying out its
obligations under this Agreement and the SONACO Contract.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SONACO shall not
create or acquire any subsidiary.
(c)   SONACO    shall not take any action for amending, suspending,
abrogating, terminating, waiving or assigning the SONACO Contract without the
prior approval of the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. SONACO shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
Section 4.02. SONACO shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of SONACO and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and SONACO shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and SONACO shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of SONACO and other matters relating to the purpose of the
Credit.


﻿6
Section 5.02. The Association and SONACO shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 5.03. SONACO shall enable the Association's representatives to
inspect all offices, properties and equipment of SONACO and any relevant records
and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of SONACO thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       the date on which the SONACO Contract shall terminate
in accordance with its terms.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify SONACO of this event and, upon the giving
of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall
forthwith terminate.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed


﻿7
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For SONACO:
Soci6t6 Nationale Agricole
pour le Coton
B.P. 50
Parakou
Dahomey
Cable address:
SONACO
B.P. 50
Parakou-Dahomey
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of SONACO may be taken or executed by its Directeur GdMral for such other
person or persons as SONACO shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. SONACO shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of SONACO, take any action or execute any documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by SONACO pursuant to any of
the provisions of this Agreement.


﻿8
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Aldewereld
Vice President
SOCIETE NATIONALE AGRICOLE POUR LE COTON
By /s/ Saturnin Soglo
Authorized Representative


