CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 307 DA
Project Agreement
(Zou-Borgou Cotton Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
SOCIETE DE COMMERCIALISATION ET DE
CREDIT AGRICOLE DU DAHOMEY
DATED MAY 24, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 307 DA
Project Agreement
(Zou-Borgou Cotton Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
SOCIETE DE COMMERCIALISATION ET DE
CREDIT AGRICOLE DU DAHOMEY
DATED MAY 24, 1972


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,         dated     May         24,     1972,      between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and SOCIETE DE COMMERCIALISATION ET DE CREDIT
AGRICOLE DU DAHOMEY (hereinafter called SOCAD).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Dahomey (hereinafter called the Borrower) and ,the
Association (hereinafter referred to as the Development Credit Agreement), the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to six million and one hundred thousand dollars ($6,100,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that SOCAD agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS SOCAD, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SOCAD shall perform all its obligations under this Agreement
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative and
financial practices.


﻿4
Section 2.02. SOCAD shall (a) establish and thereafter maintain a separate
cotton account; and (b) open and thereafter maintain in a banking institution
satisfactory to the Association an account for its cotton operations; such account
shall be credited with such amounts as shall be allocated in accordance with the
provisions of Section 3.11 of the Development Credit Agreement and debited solely
with any amounts necessary to meet (i) transfers to be made to the Agricultural
Credit Fund upon submission by SONACO of applications for reimbursements of
amounts corresponding to the subsidy payable by the Borrower in respect of
fertilizer purchased by SONACO for the use of cotton growers under the Project
and (ii) the Borrower's share in losses incurred under the Convention de mandat
de gestion or such arrangements as shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Section 4.02 of the Development Credit Agreement and the balance, if any,
may be invested in obligations maturing within a year.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SOCAD
Section 3.01. SOCAD shall at all times conduct its operations and affairs
under capable and efficient management.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SOCAD shall
not undertake or execute, for its own account or for the account of any third
party or parties, any new project or development other than the Project, which
might interfere with its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 3.03. SOCAD shall, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers and
franchises which are necessary or useful for the purpose of carrying out its
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. SOCAD shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
Section 4.02. SOCAD shall: (i) adopt auditing procedures satisfactory to the
Association; (ii) have the SOCAD cotton account and the financial statements
related to it for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with such auditing


﻿5
procedures consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (iii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of such financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of SOCAD and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request for
its own information.
Section 4.03. SOCAD shall appoint and maintain a qualified and experienced
accountant, under the responsibility and the supervision of SOCAD's President
Directeur Ggneral, to carry out SOCAD's accounting operations with respect to
the SOCAD cotton account. Such accountant shall be assisted by appropriate
personnel to keep SOCAD's accounts up to date.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and SOCAD shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and SOCAD shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of SOCAD and other matters relating to the purpose of the
Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and SOCAD shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 5.03. SOCAD shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
all offices and properties of SOCAD and any records and documents pertaining
to the SOCAD cotton account.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.


﻿6
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of SOCAD thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       the date on which the SONACO Contract shall terminate in
accordance with its terms.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify SOCAD of this event and, upon the giving of
such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall
forthwith terminate.
Section 6.03, All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
ielegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.


﻿7
For SOCAD:
Socift6 de Commercialisation et
de Cr6dit Agricole du Dahomey
B.P. 933
Cotonou
Dahomey
Cable address:
SOCAD
B.P. 933
Cotonou - Dahomey
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of SOCAD may be taken or executed by its Prdsident Directeur Gindral or such
other person or persons as SOCAD shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. SOCAD shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of SOCAD, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by SOCAD pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / S. Aldewereld                Vice President
SOCIETE DE COMMERCIALISATION ET DE CREDIT
AGRICOLE DU DAHOMEY
By /s/ Saturnin Soglo
Authorized Representative


