CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 307 DA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Zou-Borgou Cotton Project)
BETWEEN
REPUiTLIC OF DAHOMEY
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 24, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 307 DA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Zou-Borgou Cotton Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF DAHOMEY
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 24, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       May   24,  1972, between the REPUBLIC       OF
DAHOMEY (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrowel has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the cost of tho Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by the Borrower with the assistance
of (i) Soci9te Nationale Agricole pour le Coton (hereinafter called SONACO), a
"Societd d'Etat" existing under the laws of the Borrower pursuant to Borrower's
Decree No. 71-238 of December 6, 1971; and (ii) Societd de Commercialisation
et de Crddit Agricole du Dahomey (hereinafter called SOCAD), a "Socitd d'Etat
d caractere commercial et financier" existing under the laws of the Borrower
pursuant to Borrower's Ordinance No. 72-4 of January 29, 1972; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in project agreements of even date herewith
between the Association and SONACO and SOCAD, respectively;
WHEREAS the French Republic is currently assisting in the financing of
such project and is prepared to enter into agreements (hereinafter called the
Conventions de financement) with the Borrower providing for grants to the
Borrower in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to about $3,100,000;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):


﻿4
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02 (h) is deleted and Section 6.02 (i) becomes 6.02 (h);
(c)   Section 6.06 is amended by inserting the words ", the SONACO Project
Agreement, the SOCAD Project Agreement" after the words "The Development
Credit Agreement";
(d)   Section 8.02 is amended by inserting the words ", the SONACO Project
Agreement or under the SOCAD Project Agreement" after the words "The
Development Credit Agreement"; and
(0) The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The terms 'SONACO Project Agreement' and 'SOCAD Project
Agreement' shall have the meaning set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "SONACO Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and SONACO of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time;
(b)   "SOCAD Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and SOCAD of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time;
(c)  The term "SONACO Statuts" means the Statuts of SONACO approved
by Borrower's Decree No. 71-238 of December 6, 1971; the term "SOCAD
Statuts" means the Statuts of SOCAD approved by Borrower's Ordinance No. 72-4
of January 29, 1972 and includes the provisions of the by-laws (rglement
interieur) to be adopted by SOCAD to the extent that they apply to the SOCAD
cotton account;
(d)  The letters CFDT mean "Compagnie FranVaise pour le Developpement
des Fibres Textiles", a SociMte d'Economie Mixte existing under the laws of the
French Republic;


﻿5
(e)   The  letters SATEC    mean   "Socidtd  d'Aide  Technique et de
Coopdration ", a Socitd d'Etat existing under the laws of the French Republic;
(f)   The letters IRCT mean "Institut de Recherches du Coton et des
Textiles Exotiques", an association existing under the laws of the French Republic;
(g)   The letters IRAT   mean   "Institut de Recherches Agronomiques
Tropicales et des Cultures Vivridres ", an association existing under the laws of
the French Republic;
(h)   The letters IRHO mean "Institut de Recherche pour les Huiles et
Oldagineux ", an association existing under the laws of the French Republic;
(i)   The term "Project Area" means an area covering the Zou and Borgou
"dpartenents" of the Borrower;
0)    The letters PWD mean "Public Works Department", the department
of the Ministry in charge of Public Works of the Borrower which is entrusted
with the administration, maintenance and construction of the highway system of
the Borrower;
(k)   "Convention de mandat de gestion " means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and CFDT for the purposes of (i) purchasing and ginning
seed cotton and (ii) marketing cotton lint and seed;
(1)   The terms "CFA francs" and the letters "CFAF" mean francs in the
currency of the Republic of Dahomey;
(m)   The term "SOCAD cotton account" means the account referred to
in paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of the SOCAD Project Agreement;
(n)   The term "participant" means a farmer participating in Parts A and
B of the Project;
(o)   The term "Village Group" means a group of farmers organized at the
village level for the purpose of establishing a mutual guarantee fund:
(p)   The term "SONACO Contract" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and SONACO for the purposes of (i) the carrying out
by SONACO, as executing agent of the Borrower, of Parts A, B and E of the
Project; and (ii) keeping and administering the accounts respectively referred to


﻿6
in subparagraph (a) (ii) of Section 3.06 of this Agreement with the exception of
the accounts in respect of the construction and equipment of the ginneries included
in Part C of such Project and the feasibility study included in Part F of such
Project;
(q)   The term "agricultural lending procedures" means the procedures set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time; and
(r)   The term "Agricultural Credit Fund" means the revolving credit fund
to be established under the Project and operated by SONACO on behalf of the
Government to provide cotton growers in the Project area with seasonal credits
for fertilizers and insecticides and medium-term credit for the purchase of farm
implements.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to six million and one hundred thousand
dollars ($6,100,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services for consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured under procedures
consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits published by the Bank in August 1969, as revised in May 1971, and in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.


﻿7
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1975 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 1 and
October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
October 1, 1982 and ending April 1, 2022, each installment to and including the
installment payable on April 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half
per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall through its Ministry of Rural
Development and Cooperation carry out Parts A, B, C, E and F of the Project
and through its PWD carry out Part D of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial, agricultural and
public works practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall take and cause to
be taken all action necessary or appropriate to enable SONACO and SOCAD to
perform their obligations under (i) the SONACO Project Agreement and the
SONACO Contract, and (ii) the SOCAD Project Agreement, respectively, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with
such performance.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation


﻿8
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall enter into a contract with CFDT, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, providing that CFDT shall
be responsible for the planning, designing and supervision of the construction of
the ginneries included in Part C of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall employ qualified and experienced
consultants satisfactory to the Association, upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association, in order to assist the Borrower in preparing the crop
diversification feasibility study included in Part F of the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all appropriate legislative or
administrative measures to entrust CFDT with the marketing of cotton seed and
shall not amend, suspend or abrogate such measures unless the Association shall
otherwise agree.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain (i)
within its Ministry in charge of Public Works a special account in respect of the
feeder road improvement program under Part D of the Project and (ii) within its
Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperation special accounts for the purposes
of Parts A, B, C, E and F of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall (i) have such accounts audited at the end of each
fiscal year, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
its Contrdleurs d'Etat; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than four months after the end of each such year, the report
of such audit by such Contr6leurs d'Etat, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning such accounts and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall establish and, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, thereafter maintain, within its Ministry of Rural Development
and Cooperation, a revolving credit fund including interest and repayment income
which shall be administered by SONACO in accordance with the provisions of


﻿9
the SONACO Contract and which shall be used exclusively for credit operations
under Part B of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall not amend the agricultural lending procedures
without the prior approval of the Association.
Section 3.08. In carrying out Part A of the Project the Borrower shall employ
CFDT and SATEC under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.09. In carrying out Part F of the Project the Borrower shall employ
IRCT, IRAT AND IRHO under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that, in the Project area, at
each echelon of its agricultural extension services, the person in charge of an unite
d'execution, or in his absence or inability to act, his immediate assistant shall have
full responsibility for its operations.
(b)   At all echelons of such extension services, the responsibilities of all
personnel shall be specifically defined.
Section 3.11. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
use its share in the profits made by CFDT out of the purchasing and ginning
of seed cotton and out of the marketing of cotton lint and seed and p :id annually
to the Borrower by CFDT under the Convention de mandat de gestion or such
arrangements as shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.02
of this Agreement, in the following manner:
(a)   Whenever, in any fiscal year of SOCAD, the net balance of the amounts
entered into the SOCAD cotton account in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph (b) of Section 2.02 of the SOCAD Project Agreement is less than
CFAF 500 million, such profits shall be allocated as follows:
(i)         So long as the amount of such profits does not exceed
CFAF 100 million, such amount shall be allocated to the
SOCAD cotton account;
(ii)        Any amount in excess of CFAF 100 million shall, to the extent
necessary, be earmarked for the financing of the Borrower's
contribution under Part A of the Project and any amount
remaining thereafter, if any, shall be allocated to the SOCAD
cotton account.


﻿10
(b)   Whenever, in any fiscal year of SOCAD, the net balance of the amounts
entered into the SOCAD cotton account in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph (b) Section 2.02 of the SOCAD Project Agreement exceeds CFAF 500
million, such profits shall be allocated as follows:
(i)         Such profits shall, to the extent necessary, be first earmarked
for the financing of the Borrower's contribution under Part A
of the Project;
(ii)       Thereafter, such profits shall, to the extent necessary, be
earmarked for the financing of cotton extension services outside
the Project area and any amount remaining thereafter, if any,
shall be allocated to the SOCAD cotton account.
Section 3.12. Before fixing cotton producer prices the Borrower shall,
annually, consult the Association.
Section 3.13 (a) In carrying out Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall
establish and maintain in its PWD, under the authority of its Director, a Special
Unit; such Special Unit shall be provided with adequate and experienced personnel,
equipment drawn from PWD's equipment and such supplemental equipment as shall
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part D of the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, and such consuhants shall provide two highway technicians
acceptable to the Association and such technicians shall be assigned to the Special
Unit referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(c)   The general design standards for the roads included in Part D of the
Project, shall be as set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(d)   The  Borrower, through    its PWD    and  on  the   basis of the
recommendations made by SONACO pursuant to Section 2.03 of the SONACO
Project Agreement, shall establish wrk schedules for the carrying out of the portion
of Part D of the Project included in such recommendations, and shall obtain the
prior approval of the Association before undertaking any work in connection
therewith.
(e)   The Borrower shall, through its PWD, adequately maintain the feeder
roads included in Part D of the Project and the feeder road network serving the
Project area.


﻿7                                11
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. After the Project has been completed the Borrower shall,
through its PWD, adequately maintain the feeder roads referred to in paragraph
(e) of Section 3.13 of this Agreement and carry out promptly all necessary repairs
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and economic standards, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 4.02. In the event the Convention de mandat de gestion is not
renewed after its initial period of five years the Borrower shall make arrangements
satisfactory to the Association for the carrying out of the operations theretofore
entrusted to CFDT under such Convention de mandat de gestion.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall annually review in consultation with the
Association the level of cotton fertilizer subsidies to the cotton growers with the
view to eliminating such subsidies not later than 198 1.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representative with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by SONACO of its obligations under the SONACO
Project Agreement and the SONACO Contract, the performance by SOCAD of
its obligations under the SOCAD Project Agreement, the administration, operations
and financial condition of SONACO and SOCAD, respectively, and, in respect of
the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic


﻿12
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial conditions of SONACO and SOCAD,
respectively, and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying OUt any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by SONACO and SOCAD of their respective
obligations under the SONACO Project Agreement and the SOCAD Project
Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the SONACO and
SOCAD Project Agreements shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with
the execution, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the
Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
C-edit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.


﻿13
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   SONACO shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or
obligation of SONACO under the SONACO Project Agreement;
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that SONACO will be able to perform its obligations under the
SONACO Project Agreement;
(c)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SONACO or for the
suspension of its operations;
(d)   Any loan to SONACO having an original maturity of one year or more
shall have become due and payable prior to its agreed maturity pursuant to the
terms thereof, or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(e)   The SONACO     Contract shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, terminated, waived or assigned without the prior approval of the
Association;
(f)   The SONACO Statuts shall be amended or abrogated without the prior
approval of the Association;
(g)   SOCAD shall have failed to perform  any covenant, agreement or
obligation of SOCAD under the SOCAD Project Agreement;


﻿15
(a)   The execution and delivery of the SONACO Project Agreement on
behalf of SONACO has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the SOCAD Project Agreement on behalf
of SOCAD has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate action.
(c)   The execution and delivery of the SONACO Contract on behalf of
the Borrower and SONACO, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all corporate and governmental action.
(d)   The execution and delivery of the contracts referred to in Section
3.08 of this Agreement have been duly authorized and ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action on behalf of the Borrower, CFDT and SATEC,
respectively.
(e)   The execution and delivery of the Convention de mandat de gestion
have been duly authorized and ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action on behalf of the Borrower and CFDT, respectively.
(f)   The Directeur Gnral, Directeur Gindral Adjoint and Directeur
Financier of SONACO have been duly appointed.
(g)   All necessary action to permit SONACO      to comply with the
agricultural lending procedures set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement has been
taken.
(h)   SONACO has certified in writing to the Association that, as of a date
to be agreed upon between the Association and SONACO (which shall be prior
to the Effective Date) there has been no material adverse change in its condition
since the date of this Agreement.
(i)   SOCAD has certified in writing to the Association that, as of the date
to be agreed upon between the Association and SOCAD (which shall be prior to
the Effective Date) there has been no material adverse change in its condition
since the date of this Agreement.
(j)   All the measures referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement have
been taken.
(k)   SOCAD has taken to the satisfaction of the Association the measures
referred to in Sections 4.02 (i) and 4.03 of the SOCAD Project Agreement.


﻿16
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be inlcuded in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the SONACO Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, SONACO, and constitutes
a valid and binding obligation of SONACO in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the SOCAD Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, SOCAD, and constitutes a
valid and binding obligation of SOCAD in accordance with its terms.
(c)   That the SONACO Contract has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and SONACO, respectively,
and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of each of the parties thereto.
(d)   That the Convention de mandat de gestion has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and CFDT
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of each of the parties
thereto.
(e)   That the contracts referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement have
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of the
Borrower, CFDT and SATEC, respectively, and constitute a valid and binding
obligation of each of the parties thereto.
(f)   That the action referred to in paragraph (g) of Section 8.01 of this
Agreement has been duly and validly taken.
(g)   That the measures referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement have
been duly and validly taken.
Section 8.03. The date August 31, 1972 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. (a) The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.02 (b),
3.06, 3.11, 3.12, 3.13, 4.02 and 4.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on
a date ten years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
(b)   The provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i),
(j) and (k) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the


﻿17
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or the date on
which the SONACO Contract shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Contonou,
Dahomey
Cable address:
Minifinances
Cotonou
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, having caused this Agreement to be


﻿18
signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF DAHOMEY
By /s / Wilfrid de Souza
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Aldewereld
Vice President


﻿19
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
I.    C.i.f. (Cotonou) cost            1,120,000          100% of foreign
of equipment and ma-                                expenditures
chines imported under
Parts A, C and D of
the Project (includ-
ing assembly costs)
II.   Construction costs               1,990,0            90% of total ex-
under Part A, C and                                 pendittres
D of the Project;
office furniture
and supplies for
Part A of the Proj -
ect, and costs
(salaries and operat-
ing expenses) of
applied research and
the agricultural di-
versification study
under Parts E and F
of the Project
III.  C.i.f. (Cotonou) cost           2,590,000
of fertilizers, in-
secticides and agri-
cultural equipment
imported for the
Project area under
Part B of the Project


﻿20
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(A)       1,900,000          100% of foreign
expenditures be-
fore December 31,
1972 and 15% of
foreign expendi-
tures in each
(B)        690,000           following year
IV.   Unallocated                       400,000
TOTAL          6,100,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country in the territories of which goods
are produced or from the territories of which services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to January 1, 1972; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by


﻿21
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association shall have reasonably    determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentage set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of foreign expenditures under sub-Category
III (B) or of total expenditures under Category II shall increase and no proceeds
of the Credit are available for reallocation to such Category, the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:     Staffing and equipping SONACO       for the administration of the
agricultural extension and credit services in the Project area;
Part B.     Establishment of a revolving credit fund to provide cotton growers
with (i) seasonal credits for insectidices and fertilizers and (ii)
medium-torm credit for the purchase of farm implements;
Part C.     Construction of two additional ginneries in the Project area to increase
annual ginning capacity from 43,000 tons of seed cotton to 67,000
tons;
Part D:     Improvement of about 620 km of feeder roads including about 200 km
in the Zou dpartement and about 420 km in the Borgou d('partement;
Part E:     Field trials throughout the Project area to adapt research results for
practical application by participants; and
Part F:     Preparation of an agricultural diversification feasibility study in the
Project area.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1974.


﻿23
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    (a)   With respect to any contract under Categories I and III of the allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this Credit Agreement,
the Borrower shall invite bidders on the basis of international competition, and
with respect to any contract for construction under Category II, only local bids
shall be invited.
(b)   With respect to any contracts for furniture and office equipment under
Category II, the Borrower shall award the contracts according to procurement
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    With respect to any contract for equipment, materials and goods under
Categories I and III and for construction of stores, houses and offices under
Category II estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make such
additions or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this


﻿24
Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
3.    With respect to any other contract for equipment, materials, goods and
construction, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section
2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
4.    For the purpose of evaluating bids for goods and associated services included
in Categories I, II and III of the table set out in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, bid prices shall be determined and compared in accordance with
the following rules:
(a)   the term  "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a manufacturer
established in the territories of the Borrower for goods manufactured or processed
to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Association) in such
territories; any other bid shall be deemed to be a "Foreign Bid";
(b)   the bid price under a Local Bid shall be the ex-factory price of such
goods; and
(c)   for the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid,
the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the following amounts:
(i)         the c.i.f. Cotonou price of such goods; and
(ii)       the amount of any taxes on the importation of such goods into
the territories of the Borrower which generally apply to


﻿25
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified in (i)
above, whichever shall be the lower.


﻿26
SCHEDULE 4
Agricultural Lending Procedures
Short-Term   Credit
Short-term credit shall be provided for insecticides and fertilizers.
(a)   Eligibility
(i)   All cotton growers shall be eligible for credit for insecticides
because pest control is mandatory.
(ii)  Fertilizer credits shall be granted only to participants without
outstanding or unpaid debts.
(b)   Rate of interest
Both for insecticides and fertilizers interest shall be charged at a rate
equivalent to eight per cent (8%) per year.
(c)   Procedures
(i)   Applications for loans shall be made by participants through
thei. local extension agent or Village Group. The sector chief
shall centralize the total needs of the areas included in his sector.
In the case of a participant who is a member of a Village Group,
the approval of the chairman of such group shall also be required
for any loan application.
(ii)  The sector chief shall forward the approved applications to the
chief of operations. After all necessary approvals are obtained,
the applications from both the Zou and the Borgou ddpartements
shall be forwarded to SONACO.
(d)   Recovery of loans
(i)   Loans for insecticides shall be      repaid  by  the individual
participant in the form of fixed amount per kg of cotton
marketed, whereas Village Groups shall make collective
repayments according to actual costs of inputs delivered to such
group.


﻿27
(ii)  Fertilizer loan repayments shall be recovered by SATEC and
CFDT from the proceeds of cotton marketed by CFDT under
the Convention de mandat de gestion. Such loans shall be repaid
at actual selling prices, both by individual participants and by
Village Groups acting collectively.
II.  Medium-Term Credit
Medium-term credit shall be provided for ox-drawn equipment.
(a)   Eligibility
Only a participant without debts outstanding or unpaid shall be eligible
for medium-term credit. The net income of such participant in the
previous crop year shall have been at least double the amount of the
repayments which would be due under the loan applied for. In
addition, the participant shall own a pair of oxen.
(b)   Credit term
(i)   Individual participants shall make   a  down   payment of
thirty-three and a third per cent (33-1/3%) of the value of the
equipment and    shall repay  the balance in equal annual
installments within the following two year period.
(ii)  Participants who are members of Village Groups shall make a
down payment of twenty-five per cent (25%) of the value of
the equipment and shall repay the balance in equal annual
installments within the following three year period. In addition,
such participants shall pay 150 CFAF when making their down
payment and when paying their subsequent annual installments
in order to build up the Village Group's mutual guarantee fund.
(c)   Rate of interest
For agricultural equipment the interest shall be charged at a rate
equivalent to eight per cent (8%) per year.
(d)   Procedures
The same procedures as those set forth in paragraph I (c) of this
Schedule shall be applied.


﻿28
(e)  Recovery of loans
The recovery of loans shall take place when the cotton is marketed
by CFDT under the Convention de mandat de gestion. When payment
is overdue, the rate of interest shall be increased by fifty per cent
(50%) for a period which shall not exceed one year; beyond that limit
the equipment shall be repossessed.


﻿29
SCHEDULE 5
General design standards for feeder roads
in the Project area
Clearing width                     7 m
Roadway width                      4 m
Gravel course                      Discontinuous
10 cm
Typical drainage                   Ditches and outlets,
structures                         culverts and concrete
fords


