Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
PROJECT APPRAISAL STAGE 
Project No. 37940 
Project Name 
Philippines First Development Policy Loan 
Region 
East Asia and Pacific 
Sector 
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit 
Project ID 
100706 
Borrower (s) 
Government of The Philippines 
Implementing agency 
Department of Finance 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[
X
]
C
[
]
FI    [  ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
October 26, 2006 
Date of Appraisal Authorization 
October 31, 2006. 
Date of Board Approval  
December 19, 2006 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Fiscal adjustment in recent years has benefited the Philippine economy and financial markets.  Economic 
growth since 2004 has been robust even in the face of higher oil prices
—and well above its historical 
trend of 3.8 percent over the previous 25 years.  In 2004, GDP growth reached 6.2 percent, its highest 
level in 15 years.  Growth slowed to 5 percent in 2005 reflecting an agricultural slowdown and terms-of-
trade deterioration (due to higher oil prices and weakness in electronics export prices), but picked up to 
5.6 percent in the first half of 2006, amidst a recovery of agriculture and exports.  Strong growth of 
remittance flows has boosted consumption and also appears to have reduced the volatility of 
consumption, while functioning as the most important social safety net in the country.  Some 8½ million 
Filipino workers, about a quarter of the domestic labor force, work abroad.  Rapid growth of remittances 
and transfers from overseas workers, amounting to about 14 percent of GDP in 2005, has converted large 
trade deficits into modest current account surpluses, and raised average GNP growth to above 6 percent 
since 2004.  Higher growth in recent years has been primarily driven by the service sector including back 
office activities such as business process outsourcing, although since 2005, manufacturing growth has 
also risen at a pace of nearly 6 percent.   
 
Higher imported energy prices and the major adjustment in power generation tariffs in late 2004, raised 
inflation to 8½ percent in 2004.  Since then inflation has been on a gradually declining path, with the 12-
month CPI declining to 5.7 percent as of September 2006. 
In August 2004 a series of tax measures were proposed by the President to address the worsening fiscal 
environment.  These included: an increase in the excise tax on cigarettes, tobacco, and alcohol; a 
comprehensive tax reform package which included broadening VAT coverage by the removal of 
exemptions for petroleum products, power, and medical and legal services, authority for the president to 
increase the VAT rate from 10 percent to 12 percent upon satisfaction of certain criteria, an increase in 
the corporate income tax from 32 percent to 35 percent (reverting to 30 percent in 2009); and lateral 
attrition for revenue agencies (to improve incentives for tax administrators).  In parallel, power generation 
tariffs were raised by over 60 percent in late 2004/early 2005, and import duties on oil products were 
raised from 3 to 5 percent (subsequently reversed to mitigate the impact of the VAT reform on fuel 
prices).  In addition, the Department of Finance (DOF) intensified programs to identify and prosecute tax 
evaders and smugglers and a revenue integrity protection service that charged corrupt collectors in the 
revenue agencies was promulgated.  A 30 percent average increase in excise taxes was enacted in 
December 2004, and, after considerable debate, the crucial VAT reform was enacted in two steps 
(November 2005 for the removal of exemptions and February 2006 for the increase in rates).  Throughout 
this period, and subsequently, tight controls on government spending continued to be maintained.   
Page  2
The consolidated public sector deficit (CPSD) was reduced by 2.8 percent of GDP in 2005. Tax revenue 
increased by 24 percent through September 2006, setting the stage for a more significant improvement in 
tax effort in 2006.  Non-financial public sector debt declined from 101 percent of GDP in 2003 to 87 
percent in 2005. 
 
Bond spreads have fallen significantly in the past two years, reflecting both the liquidity in emerging 
market spreads and improving Philippine spreads vis-
à-vis the EMBI.  For example, in early 2005, the 
spread paid on a long-term bond issue was 505 basis points, versus 333 basis points on a $2.2 billion issue 
in January 2006, and 246/262 basis points for a $750 million issue in July 2006 (maturing in 2016 and 
2031).  FDI and portfolio flows grew rapidly in 2005 and early 2006 but these flows remain small in 
relation to the economy.
1
Domestic investment has been on a declining path, falling to about 15 percent of GDP.
 
Private 
investment has yet to respond to the higher growth rates of recent years, and has not been helped by the 
political instability and uncertainties of recent years.  Private sector credit as a share of GDP fell by some 
40 percent between 2000 and 2005.  Public investment, estimated at only 2.3 percent of GDP in 2004-05, 
has been limited by fiscal constraints, and deficiencies in infrastructure appear to be a drawback to 
increased private investment.  Continued robust economic growth is expected to raise capacity utilization 
and private investment demand. 
 
The pace of formal employment has increased in parallel to the stronger economic activity in the most 
recent period, but overall employment growth is heavily influenced by developments in the less formal 
parts of the labor force, in particular, agriculture.  
 
Key sector issues
.
The Philippines needs to continue its fiscal consolidation program to reduce its public 
debt/ GDP ratio while increasing non-interest spending in priority sectors. This will require increases in 
the tax effort as is intended by the government.  The government has made some commendable and 
impressive efforts in fiscal consolidation:  it has reduced
 
public sector deficits and debt, and proposes to 
address governance and sustainability issues through a reform agenda which the Bank agrees with and 
intends to assist. Sustained tax administration and governance improvements are needed to ensure that 
recent policy reforms translate into sustained deficit and debt reduction as well as larger and more 
effectively implemented public resources for infrastructure and social programs.   
 
2. Project 
Objectives 
 
The DPL supports the Government’s significant achievements in reducing public sector deficits and debt 
through tax reform and power tariff adjustments, and seeks to bolster this performance by: strengthening 
tax administration; improving budget execution and fiduciary performance; and strengthening the 
finances of the power sector.  In addition, it lays the groundwork for deeper reforms in the areas of fiscal 
consolidation, governance and the fiduciary environment, the investment climate and social policy. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank Group CAS for 2006-08, discussed at the Board in May 2005, seeks to help the government 
improve public institutions and services and thus help the country achieve higher and sustained growth 
coupled with greater social inclusion.  Within this objective, the Bank aims to support recognized and 
replicable successes in delivering public services.  It also identifies two important levers for pursuing 
these goals: fiscal consolidation and improved governance.  The CAS identified weak fiscal performance 
1
FDI inflow is estimated to have reached $1.1 billion through July 2006, 60% over the previous year.  BSP expects 
FDI to reach $1.9 billion in 2006 (1.6% of GDP). 
Page  3
as the single most important short-term obstacle to more rapid development in the Philippines.  It 
therefore lays out criteria for development policy lending squarely focused on the extent of fiscal 
adjustment.  Based on these criteria, the Philippines is now eligible for development policy lending. 
 
4. Description 
 
The DPL supports the Government Reform Agenda for macro-economic and fiscal stability, governance, 
public expenditure management, investment climate and infrastructure, and social inclusion.  
 
(i) Macroeconomic and Fiscal Stability  
 
Fiscal Consolidation. 
A
central objective of the Reform Agenda is to reduce the public debt 
burden to 65 percent of GDP by 2009. Reaching this objective would represent a major 
turnaround from the early years of this decade when public debt was rising rapidly, exceeding 
GDP by 2003, and generating intensifying concern about fiscal sustainability. 
 
Tax Effort. 
The DPL will support the deepening of the tax policy reforms implemented in 2005 
and 2006 as well as the Government effort to improve tax administration, all critical to the 
success of the fiscal and macroeconomic reform agenda.  
 
Strengthening GOCC financial viability. 
 
Even as the national government deficit is being reduced, pressure of higher deficits originating 
from the GOCCs remains an area of vulnerability. Hence in the context of fiscal consolidation, 
the DPLs will support the strengthening the financial performance of GOCCs, in particular the 
Power Sector Assets and Liabilities Management Corporation (PSALM).  
 
(ii)  Governance and Anti-corruption 
 
The DPL will support a more robust set of institutional mechanisms to enhance government 
accountability to the public for its fiscal management and service delivery.  This includes aligning 
policy priorities and funding, improving the predictability of budget, strengthening transparency 
and monitoring in budget execution and procurement, and strengthening of performance 
management for improved civil service delivery. 
Good governance reform with an emphasis on more predictable and transparent management of 
public resources is intended to have on the quality and effectiveness of public spending , as well 
as on improving government performance overall.  The DPL will support Government initiatives 
to control corruption, such as life-
style checks, strengthening the Ombudsman’s Office, 
prosecuting tax evaders and smugglers, and strengthening anti-corruption in the Bureau of 
Internal Revenue and the Bureau of Customs.  
 
(iii) Investment Climate and Infrastructure 
 
The Government’s strategy for strengthening infrastructure rests on two pillars: (i) increasing public 
investment in infrastructure financed from the proceeds of improved tax policy and administration, i.e., 
within the proscribed fiscal envelope; and (ii) encouraging greater private investment by streamlining 
procedures, rationalizing investment incentives, strengthening the framework for public-private 
partnerships, and strengthening the banking system and the capital market. 
 
Page  4
(iv) Social Inclusion 
 
The focus of social sectors reforms supported by the DPL in 2006
–2007
will be on continued 
improvement in the management of public expenditure, public procurement and transparency.  These are 
seen as important foundations for ensuring that the planned increase in expenditure in the social sectors is 
focused on results, and that the impact of existing expenditure is increased. Accordingly, the governance 
component of the DPL includes actions and triggers for the Departments of Education and Health, 
including preparing the ground for increased availability of resources as a result of fiscal consolidation.  
Future DPLs are envisaged to encompass more specific sectoral dimensions of the Government’s program 
for improving the quality of and access to essential social services, and for developing a social protection 
framework to enhance and complement the impact of economic growth on poverty reduction. 
 
5. Project 
Financing 
 
Amount:
 
US$250 million (Single Tranche) 
Terms:
 
IBRD – Repayable in ___, including five-year grace, at the standard 
interest rate for LIBOR-based [TBD]-spread loans in US Dollars. 
Commitment Fee: 
0.75% per annum on undisbursed balances 
6. Project 
Implementation 
 
Borrower and Loan Amount
.
The borrower is the Republic of Philippines and this operation is a single-
tranche loan of US$ 250 million that would be made available upon loan effectiveness, as all policy 
actions supported by the loan would have been completed prior to Board presentation. 
 
Disbursement Arrangements and Use of Funds
.
The loan disbursement will follow the standard Bank 
procedures for Development Policy Lending as provided in OP/BP 8.6.  The loan amount will be 
disbursed into a Dedicated Bank Account (DA) in US Dollars at the central bank, Bangko Sentral ng 
Pilipinas (BSP) that forms part of the Philippines’ official foreign exchange reserves. This amount will 
then be converted to Philippine Pesos and the equivalent amount in Pesos will immediately be transferred 
in a single tranche to the National Treasury Account of the Borrower that is used to finance budget 
expenditures, as the loan is intended to be used to support the general government budget.   
 
Disbursements
 of the loan will not be linked to any specific purchases and no procurement requirements 
have to be satisfied, except that the Borrower is required to comply with the standard negative list of 
excluded items that may not be financed with Bank loan proceeds. Prior to disbursement, the Borrower 
would provide to the Bank a copy of written instructions issued to the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas for 
conversion of the foreign exchange amount of the loan into local currency and that an equivalent amount 
be credited to an account of the Government available to finance budgeted expenditures. 
 
7. Sustainability 
The design of this DPL program takes into account the nature of the reform program and government 
capacity to implement it.  To secure recent fiscal gains and bolster credibility of the government program, 
the prior actions for DPL1 and the triggers for proceeding with DPL2 are framed primarily in terms of 
fiscal policy and administration.  To the extent a wider reform agenda is supported through the DPL 
series, its rationale is to reinforce the core fiscal objective: by making public expenditures, particularly for 
social service delivery more effective; and by enhancing the climate for investment and growth, which in 
turn would help to sustain the recovery in tax effort.  
 
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
Page  5
Key lessons from past operations include: 
 
·
The importance of consensus building.
 
Bank staff and development partners have been involved 
in a lengthy process of consensus building on the reform program with key government officials.  
Concerned officials have taken the lead in an iterative process of proposing reforms, taking into 
account comments from different departments (oversight and line agencies) and external partners, 
and then re-developing internal consensus. This process has allowed for stronger ownership of the 
reforms within the affected government departments than was typical for previous Bank 
adjustment lending. 
 
·
Focus on actions that can be implemented by the executive branch.
 
All activities proposed 
depend on the Executive Branch and not on any third parties, thus improving the prospects for 
implementation.
 
·
Preference for single tranche operations.
 
The new loans have been designed as 
acknowledgement of past government successes, and more importantly, as incentives for 
sustained good performance.  
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [] 
[X] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) [ 
] 
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) [ 
] 
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) [ 
] 
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) [ 
] 
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50) [ 
] 
[X] 
10. Contact 
Points: 
Ms. Vera Songwe, Senior Economist 
Philippines Country Office 
World Bank Office Manila 
23/F The Taipan Place, F. Ortigas Jr. Road, Ortigas Center, Pasig City 
Phone :  (632) 637-5855  
 
11. 
For more information, contact: 
 The 
Infoshop 
 
The World Bank,1818 H Street 
 
Washington D.C.  20433   Telephone:  
(202) 458-5454 ; Fax: 
(202) 522-1500 
 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims 
on the disputed areas.
 
Page  6
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included in 
the final project. 
 
Processed by the InfoShop week ending _______.  
 
