                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR00001112



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-74240)



                                     ON A

                                     LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$250 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                       REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                                    FOR A

                    FIRST DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN



                               September 30, 2009




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
   REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
           FISCAL YEAR
       January 1 ­ December 31




      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

(Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2009)

   Currency Unit = Philippine Peso (PHP)
            P1.00 = US$ 0.021
            US$ 1.00 = P47.03




        Vice President:   James W. Adams
     Country Director:    Bert Hofman
       Sector Director:   Vikram Nehru
    Task Team Leader:     Ulrich Lächler
     ICR Team Leader      Ulrich Lächler
                        ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

AAA     Analytical and Advisory Activities             HRMIS      Human Resource Management Information
                                                                  System
ABC     Approved Budget Ceiling                        IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and
                                                                  Development
ADB     Asian Development Bank                         ICB        International Competitive Bidding
BIR     Bureau of Internal Revenue                     IDRs       Integrity Development Reviews
BOC     Bureau of Customs                              IMCs       Investment Management Contracts
BOT     Build-Operate-Transfer                         IMF        International Monetary Fund
BSP     Bangko Sentral ng Filipinas                    IPP        Independent Power Producers
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                    IRA        International Revenue Allotment
CBMS    Community-Based Monitoring System              JBIC       Japan Bank for International Cooperation
CMIS    Case Management and Information System         LGU        Local Government Unit
COA     Commission on Audit                            LGFPMS     Local Government Financial Performance
                                                                  Monitoring System
CPAR    Country Procurement Assessment Report          LGPMS      Local Government Performance Monitoring
                                                                  System
CPI     Consumer Price Index                           MDGs       Millennium Development Goals
CPSD    Consolidated Public Sector Deficit             MIGA       Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
CSC     Civil Service Commission                       MTEF       Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
CSOs    Civil Society Organizations                    MTPDP      Medium-Term Philippine Development
                                                                  Plan
DA      Department of Agriculture                      NEA        National Electrification Authority
DAR     Department of Agrarian Reform                  NEDA       National Economic and Development
                                                                  Authority
DBCC    Development Budget Coordinating Committee      NFPS       Non-Financial Public Sector
DBM     Department of Budget and Management            NG         National Government
DENR    Department of Environment and Nat. Resources   NGOs       Non-Government Organizations
                                                       NPSTAR     Nat. Prog. Supp. for Tax Admin. Reform
DepEd   Department of Education                        NPC        National Power Corporation
DOF     Department of Finance                          NRIMP2     National Road Improvement and
                                                                  Management Program Phase 2
DOH     Department of Health                           OMB        Ombudsman
DOTC    Department of Transportation and               OPIF       Organizational Performance Indicator
        Communications                                            Framework
DPL     Development Policy Lending                     PDF        Philippine Development Forum
DSWD    Department of Social Welfare and Development   PEFA       Public Expenditure Financial Assessment
DSCR    Debt Service Coverage Ratio                    PER        Public Expenditure Review
EAP     East Asia and the Pacific                      PFM        Public Financial Management
EPIRA   Electric Power Industry Reform Act             PhilGEPS   Philippine Government Electronic
                                                                  Procurement System
ERC     Energy Regulatory Commission                   PPI        Private Participation in Infrastructure
FDI     Foreign Direct Investment                      PPP        Public Private Partnership
FE      Forward Estimates                              PSALM      Power Sector Assets and Liabilities
                                                                  Management Corporation
FIES    Family Income and Expenditure Survey           PREM       Poverty Reduction and Economic
                                                                  Management
GDP     Gross Domestic Product                         RA         Republic Act
GEPS    Government e-Procurement System                RATE       Run-After-Tax-Evaders Program
GFIs    Government Financial Institutions              RATS       Run-After-The-Smugglers Program
GFMIS   Government Financial Management                RDO        Revenue District Office
        Information System
GNI     Gross National Income                          RIPS       Revenue Integrity Protection Service
GNP     Gross National Product                         SPV        Special Purpose Vehicle
GOCCs   Government Owned and Controlled                UC         Universal charges (in Power sector)
        Corporations
GOP     Government of the Philippines                  VAT        Value-Added Tax
GPPB    Government Procurement Policy Board            WESM       Wholesale Electricity Spot Market
                                REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                                 DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN


                                                  CONTENTS




 Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 9
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 22
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 27
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 28
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 30
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 31
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............. 31
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................... 32
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 33
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 33
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 36
MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Development Policy
Country:                Philippines              Program Name:
                                                                           Loan
Program ID:             P100706                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-74240
ICR Date:               11/20/2009               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           THE REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                      Borrower:
                                                                           THE PHILIPPINES
Original Total
                        USD 250.0M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 250.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 250.0M
Implementing Agencies:
 Department of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/07/2006      Effectiveness:                              02/06/2007
Appraisal:            11/06/2006      Restructuring(s):
Approval:             12/21/2006      Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:                03/31/2007          03/31/2007

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     High
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                   Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:                   Not Applicable
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision:     Satisfactory                                      Not Applicable
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower                Moderately
                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:                   Unsatisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                          Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem         No                     Quality at Entry     None


                                                 i
Program at any time                               (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                           Quality of
                        No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                 70                   70
Power                                                             30                   30


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Debt management and fiscal sustainability                          33                  17
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                   17                  33
procurement
Regulation and competition policy                                  17                  17
Tax policy and administration                                      33                  33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                     Jeffrey S. Gutman
Country Director:          Bert Hofman                        Joachim von Amsberg
Sector Manager:            Vikram Nehru                       Homi Kharas
Program Team Leader:       Ulrich Lachler                     Vera Songwe
ICR Team Leader:           Ulrich Lachler
ICR Primary Author:        Ulrich Lachler


F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The proposed First Development Policy Loan would be the first in what is expected to be
a series of single-tranche DPLs. The first operation (DPL1) supports the Government?s
significant achievements in reducing public sector deficits and debt through tax reform
and power tariff adjustments, and seeks to bolster this performance by: strengthening tax
administration; improving budget execution and fiduciary performance; and
strengthening the finances of the power sector.




                                                ii
  In addition, DPL1 lays the groundwork for deeper reforms in the areas of fiscal
consolidation, governance and the fiduciary environment, the investment climate and
social policy, with the objective of supporting specific reforms in these areas in the
context of subsequent DPLs.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                             Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                               approval           Target        Completion or
                                             documents)           Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :      NFPS debt reduced
Value
(quantitative or   95%                     65% by 2009                        62%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2005              03/31/2009                         12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %           Target exceeded (110%)
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      Public sector balances compatible with further reduction of the debt burden
Value
(quantitative or   -4.8% of GDP            > -1.0% of GDP                     -0.5% of GDP
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2004              12/31/2008                         12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %           Target exceeded (113%)
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      Tax/GDP increased
Value
(quantitative or   13%                     15.9%                              14.0%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2005              03/31/2009                         12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %           Not achieved (34% of target increase)
achievement)
                   Integrated and comprehensive registration system with up-to-date and
Indicator 4 :
                   complete taxpayer information in place
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
                   Qualitative target partially achieved (about 50%; see Annex 8 of ICR)
(incl. %


                                                iii
achievement)
Indicator 5 :      Debt Service coverage ratio improved for consolidated NPC/PSALM
Value
(quantitative or   0.69                    1.00                              <0.84 (projected)
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2005                03/31/2009                      03/31/2009
Comments           Unlikely to have been achieved. The projected value for 3/31/2009 is based on
(incl. %           the PSALM financial recovery action plan of 2006. Updated figures are not
achievement)       available.
                   Number of departments wih a medium term policy and expenditure framework
Indicator 6 :
                   with realistic fiscal scenarios increased.
Value
(quantitative or   2                       >2                                3
Qualitative)
Date achieved      11/06/2006              03/31/2009                         03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %           Partially achieved; a greater degree of advance had been expected.
achievement)
                   Detailed budget execution data and including IRA for DOH, DepEd, DPWH,
Indicator 7 :      and DA disclosed increases for total budget (net of interest payments and net
                   lending)
Value
(quantitative or   22%                     54%                               NA
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2005                03/31/2009                      03/31/2009
Comments           Partially achieved (as evidenced by progress made in complying with DPL2
(incl. %           trigger), but progress slowed in 2008. Updated information not available to
achievement)       assess % achievement of outcome indicator
                   Number of national government departments with 100% of public procurement
Indicator 8 :
                   transations of their central offices posted on PhilGEPS website.
Value                                                                        12 GPPB member
(quantitative or   0                         23                              departments posted
Qualitative)                                                                 transations.
Date achieved      12/31/2005                03/31/2009                      12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %           Partially achieved (52%)
achievement)
Indicator 9 :      Public investment/GDP increased
Value
(quantitative or   2.4%                    3.5%                              2.6% (estimated)
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2005              03/31/2009                         12/31/2008
Comments
                   Not achieved. Only minor progress was made, possibly linked to inability to
(incl. %
                   raise tax revenue ratio.
achievement)
Indicator 10 :     Private investment/GDP increased
Value
                   12.8%                   14.0%                             12.7%
(quantitative or


                                                  iv
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2005               03/31/2009                          12/31/2008
Comments
                   Not achieved. No progress in raising private investment ratio, possibly
(incl. %
                   reflecting continuing weaknesses in the investment climate.
achievement)
Indicator 11 :     Reduction in number of projects being delayed and reduction in period of delay
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
                   Indicator is too vaguely defined in program document; no information is
(incl. %
                   available to assess this indicator.
achievement)
                   Road maintenance by contract and long-term performance-based maintenance
Indicator 12 :
                   contracts institutionalized
Value
(quantitative or   50%                      100%                                About 50%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2005               03/31/2009                          03/31/2009
Comments
                   Target not achieved. This target was expected to be reached by way of
(incl. %
                   implementing the NRIMP2 project, which has been delayed.
achievement)
Indicator 13 :     The 10 high priority projects identified by NEDA commenced.
Value
(quantitative or   0                        10                                  NA
Qualitative)
Date achieved      11/30/2006                03/31/2009                          03/31/2009
                   Not rated. After presenting a Comp. Integ. Infrastr. Program with 10 priority
Comments
                   investment projects as basis for 2008 budget, the Government subsequently
(incl. %
                   presented multiple lists of high priority projects that prevent an assessment of
achievement)
                   this indicat
                   Sustainable, stable power market that can provide abase for market-driven
Indicator 14 :
                   investment in new generation
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments           Not achieved. Metting this target requires open access in the sector, which can
(incl. %           only start when 70% of generating assets are privatized; see next PDO
achievement)       indicator.
Indicator 15 :     Significant part of generating assets and Transco privatized
                                                                                43% of generating
Value
                                                                                assets and Transco
(quantitative or
                                                                                have been
Qualitative)
                                                                                privatized
Date achieved                                                                   03/31/2009
Comments           Partially achieved. (Since the baseline value and target were not indicated in
(incl. %           the program document, it is not possible to assess % achievement.)


                                                 v
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                            Values (from                        Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value                           Revised
                                              approval                         Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                             documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :      No intermediate outcomes were defined for any of the indicators
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                             DO                        IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                              vi
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.     Approved on December 21, 2006, the First Development Policy Loan (DPL1)
was envisaged as the first in a series of single tranche DPLs in support of the
government's efforts to reduce the public sector deficit and debt, strengthen the
investment climate, and improve service delivery through increased and more effective
government spending. Assuming adequate reform progress, subsequent loans were
envisaged to follow an annual schedule. Progress in the implementation of the actions
agreed for triggering the next DPL in the series was slower than anticipated, however,
with the result that no follow-up DPL was approved within 24 months of the first DPL.
This meant that the series lapsed in December 2008, according to Bank guidelines,
prompting Bank management to call for the preparation of this Implementation
Completion Report.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

2.      In 2003, the Philippines was on the verge of a fiscal collapse. Fiscal balances had
deteriorated significantly in the wake of the Asian crisis, such that by 2003, tax revenues
had fallen by 4½ percentage points of GDP from their 1997 peak, the public sector deficit
exceeded 5 percent of GDP, and public debt had been rising at an unsustainable pace,
reaching over 100 percent of GDP.1

3.      In August 2004, shortly after assuming office for the second time, President
Macapagal-Arroyo urged Congress to enact a series of tax measures in response to the
fiscal crisis. The most important of these measures was the reform of the value-added tax
(VAT), which involved broadening the tax base by limiting exemptions and raising the
rate. Full implementation of the Value-Added Tax (VAT) reform was completed in two
stages by February 2006. In parallel, as these tax measures were being debated in
Congress, the regulated power generation tariffs of the state-owned power company
(NPC) were substantially increased in December 2004 and early 2005, while public
expenditures were tightly restrained. 2


1
  Between 1997 and 2002, the National Government account moved from approximate balance to a deficit
    of 5.3 percent of GDP, due to a plunge in tax revenues from 17 percent of GDP to 12.5 percent, and a
    growing interest burden that reflected both increasing debt and higher risk premia. The fall in tax
    revenue, which continued through 2004, was the result of weak corporate and banking profitability in
    the aftermath of the crisis, some built-in weaknesses in tax policy, reductions in import tariffs, as well
    as deterioration in administrative performance of the major revenue collection agencies. The deficits
    of Government Owned and Controlled Corporations (GOCCs) also widened significantly, rising from
    near balance in 1999 to 1.8 percent of GDP in 2004, driven largely by the escalating deficits of the
    National Power Corporation (NPC). By 2003, non-financial public sector debt exceeded GDP and
    global borrowing spreads had risen above 500 basis points. The fiscal deterioration was paralleled by
    governance concerns that in turn contributed to considerable political instability through much of the
    present decade.
2
  The tax measures introduced by the government included (i) an increase in the excise tax on cigarettes,
    tobacco, and alcohol, (ii) a comprehensive tax reform package that included broadening VAT coverage
    by removing exemptions for petroleum products, power, and medical and legal services, (iii) authority


                                                      1
 4.      These fiscal actions turned out to be successful in averting a crisis: the
 consolidated public sector deficit (CPSD) was reduced by 3 percent of GDP in 2005, the
 debt/GDP ratio was placed on a declining trajectory, and tax revenues rose to 13 percent
 of GDP in 2005 and 14.2 percent in 2006. Meanwhile, the economy continued to grow at
 a rate of 5 to 6 percent per annum, exports and FDI increased sharply in 2006, and
 inflation was kept under control, while financial markets strengthened and borrowing
 spreads fell; see Table 1.

         Table 1: Philippines ­ Key Macroeconomic Indicators and Projections
                          (As percentage of GDP, unless indicated otherwise)
                                     2002     2003        2004      2005       2006       2007   2008      2009
                                        ------------------------Actual---------------------      Est.2/   Proj.2/
Output and Prices
  GDP growth (% )                      4.4      4.9      6.2       5.0     5.4      7.2      4.6    1.9
  CPI Inflation (ave, % )              3.0      3.5      6.0       7.6     6.2      2.8      9.3    4.5
Savings and Investment
  Gross Domestic Investment           17.7    16.8     16.8      14.6     14.5     15.3    15.3    14.9
  Gross National Savings              17.2    17.2     18.7      16.6     19.0     19.7    17.7    16.9
Balance of Payments
  Current Account Balance             -0.5      0.4      1.9       2.0     4.5      4.4      2.4    2.0
Public Sector Finances
Consolidated Pub. Sec. Balance        -5.6     -5.2     -4.8      -1.8     0.2      0.3     -0.4   -3.0
National Government balance           -5.3     -4.6     -3.8      -2.7    -1.1     -0.2     -0.9   -3.2
   Total Revenues                     14.6    14.8     14.5      15.0     16.2     17.1    16.2    15.9
      o/w Tax revenues                12.8    12.8     12.4      13.0     14.3     14.0    14.1    13.9
   Total Expenditures                 19.9    19.5     18.3      17.7     17.3     17.3    17.1    19.1
Debt
Non-Financial Public Sector Debt      93.8   100.8     95.0      85.9     73.9     61.1    61.5    64.1
External Debt 1/                      61.8    68.3     62.7      52.3     45.3     45.7    34.9      --
Sources: Government of the Philippines and World Bank staff calculations.
Note: 1/ Based on Outstanding Debt-Consolidated Nonfinancial Public Sector Table complied by DOF-FPPO
Note: 2/ as of March 2009




     for the president to increase the VAT rate from 10 percent to 12 percent upon satisfaction of certain
     criteria, (iv) an increase in the corporate income tax from 32 percent to 35 percent (reverting to 30
     percent in 2009), and (v) lateral attrition for revenue agencies (to improve incentives for tax
     administrators). In parallel, power generation tariffs were raised by about 30 percent in late 2004/early
     2005, and import duties on oil products were raised from 3 to 5 percent (subsequently reversed to
     mitigate the impact of the VAT reform on fuel prices). In addition, the Department of Finance (DOF)
     intensified programs to identify and prosecute tax evaders and smugglers and a revenue integrity
     protection service that charged corrupt collectors in the revenue agencies was promulgated. A 30
     percent average increase in excise taxes was enacted in December 2004, and, after considerable debate
     and delay, the crucial VAT reform was enacted in two steps (November 2005 for the removal of
     exemptions and February 2006 for the increase in rates). Total public expenditures declined during
     this period from 19.1 percent of GDP in 2003 to 17.3 percent in 2007, with much of this decline taking
     place on account of a declining public interest bill.


                                                      2
5.      The substantial fiscal adjustment that took place in 2004-05 made possible the
resumption of Bank policy-based lending to the Philippines. The Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (dated April 2005) in effect at the time of loan appraisal had
identified weak fiscal performance as the single most important short-term obstacle to
more rapid development in the Philippines and, thus, linked the resumption of policy-
based lending directly and foremost to fiscal reforms. In particular, entry into the CAS
high case, which included DPLs, was to be triggered by a Consolidated Public Sector
Deficit (CPSD) reduction of at least 2 percent of GDP relative to the 2004 level, with a
significant portion of the adjustment originating from increases in the ratio of tax revenue
to GDP. As described earlier, these criteria were amply achieved by 2005, clearing the
way for this operation to move forward. The DPL1 was the Bank's first policy-based
budget-support operation in the Philippines since the 1998 Banking System Reform Loan.

6.      Engagement of Other Development Partners. Along with the introduction of
urgent fiscal measures upon taking office in mid-2004, the Arroyo Administration also
announced the Government's Medium Term Philippine Development Plan (MTPDP),
which sets out the country's development priorities, policy agenda, programs and projects
for 2004-2010, and served as the basis for policy discussions between the Government
and international development partners. In 2005, the Government and its international
development partners decided to convert the annual Consultative Group meetings into the
Philippines Development Forum (PDF), permitting additional stakeholders, such as civil
society, the private sector and the academic community, to participate in the policy
discussions to strengthen implementation of the MTPDP. In March 2006, the
Government and the World Bank agreed to use the PDF agenda for implementing the
MTPDP as the basis for designing the Bank's Development Policy Loan series. The
Asian Development Bank (ADB) and the Japan Bank for International Cooperation
(JBIC) participated in the discussions with the Bank and Philippine authorities on the
policy reforms to be supported by the DPL, and proceeded with parallel policy-based
operations using closely aligned policy matrixes.3

1.2 Original Program and Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

7.      The DPL series program had the objective of supporting government efforts to
extend its track record of fiscal adjustment and reduce public debt to 60 percent by 2010,
which would assuage investor concerns about instability.                Strengthening tax
administration and power sector finances were considered essential for achieving this
objective. The Government's commitment to a multi-year fiscal consolidation program
with the Bank and other international development partners was meant to boost the
program's credibility among private investors and creditors. The DPL series also sought
to support complementary measures needed to secure the fiscal consolidation effort. This
includes the Government's efforts to deliver services more effectively, in particular,



3
    The Board of Directors of the Asian Development Bank approved a first Development Policy Support
      Program loan based on this program in early 2007.


                                                  3
through deepening implementation of procurement and financial management reforms
thereby enhancing predictability in budget formulation, and transparency in its execution.

8.      Finally, the DPL series was designed to support the Government's efforts to
increase public investment in infrastructure and social services financed from the
proceeds of improved tax policy and administration, and to encourage greater private
investment through an enhanced policy framework for public-private partnerships and the
streamlining of procedures. The resulting higher investment and growth would bolster
tax revenue and, in turn, help to achieve the Government's fiscal consolidation objectives.

9.      In the context of this series, the first operation (DPL1) supported the
Government's significant achievements in reducing public sector deficits and debt
through tax reform and power tariff adjustments, and sought to bolster this performance
by: strengthening tax administration; improving budget execution and fiduciary
performance; and strengthening the finances of the power sector. In addition, DPL1 laid
the groundwork for deeper reforms in the areas of fiscal consolidation, governance and
the fiduciary environment, the investment climate and social policy, with the objective of
supporting specific reforms in these areas in the context of subsequent DPLs.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and Reasons/Justification

       No changes were made

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

10.      The Government's reform agenda is based on the Medium Term Philippine
Development Program (MTPDP), whose overarching objective is to reduce poverty and
create jobs through faster, private sector-led growth and more effective public service
delivery. The Government's Letter of Development Policy and Policy Matrix described
this reform agenda in the areas supported by the World Bank, ADB and JBIC in the
context of the DPL series, and reflected discussions between government officials and
staff from the World Bank, ADB and JBIC. These core areas were focused on in the
Philippines Development Forum (para. 6) and comprise (i) macroeconomic and fiscal
stability, (ii) governance and anti-corruption, (iii) investment climate and infrastructure
and (iv) social inclusion. The remainder of this section describes the context in which the
prior actions and proposed triggers for DPL1 and DPL2 were framed.

       A. Macroeconomic and Fiscal Stability

11.     Fiscal Consolidation. A central objective of the DPL series was to reduce the
public debt burden to 65 percent of GDP by 2009 (and to 60 percent by the end of the
decade) in order to reduce the interest burden, allow for increased primary spending in
priority areas, and assuage investor concerns about fiscal sustainability. Reaching this
objective would represent a major turnaround from the early years of this decade when
public debt was rising rapidly, exceeding GDP by 2003, and generating intensifying
concern about fiscal sustainability. Accordingly, two prior actions selected for DPL1
were the reduction of the Combined Public Sector Deficit (CPSD) from 4.8 percent of


                                            4
GDP in 2004 to 1.8 percent in 2005, and the reduction of the National Government
deficit/GDP ratio from 3.8 percent in 2004, to 2.7 percent in 2005. As a trigger for DPL2,
it was agreed to maintain the CPSD/GDP ratio at about 2 percent of GDP in 2006 and on
track to reach 1.4 percent in 2007. For 2007, the primary means of reducing the CPSD
was expected to be a further strengthening of the tax effort, which, coupled with a lower
interest/GDP ratio, would permit the National Government deficit to decline even as
primary spending increased.

12.      Tax Effort. The tax policy reforms implemented in 2005 and 2006, coupled with
a sustained effort to improve tax administration, were considered critical to the success of
the fiscal and macroeconomic reform agenda. Accordingly, the prior actions for DPL1
were selected to be, (i) the broadening of VAT coverage in November 2005, by removing
exemptions on petroleum products, electric power and legal and medical services, (ii) the
increase in the VAT rate from 10 percent to 12 percent, effective as of February 2006,
(iii) the establishment of a high level tax reform administration group in 2006 to oversee
administration and the reform agenda, and convening of task forces to discuss reform
strategy and priorities, that resulted in a work plan which coordinates all BIR and
stakeholder efforts, and (iv) the significant response in terms of tax collection through
September 2006--up 24 percent from 2005, following a 0.3 percent of GDP increase in
2005. The first two reform items above represent the core of the landmark VAT
legislation. The third recognizes the efforts that were being made to strengthen tax
administration in BIR. Item (iv) of the preceding prior actions recognizes the first
significant improvement in tax effort since the Asian crisis, which raised hopes for a
sustained recovery in tax revenue and a corresponding improvement of fiscal prospects.

13.     Deepening the tax effort also represented a high priority ­ arguably the highest ­
for DPL2. Accordingly, a key trigger for DPL2 called for an increase in the tax effort by
0.5 percent of GDP in 2007, mainly through improved tax administration, further positive
repercussions from the VAT reform, and improved excise tax performance. On the tax
administration front, a further trigger for DPL2 was that the clean up and expansion of
the large corporations and businesses in the BIR registration database be underway to
improve the equity of the system and increase revenues.

14.     GOCC Finances. Even as the national government deficit was being reduced, it
was recognized that budget pressures originating from the Government Owned and
Controlled Corporations (GOCCs) could arise, inter alia, on account of difficulties in
keeping the NPC-regulated power tariffs from eroding in real terms after their substantial
adjustment in 2004-05, and from efforts to increase public investment in infrastructure.
Hence, in the context of fiscal consolidation, attention focused increasingly on
strengthening the financial performance of GOCCs, in particular the Power Sector Assets
and Liabilities Management Corporation (PSALM), the holding company of NPC and
Transco, and by far the single largest GOCC in the country.4,5


4
    The high cost structure of Philippine electricity provision had led to a perennial trade-off between fiscal
     and competitiveness concerns. In spite of charging among the highest power tariffs in East Asia, the
     power sector has traditionally generated significant deficits.


                                                       5
15.     Consolidated PSALM finances. In late 2004 and 2005, NPC's effective average
generation tariff was increased by about 30 percent, contributing to a reduction of NPC's
deficit by 1.1 percent of GDP. This adjustment was recognized as a prior action for
DPL1. In addition, P200 billion of NPC's debt was assumed by the national government
at end-2004. As a result, consolidated PSALM's deficit was reduced sharply to 0.2
percent of GDP in 2005 and the overall GOCC deficit fell to 0.4 percent of GDP (from
1.8 percent in 2004). However, NPC remained insolvent with a negative net worth and a
significant debt overhang. PSALM's projection at the time was to reach break-even (debt
service coverage ratio, DSCR, to reach one) by 2009. This would require timely and
adequate remedial actions, without which the recent financial turnaround of Consolidated
PSALM may not be sustained, undermining the objective of balancing the CPSD.

16.     The authorities developed a detailed action plan to restore and sustain the
financial viability of Consolidated PSALM that included, (i) continued improvements in
operational efficiency and in prioritization of pre-privatization capital expenditures by
NPC and Transco, (ii) publication of draft guidelines by ERC, for public consultation, for
the filing of Universal Charges (UC) for stranded IPP contract cost and stranded debt,
respectively; and implementation of the above UC by PSALM, (iii) appointment of the
IPP Administrators (IPPAs),6 (iv) mitigation of perceived risks by investors to achieve
successful privatization and use of the resulting privatization proceeds to reduce
borrowings, (v) liability management, including refinancing debt on more favorable
terms and hedge currency and fuel price exposure as appropriate, (vi) government
reimbursement to NPC/PSALM for non-power cost of multipurpose projects, and (vii)
government commitment to undertaking appropriate budgetary assistance, as necessary,
to help Consolidated PSALM achieve an annual DSCR of at least one time by the end of
2009. Of these measures, the publication by ERC -- for public consultation -- of
guidelines for setting universal charges for stranded costs and stranded debt respectively
was taken as a prior action for DPL1, while the filing of universal charges for stranded
debt and cost by PSALM were agreed as triggers for DPL2.

        B. Governance and Anti-corruption

17.    Public Expenditure Management and Transparency. The DPL series sought to
support the development of better mechanisms for expenditure prioritization,
transparency and better predictability in the budget process with the aim of facilitating
execution by line departments as well as the external monitoring by civil society groups.
One important mechanism in this context is the generation of realistic and reliable


5
  To the extent the government was able to strengthen the reform agenda in other GOCCs or other
     institutions that would contribute to bolstering public finances, these would be incorporated into the
     DPL series.
6
  This is an important step, as it strengthens the Wholesale Electricity Spot Market (WESM) by increasing
     the trading expertise available, and reduces the market and financial risks for NPC and PSALM from
     trading. Performance-based contracting of PSALM IPPs and NPC power generation to private expert
     traders would provide a legitimate proof that market revenues have been maximized, thus facilitating
     the approval and implementation of the UC.


                                                    6
forward revenue forecasts and more accurate aggregate resource constraint estimates. To
implement this mechanism, the Government agreed to underpin its 2008 budget proposal
by a medium term expenditure framework (MTEF), drawing from a refined budget
strategy paper and forward estimates of budgetary costs of the existing programs and
projects developed with the Departments. The budget strategy paper, in turn, would be
underpinned by an analysis of critical expenditure management issues in priority sectors.
The presentation of such a budget was taken as a trigger for DPL2. The submission to
DBM of budget proposals based on a new improved budget format by four large
government departments (DOH, DepEd, DPWH and DA) was an additional DPL2 trigger
designed to promote better public expenditure management. This was intended to
facilitate preparation of sector strategies and make the presentation of the budget
document more aligned with core functions and the Major Final Outputs, which had been
defined separately for each department as part of the Organizational Performance
Indicator Framework (OPIF) initiative.

18.     Two triggers on budget transparency were intended as a means of introducing a
practice of public reporting of selected aspects of budget execution. In the long run, a
comprehensive financial management information system would be necessary for the
government to be able to report on its budget and financial management systematically
and comprehensively. The triggers refer to posting on the DBM web site of two sets of
information related to budget execution: detailed data on allotment and cash releases to
central offices of DOH, DepEd, DPWH and DA; and details on payments to contractors
to the central office and four pilot regions of the same four departments.

19.    Procurement reform. To increase the transparency of public spending and control
corruption, the Government also sought to improve the dissemination of public
information on public procurement procedures and outcomes. Reflecting that objective,
the number of bid opportunities and awards posted on the Philippine Government
Electronic Procurement System (PhilGEPS) increased from 3,128 in 2004 to 8,919 in
2005 to 8,987 in 2006 (through Sept). At the same time, the award amounts posted
increased from P4.45b (2004) to P15.0b (2005) to P21.2b (2006; through September).
These increases in postings were selected as prior actions for DPL1. Furthermore, the
posting of all publicly bid opportunities and bid awards of central offices of GPPB
member departments plus DA (altogether 12 departments) on PhilGEPS, in compliance
with Republic Act (RA) 9184, was identified as a trigger for DPL2.

       C. Investment Climate and Infrastructure

20.     All surveys of private firms, investors and financiers have identified three main
constraints to private investment: macro-fiscal instability, inadequate infrastructure, and
corruption and regulatory uncertainty. As discussed in preceding sections, considerable
progress has been made in reducing fiscal vulnerability. An emerging focus was thus on
generating and allocating additional revenue towards investment in infrastructure and
reducing regulatory uncertainty. Given the backlog of public infrastructure investment,
private participation in infrastructure would be necessary and this will require a credible
framework for such participation. Properly structuring such participation would help to



                                            7
demonstrate to private investors the soundness of the investment climate across sectors.
Hence the focus in this series was on enhancing the investment climate through several
areas, as discussed below.

21.     Promoting increased private sector participation in infrastructure (PPI) projects.
The DPL aimed to support government efforts to enhance PPI projects by reducing risks
and uncertainty and through the use of carefully chosen pilot transactions. The
Government sought to complete the task of revising the BOT law so that policies relating
to the award of concessions, issuance of public guarantees and provision of public
subsidies became more transparent and led to improved confidence among private
operators and financiers with regard to government commitments. This would be
demonstrated in practice with the design and implementation of pilot public-private
infrastructure projects. A few successful transactions were expected to send a positive
signal to the private infrastructure community and substantially increase the interest of
private investors, and enable NEDA to realize its target of attracting at least 22 percent of
the total infrastructure financing from the private sector. The programming, planning and
supervision of these activities could be overseen by a unit in one of the oversight
agencies, which could develop the policy and program for PPP projects and could
become the incubator for a pipeline of projects. The trigger agreed for DPL2 in this area
was that the list of priority investment projects submitted by NEDA's Infrastructure
Committee to DBM would occur in time for inclusion in the 2008 budget.

22.    Power sector reform. The Electric Power Industry Reform Act (EPIRA), enacted
in 2003, provided a sound framework for the power sector structure, privatization, market
arrangements and administration of stranded costs and stranded debt, but its
implementation required coordinated actions with a carefully planned timetable. While
implementation lagged behind the schedule envisaged under EPIRA, a significant
milestone was reached in June 2006 with commencement of the commercial operation of
the Wholesale Electricity Spot Market (WESM), and adoption of a range of important
associated risk mitigation measures. This measure was followed by substantial NPC-
regulated tariff increases that were implemented carefully to minimize adverse effects on
the poor through the use of subsidized "lifeline rates". These steps demonstrated the
commitment to reform, and needed to be bolstered by implementing the pending
measures under the government's remaining reform agenda, particularly (i) strengthening
and sustaining the power sector's financial viability, (ii) mitigating market risks and
ensuring a smooth transition to competitive energy markets, (iii) enhancing efficiency
and private sector investment in the sector, and (iv) ensuring security of supply.

23.    The commencement of commercial operations of the Wholesale Electricity Spot
Market (WESM) in Luzon in June 2006 was selected as a prior action for DPL1. This
market opening was preceded by a series of measures and transitional arrangements to
mitigate market risks and to ensure that WESM--a critical part of the overall reform
package--has a smooth start-up. Together with past regulatory measures to phase-out
cross-subsidies in distribution and transmission tariffs and increases to regulated NPC
power rates over the last 2 years, the commencement of WESM and associated measures
showed a reactivated and more realistic move towards the implementation of the EPIRA.



                                             8
These were important steps toward creating a sustainable market capable of attracting
private investment and improved financial health of the sector.

24.    The next critical step in this reform process was the privatization of NPC's power
generation assets and appointment of IPP administrators by PSALM to manage the
trading of energy generated by NPC-IPPs. The early months of WESM's operation,
however, were characterized by a significant variability of spot prices, creating concern
about possible market manipulation and highlighting the reputational risks for PSALM
and the government, while PSALM continues to be the dominant market participant
through the trading of power bought under the IPP contracts. Ensuring that there is a
measured, considered response that maintains investor confidence is a technically
complex task, requiring assistance to advise the government on the implementation of
timely and appropriate responses. In particular, international experience suggests that
fine tuning of market rules and pricing methodologies will be necessary, but the
important price signals provided by a competitive market should not be lost or suppressed.
Therefore, the trigger agreed for DPL2 in this context was that PSALM and NPC would
engage an expert to advise on trading strategies and the strategy for appointing the IPP
administrators, including risk sharing and performance incentives.

        D. Social Inclusion

25.     The social sector reforms supported by the DPL series in 2006­2007 were to
focus on continued improvement in the management of public expenditure, public
procurement and transparency. These were seen as important foundations for ensuring
that the planned increase in expenditure in the social sectors is focused on results, and
that the impact of existing expenditure is increased. Accordingly, the governance
component of the DPL included actions and triggers for the Departments of Education
and Health, including preparing the ground for increased availability of resources as a
result of fiscal consolidation. Future DPLs were envisaged to encompass more specific
sectoral dimensions of the Government's program for improving the quality of and access
to essential social services, and for developing a social protection framework to enhance
and complement the impact of economic growth on poverty reduction.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

        No changes were made

1.6 Other significant changes

        No other changes were made

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Program Performance

26.   Table 2 below summarizes the prior actions that were selected for approval of
DPL1, while Table 3 summarizes the triggers that had been agreed for proceeding with
DPL2. The right hand columns in both tables summarize the status of implementation of


                                            9
the government's program as tracked by these actions. By design, the prior actions taken
for approval of DPL1 were taken before this operation was sent to the Board in
November 2006, so the first phase of the program was fully implemented.

                Table 2: Prior Actions Taken under the First Phase of the Program
                                    Prior Action                                                  Status
    1. The Borrower has reduced its consolidated public sector deficit from 4.8 percent of       Achieved
    gross domestic product (GDP) in 2004 to 1.8 percent of GDP in 2005
    2. The Borrower has reduced the ratio of the national government deficit to GDP from         Achieved
    3.8 percent in 2004 to 2.7 percent in 2005 and reduced the level of national government
    deficit to 50.4 billion Pesos as of September 2006.
    3. The Borrower has broadened the VAT coverage by removing exemptions for                    Achieved
    petroleum products, electric power, and legal and medical services.
    4. The Borrower has increased the VAT rate from 10 percent to 12 percent.                    Achieved
    5. The Borrower has increased its tax revenue by 0.3 percent of GDP in 2005 and further      Achieved
    increased its tax revenue by 24 percent during the first nine months of 2006.
    6. The Borrower has established a high-level tax reform administration group in the BIR      Achieved
    to implement its tax administration and reform agenda.
    7. The Borrower has increased NPC's effective average generation tariff contributing to      Achieved
    a reduction in NPC's deficit by 1.1 percent of GDP in 2005.
    8. The Borrower, through ERC, has published, for public consultation, guidelines for         Achieved
    universal charge for stranded costs and stranded debt.
    9. The Borrower has increased the number of notices with contract awards posted on the       Achieved
    Philippines government electronic procurement system (PhilGEPS) from 3128 in 2004 to
    8987 in the first nine months in 2006; and increased the amount of contract awards
    posted on PhilGEPS from 4.45 billion Pesos in 2005 to 21.2 billion Pesos in the first nine
    months in 2006
    10. The Borrower has commenced the commercial operation of the Wholesale                     Achieved
    Electricity Spot Market (WESM) in Luzon

27.     After the initial series of measures that served as prior actions for DPL1, the
implementation of the program supported by the DPL series began to slow down. Most
importantly, the tax collection effort and tax administration did not improve as envisaged
in 2007. In mid-2008, a Bank team assessed the status of compliance with the triggers
agreed for DPL2 and found that of the four triggers related to fiscal stability, two were
fully achieved, while the tax effort trigger (for 2007) had not been achieved. The power
sector trigger in this area also was not achieved, but was considered to have been
`complemented' by equivalent measures. Of the five governance-related triggers, the
procurement trigger and one of the triggers referring to public expenditure management
were achieved. The other trigger pertaining to public expenditure management and two
triggers referring to public expenditure transparency were partially achieved. Finally, the
two investment climate triggers were achieved.

28.    The World Bank informed the authorities of this assessment in a letter dated July
18, 2008, and invited them to discuss the options and implications of these findings.7 The


7
    Letter from Bert Hofman (Country Director Philippines) to Ms. Lea de Leon (Dept of Finance), dated
      July 18, 2008. While this letter focused on shortcomings in the tax effort, the Bank also suggested that
      better compliance with the triggers related to governance and transparency in public expenditure
      management and procurement was needed in response to emerging results from an INT investigation.


                                                       10
   subsequent exchange of views did not lead to an agreed program, with the result that no
   follow-up development policy loan was prepared within 24 months of the time that the
   first DPL had been approved. According to Bank guidelines, this meant that the DPL
   series lapsed, calling for the preparation of this Implementation Completion Report.

         Table 3. Progress Achieved in Implementing Second Phase of the Program
                                                                          Status of Implementation
                    Triggers for DPL2
                                                                             (as of March 2009)
    Maintenance of an adequate macro/fiscal framework              Adequate framework has been maintained
Fiscal Policy
 CPSD/GDP maintained at about 2% in 2006 and 1.4% in             Achieved and exceeded. Small surpluses
   2007                                                          achieved in 2006 and 2007.
 Tax revenue to increase by 0.5% of GDP in 2007, over            Not achieved. Tax effort remained
   2006. [Baseline: tax ratio = 14.3% in 2006]                   unchanged at 14% in 2007 and 2008.
 Clean up and expansion of the large corporations and other      Partially achieved (50%). Progress has
   business in the BIR registration database underway            been slow since early 2008.

Power Sector
 Universal charges for stranded debt and cost filed by           Not achieved.* Progress made in privatizing
   PSALM                                                         public assets helped improve PSALM
                                                                 finances, but not enough to restore solvency.
Governance
Public expenditure management:
 2008 budget proposal underpinned by an MTEF based on            Achieved
    refined budget strategy paper and forward estimates
    developed with departments
                                                                 Partially achieved (25% -- only DOH
    DOH, DepEd, DPWH and DA submitted 2008 budget                complied out of 4 agencies)
    proposals to DBM based on a new budget structure.
Public expenditure transparency:
 Detailed data on allotment and quarterly cash releases by       Partially achieved (progress stalled in 2008)
    agency for central offices of DOH, DPWH, DepEd and
    DA disclosed ex post on DBM website on a quarterly
    basis
 Details on payments to contractors for central offices and      Partially achieved (progress stalled in 2008)
    4 pilot regions of DOH, DPWH, DepED and DA
    disclosed ex post on DBM website on a quarterly basis
Procurement reform:
 All publicly bid opportunities and bid awards of GPPB              Achieved. 12 out of the 12 targeted GPPB
    member departments (altogether 12 departments) posted           agencies posted bid opportunities and
    on PhilGEPS in compliance with RA 9184                          awards

Investment Climate
 List of priority investment projects submitted by NEDA              Achieved
    Infrastructure Committee to DBM in time for inclusion in
    the 2008 budget
 PSALM and NPC engaged advisor to advise on trading                  Achieved
    strategies and the appointment of the IPP administrators,
    including risk sharing and performance incentives
   *Note: In July 2008, this trigger was assessed as having been "complemented by equivalent measures", but
   further analysis revealed that the privatizations that took place were not sufficient to restore solvency.



                                                      11
29.    A subsequent review carried out in March 2009 in connection with this ICR
revealed that the progress made since the mid-2008 review has been modest: as
summarized in Table 3, five out of the 11 triggers agreed for DPL2 were fully achieved,
four were partially achieved, and two were not achieved. The progress made in the
individual program areas supported by the DPL is described next.

30.    Trigger 1, in reference to reducing the Fiscal Deficit (Achieved). The
consolidated public sector balance turned into a small surplus in 2006 that was
maintained in 2007. It is estimated that the CPS balance remained in surplus in 2008, at
0.4 percent of GDP, as large surpluses from the social security institutions and local
government units compensated for the increase in the national government deficit. (The
national government balance fell from a deficit of -0.2 percent of GDP in 2007 to an
estimated -0.9 percent in 2008.)

31.     Trigger 2, in reference to raising the Tax Effort (Not achieved). The tax to GDP
ratio had increased to 14.3 percent in 2006, so this trigger called for a target tax ratio of at
least 14.8 percent in 2007. Meanwhile, the Government had set a target for itself of 15.3
percent of GDP. Actual tax revenues in 2007, however, fell back to 14 percent of GDP.
Analyses carried out in 2008 by the Department of Finance (DOF) and the Bank
suggested that most of the shortfall in total 2007 tax revenues (relative to the trigger)
could not be explained by an adverse macroeconomic performance or policy changes
conducive to lower revenues, and therefore that it was likely due to less-than-anticipated
progress in tax administration. In fact, the analysis gave indications that tax
administration effort was less in 2007 than in 2006.

32.     The tax effort remained unchanged in 2008, at 14 percent of GDP. Preliminary
tax collection data from the Treasury reveals that the tax revenues collected by the
Bureau of Internal Revenues (BIR) grew by only 9.1 percent (or below nominal GDP
growth of 12.8 percent) while collections by the Bureau of Customs (BOC) increased by
24.3 percent. The large collection by BOC is traced primarily to higher commodity
prices (especially oil) and the weaker peso. Improvements in customs administration, on
the other hand, are perceived to have made only a small contribution. In the BIR, a
combination of macroeconomic impact, policy changes, and weaker tax administration
explains the lower than targeted collections. This overall outcome for the year came as a
disappointment, given that tax revenues had improved significantly in the first five
months of the year. In the first half of 2008, proceeds from the tax amnesty law (at about
P5 billion or 0.07 percent of GDP), higher prices and perceived stronger tax
administration helped to raise internal tax revenues by 16.4 percent, compared to 6.6
percent over the same period in 2007. In the second half, the implementation of RA 9504,
which exempts minimum wage earners from the income tax, raises the exemption
thresholds of individuals and allows individuals to claim a standard deduction of 40
percent, brought down collection by about P7-14 billion, or 0.1 to 0.2 percent of GDP
(according to the government's projection). However, the weaker economy and poor tax




                                              12
administration probably explain more of the decline in tax collection growth (which only
averaged about 6 percent in the second half).8 The tax revenue intake continued to fall
through the first Quarter of 2009, reflecting a deepening impact of the global economic
crisis. Meanwhile, the progress made in tax administration reform (supported by the
NPSTAR project) has been slow, with minimal accomplishment since early 2008.9

33.     A number of reform measures initiated late in 2007 appeared to be gaining ground
in early 2008, and may account for the improved revenue performance in the first quarter
of that year. At the same time, however, a key concern emerged with regard to BIR's de-
listing of some 500 large taxpayers from the coverage of the Large Taxpayer Service,
which was likely to undermine the impact of the other reform efforts to strengthen tax
administration and revenue collection, such as the Run-After-The-Smugglers (RATS)
program. As these fears materialized toward the end of the year, BIR reversed its
position and the de-listed taxpayers have been reintegrated into the Large Taxpayer
Service as of January 2009.

34.      Several reform measures in the areas of registration, audit, and collection that
were identified in 2007 also appeared to be showing progress during the first half of 2008.
These measures include on-going data matching (with Customs, between BIR and SEC
and of taxes by withholding agents and by income tax recipients under the tax
reconciliation system (TRS)); new regulations to tighten controls over tax exemption
removals; intensifying audit of taxpayers through the establishment of industry
benchmarks and taxpayers profile as the basis for audit, initiating pre-audits of 2007
returns (normally audits are done towards the end of the year), rolling out the integrated
computerized system (ITS) to 30 district offices as of April 2008, and rolling out the
performance management system and accomplishment reporting system for 2008. The
latter includes indicators beyond the collection goal--such as the audit effort ratio, the
quality of audits, and the increase in the tax base and the clean-up of the database.

35.     Reforms in the Bureau of Customs had made some progress in 2007 and 2008,
following heightened media attention to smuggling. To address smuggling, which
appears to have worsened in the last five years, the president created a high level task
force to address smuggling and collusion of customs personnel in technical smuggling
(i.e. mis-declaration of goods). A number of customs agents were charged with
corruption under the Revenue Integrity Protection Service (RIPS) Program of the
government. The e-customs project, which aims to computerize customs procedures and
reduce physical contact between importers and customs agents, is underway. However,


8
  Full year tax collection data for 2008 by type of tax is not yet available, but reports citing the DOF has
     VAT collection contracting by about 6 percent to P140.32 billion (1.9% of GDP) and income tax
     collection increasing by 1 percent to P482.24 billion (6.4% of GDP). BIR failed to meet its VAT
     collection of P204.88 billion for 2008 by P65 billion or 0.9 percent of GDP. The lower VAT collection
     could be traced to a weaker economy or deterioration in VAT administration, but with domestic
     consumption still relatively strong in Q3 and Q4 of 2008, the VAT base did not seem to be affected
     much. A weakening of tax administration, therefore, appears to have been more important.
9
  See Annex 7, for a more detailed summary of the progress made in the implementation of tax
     management reforms.


                                                    13
Phase 3 of the program, which involves setting up the systems for electronic submission
of manifests, electronic payments to banks, and electronic release of cargo, among others,
appears to be significantly delayed.

36.     To sum up, the targeted increase in the tax ratio could not be achieved in 2008, in
spite of some encouraging developments at the beginning of the year. Looking forward,
the tax ratio is expected to fall in 2009. (The Bank projects a ratio of 13.3 percent in the
absence of remedial actions.) This decline in tax effort is attributable to three factors: (i)
tax policy measures with a negative revenue yield,10 (ii) a cyclical economic slowdown,
and (iii) weak tax administration, which together with a weakening economy led to a fall
in tax compliance.

37.     Trigger 3, in reference to cleaning up the BIR registration database (Partially
achieved). Progress was made in building and cleaning up the taxpayer registry, but
slowly. Out of more than 9,000 potentially unregistered corporations and 125,000
potentially inactive taxpayers that were identified in a data matching exercise in 2007,
less than 50 percent were physically validated, and only 10 percent were identified for
inclusion into the tax registry. The actual inputting of these taxpayers into the system,
however, has not commenced. In 2008, a further 98,000 taxpayers were found to be
registered with local government units but not with the BIR. These taxpayers are
currently being validated by the district offices. Actual inputting of these taxpayers into
the registration system is progressing very slowly.

38.     The poor performance of the registration reform is primarily traced to poor
management support and the overall focus of the BIR in meeting their monthly collection
targets. The Attrition Act which rewards and punishes tax officials for meeting or failing
to meet their respective collection targets appears to have provided a disincentive to
pursue the registration and backlog clean-up. (For a detailed assessment of the progress
in registration and backlog management of BIR, see Annex 8.)

39.     Trigger 4, in reference to filing of Universal Charges for stranded debt and cost
by PSALM (Not achieved). In 2007, after ERC had approved rules for stranded UCs
filing in February and PSALM informed their intention to file and start collecting UCs,
no filing was made by the latest deadline that year (June 15, 2007, including a three
month extension requested by PSALM and granted by ERC). An earlier assessment
carried out in mid-2008 suggested that the trigger could be considered partially achieved
in view of successful privatizations in 2007 and upfront payment of privatization
proceeds that led to improvements in the consolidated NPC/PSALM financial situation,
and taking into account that PSALM was planning to file for stranded contract costs and




10
     These include (i) the erosion of excise taxes, which are not indexed to inflation, (ii) a scheduled reduction
       in the income tax rate, as part of the 2004-06 VAT reform, and (iii) an increase in tax exemptions
       introduced in mid-2008 in response to the global financial and economic crisis.



                                                        14
stranded debts UC by July 2008. However, as of March 200911 there had still been no
filing for stranded contract costs and stranded debt. UCs and preliminary financial
projections prepared by PSALM in 2006 showed that projected privatization proceeds
would not be sufficient to restore solvency.12 Information and preliminary estimations
collected during Bank assessment missions on the impact of the financial crisis on the
power sector (missions took place in December 2008 and January 2009) indicated that,
notwithstanding the successful privatizations, debt overhang continues to be high, with
the financial situation of NPC/PSALM depending critically on short to medium term
refinancing. Moreover, estimation of 2008 operation results lead to significant stranded
contract costs. 13 During the financial impact assessment missions, PSALM informed
plans to file for stranded costs by March 2009. PSALM has modified its strategy and
again requested an extension from ERC until July 2009 justified on similar grounds as in
previous years (audited reports will only be available by June). The extension was
granted, but unless the 2008 stranded contract costs are actually filed within the deadline
for 2009, their recovery through stranded costs UCs will not be possible.

40.     Triggers 5 (Achieved) and Trigger 6 (Partially achieved), in reference to Public
Expenditure Management Reform. The DBM continued its MTEF reform in the 2008
and 2009 budget preparation process. With technical assistance from the Bank, the DBM
prepared the PBS for the third year in a row, detailing key policy issues in the priority
sectors of education, health, public works and highways, agriculture and the environment,
and proposing preliminary recommendations at a DBCC workshop. With AusAID
technical assistance, DBM staff went through training to enhance their capacity to
prepare forward estimates, and used these to calculate "allocable" fiscal resources to be
distributed among priority sectors on the basis of the PBS recommendations. These
accomplishments constitute full achievement of the Trigger 5.

41.     The progress made in using the existing performance framework as a basis of
agency budget structures has been more limited. The Organizational Performance
Indicator Framework (OPIF) for each department identifies a set of Major Final Outputs
(MFOs) and assigns corresponding budgetary costs to each MFO. But the actual budget
estimates submitted to Congress (National Expenditure Program) as a basis for the
General Appropriations Act follow the traditional Program, Activity and Project (PAP)
structure that is different from the MFO structure. In the 2008 and 2009 budget proposals,
DOH was the only department that adjusted its PAP structure more closely in line with its



11
   Under the Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR) of EPIRA, PSALM should file on or before March
      15 of each year with the ERC for approval of Universal Charges for the following years.
12
   Moreover, PSALM also projected reaching a break-even condition (DSCR to reach one time) by 2009
      based on optimistic assumptions of privatization proceeds (up-front payments for privatization of
      major power plants during 2006-2007 and for the Transco concession by early 2008) plus collection of
      both UC for stranded contract cost and stranded debt (totaling P54 billion and P47 billion in 2009 and
      2010, respectively).
13
   Preliminary estimations of PSALM refinancing needs total US$ 5.3 billion. These include repayment of
      outstanding NPC debt of US$ 4.1 billion through 2011 along with US$ 400 million of transmission
      costs, and US$ 800 million in stranded costs.


                                                    15
OPIF. None of the other priority departments revised their budget structures in a similar
manner. Thus, Trigger 6 has only been partially achieved.

42.     Triggers 7 and 8 in reference to Public Expenditure Transparency Reform
(Partially achieved). In regard to Trigger 7, a breakdown of obligations and
disbursements was provided for selected program/project for 2007 for DOH, DepEd, DA
and DPWH. In regard to Trigger 8, data on contractor payments has been posted for DA,
DepEd and DOH. For DPWH, the DBM web site has inserted a link to the DPWH web
page on accounts payable to contractors. The data was posted on the DBM website only
in early 2008, as opposed to the initial expectation of quarterly posting throughout 2007,
partly because the amount of effort required to complete this task was underestimated.
Due to deficiencies in the information systems, DBM had to scan data contained in paper
copies submitted by the three agencies and upload them onto its website. As such, the
data is not downloadable into a spreadsheet by external users. The fact that the posting
relied on scanning data sent from the DA, DepEd and DOH to DBM in paper format, as
opposed to electronic files, makes it difficult to ensure the sustainability of the effort.14
DBM has discontinued this effort since early 2008, when the ADB completed its
appraisal of the 2nd Development Policy Support Program. Overall, therefore, these two
triggers have only been partially achieved.

43.     Trigger 9, in reference to Procurement Reform (Achieved). Posting of bid
opportunities and awards on PhilGEPs is intended as a measure to improve transparency
of government procurement. This is a requirement specified in the Government
Procurement Reform Act. It captures just one of many dimensions of the procurement
reform action plan agreed upon between the government and the development partners
supporting the reform agenda as recorded in the current CPAR. The trigger has been
achieved, albeit with some delay, as all 12 GPPB member agencies have posted bid
opportunities and awards in the Philippine Government Electronic Procurement System
(PhilGEPS). It is now apparent that the GPPB member agencies are complying with the
requirements of the Government Procurement Reform Act. In meeting and assessing this
trigger, however, some difficulties emerged that could have been anticipated better: (a)
there is a timing difference between the posting of bid opportunities and award,
sometimes as long as six months such that for a given assessment period, there is no one-
to-one correspondence; (b) a technical challenge for the government to meet this trigger
condition was to ascertain the universe of bid opportunities for each of the 12
departments that are members of the Government Procurement Policy Board (GPPB).
Although required by law to link budget and procurement, the Annual Procurement Plan
process has not been implemented properly in agencies. There is therefore no master file



14
     The scanned data posted are incomplete in terms of the time coverage (i.e., some months are missing) and
       the amounts posted cover only a small fraction of Maintenance and Other Operating Expenses
       (MOOE) and Cash Operations (CO) budget of the respective departments' central office. The data for
       DPWH are itemized by each contractor and specify the amount due (but not actually paid).
       Unfortunately, the time coverage is limited to December 2007 and June 2008. It is also difficult to
       ascertain, from the way the data are posted, as to whether full data are made available from this
       database.


                                                      16
of all procurement transactions against which the number of postings can be compared.
As a practical solution, the Technical Support Office (TSO) of the GPPB asked each
department to submit a certified list of all its bid opportunities for 2007. However the
data posted only captures procurement transactions by the departments' main offices.

44.     Triggers 10 and 11 in reference to Improving the Investment Climate (Achieved).
As found in the mid-2008 review of the status of DPL implementation,15 both triggers
were achieved: In regard to the first, the Comprehensive Integrated Infrastructure
Program (CIIP) was prepared and was taken as a basis for the 2008 budget, becoming a
more important planning and budgeting instrument for multi-year capital expenditures
budgeting than before. Trigger 11 called for PSALM and NPC to engage advisors to
advise on trading strategies and on the appointment of IPP administrators, including risk-
sharing and performance incentives. (This action had the broad objective of improving
the investment climate in the power sector and facilitating the transition to a competitive
power market.) The Department of Energy (DOE) managed to contract the expert
consultants in question through a PHRD grant to support the implementation of power
sector reform and privatization (Grant for the Preparation of Private Sector Development
Support Guarantee for Power Reform Project, TF055609).

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

45.    Various factors contributed to the slowdown in program implementation after the
approval of DPL1, eventually causing the DPL series to lapse.

46.     Declining country ownership. The program supported by the DPL series enjoyed
limited country ownership.16 There was a strong consensus in 2004 and 2005 on the need
to act quickly and decisively to raise tax revenues and reduce the fiscal deficit in order to
avoid a fiscal crisis. The preparation and negotiation of DPL1, however, occurred toward
the end of the fiscal consolidation process. By the time that the loan was appraised in
November 2006, the threat of a fiscal crisis had subsided, reducing the sense of urgency
that had driven the reform process earlier.

47.    Political volatility. In July 2005, after the main fiscal reforms had been
introduced, the eruption of a public scandal prompted the resignation of many Cabinet
members and high level staff, including many of the more technocratic policymakers.
After 2005, impeachment and coup attempts continued to surface periodically,
contributing to political volatility and detracting attention away from the reform agenda.

48.    High staff turnover. Staff turnover has been a problem. The high-level
resignations mentioned above meant that many of the original architects of the
government's reform program were no longer in office by the time that DPL1 was


15
   See Annex on "Status of DPL 2 Triggers" to letter from Bert Hofman (Country Director Philippines) to
     Ms. Lea de Leon (Dept of Finance), dated July 18, 2008.
16
   In some instances, line agencies (e.g., BIR) did not appear to fully share the views and positions on the
     program expressed by the oversight agencies (e.g., DOF).


                                                    17
approved. This contributed to a loss of vision with respect to the future of the reform
program and weakened the institutional capacity of key agencies. In particular, the BIR
suffered a high turnover of Commissioners, which led to a lack of continuity in the
reform effort. Other related factors contributing to the slow progress in BIR's
implementation of the tax reform program were the lack of adequate BIR management
focus, inadequate staffing, inadequate performance incentives and deficiencies in the
legal framework; see Annexes 7 and 8.

49.     Weaknesses in program design. The core design of the DPL operation in general
appears to have been sound. The sequencing of reforms, which began by focusing first
on restoring fiscal soundness in DPL1, then shifting attention toward the strengthening of
governance and public financial management in DPL2, and finally addressing
shortcomings in the investment climate and in social sector service delivery, was
appropriate in light of the government's limited institutional capacity. By spreading out
the reform effort over time, the risk of over-burdening institutional capacities to manage
different reforms simultaneously was reduced. Even so, several of the reforms supported
by the DPL series were too ambitious. In particular, the timing of reform actions
envisaged in EPIRA to restore financial solvency to the power sector do not appear to
have been achievable, thereby contributing to the government's inability to meet Trigger
4; para. 36. Also, the measures to improve public expenditure transparency (Triggers 7
and 8) presupposed a better access to information, and the capacity to organize it in a
meaningful manner, by the central Departments. In this last regard, it may have been
more appropriate to wait for further advances in the development of better financial
information management system before emphasizing the public dissemination of
information. Other actions, such as the clean-up of the BIR registration database (Trigger
3) were eminently doable from a capacity viewpoint, so that the partial progress achieved
in meeting the program target was attributable more to a lack of attention than to
insufficient capacity.

50.     Several prior actions and program triggers exhibited minor deficiencies. In
particular, the set of prior actions in Table 2 could have been simplified, considering that
the consolidated public sector deficit, the national government deficit and the NPC's
deficit are not independent of each other. Treating each as a prior action appears
repetitive in the absence of a clear justification. Also, it would have been more
appropriate to treat the VAT reform as one prior action, rather than considering the
broadening of the VAT base and the raising of VAT rates as separate prior actions. A
question arising in regard to the design of triggers for this operation is whether it was
appropriate to maintain numerical targets for tax collections as triggers or to relegate
them to the role of outcome indicators. The danger in opting for the former is that
meeting the trigger depends on many factors outside of the government's control and
therefore may not adequately measure government efforts and commitment. In the final
analysis, however, the failure to meet this quantitative trigger was not the main undoing
of the program. Instead, it was the failure to come up with alternative remedial actions.

51.     Although the choice of outcome indicators generally appears adequate in terms of
quality and availability of information, there are some important exceptions. One is the



                                            18
choice of separate outcome indicators for the public investment-to-GDP ratio and the
private investment ratio. It turns out that the public investment figures in the National
Income Accounts only refer to investment in construction, while any remaining public
investments are lumped together with private investment. Separating these spending
aggregates, therefore, does not make much sense. Also, several indicators are difficult to
monitor for lack of systematic data that is available on a periodic basis. This is the case
for the outcome indicator referring to the "number of projects being delayed and period
of delay", as well as the outcome indicator referring to "priority investment projects
identified by NEDA". Finally, a number of outcome indicators are not accompanied by
baseline figures that can serve as reference points, reducing their value as measures of
progress.

52.     Gaps in the analytical underpinnings. A considerable amount of prior work had
gone into analyzing the tax system and identifying its key weaknesses,17 and in analyzing
the financial situation of the key GOCCs, particularly in the power sector. This includes
a well-developed poverty and distributional impact assessment of the tax reforms
supported under the DPL. However, the prior analysis available in the areas of public
expenditure management and public financial management was more limited. A PER
was concluded in 2003, but it covered a lot of ground and did not provide enough detail
on the key PFM issues to serve as an adequate basis for the DPL. More detailed analysis
followed later with the Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA)
diagnosis that was concluded in August 2008, but this came too late to influence the
design of the DPL operation.

53.     The links of the DPL to other lending or technical assistance operations were well
developed for some program components, but less so for others. In the area of tax reform,
several ongoing technical assistance projects, including from World Bank, IMF, SIDA
and MCC, were available to assist the authorities in achieving improvements in tax
administration and reaching the tax collection targets included in the DPL triggers. (As
described in Annex 7, however, implementation of the Bank's NPSTAR project has been
weak, mirroring similar weaknesses in achieving compliance with the DPL2 targets.)
Ongoing technical assistance provided through the Australian Agency for International
Development and a PHRD grant managed by the Bank also were available to help with
the implementation of some measures in the areas of public expenditure management,
particularly the introduction of medium-term expenditure frameworks. In contrast, the
amount of support to accompany the implementation of reforms in the areas of public
expenditure transparency and financial management was much more limited and mainly
confined to a few technical assistance grants. A government financial management
information system strengthening project had been planned, but it has yet to enter the
preparation stage.

54.    Uneven development partner coordination. A commendable feature of donor
cooperation when the program was being designed was the principle to adhere to a


17
     This included a joint World Bank-IMF (Fiscal Affairs Dept.) report on "Critical Priorities in Tax and
       Customs Administration Reform" prepared in December 2005.


                                                    19
common policy matrix to which all partners could agree. Instead of having each
development partner establish separate benchmarks and triggers for assessing program
implementation, agreement on a common policy matrix was expected to provide a more
consistent signal to the authorities in regard to the reform priorities being supported.
Problems arose, however, when some development partners took a narrower
interpretation of commonality (calling for common triggers as well as common
milestones), which others regarded as an unnecessary straightjacket. This principle was
eventually relaxed, as the ADB excluded from its series of DPSP loans the prior actions
pertaining to the power sector that were contained in the policy matrix used by the World
Bank.18

55.    The management of a joint policy matrix, however, continued to present
challenges in subsequent phases of the program. The Government did not exert a strong
hand in donor coordination and the two largest providers of budget support ­ Asian
Development Bank and the World Bank ­ eventually differed in their assessments of
program implementation in mid-2008. Following its July 2008 assessment of the extent
to which the triggers for DPL2 have been activated, the World Bank informed the
government that some key triggers (on tax effort and governance) still remained pending
and invited the government to discuss available options. The ADB, on the other hand,
decided to remove the trigger pertaining to tax effort, 19 and proceeded to prepare a
second DPSP loan, which was approved in September 2008. The decisions by the World
Bank and ADB to proceed in separate directions would have benefited from further
consultations. By going separate ways, they undermined consensus on the importance of
continued program implementation.

56.     Finally, it may be pertinent to mention that the external environment was
generally favorable during the first year following the approval of DPL1 and, thus, not a
major factor contributing to the slowdown of the program. The key macroeconomic
indicators turned out to be better than projected at the time of loan appraisal; Table 4. In
particular, real GDP growth turned out significantly higher in 2007 than predicted (7.2
percent versus 5.7 percent), while the fiscal and external balances adjusted much faster


18
     The ADB was also preparing a separate fast-disbursing operation for the power sector at this time, and
       therefore did not consider it appropriate to introduce such conditionality in its DPSP1 loan.
19
     In regard to compliance with the tax effort trigger, the ADB's program document for the DPSP 2 loan,
       makes the same observations as the World Bank's mid-2008 program assessment, noting that while tax
       revenues fell short of budget targets in 2007, remedial actions taken by the authorities were leading to
       a recovery of tax revenues in the second semester of 2007 and during the first half of 2008, partially
       bringing the Government's medium-term tax targets back on track. So, the ADB's decision to move
       forward with the DPSP 2 loan is evidently not based on a different reading of this evidence. Instead,
       the ADB's decision appears to have been motivated by a revised view on the adequacy of numerical
       targets for assessing implementation of tax policy. (The program document indicates that such
       numerical targets are more appropriately monitored as an outcome indicator, rather than as a policy
       trigger.) In any case, the justification given in the program document for removing the numerical tax
       revenue trigger is a Government request to eliminate the numerical trigger on tax revenues and to shift
       the focus on remedial actions to enhance tax collections. Also, ADB staff may have taken a more
       favorable interpretation than IBRD staff of the degree of compliance with some triggers (e.g., in
       transparency).


                                                       20
than originally projected, and so did not constitute an impediment to program
implementation. The macroeconomic environment worsened significantly in 2008, first
on account of the rising international food prices and then due to the global financial
crisis. This manifested itself in higher inflation rates and lower growth in the second half
of 2008. By that time, the program had already gone off track in terms of meeting the
2007 fiscal and public expenditure targets. However, it may have contributed to the
government's incapacity to follow through with the promising trends in tax collections
observed in the first half of 2008.

                                     Table 4
          Key Macroeconomic Indicators ­ Projected and Actual; 2005-2009
                  (percentages of GDP, unless indicated otherwise)
                                                  2005      2006      2007         2008      2009
                        Macroeconomic Projections (as projected in 2006)
Real GDP growth (% per annum)                          5.0       5.5       5.7       5.9       6.2
CPI Inflation rate (average, % per annum)              7.6       6.7       5.0       4.2       3.5
Gross Domestic Investment                             15.1      15.2      15.8      16.6      17.5
Consolidated Public Sector Balance                    -1.8      -1.8      -1.4      -0.9      -0.5
Non-financial public sector debt                        87        80        74        69        65
Current Account Balance                                2.4       2.4       1.8       1.4       1.0
               Macroeconomic Outcomes (actual and estimated as of March 2009)
Real GDP growth (% per annum)                             5.0       5.4    7.2       4.6        1.9
CPI Inflation rate (average, % per annum)                 7.6       6.2    2.8       9.3        5.5
Gross Domestic Investment                                14.6      14.5   15.3      15.3      14.9
Consolidated Public Sector Balance 1/                    -1.8      -0.2   -0.3      -0.4       -3.2
Non-financial public sector debt                           86         74    64        62         62
Current Account Balance                                   2.0       4.5    4.4       1.6        2.2
Source: DPL1 Program Document (November 16, 2006) , Country Assistance Strategy (March 19, 2009),
and DOF. Notes: 1/ CPS balance for 2009 is estimated as of June 2009.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

57.     During the preparation of the DPL series, a set of 24 outcome indicators were
identified. These were selected in agreement with Government counterparts and other
development partners for the four programmatic areas covered by the program, and
linked to areas of engagement originally contemplated for the complete series of DPLs.
Considering that the series did not extend beyond the first DPL, the prior actions
contained in DPL1 and the triggers discussed in connection with DPL2 are linked to a
sub-set of 15 outcomes contained in the first three thematic areas (Macroeconomic and
Fiscal Stability, Governance and Anti-Corruption, and Investment Climate and
Infrastructure), as shown in Table 5.

58.    The monitoring and evaluation of progress under the program primarily took
place through DPL2 preparation missions, which reviewed the progress in compliance
with the DPL2 triggers, through supervision activities carried out under related projects
(notably the Tax Administration Reform project and an IDF grant to strengthen public
expenditure and financial management) and through certain AAA activities (notably the
Philippine Development Report), which provide inputs for the annual Philippine
Development Forum that serves as a consultative group for discussing progress in


                                                21
program implementation by the government and the development partner agencies. 20
While this approach is appropriate from an operational viewpoint, it renders difficult the
tracking of resources devoted to program supervision, since they are recorded under
different tasks.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

59.     There are no follow-up operations contemplated under the present DPL series,
given that it has lapsed after 24 months transpired since the approval of DPL1. (Another
DPL was prepared in response to the food crisis under the Food Crisis Emergency
Facility in September 2008, but this was a stand-alone operation separate from the just-
lapsed DPL series.) The 2009 CAS contemplates the possibility of continuing with a new
series of development policy loans, starting with a $250 million new DPL for CY2009,
with a possible option of an additional US$250 million as a deferred drawdown option,
supporting similar objectives of strengthening fiscal revenues and transparency as before,
complemented by measures to improve the Philippines' preparedness for the impact of
the ongoing global crisis. Beyond this commitment to use DPLs to mitigate the impact of
the global economic crisis, the Bank is also planning to use Catastrophe Development
Policy Loans with deferred draw-down option (CAT-DDOs) in support of the
government disaster risk management and in the context of a strong reform program in
government financial management.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

60.     The objectives pursued by the DPL series were fully consistent with the Bank's
2005 Country Assistance Strategy, and continue to be relevant under the new 2009 CAS.
The earlier CAS had focused on helping the government improve public institutions and
services to help the country achieve higher and sustained growth, coupled with greater
social inclusion. The modest growth achieved by the Philippines relative to its East
Asian neighbors over the past 25 years was regarded as the main culprit responsible for
the sluggish progress made in poverty reduction. Meanwhile, the CAS also identified
weak fiscal performance as the single most important short-term obstacle to more rapid
development of the Philippines. In that context, the strong focus on fiscal adjustments at
the outset of the program makes sense.

61.     Even though the fiscal policy adjustments achieved in 2004-05 averted a fiscal
crisis and represented a major step forward in achieving these objectives, the additional



20
     Since all the prior actions of single-tranche DPLs are met prior to Board presentation, there is nothing
       more to supervise under that project once the project funds are disbursed and the project is closed.
       Instead, the main program supervision at that stage takes place in the context of
       identification/preparation of the next project in the series.



                                                      22
measures contemplated in the DPL series continued to be highly relevant. In particular,
the public debt ratio (86 percent at the end of 2005) was still very high, contributing to
the country's macroeconomic vulnerability, and thus requiring a sustained fiscal
consolidation. On the other hand, the total investment ratio in the Philippines was and
continues to be low, and appears incapable of sustaining the more rapid growth
envisioned in the MTPDP. Furthermore, government spending on infrastructure and
human development was extremely low by international standards, and leakages from
public spending undermined the intended impact of such spending. This suggests that the
policy focus adopted for the DPL series (measures to strengthen macro and fiscal stability,
improve the investment climate and improve public expenditure management and
transparency) was justified in terms of the country's development needs.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

62.     In discussing the achievement of program development objectives, it is useful to
separate the first three programmatic areas, on which most of the policy dialogue took
place to date, from the last programmatic area, which was meant to be covered by future
DPLs that never materialized.21

63.     Macroeconomic and Fiscal Stability. The first programmatic area included 5
outcome indicators of which two were fully achieved, two were not achieved and one
was partially achieved. The first two outcomes refer to the reduction in the public debt to
GDP ratio and the maintenance of public sector fiscal balances compatible with a further
declining public debt ratio. Achieving both outcomes attests to the government's sound
macroeconomic management, although the gradual increase in both the debt and the
public deficit in 2008 raise questions about the sustainability of these gains in a less
favorable external environment. Where government efforts have met with much less
success is in regard to raising its tax revenue to GDP ratio and in restoring financial
solvency to the power sector. The remaining outcome indicator, referring to updating of
taxpayer information system, also was only partially achieved. As indicated earlier, this
mainly appears to reflect flagging efforts on the part of the tax authorities. The outcomes
in this area are rated moderately unsatisfactory, mainly on account of the failure to
achieve the tax collection target, which had been the main focus of attention in the
development of the DPL series, together with the absence of alternative remedial actions.

64.      Governance and Anti-Corruption. All of the governance outcome indicators in
Table 5 have been partially met. The lackluster performance in this programmatic area
also is rated as moderately unsatisfactory.



21
     The DPL policy matrix lists 24 outcomes, of which 15 are associated with programmatic actions related
      to the prior actions for DPL1 or with triggers identified for DPL2, while the remaining 9 outcomes are
      associated with program benchmarks that were not being monitored under these operations. In
      assessing program outcomes, this ICR only takes into account the 15 outcomes listed in Table 5 that
      are associated with the programmatic actions covered by DPL1 and DPL2.



                                                     23
   65.      The Government has registered tangible incremental progress in making annual
   budgeting more policy-based within a medium-term framework. In particular, the PBS
   has proven useful in steering the bureaucracy's recommendations to the cabinet (through
   DBCC) on key budgetary priorities. But the effort has yet to reach a point of
   institutionalization. For the past two years, there have been some delays in key milestone
   decisions/events (e.g. determination of the priority topics to be reviewed in the PBS and
   thus in the preparation/finalization of the PBS within the budget preparation calendar)
   and ad hoc changes in key dimensions of budget making (e.g. the criteria for determining
   agency budget ceilings in the National Budget Call).

                    Table 5: Achievement of Outcome Indicator Targets
           Expected Results (by 2009)             Actual Outcomes (as of March 2009)
                           I. Macroeconomic and Fiscal Stability

   NFPS debt reduced to about 65% of GDP from 96% in             Fully achieved. NFPS debt reduced to 62% of
   2005                                                          GDP in 2008

   Public sector balances compatible with           further      Fully achieved. CPSD remained low enough to
   reduction of the debt burden                                  allow further reductions in public debt ratio

   Tax/GDP ratio increased to 15.9%                              Not achieved. Tax/GDP ratio remained around
                                                                 14% in 2007 and 2008
   Integrated and comprehensive registration system with
   up-to-date and complete taxpayer information in place         Partially achieved (50%).

   Debt service coverage ratio of at least one achieved for
   consolidated NPC/PSALM                                        Unlikely to be Achieved.

                                  II. Governance and Anti-Corruption

   No. of departments with a medium term policy and              Partially achieved. A 3rd department (DSWD)
   expenditure framework with realistic fiscal scenarios         prepared an MTEF with Bank support.
   increased from baseline of 2 in 2006.

   Detailed budget execution data and including IRA for          Partially achieved. (% achievement could not be
   DOH, DepEd, DPWH, and DA disclosed for about                  calculated for lack of information.)
   54% of total budget (net of interest payments and net
   lending) ­ up from 22% in 2005.

   100% of public procurement transactions of central
   offices of 23 national government departments                 Partially achieved. (52%; 12 GPPB member
   posted on PhilGEPS website.                                   agencies posted bid opportunities and awards)




                                                        24
                                     Table 5 cont'd.
         Expected Results (by 2009)               Actual Outcomes (as of March 2009)
                       III. Investment Climate and Infrastructure

   Public Investment/GDP increased from 2.3% in 2005            Not Achieved. Public investment/GDP was at
   to 3.5% in 2009                                              2.1% in 2006, 2.7% in 2007, and projected to be at
                                                                2.6% in 2008 and 2.7% in 2009.
   Private Investment/GDP increased from 12.8% in 2005          Not Achieved. Private Investment/GDP was at
   to at least 15% in 2009                                      12.4% in 2006, 12.5% in 2007, and projected to be
                                                                at 12.7% in 2008 and 12.2% in 2009.

   Reduction in number of projects being delayed and            No baseline is provided
   reduction in period of delay

   100% of road maintenance by contract and long-term           Not Achieved. (It was included as part of
   performance-based      maintenance        contracts          NRIMP2, which has been delayed.)
   institutionalized

   10 priority investment projects identified by NEDA           Not rated, since government has presented
   have commenced                                               multiple lists of priority investment projects.

   Sustainable, stable power market that can provide a          Not Achieved. Can only be achieved when there is
   base for market-driven investment in new generation          open access, which can only start when 70% of
                                                                generating assets are privatized.
   Significant part of generating assets and Transco            Partially Achieved. 43% of the generating assets,
   privatized                                                   and Transco, have been privatized.


   66.     In regard to budget transparency, the PEFA assessment and other diagnostic work
   the Bank and other development partners such as the IMF have conducted since the
   DPL1 was approved, suggest that there is much scope to improve budget management
   and execution, as well as budget transparency and reporting in the Philippines' public
   financial management system. The Government has articulated transparency measures
   related to procurement through the PhilGEPs, but has yet to articulate a concrete plan to
   enhance budget transparency overall through greater disclosure of budgetary information.

   67.     Investment Climate and Infrastructure. Except for some progress made in
   advancing the privatization of public assets in the power sector, none of the outcomes
   targeted in this area was achieved. 22 Overall, the progress made in improving the
   investment climate and achieving a higher investment level (be it public or private) has
   been limited.

   68.    Social Inclusion. This fourth programmatic area in the policy matrix was not
   associated with any DPL1 and DPL2 actions, and was to be dealt with in future DPLs


   22
     One outcome in the policy matrix under this programmatic heading refers to a reduction in the average
   number of days needed to start a business, as reported in the Doing Business indicators. This outcome has
   been achieved, but it pertains to a program milestone that was not targeted under DPL1 or DPL2.



                                                      25
that never materialized. Surprisingly, it is the programmatic area showing the greatest
proportion of outcome achievement.23 Since it was not linked to the actions supported by
DPL1 and DPL2, however, the success in achieving these outcomes cannot be attributed
to the DPL series.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

69.     This rating is mainly motivated by the observation that, except for
macroeconomic management (which has been satisfactory, though sustainability over
time is not yet firmly entrenched), most of the outcome indicators in the area of fiscal
management and in governance were not fully achieved. This overall rating is also
warranted by the limited progress in program implementation, which prevented the Bank
from pursuing the series after DPL1, thereby limiting its ability to influence further
outcomes.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

70.    A worrisome development is the increase in poverty since 2003. Official
household survey figures show that the incidence of poverty fell from 33 percent in 2000
to 30 percent in 2003, but then increased again to 32.9 percent in 2006. The data
generating this result (Family Income and Expenditure Survey, FIES) diverges from the
National Income Accounts, which indicate high growth during this period. The increase
in poverty incidence indicated by the FIES, however, is consistent with other indicators


23
     The three outcomes included in the DPL series under the programmatic area of "Social Inclusion" are
       listed in the Table below, together with the progress made toward reaching those outcomes as of
       March 2009.

                                                        IV. Social Inclusion

           Increased coverage and use of the CBMS by 50% of the            Substantially Achieved. 53 provinces (27 of which
           LGUs from 4000 barangays in 2006                               province-wide), 554 municipalities and 43 cities
                                                                          covering 14,284 out of about 42,000 barangays (34%)
                                                                          use CBMS.

           Increased elementary cohort survival rate to 71% (from           Achieved
           64"% in 2003/04) and high school cohort survival to            CSR:           2006             2007
           69% (from 63% in 2003/04)                                      1. Elem        73.43           75.26
                                                                          2. Secondary 77.23             79.91
           Increased coverage rate of fully immunized children to          Achieved. For 2007, the following figures have been
           at least 87% (from 76% in 2005), tuberculosis case              reported:
           detection rate increased to at least 78% (from 71% in     1.           Immunized coverage rate = 91%
           2004) and cure rate increased to at least 85% (from 81%   2.           Tuberculosis case detection = 75%
           in 2004)                                                  3.           Tuberculosis cure rate = 85%




                                                               26
of poverty, such as the Social Weather Station reports, which have shown an increasing
trend in the proportion of households experiencing hunger. Meanwhile, the progress in
achieving the MDGs has slowed down since 2003, and in some cases (e.g., primary
school enrollment) shows a recent deterioration.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

       Covered elsewhere in document

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

       None

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

       Beneficiary surveys and stakeholder workshops were not conducted.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

   Rating: High

71.     The main development outcome achieved under this operation has been the
restoration of macroeconomic balance and reduction of the public debt ratio. This
outcome is now at risk with the onset of a much less favorable external environment
triggered by the global financial and economic crisis.

72.     Three other outcomes refer to the (i) modest improvements in the tax collection
effort, (ii) modest improvements in public expenditure management and transparency,
and (iii) opening up of the power sector to greater private participation and more efficient
intervention of market forces. The risk of reversing the initial gains achieved in tax
collections is also high, partly due to recent global developments, which also have
contributed to a significant slowdown of economic activity in the Philippines. Partly as a
result of this deceleration, as well as of tax cuts and base erosion measures, the tax ratio
is projected to decline in 2009 toward its 2005 pre-fiscal consolidation level (13 percent
of GDP). Also, the failure to index excise taxes to inflation means that tax collections are
threatened by further erosion over time. The gains achieved in public expenditure
management and transparency (including the introduction of MTEFs, adoption of new
budgeting techniques and public dissemination of public expenditure information) are
also subject to a high risk of reversal because they have not yet been institutionalized.
Unless the current and future governments continue to persist in this effort, the modest
gains achieved so far could be lost. The one area that offers a more optimistic outlook is
the power sector, where the advances made in privatization and in the creation of a
wholesale market appear to be subject to a more modest risk of being reversed.




                                            27
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

      Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

73.     The joint policy matrix that was developed for this operation provided an
acceptable basis for maintaining a policy dialogue. However, there were some gaps in
the analytical underpinnings of measures supported by the DPL series that raised the
likelihood of subsequent program failure. Although broad consensus was believed to
have been achieved on the triggers, both with government and with other international
development partners, the poor program implementation once the first DPL was approved
indicates weak country ownership. A deeper consultation process may have been
required to ensure more buy-in from the government. Some triggers appear in retrospect
to have been too ambitious or premature (e.g., restoring solvency to PSALM finances), or
not well sequenced (e.g., disclosure of public expenditure transparency prior to the
strengthening of financial management information systems), and initial expectations that
all development partners would adhere to the same set of triggers may have been too
optimistic.

74.     The proposed rating is one step lower than the overall judgment by the Quality at
Entry Assessment (QEA8), of April 26, 2007. The QEA8 rated the operation highly on
strategic relevance and approach based, among other, on strong borrower ownership,
which subsequently proved deficient and which accounts for the lower rating offered in
this ICR. On the other hand, the QEA8 coincides with this ICR's assessment of the
accountability framework for governance, which was found to be deficient with
insufficient capacity building measures to mitigate this weakness.24

(b) Quality of Supervision

       Rating: Satisfactory

75.     Even though progress in program implementation was slow, the assessment letter
sent to Government in July 2008 indicated that all but one of the 11 triggers for DPL2
were considered to have been either achieved or partially achieved. Admittedly, these
triggers were to have been achieved by end-2007 and the one trigger that was clearly not
achieved (on tax effort) had been the object of greatest attention. Furthermore, the Bank


24
     Two other areas of coincidence between the QEA8 and this ICR can be highlighted: first, the QEA8 notes
       that there is potential confusion about the degree of flexibility associated with triggers for future DPLs
       and indicates that there may be advantages to keeping the DPLs on an annual cycle while modulating
       loan amounts in response to changes in the pace of reform implementation. (This point is also made in
       the discussion in paragraphs 75 of this ICR.) Secondly, the QEA8 assessment raises questions on
       whether it would have been advisable, as a means to improve partnerships, to place all triggers and
       milestones associated with the power sector within the ADB operation. (A similar question is raised in
       paragraph 54 of this ICR.)


                                                        28
also became increasingly concerned about the partial compliance with the triggers on
public expenditure transparency and procurement in the wake of emerging results from
the NRIMP INT investigation in 2008. Given the degree of progress made in complying
with the DPL2 triggers, however, it would appear to have been possible to restructure the
operation (or reduce the loan size) in an acceptable manner without jeopardizing the key
development objectives. The Bank sought to engage the Government in a policy
dialogue in early to mid-2008, precisely to consider remedial actions to bring the
operation back on track, but no agreement was achieved. Stronger donor coordination
during this period could have helped to consolidate the donor position and messages to
the government.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

   Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

   Rating: Not applicable

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

   Rating: Not applicable

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

   Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

76.      After having advanced quickly with the implementation of reforms during 2004-
06, the Government appeared to have felt less urgency in pushing the reform process
forward once macroeconomic equilibrium was on the way to being restored. To their
credit, the authorities continued to maintain macroeconomic discipline, but many reforms
contemplated in the DPL series were allowed to languish. Limited institutional and/or
coordination capacity in the core Departments (e.g, DOF's capacity to influence BIR)
may have contributed to the sluggish reform effort. The Government authorities,
however, did not articulate clear program priorities in response to the Bank
communications inviting the authorities to propose alternative or remedial measures for
bringing the DPL-supported program back on track. While various government entities
exhibited weaknesses in program implementation, the most important shortcomings
appeared in the Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR), which had a key role to play in
reforming tax administration and strengthening the government's tax efforts.




                                            29
6. Lessons Learned

77.    The experience obtained from the First Development Policy Loan for the
Philippines points toward the following lessons:

   Good coordination and open communication among the development partners is
   critically important. The fragmentation of a common position among the
   Philippines' development partner institutions in mid-2008 sent mixed messages about
   the best way forward in the implementation of development policies. The use of a
   common policy matrix is a useful instrument for policy coordination, but can become
   overly constraining if managed too rigidly.

   Good analytical underpinnings are essential for designing a viable program.
   When adequate underpinnings are lacking for certain measures at the time of
   appraisal, it is advisable to defer those measures until they have been better analyzed.

   To be effective, reform processes need to be properly sequenced. The emphasis
   on the public dissemination of information relating to public sector expenditures
   before an adequate management information system is in place, meant that the quality
   of the information that was disseminated remained poor, undermining its usefulness.

   Narrow the scope of the program. The DPL series reflected a generalized tendency
   in the Bank to combine macroeconomic, sectoral and social objectives into one DPL
   series. The series would have been more manageable ­ in both the preparation and
   implementation stages ­ with a narrower scope.

   Periodic interim reviews to re-assess the adequacy of targets can help maintain
   continuity in the policy dialogue and periodicity in resource flows. Some
   program targets turn out to have been overly ambitious, leading to long delays in
   achieving compliance and threatening to disrupt the policy dialogue. To avoid such
   delays (and associated interruption of the predictability of resource flows), it is
   advisable to review the targets periodically with all development partners and to
   revise them if necessary, especially if related circumstances have changed.




                                           30
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                             Responsibility/
           Names                              Title                 Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending

Supervision
Karl Kendrick Tiu Chua         Country Economist                  EASPR
Sanjay K. Dhar                 Economic Adviser                   AFTPM
Joseph G. Reyes                Financial Management Specialist    EAPCO


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
               Stage                                              USD Thousands (including
                                           No. of staff weeks
                                                                  travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY07                                              49                       287.57
  FY08                                                                         1.67
                              Total:                49                       289.24
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                                                          0.00
  FY08                                                                          2.45
                              Total:                                            2.45




                                               31
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results
         (if any)

      Not applicable



Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
        (if any)

      Not applicable




                                      32
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

On the OVERALL RATING: MODERATELY UNSATISFACTORY

This rating should be taken with the context of the Bank's Performance. As enunciated
in the section on Assessment of Bank Performance (p. 28), there were already gaps at the
onset which "raised the likelihood of subsequent program failure." Among those cited
were "need for deeper consultation process to ensure buy-in from the government" and
implicitly the quality of the triggers mutually adopted (e.g., not well sequenced re:
disclosure of public expenditure transparency prior to the strengthening of financial
management information systems). With the WB's expertise/experience, the
probability/feasibility of achieving such targets could have been better assessed and duly
downscaled/reconfigured to consider track records and worst case scenarios, among
others. The issue of the development of a joint policy matrix must also be raised given
that ADB and WB have at some point differed in their assessment of the progress of
program implementation. A critical gap which the report cited and which must be taken
into account is the mutual adoption of triggers based on a favorable external environment
which has since deteriorated into a much less favorable position to the government.

On GOVERNANCE AND ANTI-CORRUPTION: MODERATELY
UNSATISFACTORY

The government has exhibited ability to comply with the initial triggers. However, as
pointed out in the report, the feasibility/non-feasibility of meeting these triggers,
especially those on public disclosure of public disbursement information, is challenged
by the absence of a financial information management system. It is worth noting that this
may not have been pointed out at the outset, or during the formulation of the program
which could have avoided the posting of a "partially achieved" outcome.

The government's desire for increased transparency was indicated early on. In fact,
alternative information on major project releases were posted in lieu of the original data
which were not available for posting.

The issue of institutionalization of the reforms towards making annual budgeting more
policy based was raised, citing delays in milestone decision/events and ad hoc changes in
key dimensions of budget making. In particular, the delayed determination of priority
topics to be reviewed in the PBS was linked to the delays in preparation/finalization of
the PBS within the budget preparation calendar. Similarly, the set of criteria for
determining agency budget ceilings in the National Budget Call was cited as among the
instances of ad hoc changes in budget making. While the DBM as Secretariat of the
DBCC sets the process for identifying such priorities early on, several considerations
contributed to the delayed identification of the same. These include delayed responses
from ETB/DBCC members concerned. Another key consideration was the evolving
macroeconomic outlook given the global uncertainties that happened in 2008 (and even
in 2009) which naturally affected the timely configuration of the fiscal position for



                                            33
purposes of determining the aggregate budget ceiling and consequently the department
ceilings in the budget call.

These experiences highlighted the need for government to base/propose commitments
only where initial steps/actions have been made. On the matter of restructuring of agency
budgets, the following must be taken into consideration: a) availability of approved
agency's rationalization plan which provides the connection/link between the
organizational set-up of the agency and its budget; and b) the OPIF concept was too new
for most agencies to grasp and sell to Congress. Again, this was a case of enthusiasm
over institutional feasibility.

On the OVERALL BORROWER PERFORMANCE

Government's "fervor" in pushing for reforms upon the restoration of macroeconomic
equilibrium has not waned. In view of the continuing global financial and economic
crisis, the implementation of these reforms has just become more challenging. What
were being cited as weaknesses in program implementation merely reflected the
government's immediate priorities of ensuring social upliftment and economic resiliency
amidst a "crisis" situation. As admitted in the report, revenue collections have been
downscaled not only due to program backlogs but also because of the erosion of the tax
base as a result of the external environment's linkage with the Philippine economy. This
consequently called for a realigning of the now lower level of resources to where there
will be more immediate social/economic benefits.

On INVESTMENT CLIMATE AND INFRASTRUCTURE

The report noted that the projected improvement in the public investment-to-GDP ratio
from 2.3% in 2005 to 3.5% in 2009, as well as the full institutionalization of road
maintenance contract and long-term performance-based maintenance contracts by 2009,
were not achieved. In addition, the report pointed out that there was no baseline provided
for purposes of assessment relative to the reduction in number of projects being delayed
as well as the reduction in period of delay.

While these targets were not met, significant progress was achieved both in terms of
budgets for infrastructure (vis-à-vis actual absorptive capacity) and in identifying
measures to improve capacity.

These outcomes should have been duly qualified so as not to reflect government's lack of
commitment to reforms. The prevailing constraints on government funds on account of
the global crisis must be taken into account in viewing the percentage shares allotted for
public investment.

On the ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOMES: HIGH

The report cited the high risk to the main development outcome (the restoration of
macroeconomic balance and the reduction of the public debt ratio) on account of the less



                                           34
favorable external environment, noting the possible deceleration of the tax effort to 13%.
However, the same report also pointed out that despite the modest improvement in public
expenditure management and transparency, there remains the risk of sustaining the gains,
given the non-institutionalization of the reforms.

On PEFA ASSESSMENT/WB DIAGNOSTICS

The ICR notes that there is much scope to improve budget management and execution, as
well as budget transparency and reporting .. Government articulated measures related to
procurement but .. no concrete plan to enhance transparency through greater disclosure of
budgetary information.

The Government has been unwavering in its commitment to enhance transparency in
budget operations.



Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Not applicable.




                                            35
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

IBRD Documents

   Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of the Philippines (April 2, 2009)

   DPL2 Triggers Meeting: Questions for discussion/decision (July 22, 2008)

   Letter from Bert Hofman (Director) to Under-Secretary Lea de Leon on the `Status of
       DPL2 Triggers' (July 18, 2008)

   Eighth Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA8) for DPL1 (April 26, 2007)

   International Management Consultants, Ltd., "Philippines: Public Financial
       Management Performance Report" (March 2007)

   Loan Agreement for DPL1 (January 23, 2007)

   IBRD, Program Document for the DPL1 (November 16, 2006)

   IBRD, Agreed Minutes of Negotiation for DPL1 (November 16, 2006)

   Appraisal Completion Note: Philippines, First Development Policy Loan (November
      8, 2006)

   Minutes of the Meeting between the GOP Team and Development Partners
      (September 11, 2006)

   Minutes of the ROC Meeting: Philippines DPL1 Concept Note Review (September 8,
      2006)

   Minutes of the DPL Meeting (August 23, 2006)

   Minutes of the DPL Focus Group Meeting (August 17, 2006)

   Minutes of the Meeting on DPL Brainstorming (July 7, 2006)

   Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of the Philippines (April 19, 2005)

ADB Documents

   Asian Development Bank, "Report and Recommendations of the President to the
      Board of Directors: Proposed Loan and Technical Assistance Grant, Republic of
      the Philippines: Development Policy Support Program, Subprogram 2"
      (September 2008)




                                          36
Annex 7: Tax reform management update

Background

Activities under this component are crucial for the overall successful implementation of
the reform program. The main task of the tax reform administration group (TRAG) is to
facilitate the implementation of the reform program by providing overall guidance, timely
advice, support, and monitoring of work plans, ensuring quality of terms of reference and
in particular securing management support and oversight of the reform. Under the agreed
setup with the Bank, the TRAG is headed by an official of the Bureau of Internal
Revenue with the rank of a deputy commissioner. The TRAG is advised and overseen by
a Project Steering Committee composed of all Deputy Commissioners and chaired by the
Commissioner. In addition, a third body called the Coordinating Committee composed of
all deputy commissioners was revived last year upon agreement with the Bank to ensure
that reform activities are well coordinated even before reaching the level of the
commissioner.

Recent developments

Recent events have begun to seriously affect the effectiveness of TRAG. In September
2008, the deputy commissioner for tax reform who has been with the project since
inception was replaced by another person who had little knowledge and experience in the
reform program. In March 2009 (during the middle of the supervision mission), the new
deputy commissioner for TRAG took an indefinite leave of absence and was not replaced
until recently (as per communication form DOF). Without a viable successor, project
implementation had been stalling, especially since documents and correspondences such
as procurement plan and request for no objection could not be signed.

Moreover, the Department of Finance has recently approved the BIR's rationalization
plan which abolishes TRAG and instead creates a project management division headed
by a division chief (which is three levels below the deputy commissioner) under the
newly created strategic management services headed by an assistant commissioner who
will directly report to the commissioner. In anticipation of the plan's approval by the
Department of Budget and Management, DOF and BIR issued revenue administrative
order (RAO) 7-2009 last February 9, 2009 which prescribed the organization and
function of the newly created strategic management service which contains the project
management division. The supervision team indicated to the BIR that this move may
have violated one of the loan covenants which states that BIR's TRAG must maintain an
organizational and management structure, staffing and resources which shall be adequate
to enable TRAG to effectively implement the project.

The mission also noted that the coordinating committee revived last year does not seem
to function well. It was reported that the committee hardly met during the course of the
year and during the supervision mission, access to the deputy commissioners and the
commissioner was limited.



                                           37
The large change management component, which was originally envisioned to begin
immediately after loan effectiveness, has not commenced after almost two years despite
having an approved terms of reference since a year ago. The slow progress was primarily
traced to the lack of focus, understanding, and interest by TRAG and BIR management
on change management. Moreover, issues raised by staff in two change management
workshops conducted last year, such as frustration over the lack of staff, the need for
additional resources and a better flow of information between the task forces and
management regarding the reform programs, their need for clearer directions and better
guidance from the BIR management, and concerns about staff movements and leadership
transitions remain largely unaddressed.

Reasons for slow progress

The mission identified a number of issues which need to be addressed to ensure timely
implementation of the reform program. These include:

Lack of management focus on the reform: Managers across BIR continue to focus on
revenue collections and achieving quick wins to meet their assigned collection goals. In
recent months, the pressure to collect has increased due to the full implementation of the
Attrition Act which removes officials who fail to meet their collection targets by more
than 7.5 percent. In late 2008, the government released a list of "attritable" BIR officials
who failed to meet their respective collection targets in 2007. As a consequence of this
lack of attention to medium and long-term reform, implementation of the reform has
continued to suffer. In addition, the lack of attention of and coordination among the
deputy commissioners and bureaucratic delays such as a recent order in October 2008
requiring all members of the management committee and not just the concerned deputy
commissioner to approve all project terms of references and procurement plans have also
served to significantly slowdown project implementation.

The tax reform office has little power and is inadequately staffed. Since the head of
TRAG sits only in an acting capacity and has never had a full office, staffing with
plantilla positions, and adequate budget, the clout of TRAG in coordinating and
implementing the tax reform program is effectively diminished. TRAG staff complain
about their inability to enforce project operating procedures and ensure timely and quality
submissions by task forces. The Deputy Commissioner for TRAG is constrained by the
lack of sufficient and adequately skilled staff. Unlike the original project vision, TRAG
still has no permanent structure and staff has no permanent plantilla positions. Currently,
TRAG has only five technical staff from eight a year ago. TRAG indicated that it would
need at least five more technical staff to be more effective and efficient. Last year's
recommendation to appoint a deputy for TRAG with the rank of a director to assist in the
day to day management of the reform has not been carried out.

Frequent changes and movements in BIR management and personnel: In October
2008, the BIR commissioner who was in office for a little over a year resigned and was
replaced by a new commissioner who took office in November 2008. At about the same



                                            38
time, the head of TRAG was also replaced. Both the new commissioner and the new
deputy commissioner for tax reform have had to spend time familiarizing themselves
with the project which inadvertently caused some delay. Moreover, frequent changes in
BIR managers across services and divisions have also affected project implementation. In
2008, several task force directors and heads were replaced (in some cases more than
once) and a recently approved revenue travel assignment order has significantly shaken
up the BIR organization, affecting again several directors and heads of task forces. These
changes in task force heads and composition have stalled several projects and have also
led to additional reviews and revision of activities that had been approved already under
the previous heads.

Multiple task forces with no clear reporting channels have made reform
implementation more complicated. To launch the reform program 26 task forces were
created and this was increased to 30 task forces before being reduced to seven critical
task forces following the recommendation of last year's supervision mission. Over time
the management of the task forces has proven to be challenging especially with changing
leaderships, the lack of manpower and skills, and poor supervision by management. Staff
have been assigned to the task forces with little regard to qualifications and skills. The
staff under the task forces continue to report to their functional managers, who, as
mentioned above, are focused on collections and other inherent functions rather than the
reform.

Lack of incentives. TRAG and task force members have little incentives to perform
under the reform program. Achieving collection targets has continued to be the sole
performance measure in the BIR and despite the issuance last year of a revenue
memorandum order (RMO) which puts in place a set of performance indicators to
measure reform performance. The BIR has begun to implement the RMO but results
have yet to come out and non-performing staff identified and appropriately sanctioned.
Moreover several staff, especially those who have worked under the World Bank-funded
Tax Computerization Project (TCP) in the 1990s, continue to compare and complain
about the lack of compensation for doing the reform, which they claim is additional work
on top of their regular work (the TCP had provided for full time staff secondment to the
project and given honoraria on top of their regular pay). Policies on this have since then
changed. Other task forces claim that they do not have enough staff to do both regular
and reform work. It was noted in the supervision mission that some divisions have lost 50
percent of their staff based on plantilla position. These divisions claim that had they have
more staff, they would have been able to give more attention to the reform. As a result,
staff members that are assigned to one of several task forces do not work on a full time
basis and often neglect their responsibilities in order to do their regular work and meet
collection targets.




                                            39
Recommendations

DOF and BIR management need to fully assume more ownership of the reform program,
and increase coordination of all reform activities. To improve ownership and
coordination, and mainstream the reform activities within the regular functions of the
BIR, it is suggested that all task forces be abolished and reform activities be
institutionalized within the appropriate division or service in BIR. It is suggested that the
assistant division chief, assistant revenue district officer or the HREA take full
responsibility of the reform activity assigned to the office while the division chief,
revenue district officer or the assistant commissioner continue to focus on re regular work
of the office.

Given the new leadership in the BIR, possibly and new emerging priorities of the new
commissioner such as focusing attention more on the large taxpayers services, it is
recommended that the BIR management prepare an overall strategy to guide tax reform.
Outputs of the recent strategic planning workshop held by BIR in December 2008 could
serve as a starting point.

To ensure better monitoring and evaluation of project performance and improve
accountability of staff involved in the reform, it is suggested that TRAG establishes
performance standards for the various reform processes (i.e., TOR writing, procurement,
etc.). Moreover the existing revenue memorandum order detailing the implementation of
additional performance indicators that aims to measure reform performance be fully
implemented to include individual staff evaluation and disposition. Over the medium-
term, the Attrition Act needs to be amended to include non-collection-related
performance indicators.

The TRAG should be adequately staffed. The existing TRAG staff has done a
commendable job stewarding the project thus far. However to accelerate Project
implementation and ensure that the Project delivers on the expected results within a
reasonable time frame, the office will need to be strengthened with more and better
qualified staff who can effectively support the deputy commissioner. At least 10 full
time technical staff are required, with at least one director level under the head of TRAG
fully dedicated to the reform. To improve and professionalize project management, and
to provide TRAG advice on proper project management, it is recommended that the BIR
hire a full time professional project manager to support TRAG.




                                             40
Annex 8: Update on Registration and Backlog Management of Tax Administration

Background

The registration and backlog management component is the backbone of the tax
administration project given its importance in ensuring quality data for downstream
processes such as arrears management, audit, and enforcement. As before, the mission
focused extensively on the registration and backlog management component, recognizing
the importance of this component for the rest of the tax administration. But significant
delays and little progress to date in this component have casted doubt on the
sustainability of the project.

Recent developments

One of the main tasks under this component is the matching of BIR data with other
third party sources. In 2007, BIR matched its own data with data from the Securities
and Exchange Commission and some 9,429 corporations were found to be unregistered
with the BIR. Furthermore, the BIR also identified about 125,000 inactive taxpayers or
taxpayers who have not filed returns or have not paid taxes for three consecutive years.
Given the lack of manpower in the revenue district offices to physically validate the
status of these unregistered and inactive taxpayers (presumably because efforts were put
solely to meeting revenue targets), BIR outsourced the activity to a third party, an NGO
called the Fellowship of Christians in Government (FOCIG). The contract was awarded
in January 2008 and the activity was expected to have been completed by March 2008
but delays and problems encountered by FOCIG pushed the deadline to the second half of
2008.

Progress of the FOCIG outsourcing activity proved to be minimal. In its progress report,
FOCIG claimed that it validated about 50 percent or 68,000 out of 135,000 taxpayers and
found out that only about 10 percent or 6,956 taxpayers were inactive or unregistered.
BIR's review of the progress report, however, reveals that FOCIG validated only 47
percent of taxpayers. Moreover, BIR found several inconsistencies in the FOCIG report
and the registration task force and several RDOs doubt the accuracy of the report. In
August 2008, BIR terminated the contract with FOCIG after FOCIG was not able to carry
out the remaining terms of reference. As to validating the remaining taxpayers and
revalidating some of the doubtful results, the task force said that its inclination was to ask
the RDO to reverify most of these taxpayers. As of the mission date, the task force could
not ascertain if the 6,956 unregistered or inactive taxpayers have been put into the tax
system given poor reporting from RDOs and weak monitoring by the task force.

The BIR continues to reduce its backlog of registration, collection, and transaction
returns with the help of the MCC funds. In 2008, 31 newly computerized RDOs were
selected for the implementation of the backlog encoding, joining the original 4 RDOs
which were selected in 2007 for the pilot run. As of Dec 2008, progress in backlog
encoding reached 72 percent for registration backlogs, 95 percent for collection backlogs,



                                             41
and 100 percent for transaction returns backlog. With the completion of the MCC project,
the task force indicated that it would turn to the World Bank for support in encoding
backlogs of the remaining computerized RDOs. A feasibility study on whether to hire a
firm or individual encoders for the remaining RDOs would be conducted by the task
force before plans are finalized for the remaining RDOs. Despite progress in this activity,
the number of backlog registrations and transaction returns in the RDOs continue to be
questionable. RDOs have remained reluctant to report the correct number of backlogs for
fear of penalties.

The BIR continues to work on matching its data with data from local government units as
part of the registration cleanup. Progress slowed in mid-2008 when the license of the
matching software expired. BIR has since then been able to renew the license and data
matching is again moving. As of February 2009, the BIR has matched its data with data
from 22 LGUs and the results reveal that about 98,000 taxpayers were registered with the
LGU but not with BIR. These taxpayers were sent to the respective RDOs for physical
validation. Preliminary and incomplete results reveal that about 22,000 taxpayers (about
20 percent of the total unmatched taxpayers) were found to be existing and active but not
registered with the BIR. The second phase of the data matching, which is to compare
reported gross sales/income is in progress. As of February 2009, BIR collected P250,000
for payment of registration fees and penalties. It has still to determine how much to
collect from underdeclared gross sales/income.

Revised policy and procedures for regulation have been put in place. In mid-2008,
BIR issued revenue regulation (RR) 11-2008 which consolidates the various registration
policies and procedures into one statute. However, the task force indicated that the new
consolidated RR contains several provisions which have apparently increased the burden
of compliance for some taxpayers. The task force is correcting this via an amendment to
the RR and issuance of the corresponding RMOs. The task force indicated that the draft
RR will soon be ready and could be issued by April. The next steps would be to hire a
manual writer to convert the RR and corresponding RMOs into a user friendly
registration manual to provide guidance to staff on assisting taxpayers in their registration
efforts. There is a winning bidder for the registration manual but commencement would
depend on when the revised RR can be issued.

Reasons for slow progress

During the supervision mission, the task force and the mission team assessed in detail the
reasons for the poor performance of FOCIG to help improve succeeding outsourcing
activities. Several reasons were cited such as
     The contract did not mandate FOCIG to do a work plan and did not provide an
        initial down payment to serve as starting capital. The contract price might have
        been too low to attract qualified and bidders with the appropriate experience.
        Bidders with the right qualification such as credit investigators did not participate
        in the biding.
     Taxpayers did not recognize the authority and mandate of FOCIG despite an
        official letter from the RDO. Some FOCIG agents were inexperienced with the


                                             42
       work and did not come as professional to the taxpayer (i.e., no uniform, wearing
       sandals, no ID,). Proper training of agents was also lacking.
       Access of FOCIG agents to several buildings and subdivisions were restricted by
       building or subdivision security.
       The initial time frame for the activity (2 months) appears to be too short and
       FOCIG admitted that they underestimated the complexity of the project.

Being the first contract to be awarded under the project, a lot of lessons could be learned
from the experience before BIR embark on its next outsourcing activity (especially when
results from the LGU data matching are ready to be validated).

The Attrition Act appears to have provided a disincentive to pursue the registration
and backlog cleanup. The Attrition Act has effectively provided a disincentive for
pursuing the clean-up and expansion of the taxpayer database since the Act has a
provision stating that goal allocation should be distributed relative to the tax base of a
region or district. Moreover, obsession with monthly collection targets has relegated most
reform activities, especially registration, to the sideline since these activities do no yield
immediate revenues. The lack of an effective KPI on registration clean-up has also
slowed reform progress especially in the field. Lack of effective RDO monitoring is also
seen a reason for the delay.

Management of the registration activity is often lacking. For the most part of the
registration reform, no assistant commissioner of the taxpayer assistance services which
has jurisdiction over the registration process has effectively taken the lead and
responsibility for the reform program. The task force heads which has the rank of a
division chief or assistant division chief has normally taken the lead on this component
without active guidance from a director or assistant commissioner.

Follow up of registration activity by RDOs has been weak. While some of the
upstream registration activity has been outsourced, the downstream work of registering
new taxpayers and taking action on validated non-BIR registered taxpayers must be
undertaken by BIR staff in the Operations Group or RDOs. Without close direction and
monitoring by senior management, it is expected that RDOs will continue to focus on
collections.

The lack of an updated and overarching law between the BIR and government
agencies prevents the sharing of information for taxpayer verification. With the
support of the Secretary of Finance and the issuance of EO 646, the BIR can now share
data with local government units. However, other agencies such as the SSS, LTO,
LTFRB, LRA, and DTI have yet to fully institutionalize data sharing with BIR. Only
BOC and SEC have regular and institutionalized data linkages with BIR. However the
BIR and the BOC do not yet have automatic data sharing as import declarations are still
being manually picked up in CD format. To ensure continuous cross checking and third
party data verification, the BIR needs to institutionalize this practice, including assigning
staff permanently to these functions.




                                             43
Recommendations

Given existing policy (the Attrition Act) and focus on meeting short-term collection
targets that provide systematic disincentive to the registration reform program, it is
recommended that the whole registration clean-up component be shelved until such
policies and environment conducive to the reform are available. Resources allocated to
the registration could be used for other priorities such as strengthening the large
taxpayers services in the BIR.

The work on backlog management and encoding should continue. The Bank stands ready
to provide funds for outsourcing of the encoding work (with due attention to improving
the TOR and contract following lessons learned from the FOCIG experience).

As the FOCIG contract will be not rebidded, it is suggested that the RDO pick up the
work of FOCIG and validate the results again with due consideration to efficiency. To
this end, the Commissioner should issue an RMO with guidelines to all RDOs on
procedures to be followed and timelines allocated for RDOs to update their registration
database. A monitoring system should be put in place to supervise RDO follow-through
based on revalidation of the FOCIG data.

On improving the scope of third party information sharing, BIR and DOF need to identify
all relevant agencies with whom data sharing is critical and begin the drafting or
submitting of EO proposals to the President. At the very least, the existing EO on data
sharing, EO NO. 53 (1993), needs to be updated and broadened;




                                          44
