Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7424-PH 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(First Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated January 23, 2007 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7424 -PH
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated January 23, 2007, entered into between REPUBLIC OF THE 
PHILIPPINES (
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated 
November 16, 2006: (i) describing its macro-economic policy framework and a program 
of actions, objectives, and policies designed to 
promote growth and 
achieve 
sustainable 
reductions in poverty
(the Program), which Program consists of actions that have already 
been taken as described in Section 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the First Phase of 
the Program), and actions and policies that the Borrower intends to take and adopt in the 
near future; (ii) declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the objectives of the Program; 
and (iii) requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof; and   
 
(B) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the First Phase of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making 
the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) as hereinafter provided;  
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I
—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II
—LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred fifty million Dollars 
($250,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Page  3
2
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement
 (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the First 
Phase of the Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1%) of 
the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.   
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
Page  4
3
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.08 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during 
each Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
2.10. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information 
relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, 
reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenant 
 
3.01.
 
The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of 
materially reversing the objectives of the First Phase of the Program, or any 
action taken specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV
—REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following, prior to the 
drawdown in full of the Loan by the Borrower: 
 
(a) t
he
Borrower’s macro-economic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the First Phase of the Program; and  
 
(b) 
an action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program, including any action listed in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in a manner that would, in the opinion of 
the Bank, materially and adversely affect the achievement of the 
objectives of the First Phase of the Program. 
 
Page  5
4
ARTICLE V 
—EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Secretary of Department of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Department of Finance 
 
Department of Finance Building 
 
Bangko Sentral Complex 
 Roxas 
Blvd. 
 Manila, 
Philippines 
 
Cable address:  
Facsimile: 
 
SECFIN (63-2) 
526-9990 
 Manila 
  (63-2) 
523-9216 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
Page  6
5
AGREED at Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
 
By: /s/ Margarito B. Teves 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Joachim von Amsberg 
 
    
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Actions under the First Phase of the Program; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the First Phase of the Program 
 
The actions taken by the Borrower under the First Phase of the Program include 
the following: 
 
1. 
The Borrower has reduced its consolidated public sector deficit from 4.8 percent 
of gross domestic product (GDP) in 2004 to 1.8 percent of GDP in 2005.  
 
2. 
The Borrower has reduced the ratio of the national government deficit to GDP 
from 3.8 percent in 2004 to 2.7 percent in 2005 and reduced the level of national 
government deficit to 50.4 billion Pesos as of September 2006. 
 
3. 
The Borrower has broadened the VAT coverage by removing exemptions for 
petroleum products, electric power, and legal and medical services. 
 
 
4. 
The Borrower has increased the VAT rate from 10 percent to 12 percent. 
 
5. 
The Borrower has increased its tax revenue by 0.3 percent of GDP in 2005 and 
further increased its tax revenue by 24 percent during the first nine months of 2006.   
 
6. 
The Borrower has established a high-level tax reform administration group in the 
BIR to implement its tax administration and reform agenda.   
 
7. 
The Borrower has increased 
NPC’s effective average generation tariff 
contributing to a reduction in NPC’s deficit by 1.1 percent of GDP in 2005. 
 
8. 
The Borrower, through ERC, has published, for public consultation, guidelines 
for universal charge for stranded costs and stranded debt.   
 
9. 
The Borrower has increased the number of notices with contract awards posted 
on the Philippines government electronic procurement system (PhilGEPS) from 3128 in 
2004 to 8987 in the first nine months in 2006; and increased the amount of contract 
awards posted on PhilGEPS from 4.45 billion Pesos in 2004 to 21.2 billion Pesos in the 
first nine months in 2006. 
 
10. 
The Borrower has commenced the commercial operation of the Wholesale 
Electricity Spot Market (WESM) in Luzon. 
 
Page  8
7
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall be withdrawn in a single tranche.  
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Single Tranche 
250,000,000 
TOTAL 
AMOUNT 
 
250,000,000 
C. 
Deposits of Loan Amount.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request for 
withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain a deposit account in Dollars 
in Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (Designated Bank Account) on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.   
 
2
.
All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Designated Bank Account.   
 
3.  
The Borrower shall ensure that upon deposit of the Loan amount into the 
Designated Bank Account
,
an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s 
budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
D. Audit.
 
Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
1. 
have the Designated Bank Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four (4) 
months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and  
 
3. 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Designated Bank 
Account  and their audit as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
Page  9
8
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used to 
finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Bank determines at any time that an amount of the 
Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure as listed in paragraph (6) 
of Section I of the Annex to this Agreement, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. 
Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is March 31, 2007. 
Page  10
9
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; and by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 2 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
Beginning May 15, 2015  
 
through May 15, 2026 
 
4.17% 
On November 15, 2026 
4.09% 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
3. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
Page  11
10
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas” means the central bank of the Republic of the 
Philippines, and any successor thereto. 
 
2. 
“BIR” means the Borrower’s Bureau of Internal Revenue and any successor 
thereto. 
 
3. 
“Designated Bank Account” means the account referred to in Part C.1 of Section 
II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
4. 
“EPIRA” means the Borrower’s Electric Power Industry Reform Act of 2001 and 
any amendments thereto. 
 
5. 
“ERC” means the Energy Regulatory Commission, established pursuant to 
Section 38 of EPIRA as an independent power regulatory body, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
6. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
Page  12
11
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718 718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
Gold, 
non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds 
during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
8. 
“NPC” means the Borrower’s National Power Corporation and any successor 
thereto. 
 
Page  13
12
9. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the 
Loan until two years after the Closing Date.  The Borrower shall enable 
the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, a report 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on 
the execution of the First Phase of the Program, the performance by the 
Loan Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 
 
Page  14
13
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term 
“Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition 
is modified to read as follows: 
 
The “Program” means the First Phase of the Program referred to in the 
Loan Agreement in support of which the Loan is made.  All references to 
Project throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references 
to “Program”. 
 
