Report No. 406b-TU
Appraisal of                                                                     FILE COPY
Devlet Yatirim Bankasi
Turkey
June 10, 1974
Industrial Credit and Development
Finance Companies Division
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East, and North Africa Region
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Prior to August 9, 1970
US $1.00              =          TL 9.00
TL 1.00               =          US $0.11
August 9, 1970 to December 22, 1971
US $1.00              =          TL 15.00
TL 1.00               =          US $0.o67
After December 22, 1971
us $1.00              =          TL 14.00
TL 1.00               =          US $0.07
LIST OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
DY'B                  Devlet Yatirim Bankasi
SEE                   State Economic Enterprises
SPO                   State Planning Organization
ACF                   Amortization and Credit Fund
IFF                   Internal Financing Fund
TSKB                  Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A.S.



ERRATA
Page 8      Para. 3.01    Line 5      SIB should be DYB
Page 8      Para. 3.02    Line 1      SyB should be DB
Page 19     Para. 4.20   Line 4       SIB should be MB
Page 19     Para. 4.22    Line 3      SIB should be DYB






APPRAISAL OF
DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
TURKEY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .....           ......................i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION ........          ..............................1
II.   THE STATE ECONOMIC ENTERPRISES SECTOR .............1
A.  Background ......          .........................1
B.  Organization and Control ....           .............      2
C.  Objectives and Policies ....           ..............      3
D.  SEEs Performance .........................                 3
E. Process of Investment Decision-Making
and DYB's Role .........................                4
F. Financing of the Producing SEEs'
Investment .............................                5
G.  Future Role of SEEs ......................                 5
H.  Formulation of the Proposed Project    ......              6
I. SEEs Activities to be Included in the
Project ................................                7
III.    DYB's ORGANIZATION ................................                  8
A.  Legal Status and Role ....            ................     8
B.  Board, Management and Staff ....           ..........      8
C.  Policies .................................                 9
D.  Procedures ...............................                10
E.  Resources ................................                13
IV.  DYB's OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE .... .....                 14
A.  Summary of Operations ....................                14
B.  Features of Loans ........................                14
C.  Rate of Interest and Other Charges    .......             15
D.  Working Capital Loans ....................                16
E.  Financial Performance ....................                16
F.  Financial Position and Creditworthiness                   18



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                   Page No.
V.  OUTLOOK        ...........................................  20
A.  Operations Forecast .....    .................  20
B.  Resource Needs ..........   ..................  20
C.  The Proposed Loan ......    ..................  22
D. Projected Profitability and Financial
Position  ........   .......................  22
VI.  RECOMMENDATIONS ................... .................    23
DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
List of Annexes
1. Net Profit After Direct Taxes of Producing SEEs
2. Organization Chart
3. Resources as of December 31, 1973
4. New Project Approvals, Loan Commitments and Disbursements &
DYB's share in Total Operating SEEs' Investments, 1968-1973.
5. Sectoral Distribution of Loan Approvals, 1971-1973.
6. Terms of Loans Approved, 1971-1973
7. Size Distribution of Loans Approved, 1971-1973
7a. Geographical Distribution of Loan Approvals, 1971-1973
7b. Outstanding Loans as of December 31, 1973
7c. List of Projects Approved by DYB, 1971-1973
8. Income Statements, 1969-1973
9. Balance Sheets, Year-end 1969-1973
10. Arrears (Principal and Interest), Year-end 1971-1973
11. Forecast of Operations, 1974-1977
12. Projected Income Statements, 1974-1977
13. Projected Balance Sheets, Year-end, 1974-1977
14. Projected Cash Flow, 1974-1977
15. Projection Assumptions
16. Schedule of Estimated Disbursements of the Proposed Loan
17. Provisional List of New Manufacturing and Processing Projects
to be Financed by DYB in 1974



APPRAISAL OF
DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI (DYB)
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The State Economic Enterprises (SEEs) dominate the industrial pub-
lic sector in Turkey which represents a significant part of total industrial
investments in the country. Previous Bank loans have financed very large in-
dustrial projects sponsored by SEEs and have helped improve the performance
of these enterprises. A Bank loan is now being proposed to reach medium size
projects of SEEs and to involve an intermediary financial institution in this
process.
ii.       The SEEs are part of a system which in practice often limits their
autonomy to independently set prices, personnel policies and managerial ap-
pointments. At the same time, they are expected to be productive, generate
surpluses for investment and contribute to social goals. Some reforms in
the system are called for. Bank experience has shown that, on a project by
project approach improvements can be introduced. The Turkish Government has
welcomed IBRD's assistance in this manner. It has approached the Bank re-
cently to consider means for expanding IBRD's assistance to SEEs and has
proposed that the Devlet Yatirim Bankasi (DYB), which since 1964 has financed
a large number of SEEs, become a channel for Bank funds in a manner analogous
to the assistance extended by the Bank to development finance companies.
iii.      The operations and policies of DYB are geared essentially to the
evaluation of investment projects and providing long-term financing. However,
DYB is not fully involved with the decision-making process regarding invest-
ment programs or the management and operations of SEEs and their subsidiaries.
A greater involvement would be needed to allow the Bank to implement, through
DYB, some of its objective of assisting SEEs. During the preliminary stages
of this appraisal, it was, therefore, agreed that the Bank would consider,
to start with, a limited association with DYB, focussing in a first loan on
a few medium- and small-sized industrial projects, appraised in accordance
with the Bank's normal criteria and standards, and financed in part with
Bank funds. During this initial period, the Bank is not seeking major mod-
ifications in DYB's current policies and operations with regard to all its
investment projects. An association with the Bank would, nevertheless, in-
duce significant changes in DYB's role with respect to projects financed
with Bank funds: for the first time, DYB would be evaluating the ability
of enterprises to carry out and operate a project. It would also require
DYB to enter into contractual agreements with these enterprises for finan-
cing and implementing the entire investment project while, so far, DYB only
contracts for annual disbursements.
iv.       DYB is a Government-owned financial institution.  Its initial au-
thorized share capital was doubled in 1972 to TL 2 billion. (As of December
31, 1973, DYB's paid-up share capital amounted to TL 1,086 million.) DYB has
a staff of 113, including 58 qualified and competent professionals.



- ii -
v.        DYB has financed projects sponsored by the State Economic Enter-
prises in mining, industry, transportation, public utilities, services, and
financial sectors. Its share in the total investments of SEEs was about 25%
over the past five years. During 1971-73, DYB approved 50 new projects total-
ling TL 12.2 billion, of which TL 5.1 billion, or 41%, was to finance indus-
trial projects. Among these projects, iron and steel, pulp and paper, chemical
and fertilizer are most important; food, textiles machinery, cement leather
and electrical equipment manufacturing plants also received DYB loans.
vi.       DYB's role in mobilizing resources is limited:  the allocation of
finance to DYB is essentially decided by the Government taking into considera-
tion financial requirements of SEEs to carry out the investment targets estab-
lished in the Five-Year Development Plan. Traditionally, DYB has been per-
mitted to tap funds from three major sources, the Treasury, the Pension Fund
and the Social Security Corporation. The Government has always assured DYB
of sufficient resources to finance the projects DYB has approved. DYB has
never borrowed foreign funds directly. Part of the import financing needs for
investment projects are financed by DYB in domestic currency which is conver-
ted to foreign exchange by the Central Bank. The proposed loan would be the
first one to provide DYB with borrowed foreign exchange funds of its own. In
effect, the Bank would provide resources to DYB which otherwise would have to
come from the Government.
vii.      DYBas current financial situation and portfolio appear to be sound.
Arrears are small and DYB's apparent risk on its loans is acceptable. But
audits of DYB need to be improved. For the proposed loan, DYB has agreed
to undertake a more complete assessment of its portfolio risk. It will also
observe a minimum debt service coverage and consult with the Bank on the
action required to maintain the prescribed coverage. Overall, DYB is suitable
for the proposed loan.
viii.     During the next two years, 1974-75, DYB is expected to continue to
finance at least 25% of the public sector investments. The Social Security
and Pension Fund might not be able, as in the past, to provide,all the funds
needed, but the Government is expected to provide DYB with additional resources.
A proposed Bank loan of $40 million would meet approximately 7% of the foreign
exchange needs of DYB's projected disbursements.
ix.       DYB is a well-managed institution which could play a more important
role in Turkey. Although other agencies in Turkey are involved in the invest-
ment decisions of SEEs, especially the Ministry of Finance and the State
Planning Organization, DYB's involvement would be extended in the sense that
it would also have to be satisfied as to the design of projects and the cap-
ability of its borrowers to implement these projects. Indeed DYB's work on
committing a Bank loan should foster the development of DYB's autonomy in
Turkey a policy trend which the Government is encouraging. In taking a
greater role in its appraisals, DYB would come nearer to being a development
bank for the public sector. SEEs would have to take into consideration DYB's
advice and experience in the management of their investments. The prospects
of such a situation are not unreasonable, although it will take time before
DYB can acquire enough experience to impose itself. The proposed loan, al-
though limited in its scope, would provide DYB with the opportunity to gain



- iii -
additional required experience. For this loan, DYB should agree on suitable
appraisal and supervision procedures for the ten projects or so expected to
be financed with Bank funds over the next two years. It is expected that,
after that time, DYB could apply its experience to more projects whether or
not financed with Bank funds and, as a result, have more influence on the
performances of SEEs.






APPRAISAL OF
DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
TURKEY
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      For several years, the Turkish Government and the Bank have been
considering means for extending Bank assistance on a larger scale for indus-
trial development in the public sector and for supporting the Government's
efforts to encourage institutional and financial improvements in the State
Economic Enterprises (SEEs). After the Bank decided in 1973 to use the
Devlet Yatirim Bankasi (DYB) as an intermediary for channeling funds under
a loan for the industrial part of the Antalya Forest Utilization Project,
the Government approached the Bank for a loan to assist DYB in financing
industrial projects proposed by SEEs. These organizations make a signif-
icant portion of the fixed investment in Turkish industry, and a loan to
DYB would provide the Bank with another base from which assistance could
be provided.
1.02      This Appraisal Report is based on findings of two missions to
Turkey in November, 1973 and January/February 1974, composed of Messrs.
Jacques Coudol, Edgar Su, Charles MacNealy, George Maniatis and Rajan
Chanmugam.
II. THE STATE ECONOMIC ENTERPRISES SECTOR
A. Background
2.01      The establishment of SEEs can be traced to the inability of indi-
genouis private entrepreneurs to rise to the expectations of Turkey's polit-
ical leaders during the early years of the Republic (1923-31). The Govern-
ment, therefore, began to invest heavily in large scale industry, transporta-
tion and, to a lesser extent, in agriculture, trade and services. Most of
this investment was carried out through state-owned enterprises which became
the main agents of modernization and development.
2.02      Thirty-five SEEs account for most public enterprise activity.  Of
these, eight are in the financial sector and the remainder in the so-called
producing sector (manufacturing, mining, trade, and services). The latter
sector has a virtual monopoly in electricity, petroleum refining, steel,
nitrogen, paper, railways, air transport; it controls most shipping and
communications, and has a big share in textiles, cement, coal, sugar, ma-
chinery and chemicals. Fixed investment by SEEs grew at 15.5% in real terms
during the period 1968-72, totalling TL 30 billion; it increased by a further
11.5% in 1973. SEEs are now responsible for about 50% of public sector in-
vestments and 25% of the fixed capital formation of the country; they con-
tribute about 10% of the value added in the economy and roughly one-third
of the value added in manufacturing; and they employ around 6% of the non-
agricultural labor force.



- 2 -
2.03      DYB, appraised in this report, is one of the eight financial
SEEs. It was established in 1964 to provide credits and guarantees to the
producing SEEs for their investments. 1/ DYB's functions and operations are
subsequently described in Chapter III.
B. Organization and Control
2.04      SEEs are governed by the Law 440 of 1964. 2/  This law defines
SEEs as undertakings in which the State (including its agencies), or jointly
the State and other SEEs, control over 50% of the share capital. SEEs are
legal entities, autonomous in the discharge of their activities, and limited
in liability for debts to their authorized capital. Each SEE has a "Related
Ministry" which is charged with supervising the work of the enterprise to
see that it conforms with laws and regulations. The management of SEEs is
entrusted to a Board of Managers, composed of the General Manager who chairs
the Board, the two Assistant General Managers of the Enterprise, a representa-
tive of the Ministry of Finance, a representative of the Related Ministry
and, in certain instances, a representative of the workers. Members repre-
senting the Ministry of Finance and Related Ministries are appointed by the
Council of Ministers.
2.05      Establishments, which are also legal entities, are business units
wholly controlled by an SEE whose capital is entirely owned by the State. Es-
tablishments are managed by a Committee of Managers, chosen from within the
Establishment, and chaired by a manager appointed by the Board of Managers
of the controlling SEE. In case of liquidation, the SEE is liable for debts
of the controlled Establishment, up to the amount of the authorized capital.
2.06      SEEs and their Establishments are responsible for the timely and
adequate preparation of investment projects they propose to undertake. They
are required to prepare annual and long-term investment and financial programs
within the framework of the Development Plan. Projects ready for implementa-
tion (which have already been appraised and approved by the State Planning
Organization (SPO)) are submitted to the Related Ministry. After review,
the Related Ministry refers them to the Ministry of Finance for inclusion
in the Annual Investment Program and the Annual Financial Program, respec-
tively, which it prepares for all SEEs after consultation with SPO, SIB, the
High Control Board (para. 2.07) and the SEEs concerned. The Council of Min-
isters subsequently reviews and approves these Annual Programs before the
1/   In addition to SEEs, DYB is authorized to finance so-called Public Eco-
nomic Enterprises which are joint ventures of several SEEs or SEEs and
private sector enterprises. In their purposes functions and general
characteristics, Public Economic Enterprises are similar to SEEs. In
this report, except otherwise indicated, SEEs refer also to Public
Economic Enterprises.
2/   Other special laws also govern the activities of certain SEEs, especially
Public Economic Enterprises.



- 3 -
end of the year preceding the one during which implementation of projects
is expected to start. For each SEE, a ceiling is set in the amounts it can
disburse for investment during the year from all available sources, includ-
ing DYB. The Annual Programs are reviewed systematically during the year
by SPO and DYB to determine possible slippages or project modifications which
may require reallocation of earmarked funds.
2.07      SEEs (including DYB) and Establishments are subject to financial,
administrative and technical control by the High Control Board, an independ-
ent review agency responsible only to the Parliament. SEEs are also subject
to parliamentary control to determine whether their activities and policies
are in accordance with the laws, the Plan, and the Annual Programs. A Joint
Committee composed of senators and deputies prepares a report on the finan-
cial and economic performance of the SEEs, relying mostly on the reports of
the High Control Board. The Joint Committee's report is submitted to both
Houses for consideration and approval.
C. Objectives and Policies
2.08      Since their inception, the SEEs have been subject to the shifting
objectives of the Plans and have had to cope with numerous and changing
social goals, such as income redistribution, development of backward re-
gions, maintenance of price stability, etc. Variations in the relative
importance of these objectives coupled with price control policies which
were not necessarily geared to covering costs, much less allowing profits,
was often at cross-purposes with the expectation of having the SEEs generate
surpluses for investment.
D. SEEs Performance
2.09      Given the foregoing circumstances, no simple criteria can be used
to measure the producing SEEs overall performance. The overall financial re-
sults in terms of profits are particularly misleading, being distorted by sub-
stantial losses of the railways, Mlaritime Bank, and coal enterprises (Annex 1).
These three enterprises incurred 80% of total losses of all SEEs during the
period 1962-72. Compared to planning estimates, SEEs have not generated the
surpluses anticipated; but this is not surprising when the pricing policy of
the Government and the social goals assigned to the SEEs are taken into con-
sideration. Other aspects of performance regarding creation of employment,
the development of backward regions, and the contribution to price stabiliza-
tion and income distribution are not easily measurable on the basis of data
available.
2.10      Improving the operational efficiency of the SEEs has been a subject
of discussions for many years and a succession of studies within and outside
the Government has not resulted in substantial changes. The fact remains that
there is no fully adequate system for assessing the operational efficiency of



-4-
the individual enterprises in the public sector. This in itself is a major
weakness. The Bank is currently involved in projects with several producing
SEEs: railways, electricity, and nitrogen. It has also initiated a relation-
ship with DYB by using it as a financing channel in the Antalya Forest Utili-
zation Project. These projects, as well as the proposed loan to DYB, are
steps which could ultimately lead to correcting this particular deficiency in
management accounting systems by providing data necessary for an assessment
of the SEEs' operational efficiency.
2.11      In spite of any precise measurement of performances, SEEs have had
a considerable impact on the Turkish economy as suppliers of goods and serv-
ices. There is evidence that at least some SEE's activities are carried out
reasonably well and that improvements are taking place (for example, improve-
ments noted in the projects financed directly by the Bank and observations
made during staff visits to a number of SEEs). In fact, on the average,
SEEs have been able to self-finance about 30% of their investments and, ex-
cept for 9 or 10, SEEs have in the recent years made profits (Annex 1).
E. Process of Investment Decision-Making and DYB's Role
2.12      SPO establishes sectoral growth and investment targets within the
Plan's overall targets and policies, and identifies areas of investment possi-
bilities by sector and subsector. Activities reserved for the public sector
or those in which the private sector does not venture or where competition
is considered desirable, are largely taken up by the SEEs. SEEs may prepare
feasibility studies on their own initiative or SPO may request them to do so.
2.13      The Five-Year Plan is implemented by Annual Investment Programs,
the preparation of which provides SPO the opportunity to appraise the projects
which the SEEs submit for financing. In the case of intermediary and capital
goods industries, projects reach SPO at an advanced preparation stage, usually
as a completed feasibility study. For projects in the consumer goods sector
or minor expansion projects, a pre-feasibility study is generally submitted.
SPO is primarily concerned with the market analysis, the technical process
selected, and the economic and financial viability of the projects. Economic
evaluation consists of calculating the Cost/Benefit ratio, applying shadow
prices for foreign exchange and unskilled labor. In the final selection of
projects, additional side effects, such as achievement of intra-sectoral or
inter-sectoral balances, externalities, creation of income in less-developed
regions, usually play a role in the decisions.
2.14      DYB is not involved at this stage of the decision-making process
and is only marginally involved in deliberations for the preparation of the
Annual Financial Program which allocates financing to projects included in
the Investment Program. Subsequently, however, DYB appraises projects sub-
mitted to it for financing, putting emphasis on checking the technical, mar-
keting and financial aspects and may reject projects which are not considered
financially sound. While this cannot be expected to bring about a solution
to the dilemma posed by the requirements placed on the SEEs, i.e., to generate



- 5 -
surpluses and to perform social services, it does serve as a useful check to
ensure that projects financed by DYB are designed to make a positive finan-
cial contribution in the public sector. DYB's influence in other areas de-
pends more on the strength of its staff and the personal relationships which
have been developed over the years rather than on formal, legal obligations.
Through the extension of a Bank loan to DYB, it is intended to broaden and
strengthen DYB's role in the investment decision process.
F. Financing of the Producing SEEs' Investment
2.15      As indicated in the table below, during 1969-73 foreign borrowing
provided 31% of the investment funds required by the SEEs, 29% of the require-
ment was provided from funds generated by the SEEs, 24% was provided by DYB
and 16% from budget transfers. DYB's contribution is considerable and there
is every indication that it will continue, if not expand this role during
the present Five-Year Plan period.
SOURCES OF FINANCING PRODUCING SEEs' LONG-TERM INVESTMENT
(TL Billion; Current Prices)
Investment and                                                -k
Source               1969      1970    1971      1972     1973-   1969-73    %
Fixed Investment      4.2      5.7      6.7      10.0     13.3       39.9    100
Financed By:
Foreign Borrowing  0.9       2.6      2.1      3.3       3.6       12.5     31
Self-Financing      1.3      0.9      2.7      2.8       3.8       11.5     29
SIB                 1.3      1.5      1.0       2.0      3.9        9.7     24
Budget loans or
grants            0.7      0.7      0.9      1.9       2.0        6.2     16
4.2      5.7      6.7     10.0      13.3      39.9    100
*/   Estimated
Source:  SPO
G. Future Role of SEEs
2.16      During the Third Five-Year Plan period (1973-77), investments by
SEEs are expected to grow at 11.5% annually and reach an estimated TL 107 bil-
lion by the end of the period. The Plan delineates the following investment
principles to be applied to SEEs. The SEEs will undertaken high priority in-
vestments (introducing new technology or providing substantial external econ-
omies) in areas where the private sector does not venture, because of long
gestation periods, heavy capital requirements, or high risks. Investment



-6-
in activities related to the exploitation of strategic natural resources,
national security or which are monopolistic in nature, will also be under-
taken by the State. SEE investments are not specifically designed to com-
pete with the private sector but they may at times coexist in fields in which
private enterprises are active.
H. Formulation of the Proposed Project
2.17      Bank financing to SEEs in the industrial public sector through
an institution like DYB would allow the Bank to reach a greater number of
medium-size projects. At the same time it would have an institution-building
effect among the SEEs concerned, and in DYB. An important objective is to
give DYB, in respect of small- and medium-size projects, increasingly the
role IBRD has played in directly financing and helping shape large industrial
projects. At present, decision-making on SEEs operations and investments is
spread among several centers such as SPO and various Ministries, leaving to
DYB a modest role as a mere creditor. DYB/SEE relationships traditionally
have not been aimed at reform or improvements in SEEs and basically have not
gone beyond a check on the financial and technical viability of projects sub-
mitted for financing. And one feature, of necessity, looming in DYB's ap-
proach to SEE projects is the fact that the Government, in the end, will
make good SEE loan arrears on delinquents (para. 4.19). A typical appraisal
by DYB does not consider such important matters as pricing policies, manage-
ment, financial autonomy of the SEEs, even as regards their impact on the
project itself. DYB does not negotiate systematically with the borrower on
different aspects relating to the execution and management of projects.
Sir,milarly, project supervision by DYB is limited to the construction period
and does not extend to operations of the completed project. On this basis,
Bank support of DYB would not be justified.
2.18      Traditionally, Bank lending to a development finance company implies
a close association with the company and general agreement by the Bank with
the institution's policies and operations. This applies especially to apprai-
sal and supervision practices. In the case of DYB, an overall change in ob-
jectives and practices would be very difficult to achieve immediately. How-
ever, DYB and the Government have expressed to the Bank their intention that
DYB should, in respect of selected SEE projects (para. 2.21) - and especially
those to be financed under the proposed loan - widen the scope of its apprai-
sal to include an economic project evaluation and to assess the quality of
the management, policies and financial position, and the prospects of the
sponsoring SEEs or Establishments. Once a project is completed, DYB would
continue to be concerned with the performance of the sponsoring entity and
the operation of the project. Accordingly, DYB could include covenants in
its agreements with SEEs for improvements in an SEE's set-up and in its
project; it would also broaden the coverage and time span of its project
supervision. To assist DYB to achieve a reasonable measure of autonomy in
the Turkish setting and to reinforce its resolve to assume additional respon-
sibilities in its work, the Bank should establish a direct relationship with,
and lend directly to DYB.



- 7 -
2.19      Under a Bank loan to DYB, DYB would be expected to strengthen SEEs
along two broad lines. One is to direct DYB's support to economically and
financially viable investment projects. The other is for DYB to help SEEs
and Establishments to improve their operational and financial performance.
To achieve these objectives, the Bank would need to reach understandings
with the Government to the effect that SIB DYB the SEEs concerned would be
permitted to operate along these lines. While these changes would be applied
on a limited scale initially, this may well lead to a more effective role for
DYB in the industrialization process. This first line of credit to DYB would,
therefore, be of an experimental nature. However, if the limited objectives
are achieved the underlying approval has good prospects to be applied more
widely in other DYB activities.
I. SEEs Activities to be Included in the Project
2.20      As previously indicated, a large range of activities is undertaken
by the SEEs including utilities, mining, transportation, communications,
tourism and industry. Some of these have been financed by the Bank in the
past. This time, a loan is being sought for small- and medium-scale indus-
try, and within this sector only projects with a total investment ranging
normally in size from about US$10-25 million (para. 5.04) are to be financed.
The Bank would aim at, financing a reasonable number of projects -- 8 or 10 --
over a two-year period, and to achieve this, a loan of $40 million to DYB is
proposed.
2.21      Because DYB is not promoting or pre-selecting projects to be carried
out in the Annual Investment Program, a list of suitable projects for DYB fi-
nancing with Bank funds has been prepared only for projects to be appraised
in 1974. For subsequent years, a new list of projects to be appraised in the
current year would be available each spring. Based on past DYB financing
(Annex 7b and c) and in the pipeline for 1974 (see para. 5.05), the range of
projects in various industrial branches appears to be wide enough to allow
DYB to propose each year to the Bank economically and financially viable
projects to be considered under the proposed loan. There does not seem to be
merit, at this stage, to limit the project pipeline to specific branches of
industry. The Bank loan would provide financing, on their merit for suitable
small- and medium-scale projects in industry and processing including - one
or two projects of special merit in non-fuel mining.
2.22      The emphasis would be placed on DYB's appraisals, especially with
regard to assessing the sponsoring enterprise's ability to construct and op-
erate projects on a sound technical, financial and managerial basis. DYB
would determine for each project the center of organizational responsibility
and accountability with whom DYB would contract. The situation may vary de-
pending on the project but, typically, the center of responsibility for a
project would likely be at the Establishment level (unless the SEE in ques-
tion does not have Establishments).' In a typical case, DYB would obtain an
agreement from the Establishment providing for planned and detailed imple-
mentation of the investment proposal and for carrying out obligations in



- 8 -
line with DYB's appraisal. The responsible SEE or Establishment would have
to maintain separate financial accounts to permit DYB to supervise its loan
and evaluate the effects of the project. During negotiations, DYB should
agree to proceed along such lines for sub-projects financed with Bank funds.
III. DYB's ORGANIZATION
A. Legal Status and Role
3.01      Before 1964, the Amortization and Credit Fund (ACF) undertook
part of SEEs financing. DYB was created by Law 441 of March 12, 1964 to pro-
vide long-term credits, guarantees and other services to SEEs. ACF's assets
and liabilities, in local and foreign currencies, were then transferred to
SIB and transactions started by ACF were subsequently completed by SIB. 1/
3.02      As a State Economic Enterprise itself, SYB is subject to provisions
of Law 440, dealing with SEEs and their Establishments and participations
(para 2.04). DYB's Related Ministry is the Ministry of Finance. The author-
ized share capital of DYB is TL 2.0 billion and, as of December 31, 1973,
TL 1.1 billion had been paid in. All shares are held by the Treasury.
B. Board, Management and Staff
3.03      Board.  DYB has a Board of five Directors.  Three are ex-officio
members, namely: Mr. Nedim Rustu Aksal, General Manager of SIB, and Mlessrs.
Tarik Kivanc and Zeki Dosluoglu who are DYB's Deputy General Managers. Two
other Directors are appointed by the Council of Ministers (upon nomination
by the Minister of Finance). The Board meets once a week. All new projects
to be financed and annual commitments to disburse (para 3.13) for on-going
projects require the Board's approval. Since the Board is controlled by its
ex-officio members, Board approval is assured if DYB's senior management
supports a proposal.
3.04      Management.  Mr. Aksal has held a number of important posts in
the Government and SEEs for the past 35 years. Before joining DYB, he was
the General Director of Sumerbank, a very large SEE engaged in manufacturing
(textiles, ceramics and chemicals), commercial banking and insurance. Since
1964, he has been Board Chairman and General Manager of DYB and has been
largely responsible for building up a qualified and competent staff and for
improving its procedures.
1/   The Internal Financing Fund (IFF) consisting of foreign currency borrow-
ings from the Federal Republic of Germany and OECD, originally handled
by the Amortization and Credit Fund, was also turned over to DYB, with
DYB assuming the foreign exchange risk (para 3.20).



- 9 -
3.05      The two Deputy General Managers, Mr. Dosluoglu and Mr. Kivanc,
are experienced and competent. Mr. Dosluoglu had been with the Treasury
for several years before joining SIB in 1965. He is DYB's financial manager,
supervising the sections dealing with resources, loan administration, account-
ing and disbursements. MIr. Kivanc was transferred to DYB in 1972 from SPO
where he had worked for about ten years as planning expert and Chief of the
Project Appraisal Group. He supervises groups responsible for financial,
economic and technical appraisal of all projects financed by DYB and for the
supervision of these projects until they have been fully implemented.
3.06      Staff.  DYB has now a staff of 113, including 58 professionals;
their distribution is set forth in the Organization Chart (Annex 2). SIB
has been authorized to hire up to 181 people and, as its role enlarges,
additional staff is being recruited. DYB recruits professional staff by
competitive examinations. As a result, staff is well-qualified and turnover
is moderate. The young professionals are appointed as assistant experts;
at the end of their third year, they can be promoted to positions of experts,
providing they pass the examinations. Appraisal staff is employed on a con-
tract basis and paid much higher salaries than DYB staff not assigned to
appraisal work. Management is now trying to decrease the salary discrepancy
among its professional staff by obtaining Government authorization to apply
the contract basis to other personnel as well. 1/
3.07      As of December 31, 1973, 29 professionals were on the appraisal
staff, including 6 engineers, 12 financial analysts, and 11 economists. DYB's
management has been giving high priority to the training of its staff, some
attending universities abroad at government expense. Fourteen of the ap-
praisal staff have been trained either in the United States or in Europe.
DYB has also been training selected appraisal staff of the SEEs through
seminars held once a year, which appear to be very useful. Altogether,
management and staff of DYB have the strength and capabilities to meet the
additional and more rigorous standards of DYB's work which an association
with the Bank will entail.
C. Policies
3.08      DYB is subject to the policy guidelines specified in Law 441.  The
important guidelines are listed below:
1/   Pending a complete restructuring of its personnel, DYB has already ob-
tained Government permission to increase the number of contract person-
nel by 16.



- 10 -
a.   DYB is to make available to SEEs the credits needed for
their projects and furnishes guarantees, when necessary,
for the same purpose. 1/
b.   DYB cannot make equity investments in public or private
enterprises.
c.   Projects whose earnings are expected to be inadequate
to cover their debts are not eligible for DYB financing.
d.   The technical, economic and financial aspects of a pro-
posed project must be reviewed "from the financial point
of view" 2/ by DYB.
e.   DYB is required, until construction is completed, to
follow-up the implementation of projects it finances,
and to ensure that the projects are carried out as planned.
f.   DYB can mobilize resources in the form of Government
guaranteed long-term bonds without being limited by its
equity.
3.09      DYB has no written policy statement dealing with investment and
portfolio management and there is no limitation to DYB's on  borrowings.
Financing of SEEs' projects is on a continuing basis, and DYB has no set
limit to its exposure in a single SEE or Establishment. Nor has DYB fixed
the minimum amount for which it will consider making a credit, although in
practice it has never financed very small projects. Chapter IV contains a
discussion on these points.
D. Procedures
3.10      Project Appraisal.  DYB project selection is confined to those
approved by SPO and included in the Annual Investment and Financial Programs
(paras 2.12 - 2.14). DYB operates on a project basis and its appraisal does
not extend to various aspects of the SEEs sponsoring the project, because
DYB has no statutory requirement to do so. In fact, DYB does not reject a
financially sound project because the sponsoring SEE and/or Establishment is
financially unsound. This constraint limits DYB's role as a creditor since
assessment of the ability of the borrower to meet is obligation is not sys-
tematically evaluated. In the event that DYB rejects as financially unsound
1/   Until now, DYB has not provided guarantees to its SEEs clients.
2/   The law (English translation) is ambiguous as far as this objective is
concerned.



- 11 -
a project located in one of the less developed regions of the country, the
Government may still direct DYB to finance the project by offering a guarantee.
DYB does not reject a project on purely economic grounds; it can however bring
the matter to SPO's attention, and in several instances, DYB has been able
to cause projects to be redesigned or to be dropped for technical reasons.
In case of dispute, the matter is taken up by a Council of Arbitration, whose
decision is binding. No case has ever been referred to the Council.
3.11      DYB's appraisals focus mainly on technical, marketing and financial
aspects of projects and in this context, its appraisal work appears satis-
factory. In the past nine years, DYB has rejected 101 out of 597 applications
(17%). 1/ The principal reasons were: requirements for finance exceeded SEEs'
annual authorized program, deficiencies in data in the feasibility reports
submitted by SEEs and lack of financial viability of the project. Marketing
information is subject to scrutiny and, often, demand and supply projections
are revised. DYB has not established guidelines concerning the procurement
procedures to be followed by its borrowers. DYB engineers have relied on
SEE's own procedures for ensuring the competitiveness of the equipment chosen.
Procurement procedures used by SEEs appear to be satisfactory. For sub-
projects financed with Bank funds out of the proposed loan, DYB will review,
in its appraisals, the particular procurement process and should be assess
the client's choice of equipment and material in its appraisal reports.
DYB's engineers have the competence to perform that role.
3.12      In the past DYB has not calculated systematically the economic
benefits of the projects it finances. However, an effort is now being made
to introduce the methodology recently suggested to development finance com-
panies by the Bank. DYB has agreed during negotiations that the sub-projects
financed from the loan will be subjected to an economic analysis centered on
establishing a project's economic return.
3.13      Loan Agreements and Commitment Procedure.  The approval of new proj-
ects by DYB (which is communicated to the borrower) implies that DYB commit
itself for the entire amount expected to be financed. This commitment, how-
ever, is contingent upon Government's implied obligation and annual decisions
to make funds available. DYB considers each year that portion of the project
which requires disbursements with DYB funds and in light of resources avail-
able signs a loan agreement with its borrower for that "annual tranche" only,
which constitute in fact an "annual commitment to disburse". A complete amor-
tization schedule is prepared after each annual tranche is fully disbursed.
The maximum limit for each project's annual tranche is normally specified in
1/   These rejections do not necessarily means that DYB will not finance the
investment proposal but merely that the application, as presented to
DYB, was not complete or thorough enough and was returned to the SEE
for improvements. True rejections based on the findings of DYB's ap-
praisal are considerably less.



- 12 -
the Annual Financial Program prepared by SPO. In theory, the amount and terms
of the subsequent annual disbursement tranches related to the same project are
not certain to the borrower and to DYB. However, in practice, the Annual Pro-
gram system has been used to avoid any disruption of projects being implemented
by ensuring priority in their funding. Each year, each project under construc-
tion is reviewed, including (i) a detailed review by SPO and other relevant
agencies of the current situation of SEEs, and (ii) an annual re-appraisal by
DYB of all on-going projects.
3.14      For the proposed Bank Loan, DYB would expand its appraisal to include
an assessment of the sponsoring organization responsible for construction and
operation of the project (para 2.22). In this respect, in a number of cases,
DYB would have to seek from the sponsor specific agreements regarding its
responsibilities vis-a-vis the project. Thus, loan approvals and commitments
for those projects will have to be more formal than in the past and will, if
need be, call for negotiations on specific covenants to be reflected in the
loan agreements between DYB and its borrower. New questions on which DYB
would have to satisfy itself and the Bank would be, inter alia, the sponsor's
managerial and financial ability to (i) carry out and operate the project,
(ii) provide self-financing to enable the project to be constructed without
delay. Consequently, although DYB would continue to operate under the present
system of "annual commitments to disburse", in case of projects to be financed
with proceeds from the Bank loan, DYB would initially reach an agreement with
the borrower including a commitment to finance a subproject throughout its
gestation period. The sub-borrower would agree in the same agreement to various
conditions to be negotiated with DYB on the basis of its appraisal designed
to ensure limits and technically satisfactory implementation of the sub-project.
DYB and the Government have agreed to follow this procedure. A commitment will
also be obtained from the Government that funds will be made available to DYB
to fulfill its obligations under the terms of sub-loan agreements involving
the use of Bank funds.
3.15      Follow-up.  DYB's follow up work ends when a project is completed
which is all that is required by Law 441. This is a shortcoming for DYB.
However for the public sector as a whole, it is in part offset by the fact
that the High Control Board reviews the performance of each SEE and establish-
ment annually and the follow-up function is, for all formal purposes, automatic-
ally taken over by that organization. During the construction period, DYB
does not rely solely upon reports from its clients but attaches great import-
ance to staff visits which include review of progress and a thorough examination
of expenditures. In addition to progress reports following these visits, the
appraisal staff prepares at the end of each year credit reports on projects
which are making satisfactory progress and revision reports on projects which
call for significant modifications. These reports are used to determine the
disbursement tranche to be provided by DYB in the following year. Subsequent
to completion of construction, it is essential that DYB continue loan super-
vision until the loan is fully repaid. DYB has agreed to do this for the
projects financed with Bank funds.



- 13 -
3.16      Disbursement and Collection Procedures.  Disbursements are made by
DYB based on invoices and other supporting documents submitted by the borrow-
ers, after careful checking by DYB's technical staff. In most cases they are
reimbursements of expenses already incurred by SEEs. Advance payments by DYB
(before documents are available) are made only in a limited number of justified
cases. On the whole, disbursement procedures are effective in ensuring that
DYB loans are actually used for the related projects. Collection procedures
are adequate.
3.17      DYB's disbursement staff is already being strengthened to process
foreign exchange transactions in connection with the Antalya project. DYB
management has made arrangements with the Central Bank and TSKB to train its
staff in procedures related to disbursement and repayment of foreign currency
loans.
E. Resources
3.18      Resource mobilization for DYB has to be seen in the context of the
system of Annual Programs (para. 3.13). DYB cannot guarantee that resources
would be available to finance new projects over the years of construction.
But in practice the resources are made available through the mechanism of the
Annual Programs. DYB resources approved by the Ministry of Finance on the
basis of DYB's needs have always been sufficient to cover the disbursement
on projects approved in previous years. This will be the subject of a Gov-
ernment commitment in respect of sub-projects financed by the Bank (para.
3.14).
3.19      DYB's resources include share capital paid up by the Government, the
proceeds of tax free bond issues guaranteed by the Government which have been
sold to the Pension Fund and Social Security Corporation, funds taken over
from ACF, DYB's predecessor, IFF and Treasury advances. In addition to its
own resources during the past years, DYB received special funds from the
Ministry of Finance to provide working capital loans to SEEs (para. 4.12).
3.20      Resources provided to DYB since its inception are shown in Annex 3.
As of December 31, 1973, DYB had obtained resources totalling TL 16 billion
(US$1.1 billion), of which 90% was from external sources, mainly by selling
bonds to the Pension Fund and Social Insurance Corporation. Bonds issued
recently have a 20-year term and bear interest at 9% per annum with tax exemp-
tion and government guarantee. The only foreign exchange funds are debts taken
over by DYB from IFF in 1964 for which DYB has assumed the exchange risk. As
a result of the Lira devaluation in August 1970 and revaluation of currencies
of Turkey's creditor countries, DYB has incurred considerable losses; during
1970-1972 and the first half of 1973, they were TL 522.7 million (US$37.3
million). The Government did not compensate DYB for such losses. At the end
of 1973, the outstanding foreign debt on which DYB carries the full foreign
exchange risk, amounted only to approximately $35.3 million equivalent. These
loans are expected to be fully repaid in 1979. For the proposed loan, DYB has
agreed that it will pass on the foreign exchange risk to its sub-borrowers
(para. 4.11).



- 14 -
IV. DYB'S OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
A. Sumary of Operations
4.01      Approvals.  In the past, bunching of new project 1/ approvals by
DYB occurred during the first year of each Five-Year Plan. Again, in 1973,
the first year of the Third Plan, new project approvals increased sharply to
a record level (Annex 4).
4.02      Disbursements.  During the period 1964-73, DYB's disbursements
totalled TL 13.8 billion. This represented 27% of total investments in oper-
ating SEEs during that period.
B. Features of Loans
4.03      Industrial Diversification.  During the past three years (1971-1973),
DYB approved 50 new projects totalling TL 12.2 billion, of which TL 5.1 bil-
lion (41%) yaes for the public manufacturing sector (Annex 5 and 7c). The re-
maining TL 7.1 billion was committed for projects in the agriculture, mining,
transportation, energy and telecommunication sectors. Among the projects in
the non-manufacturing sectors, power and telecommunication projects constituted
47% of DYB's total approvals.
4.04      Within the manufacturing sector, the iron and steel projects have
received the largest share of DYB's financing, with 18% of the total DYB
financing (or 42% of the loans to the manufacturing industries). Pulp and
paper plants received the second largest proportion, 9% of the total (or
22% of the loans to the manufacturing industries). Chemical and fertilizer
plants received the third largest proportion, 7% of the total (or 17% of the
loans in the manufacturing industries). Food projects accounted for 5%,
and textiles, machinery manufacturing, cement, leather and electrical equip-
ment manufacturing projects have each received less than 1% of DYB's total
financing.  A breakdown of the loans by industrial categories is given in
Annex 5.
4.05      Duration.  Annex 6 shows the duration of loans approved in 1971-1973.
The average final maturity is 10.2 years. In general, the amortization period
of each loan includes a grace period of one to four years depending upon the
gestation period and the type of project (basic industries, infrastructure
and projects in backward areas have usually longer terms and grace periods).
During the period 1971-1973, about 52% of loans by number had a repayment
1/  In this chapter, "new projects" are defined as projects coming to DYB
for the first time as opposed to on-going projects for which loan data
are expressed in annual tranches.



- 15 -
period of ten years or longer. For the manufacturing industries, the aver-
age final maturity of loans was about the same, i.e., 10 years.
4.06      Size.  The proportion of large loans in terms of current prices has
been increasing during the period 1971-1973 (Annex 7). In 1971, one of the
six new loans approved exceeded TL 90 million, accounting for 39% of DYB's
approvals. In 1972, five of the eight loans approved exceeded TL 90 million
each, with the total percentage reaching 96.7%. In 1973, fourteen loans (out
of 36) were of this category and the percentage was 91.1%. During the three-
year period, the average size of all loans was TL 245 million and that of
loans extended to industrial projects was TL 176 million (US$12.6 million).
4.07      Geographic Distribution.  DYB's lending is not concentrated in indus-
trialized areas since SEEs' plants are scattered over the country often as a
result of the Government's social policy. In 1971, 52% of its lending was
made to projects in the Ankara area; in 1972, 70% to Mediterranean Sea area;
in 1973, 54% to the Middle North area. During the past three years, only
14% of DYB's total financing was committed for projects located in the
Marmara Sea area. Geographical distribution of DYB's approvals during
1971-1973 is shown in Annex 7a.
4.08      Security.  DYB does not have liens on the properties of its bor-
rowers. 1/ However, in the General Conditions applicable to each loan agree-
ment, DYBretains the right to take over the assets of a delinquent SEE bor-
rower. This may happen through liquidation, but no case has occurred so far.
C. Rate of Interest and Other Charges
4.09      DYB interest rate policy is subject to approval by the Treasury.
DYB's lending rate on long-term loans is at present 10-1/2% p.a., a rate well
below the estimated real cost of capital in Turkey. In some cases, such as
infrastructure projects and key industries such as railways, shipbuilding,
steel, pulp and paper, and fertilizer. DYB may charge a lower rate, 9-1/2%.
DYB does not collect commitment charges, but impose a penalty interest of
1-1/2% above the normal rate on the delinquent portions of loans.
4.10      The interest rate policy of DYB appears as a special case in the
context of Turkey's resource management. Rates at which DYB borrows and lends
are not intended to provide a resource allocation and mobilization mechanism;
their chief purpose is to provide public sector institutions such as DYB and
its creditors, the Pension Fund and Social Insurance Corporation, with a re-
turn sufficent to cover their administrative expenses plus an adequate mar-
gin. The current policy authorizing DYB to borrow domestic funds at about
9% and to lend those funds at 10-1/2% per annum meets this purpose.
1/   DYB loans are usually made to the SEEs, not to the Establishment managing
the project. Given the size of SEEs, DYB feels that the undertaking by
SEEs of the obligation to repay the loan is sufficient security.



- 16 -
4.11      In the past, for direct industrial loans to the public sector, the
Bank has made its funds available to the industrial SEEs at 9 per annum. 1/
This rate could also be applied to subprojects for the proposed loan to DYB.
However, there would be no reason to provide Bank funds to SEEs through DYB
at a rate lower than 10-1/2%, the rate DYB is currently charging for Turkish
Lira loans. In addition, sub-borrowers using Bank funds would have to bear
the foreign exchange risk (para. 3.20). The potentially greater cost of
credit is justified because of the assured availability of financing for the
entire sub-projects under the arrangements outlined in para. 3.14 and the
related services provided by DYB. However, industrial projects of SEEs would
continue to enjoy preferential interest rates compared to private enterprises
which, at present, carry an effective cost of 15% p.a. for their borrowings.
Because SEEs are in part intended to serve more directly social objectives
(regional diversifications, employment, basic services and industries, etc.)
the government considers an interest rate differential of the magnitude in-
dicated as appropriate. The resulting spread would be adequate to cover the
cost of DYB's services. At 10-1/2 p.a. it cannot be excluded that the real
rate of interest may become negative in certain circumstances; this would be
justified to the extent, however, that the foreign exchange risk is passed
on to the ultimate borrower.
D. Working Capital Loans
4.12      SEEs have access to working capital loans from commercial banks as
well as DYB. Since 1970, DYB's own working capital operation has been phased
out and almost all working capital loans have been made from special funds
provided by the Government funds. At the end of 1973, the working capital
loans outstanding amounted to TL 2,115 million. DYB collects a commission
of 1% for handling such loans. The period of working capital loans does not
usually exceed nine months, and the rate of interest is 10-1/2% per annum.
E. Financial Performance
4.13      Profitability.  DYB's Profit and Loss Statements for 1969-1973 and
Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1969-1973 are attached in Annexes 8 and 9.
4.14      During the initial years since its establishment, DYB's profitability
rose very rapidly, and its profits before tax doubled in the first four years,
from TL 103.3 million in 1965 to TL 207.9 million in 1968.  It further improved
in 1969, reaching TL 221.5 million, before tax, or TIL 140.6 million after tax;
this represented a return of 11% on average equity. However, in 1970, a TL
208.8 million loss was incurred mainly due to exchange loss on its foreign
1/   I.e. usually the current Bank lending rate, plus a fee of 1-3/4% payable
to the Government.



- 17 -
currency debt (taken over from the Internal Financing Fund in 1964), as a
result of Lira devaluation. In 1971, the situation returned to normal, and a
profit before tax of TL 266.9 million was realized. Since the Tax Law in
Turkey permits banks to offset its losses of the previous years, no corporate
tax was levied on 1971 profits. In 1972, profits amounted to TL 247.0 million
and DYB was obligated to pay corporate tax of TL 80.2 million; 1/ the return
after taxes on average equity was 11.8%.  During 1973, net profits increased
at an annual rate of 20% over 1972.
4.15      In 1973, DYB's administrative expenses, including personnel, totalled
TL 10.3 million, representing only 0.07% of its total assets.
4.16      Reserves Policy.  Law 441 provides that 15% of DYB's annual net pro-
fit is to be set aside as a provision for possible losses, until this amount
equals 50% of share capital. After DYB's share capital has been fully paid
up, 10% of its annual net profit will be allocated as additional reserves.
In addition, DYB's management has, in early years, set aside 1% of loans out-
standing as extraordinary reserves and this rate was increased to 2% in 1972.
After all appropriations, the remaining surplus is transferred to the Treasury.
This is because the SEEs, including DYB, are not permitted to retain their
unappropriated earnings and funds needed by them for new investments must be
provided for in their Annual Investment and Financial Programs. Since DYB's
increased authorized share capital has not been fully paid up, permission has
been given for DYB's net earnings after taxes and provisions to be converted
into paid-in share capital.
4.17       Arrears.  The average collection rate (the amount collected as a
percentage of total installments due in one year) during 1967-1969 was around
80%. In 1970, it dropped to 70%, reflecting the fact that the liquidity of
some of DYB's clients worsened as a result of the Lira devaluation. Hlowever,
since 1972 the situation has considerably improved. The total arrears of
principal and interest amounting to TL 1,104 million at the end of 1971, dropped
to TL 395 million at the end of 1972. The amount increased slightly to TL 499
million at the end of 1973 - principal overdue at that time represented only 2%
of total portfolio - a sound picture. Seven SEEs have had delinquent accounts
with DYB each year. They are: Machinery and Chemical Industries Co., State
Railways, Nitrogen Industry Co., Sumerbank, Maritime Bank, Pulp & Paper Factories
and Petroleum Office. In 1971 and 1972, the largest arrears related to the loans
to the State Railways. In 1973, the Sumerbank had the largest amount of ar-
rears, because of a temporary liquidity problem at the end of the year. In
view of the special collection arrangement as described in the following para-
graph, arrears are very seldom allowed to last for more than a year. A state-
ment showing the arrears on loans to the borrowing SEEs as of year-end 1971-
1973 is attached as Annex 10.
1/   DYB, like other banks in Turkey is obligated to pay taxes on income
totalling 41-1/2%, comprising 35% corporate income tax, 3% financial
balance tax, 3% Calamity Fund contribution and 1/2% of National Pro-
ductivity Fund Contribution.



- 18 -
4.18      DYB has never rescheduled its loans nor has it written off any loans
because in cases where SEEs are found to be unable to repay loans made to them
by DYB, the Ministry of Finance makes arrangements in approving the annual
financial program of SEEs, so that SEEs are able to service their debts. Also,
in case of arrears, DYB makes the deductions from new loans to the SEEs. How-
ever, DYB's management feels that it should not rely on the Government for
collection of overdue accounts indefinitely. As of June 30, 1973, DYB's pro-
visions and reserves totalled TL 396.1 million, representing 2.9% of DYB's
loan portfolio including working capital loans. Given SIB's record of arrears,
these seem adequate.
G. Financial Position and Creditworthiness
4.19      Financial Position.  DYB's total assets increased almost four times
during the past nine years. Its loan portfolio increased from TL 2.97 billion
at the end of 1965 to TL 15.2 billion at the end of 1973. The long-term debt
to equity ratio at that date reached about 8:1. However, since the Government
is liable for the full amount of the authorized share capital of TL 2 billion,
equity on the basis of a TL 2 billion share capital is TL 2.6 billion and the
debt/equity ratio becomes 5.3:1. In addition, the deposits of the Central
Bank, which have been with DYB since its establishment, can also be considered
as DYB's permanent funds. If they are included in the equity base, which is
a reasonable assumption, DYB's debt/equity ratio becomes 3.2:1. Such a struc-
ture is conservative, and DYB has the capacity to contract debt within reason
above these limits. Though Law 441 indicates that no equity constraint should
be applied against DYB's borrowings of long-term Government guaranteed bonds,
DYB should remain prudent in its exposure to debt. DYB has agreed to maintain
a sound matching of loan collections with debt repayment obligations. Debt
service coverage 1/ should remain above 1.3:1.
4.20      Audit.  Following the established procedures applicable to all SEEs,
DYB's accounts are audited annually by the High Control Board (which reports
directly to the Parliament). The scope of its audit is broader than the
financial audit normally conducted by an accounting firm. It covers the re-
view of general economic conditions in Turkey and abroad, the administrative,
personnel, and legal aspects of DYB, as well as its operations and financial
1/   For this purpose the proposed Loan Agreement defines defines debt service
coverage as the ratio between (i) gross loan collection of principal and
interest, and (ii) loan repayment obligations of principal and interest.
The computation of the ratio will be made once a year on the basis of
DYB's year-end financial statement and the minimum ratio of 1.3:1 would have
to be met over the next two years. If, as a result of the calculation the
ratio was not met, DYB will consult with the Government and the Bank on the
action required to maintain the 1.3:1 ratio.



- 19 -
performance. The 1972 Report has been reviewed for this appraisal. It is
comprehensive and treats some operational and financial aspects jin depth.
However, its analysis of DYB's outstanding portfolio, adequacy of provisions,
and suitability of the accounting system used by SIB needs to be strengthened,
as proposed in paragraph 4.23. (It should be noted, however, that the High
Control Board's audit of all SEEs is an input to the Government's decision
in determining the Annual Investment and Financial Program for SEEs.)
4.21      DYB is considered to be creditworthy based on somewhat different
criteria than has been customarily applied to development finance companies.
This conclusion is arrived at on the basis of the following considerations:
a.   An audit by the High Control Board has verified the accuracy
of the loan portfolio account, as well as the other accounts;
b.   DYB has a ten-year history of no losses from its debtors;
c.   At the end of 1973, the amount of loan principal in arrears,
which was 2% of the total portfolio and involved about 20%
of that portfolio, is at least as good if not better than
most dfcs;
d.   Reserves and provisions for losses were 2.9% of total loan
portfolio at the end of 1973, and are reasonable considering
the past experience;
e.   DYB's management receives daily a report on arrears and takes
an active interest in seeing that they are kept to a minimum.
Inasmuch as DYB is a link in the government's system of financial management,
which affords protection against default of one government agency vis-a-vis
another normal criteria of creditworthiness are not readily applicable. More-
over, DYB's management is competent and follows prudent financial practices.
4.22      For the future, starting with DYB's 1974 accounts, the annual audit
now performed by the High Control Board will be supplemented by a specific
assessment of SIB's loan portfolio and the adequacy of provisions for losses.
This assessment would be undertaken by the High Control Board under procedures
and with the coverage applied to audits of the Bank financed development fi-
nance companies, or alternatively by an independent audit acceptable to the
Bank.



- 20 -
V. OUTLOOK
A. Operations Forecast
5.01      DYB's share in financing SEEs' investment averaged 24% during the
last six years (1968-1973). For 1974, DYB estimates its investment at TL
4,350 million (24% of the fixed investment in the producing SEEs). 1/ At pres-
ent, DYB's annual investment in SEEs over the next three years, 1975-1977,
is assumed by DYB, in accordance with the Plan, to remain at about 25%.
On this basis, the projected investments of DYB would be as follows:
Year                      Amount (TL million)
1974                            4,490
1975                            5,385
1976                            6,680
1977    >                       7,930
The average annual growth of DYB's investment in current terms would be about
20%. Annex 11 shows the forecast of operations, in terms of Board approvals
of new projects, "annual commitment to disburse", and estimated disbursements
for 1974-1977.
B. Resource Needs
5.02      Based on the forecast of operations, which, as in the past, remains
a forecast of disbursements (para. 3.13), total resource needs for investments
for the next four years 1974-1977 are estimated at TL 24.5 billion. According
to present estimates, DYB would have the following reliable resources at its
disposal (TL billion):
Resources                      AmDunt
Social Security Bonds           10.8
Share Capital Increase           1.0
Cash Flow                        1.3
Net Collections                  3.8
16.9
1/   Recent proposals have been considered by the Government to increase DYB's
share of investment financing over this amount. However, until the budget
has been presented and approved, it is too early to pass a judgment with
respect to the likelihood of these proposals.



- 21 -
The net resource gap for the four years which would on the present pattern have
to be funded by the Government amount to TL 7.6 billion. This is on a disburse-
ment basis, with the following yearly breakdown (TL million):
Year                 Amount
1974                    157
1975                  1,201
1976                  2,260
1977                  3,960
5.03      In light of its past experience, DYB estimates that the foreign ex-
change component of its projects would be approximately 45% of the project
costs. Based on this estimate, import financing from DYB for the two years
1974-1975 would amount to as much as US$306 million. The proposed Bank loan
of US$40 million (para. 5.04) would easily be fully committed in two years.
Disbursements against the Bank loan are estimated as follows:
Year                           Amount
TL           US$
million      million
(equivalent)
1974                     140           10
1975                     210           15
1976                     140           10
1977                      70            5
For the next two years, the proposed Bank loan would meet approximately 7% of
the foreign exchange needs of DYB's projects 1/.  To meet the remaining import
financing needs DYB will have, as in the past, to rely on the Government, the
Central Bank or other foreign sources. The specific streams of local currency
resources available to DYB appear less firm. In the past, DYB has relied upon
the purchase of its bonds by the Social Security and Pension Funds. However,
because of sharply increased pension payments in the next few years by these
funds, the Government is likely to provide alternative sources to DYB. The
possibility of issuing bonds in the domestic market is remote; it would depend
on the Treasury's overall resource mobilization through bond issues. An alter-
native would be to rely on budget transfers, foreign borrowings and further
Central Bank deposits. Given DYB's role in the economy, and the Government's
intention to monitor DYB's resource mobilization, it is reasonable to assume
that the Government will provide DYB with adequate means to meet its lending
program.
1/   On a disbursement basis, and excluding direct IBRD financing to large
SEE projects.



- 22 -
C. The Proposed Loan
5.04      In determining an appropriate amount for the proposed loan, two
factors had to be considered. First, DYB's experience $n appraising enter-
prises would start only with this loan. Given DYB's staff size and the time
needed to develop suitable appraisal procedures, only X limited number of
investmen,t sub-projects should be prepared for financing under the proposed
loan, probAbly about 8-10 over the next two years. Secondly, the sub-projects
to be covered by the proposed loan would have to be of a size below that which
would normally call for a direct appraisal and financing by the Bank.  In the
light of DYB's current pipeline, DYB appears to be able to present sufficient
applications to the Bank for financing to call on IBRD funds up to about US$40
million over the next two years.  The proposed loan should be used to finance:
(a)  foreign exchange expenditures for investment projects with
each sub-project in principle calling for a range of US$1-6
million of IBRD funds;
(b)  sub-projects in which Bank funds would represent at least 15%
of the total cost of the related investment, so that the Bank's
participation in each sub-project is substantial enough to
warrant the type of effort the Bank would require from DYB;
(c)  i4x:nufacturing projects and suitable medium-scale projects in
wining and processing projects in mining industry. Projects
in other sectors also financed by DYB such as mining per se,
utilities, transportation, tourism, most heavy industry,
etc., would be excluded.
Because of the lack of DYB's experience in appraising enterprises, there would
be no free limit for this loan. IBRD would follow-up, ex-Rost, closely the
appraisal work of DYB regarding sub-projects financed under the proposed loan.
5.05      A provisional list of new manufacturing and processing projects to
be financed by DYB in 1974 is contained in Annex 17. From this list, as
amended from time to time, a selection of projects to be financed using IBRD
funds will be made in accordance with the criteria set forth in para. 5.04.
D. Projected Profitability and Financial Position
5.06      DYBts projected income statements, balance sheets, and cash flow
statements for the year 1974 through 1977 are given in Annexes 12, 13, and 14.
Administrative expenses would increase 75% in the period 1973-1977, but, as
a percentage of total assets, would remain below 0.1%, which is very good for
a lending institution of this type. Financial expenses would increase by
70% in the same period because of sharply increased borrowings. Thus, in 1974,
DYB profits after taxes and provisions would drop about 152 in absolute terms



- 23 -
from the 1973 level because of greater increases in financial and administra-
tive expenses relative to revenue. The rate of return on average net worth
would be 9.8% in 1974, compared with 12.7% in 1973. Profitability would im-
prove in 1975-1977 when the return would rise to 11.9%, 13.2% and 16.3% re-
spectively as a result of growth in operation.
5.07      DYB's total assets are estimated to increase from TL 15.9 billion
at the end of 1973 to TL 33 billion at the end of 1977 with the long-term loan
portfolio increasing from TL 12.9 billion to TL 32 billion. The long-term
debt/equity ratio would decrease from 8.1:1 at the end of 1973 to 7.7:1 at
the end of 1977. If the entire Central Bank deposits were treated as equity,
the debt/equity ratio would be 4.1:1 and 5.1:1 respectively. A further de-
crease of the ratio would be achieved if the Government pays-in the capital
increase in 1974. A projection of cash flow and income statements shows that
debt service coverage would range between 2.3 and 3.3 times during the four-
year period, which is considered adequate.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      In light of the understanding reached during negotiations with DYB
and the Government, DYB is a suitable borrower for an IBRD loan of US$40 mil-
lion. The loan will be subject to conditions normally applied to development
finance companies. However, there will be no free limit. The terms will be
the same as those applied for recent loans to development finance companies,
including the standard commitment charge.
6.02      DYB and the Government have agreed on the following points:
(a)  The loan proceeds will be used to finance the foreign exchange
component of sub-projects in manufacturing, mining, and processing
industries, with each sub-loan normally ranging between $1 and $6
million equivalent. In the financial plans of each investment
project, IBRD funds should represent at least 15% of the total
cost (para. 5.04).
(b)  For a project financed with Bank funds, DYB will commit the
full amount of its financing and sign a sub-loan agreement for
the entire amount (para. 3.14).
(c)  In appraising each project to be financed with Bank funds, DYB
will evaluate the relevant aspects of the sponsoring enter-
prise or establishment as well as the project.  DYB's supervision
will be extend beyond the completion of the projects to the
life of DYB's sub-loan (para. 3.15).
(d)  In making sub-loan agreements for investment projects using
IBRD funds and involving an Establishment, DYB should, when
appropriate, make the Establishment a party to the contract
(para. 2.22).



- 24 -
(e) DYB will charge interest at not less than 10-1/2% per annum
to sub-borrowers (para. 4.11); for funds out of the proposed
loan, the foreign exchange risk should be passed on to the
sub-borrower (para. 3.20).
(f) DYB's debt service coverage will be maintained at a level of at
least 1.3sl as defined in para. 4.19.  DYB has also agreed
to consult the Bank, when necessary, on the action requiired to
maintain this ratio.
(g)  Starting with DYB's 1974 financial statements, the High Control
Board, or a suitable independent auditor, will supplement the
annual audit of DYB*s accounts along the lines described in
para. 4.22.
(h) The Government will make funds available to DYB to fulfill
the latter's financing obligations for sub-projects financed
by the Bank.



DEVLET YATI3IM BANXASI
NET PROFIES AFTER DIRECT TAXES OF PRODUCING SEES
(in Millions of Turkish Liras)
1966       1967      1968      1969       1970        1971        1972      1973'
ASgicultural Sector                   -34        15         44       149          2          -5         145      -213
TriSh Sugar Conpany              -75        -47       -7t        -7         -b:        -Z:           I7       -8
Soil Products Office                  1       -58          1        53         23         -23         -15      -248
Meat and Fish Organization            9       -20          0        39        -69         -53          -4      -132
Agricultural Supply Office           31        45         16         25        23         -23          92         86
Milk Industry                        -3         0         -5       -12        -17          15         -12        -7
Wool and Mohair                       1         0          2          3        -1           1           1         2
Feed Industry                         2         1          3          3         0           2           5          4
Minin and Power                       174       369        250       322        247         460         584       239
Etibank                            170       -33y       g_         -3         100         775         MO        -73
TEX                                   0         0          0          0       147         265         464       163
Coal, Petroleum and Steel               4       218        231       322        380         629         701       470
Turkish Coal Corporation           -100        67 -7-M                                    n7T        -m -I
Turkish Iron & Steel Mills Corp.   43          81        114        75        395         319         332        98
Turkish Petroleum Company            58       149        180       216        253         443         350       594
Petroleum Office                      3        -5         41         31       -10          25          56         47
Petrochemical Industry                0         0          5         -6        -8         -87          75         97
Manufacturing                         124       195        254        156      -109         190          67         38
Sumerbank                          -ZE        m          775       -rm        =:7         -25        1zs        -70
Turkish Cement Industry Co.          12        31         39         -5       -14 )6                   20        -25
Ankara Cement Co.                     3         0         16          l4       _6 )
Nitrogen Industry Co.               -41       -48        -46        -51      -109           1          20         19
Machinery & Chemical Indus. Co.    34          38         89         48        16          45         -11         39
Pulp and Paper Factories             29        28         62         92        -9          33        -103        -74
State Supply Office                  25        15         29        15         20          32          15         39
Transport Communication              -180      -421       -491       -807    -1 491        -704        -620       -519
Turkish Airlines                                          1TY 77   -IT         10         TM 1-9                -64
Maritime Bank                         0       -14        -64       -142      -104         -75        -103       -108
Maritime Bank Cargo Lines            15       -13         -9        -32         6           3        -103        -37
State Railways                     -256      -468       -480      -706       -991        -784        -784       -725
Post, Telephone, Telegram            70        74         76         55      -399         124         313        225
Turkish Radio and Televibion Co.    0           5         -3         11        -8          22          37         60
Tourism Bank                          0         0          0         -4        -5         -17           1          2
Total                                  88        376       288         X       -971          70
of which: Profits                     569     1,009      1,015     1,098      1,036       1,634       2,124      1,737
Losses                   -481       -633      -727       -954    -2,007      -1,o64      -1,247    -1,722
/1  Provisional Estimates                                            Source:  Ministry of Finance
EM1ENA/IC&DFC
February 25, 1974



DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
ORGANIZATION CHART
GROU| 6BOARD OF DIRECTORS OFIRESOURC6 i
5 Assns(Avs(Cnr(5 Members)        _te)Tp
GENERAL DIRECTOR
(President of the Eoard of Directors)
| ASST, GENERAL DIRECTOR                                                                                      ASST, GENERAL DiRECTOR           l
F(Member of the Board of Director's)                                                                        (Member of the Board of Directors)
| FINANCIAL ANALYSIS   1 Chief        l|CONTROLLERS OFFICE | |RESOURC                                                            1 AsstMN  
I    ECONOMIC ANALYSIS   1 Chief                            GENERAL    CRETARY                                                   1 Manager, 1 Assistant 
_  & RESEARCH GROUp:  5 Experts                                        (1 Secretary)                              CREDITS:          2 Experts, 7 Officers _
5 Assistants                                                                                           2 Typists
PERSONNEL OFFICE                                                  1 Manager, I Assistant
_ TECHNICAL GROUP:            Chif(1 Manager, 3 Officers, 1 Typist,                                              ACCOUNTING:   2 Experts, 10 Officers_
5 Experts                              & 1 Health Officer)                                             1 Cashier, 2 Typists
TYPING POOL:              1 Chief     ILIBRARY
5 Typists                                 (2 Officers)
|OFFICE OF CORRESPONDENCE &             l l       |SUPPLIES OFFICE-
ARCHIVES                             (11 Chief, 2 Off., 2 Tel. Operators, 2 Tech.,
(3 Officers, 2 Typists)                       1 Driver, 2 Guards, 17 Orderlies)
EMENA/IC & DFC
February 25, 1974



DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Resources as of December 31. 1973
(TL million)
Deposits                                     Internal       Other
Reserves                      Total                      Central        Against                                     Finance        Short        Total
Paid-up         and        Retained       Internal        Bonds         Bank         Bonds to          Free       Treasury         Funds         Term        Ecternal      Grand
Year    Capital       Provisions    Earnings      Resources    Outstanding      Deposits      be issued       Deposits       Loans       Taken over      Credits      Resources     Total
1964       432.7          -            71.9           504.6       1,026.1       1,233.8          33.9          151.3          -              -              155.1      2,60C.2    3,10L.3
1965      482.0          16.7          63.6           562.3       1,769.5       1,251.I          15.1          161.0          - o                          174.4       3,371.14   3,933.7
1966      525.1           45.1         77.3           647.5       2,463.8       1,268.7          74.5            2.7          -              -              202.2      4,035.8    4,683.3
1967       395.6          79.5        118.6         1,093.7       2,457.2       1,284.7           2.0           15.1         611.7        1,236.3          272.4       6,929.4    8,023.1
1968       969.6         131.2a        84.1         1,184.9       4,620.3       1,289.4          16.o            0.1         656.7        1,170.7           455.4      8,208.5    9,393.4
1969    1,000.0         134.9          59.7         1,244.6       5,738.3       1,291.5         233.0           -            706.5        1,031.5          566.9       9,567.6  10,812.2
1970     1,000.0        244.6        -208.8         1,035.3       7,001.6       1,293.9          15.1           -          1,963.5        1,243.6           409.9    11,927.6  12,963.4
1971    1,000.0          266.8         35.7         1,302.5       7,657.8       1,295.6          -              -          1,440.8        1,190.6           473.3    12,058.1  13,360.6
1972    1,020.3         302.5          91.9         1,414.7       8,5244,       1,296.4          46.o           -            937.5          775.9           607.3    12,188.0  13,602.7
1973     1,086.5         394.4        200.9          1,681.8     11,079.4        1,296.9           0.4           -            808.4          761.6          435.7     14,382.4  16,064.2
EMENA/DFO
March 26, 1974



DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
New Project Approvals, Annual Tranches and Disbursements
&a DYB's Share in Total Operating SEEs' InVestments
(TL Million)
Approvals of
New Projects                A n n u a 1  T r a n c h e s
Total DYB   Number of Loan    Annual Commitment        Actual      Total SEEs'      DYB's Share in
Year   Number    Financing    Agreements on        To Disburse        Disbursement   Investments      Total Operating
New & on-going     (Contracted)                                        SEEs' Investments
Projects
1968      34       2,473.0          83              1,319.8              1,167.6        3,222.0            36.2%
1969      12       1,042.0          65              1,582.3              1,343.8        4,183.0            32.1%
1970      11         202.9          74              1,984.4              1,483.8        5,662.0            26.2%
1971       6         238.0          36              1,233.0                968.0        6,662.0            14.5%
1972       8       2,962.0          33              2,096.9              1,994.8       10,024.0            19.9%
1973      36       9,o45.o          62              3,877.6              3,48908       13,302.0            26.2%
107      15,962.9         353             12,094.0             10,447.8       43 O55.0            24.3_
FeruA ry 2T5 197C
February 25, 1974



DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Sectoral Distribution of Loan Approvals
1971-1973
1971                     1972                    1973                      1971-1973
Number of               Number of                Number of                Number of
S e c t o r s                  Projects   Million TL   Projects   Million TL   Projects   Million TL   Projects   Million TL          %
I. Agriculture                                                         1              309                                1              3,9      0.03
IIo  Mining                                                                                      6           874.2        6            874.2      7.14
III. Manufacturing                              6            238.0       7         2.958,1       16          1,865.1      29          5,061,2     41.33
A.  Consumption Goods
l.  Food                              _            _           3           307.0        6           263.9        9            570.9      4.67
2.  Textile                           1             5.8        1            78.0        -            -           2             83.8     o068
B. Ind. that Prod. Intermed. Goods
3.  Pulp & Paper                      _      -                 -            -           3         1,126,8        3          1,126,8      9.20
4.  Leather                           -            -           -            -           1            15.2        1             15.2      0.12
5,  Chemical                          1            92.5        1           357.0        4           404.1        6            853,6      6.97
6.  Petroleum                         -             -          -             -          1             17,6       1             17.6      0,14
7,  Cement                            1             6,2        -            -           1            37,5        2             43.7      0,37
8.  Iron & Steel                      1            69,6        1         2,082.0        -            -           2          2,151,6     17,57
C. Ind. that Prod, Invest, Goods
9.  Machinery Manufacturing           1            53.9        -            -           -            _           1             53.9      0.44
10.  Electrical Equipment Mfg.         1            10,0        -            -           -            -           1             10,0      o.o8
11.  Railway Equipment                 -             -          1            134h1       -             -          1            134.1      1.10
IV. Transportation
12.  Shipbuilding                      -             -          -             -          6            284.8       6            284.8      2,33
13.  Purchase of Vessels               -             -          -             -          2             81,0       2             81,0     o066
14i  Purchase of Tankers               -             -          -             -          2            222.9       2            222,9       1,82
V. Energy                                     -             -          -             -          3          2,949.0        3         2,949.0      24.08
VI. Telecommunication                          -             -          -             -          1          2,1768.0       1         2,7680o    22,61
Total                                     6            238.0       8          2,962.0      36          9.o45o0       50        12.2L5o5    100.00
EMENA/IC&DFC
February 25, 1974



DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Term of Loans V Approved
(TL '000)
1 9 7 1                            19                                1  73                               1971-1973
Term       Number of   Amount        %        Nus~~~~~~~~~~~~er of    Amount  ___  Number of    Amount ~~~~~~~~~Tuber  fNAmubermoof erofountn
Projects                           Projects                          Projects                  -          Projects
5 - 7 years             3         22,038     9.3          1          3,825       0.1       14          590,399     6.5          18           616,262    5.03
8 - 10  "              2         123,531    51.9          3        595,889      20.1        5          643,175     7.1          10         1,362,595   11.13
11 - 13 "              -              -      -            1        129,170       4.4        8          391,264     4.4           9           520,434    4.25
14 - 16 "              1          92,478    38.8          2        151,117       5.1        9        7,420,141.   82.0          12         7,663,736   62.59
17 - 19 "__                           -      -            1      2,082,ooo      70.3        _                      -             1         2,082,000   17.00
T o t a 1              6         238,047   100.0          8      2,962,001    100.0         36       9,044,979   100.0          50        12.245.027  100.00
g These loans are DYB financing for the entire investment projectsas distinct from annual disbursement tranches.
FENA/Ir 5DF 9
February 25, 1974



DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Size Distribution of Loans 1/ Approved
(TL '000)
1 9 71                              1 97 2                          1 9 73                          1971-1973
Size of Loan            Number     Amount       %        Number        Amount       %      Number       Amount               Number      Amount
Less than LT 10 million        2          12,038     5.05         2          20,842    0.71        2           3,130   0.04          6        36,010    0.29
LT 10 - 30 million             1          10,000     4.20         -              -      -          7         215,662   2.38          8       225,662    1084
LT 31 - 50 million             -             -       -                           -      -          9         359,731   3.98          9       359,731    2.94
LT 51 - 70 million             2         123,531    51.90         --                    -          3         155,298   1.72          5        278,829    2028
LT 71 - 90 million             -             -       -            1          77,964    2.63        1          75,423   0.83          2       153,387    1.25
LT 91 - 110 million            1          92,478    38-85         -              -      -          2         189,861   2.10          3        282,339    2.31
More than LT 110 million       -             -       -            5       2,863,195   96.66       12       8,o45,874  88.95         17    10,909,069   89.09
T o t a 1                  6        238,047   100.00          8       2,962,001  100.00       36       9,044,979 100.00         50    12.245.027  100.00
1/ These loans are the full amounts of DYB financing, as distinct from annual tranches.
EM4A/IC&DFC
February 25, 1974



DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
/1
Geographical Distribution of Loan Approval s
(TL '000)
1 9 7 1                                 1  9  7  2                             1  9  7  3
Number of        kmount                 Nu-mber of      Amnount        %       Number of       Amount
Loans                                    Loans                                 Loans
Marmara Sea
Istanbul                                                         1            134,100       4.53      10             549,184       6.07
Izmit                                                            1            357,000      12005       4             281,981       3.12
Bursa                                                                                                  2             354,802       3092
Agean Sea
Izmir                   1               5,864       2.46
Balikesir                                                        1             17,017.      o.58        3             86,598       0.96
Black Sea
Samsun                  1              92,478      38.85
Kirklareli                                                       1              3,825       0.13
Ordu                                                                                                    1             75,423       o084
Sakarya                                                                                                 1             46,716        0.52
Middle North
Ankara                  2             123,531      51.89                                                1          2,768,000       30.60
Eskisehir                                                        1            160,925       5043        1            140,000        1.54
Tokat                                                            1            129,170       4.36
Amasya                                                                                                  1             39,772        0.44
Kutahya                                                                                                 4          1,978,754       21.88
Middle South
Afyon                                                                                                   1            553,000        6.11
Mediterranean Sea
Antalya                 1              10,000        4.20                                               1            459,000        5.07
Iskenderun                                                       1          2,082,000      70.29        1             37,450        0.41
Adana                                                                                                   1             25,784        0.29
Burdur                                                                                                  1             39,685       o044
Middle East
Sivas                   1               6,174        2.60
Diyarbakir                                                       1             77,964        2.63
Elazig                                                                                                                41,
Van                                                                                                     1              36,500       0.40
Maras                                 238,047      100,0                    2,9627001     l00o00        1          1,531,000       16.93
t__                                                                         9.- 34 979~  100.00
EMENA/IC&DFC                         /1 These loan approvals are DYB financing for the entire investment projects as
February 25, 1974                       distinct from annual disbursement tranches.



ANNEX 7b
DEVLEr YATIRIM BANKASI
Outstanding Loans as of December 31, 1973
(TL '000)
Machinery and Chemical Industries Co.                      233,685
Etibank                                                  1,724,877
Turkish Electricity Board                               1,656,598
Iller Bankasi                                             189,778
State Railways                                          1,242,662
Meat and Fish Organization                                  56,973
Sumerbank                                                  578,264
Maritime Bank                                              386,068
Turkish Sugar Company                                      483,521
Turkish Cement Industry Co.                                282,500
Post, Telephone, Telegraphs                                628,990
T. EmLak Kredi Bankasi                                       2,129
Turkish Coal Corporation                                   630,974
Nitrogen Industry Co.                                      668,o67
The State Pulp and Paper Company                           791,894
Turkish Iron and Steel Mills Corp.                      1,45o,305
Petroleum Office                                           108,026
Turkish Petroleum Company                                  671,176
Petrochemical Industry                                   1,182,191
Ankara Cement Co.                                            8,951
Maritime Bank Cargo Lines                                  492,391
Tourism Bank                                                 8,901
Feed Industry                                               22,094
T o t a 1                                         13,501,015
EKENA/IC&DFC
February 25, 1974



ANMEK 7c
DENLET YATIRM4 BANKASI
LIST OF PROJECTS APPROVED BY DYB/
i971-1973
Capital Cost                  DYB Total
Total       Foreign             Financing               Term
SEE           Name of the Project                              (TL '000)    (TL '000)              (TL '000)            (Year)
1971
MYEK            Dry Cell Battery Factory                         60,524         32,777              10,000                  6
11             Textile Machinery Factory(Exp.)                 120,148        33,147              53,884                 10
SUMERBANK       Izmir Cotton Clothing Plant                      10,240          2,550               5,864                  5
Improvement and transportation of
the raw material of Sivas Cement Fac.             7,057           700               6,174                  6
MKEK            Special Steel Factory Modernizatioon             95,054         23,205              69,647                  9
AZOT            Karadeniz Phosphate Fertilizers Plant(Exp.)   314,232          119 094              92,478                 14
607,255       t                    =3, 47 77
1972
SUMERBANK       Diyarbakir Cotton Yarn Factory                  102,729         40,000              77,964                  9
D.B.DENIZ       Purchase of 2 x 15,000/17,000 DWT
NAKLIYAT      Bulk/Ore Carriers                               171,119         70,800             134,100                 15
T.DEMIK-CELIK   Iskenderun Iron-Steel Complex                 8,845,365    4,444,464             2,082,000                 17
T. SEKER        Eskisehir Beet Sugar Plant (Exp.andM od.)       251,419         27,290             160,925                  8
Susurluk Beet Sugar Plant (Exp.)                 26,544        10,725              17,017                 15
Turhal Beet Sugar Plant (Exp. and Mod.)         192,921        22,370             129,170                 13
Sarimsakli Farm Irrigation                        5,557          -                  3,825                  7
IGSAS-TPAO      IGSAS Ammonia-Urea Plant                      1.166,460        635 180             357 000                  8
10,762.114    5,25C,o29            2,96 -
1973
DBDN            Construction of 4 Tugs                            4,818          1,570                 850                 5
DBDN            Construction of 3 Tugs                             2,950          -                  2,280                  6
OB              Construction of 2,250 DWT Pontoon                15,007            500              13,230                12
OB              Construction of 2 Ferry Boats                   147,709         48,798             130,387                16
for Marmara Line
Etibank         Uludag Wolfram Mine and Con-
centrator                                    278,199        123,530              37,278                  7
Etibank         Bandirma Borax Plant (Exp.)                      25,069          7,100              16, 500                 7
Kefdagi Chromite Concentrator                    83,662         31,550              41,330                 5
Bandirma Boric Acid Plant (Exp.)                 34,373          9,400              12,500                 6
Bandirma Sodium Perborate Plant                 119,489        68,061               57,598                11
SUMERBANK       Beykoz Plastic and Rubber Shoes
Manufacturing Unit. (Exp.)                     21,761         9,241               15,228                 9
ET              Van Modern Slaughterhouse                        85,918            960              365)00                 13
ET              Fatsa  "        "                               100,968         24,070              75,)V23                10
ET              Adana                                            77,662          1,632              25,784                  7
ET              Burdur          "                                66,105            941              39,685                 12
ET              Amasya  "                                        70,483            941              39,772                 11
ET              Sakarya "       "                                72,514            941              46,716                 13
TPAO            Exploration and Production TPAO                 165,900        112,000              94,361                  7
Patrol Ofisi    Purchase of Crude Oil Tankers                    88,328         27,400              54,700                  6
It          Izmit Grease Plant (Exp.)                        35,833         12,462              17,657                 7
SEKA            Izmit Pulp and Paper Plant (Mod.)               231919        131,605             114,763                 11
SEKA            Afyon Bleached Cane/Straw Pulp Factory          694,030        243,002             553,000                 15
SEKA            Antalya Forest Utilization
Pulp and Paper Complex                      2,074,000       330,000              459,000                15
DBDN            Construction of 2x5500 DWT Bulk Carriers         90 696         43,810               431000                13
DBDN            Purchase of 2x85,200/143,400 DWT Tankers        560,690        536,110              168 209                 7
DBDN            Construction of 3x18,000 DWT Bulk/Ore Carriers262,807          117,451               95,000                10
DBDN            Purchase of 2x26,500 DWT Bulk/Ore Carriers    206,204             -                 50,000                  5
DBDN            Purchase of 30,000 DWT Bulk Carriers            109,325        16X6,'65              31,000                 6
TEK             Tuncbilek Thermal Power Plant IV (EXp.)       1,071,503        665,o54             660,000                 16
TEK             Seyitomer Thermal Power Plant III (Exp.)    1,143,127          675,964             758.000                15
TEK/TKI          Integrated Afsin-Elbistan Thermal
Power Plant                                11,227,400    7,301,600            1,531,000                15
Cimento          Iskenderun Cement Plant                           74,231        21,090              37,450                 6
TKI              Seyitomer Semi-Coke Plant                        207,080       113,043             178,656                15
TKI              Tuncbilek Lignite Mine (Exp.)                    746,852       296,205             382,098                15
Azot             III Fertilizer Complex                           863,708       395,309             317,1;24               10
Etibank          Kirka Sodium Borate Mine Concentrator            250,261        44,152             140,000                 59
PTT              Urban Telecommunication (Exp.)                 4,175,086       713,561           2,768,00o                15
'25,485,667   12,716,018           9,044,979
/1  On-going proJects whose annual tranches also called for PIE Board approval are not inc] uded in this table.
MENA/IC&DFC
March 26, 1974



ANNEX 8
DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Income Statements 1969-1973
(TL '000)
1969          1970          1971         1972          1973
INCOME                                          ------------ Au d i t e d --------------    (Unaudited)
Lnterest & Commissions                       667,716        787,143       920,940      989,931    1,210,577
Charges & Commissions on Banking Services   -                -             -               2.50       -
Pcrtfolio Tncome                               6,970         19,188        43,190       44,532        25,385
Profit from Foreign Fxchange Transactions   -                     36          970          611           623
Other Revenues                                25,548            804           183          lull          124
Total Income                                 700,234        807,171       965,283   1,035,735    1,236,709
EXPENSES
Personnel EXpenses                             6,249          5,123         5,383        5,382         5,855
Depreciation                                      122           102            93          262           658
Interest & Commissions Paid                  470,bi4        571,574       655,043      751,602      860,271
Expenses & Losses on Portfolio                 1,068         -             -            -
Bond Issuing Expenses                             48         -             -            -             -
Losses from Foreigr. Exchange Transactions   -              432,648        31,491       27,097        31,482
Other Expenses & Losses                          794          5,018         3,080        2,766         2,830
Miscellaneous Losses                          -               1,548         3,281        1,565           857
Taxes & Fees                                  -                    3            3           32            57
Total Expenses                               478,695      _,016,oi6       698,374      788,706       902,010
PROFIT (LOSS) Before Tax                       221,539       (208,845)      266,909      247,029       334,699
TAX                                             80,900         -             -            80,200       133,800-
PRQ?IT (LOSS) After Tax                        140o,639      (208,845)      266,909      166,829       200,899
/1 Estimate
H~ATIOS
Total Income/Average Total Assets                6.9            6.7           7.4          7.9           8.5
Administrative Expenses/Average Total Assets   0.07             0.10          0.09         0,08          0.07
Financial Expenses/Average Total Assets           4.7           4.8           5.0          5.5           5.9
Earnings Before Tax/Average Net Worth           17.4          (17-7)         22.6         17.5          21.1
Net Profit/Average Net Worth                     11.1         (17.7)         22.6         11.8          1.2.7
Net Profit/Year-end Share Capital               14.1           (20.9)        26.7         16.,          18.5
EMENA/IC&DFC
March 26, 1974






DORLFT YATISIU' RANDkS!
Balance Sheets, Year-end 1969-1973
(TL '000)
1969          1970          1971          1972          1973                                             1969          1970           1971          1972          1973
ASSETS                                                                                       LIABILITIES & SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current Assets:                                                                                   Current Liabilities!
Cash                         71.4           9.9         149.1         176.5         182.2          Accounts Payable                  167.5       6,192.5         1,276.9     11,721.4       4,354.4
Central Bank             51,621.4      12,430.3       1,663.2      13,423.6      25,313.6         Transitory & Intermediate
Banks                        -          4,900.0      51,192.2      34,509.0       5,000.0           Accounts                     240,76d.0     316,446.5       333,771.5    364,536.3     476,293.3
Interest Receivable     329,239.7    408,655.1      451,063.5     43d,103.5     525,976.6         Deposits                       227,768.4      11,966.1            -        45,998.2           0.4
Other Receivables        10,301.8      21,836.9      16,064.5      10,147.4       7,170.8         Tax Payable                     80,900.           -               -         o200.0    133,d00.
Bonds & Stocks           38,331.3    6o9,149.8      131,217.7     256,007.0      88,956.8           Total Current
Accounts to be                                                                                         Liabilities               549,603.9     334,605.1       335,043.4   502,50.59       614,94L36
Liquidated              1,326.5         634.9         634.9         634.9         634.9
Unamortized Expenses        693.7         275.0          _-                          -          Long-Term Debts:
Total Current Assets  481,590.8  1,053,891.9      651,985.1    758,001.9      653,234.9         Long-Term Loans                870,345.3   1,706,682.2    1,204,150.7    608,420.7      561,214.3
Bonds                       5,738,334.0   7,540,559.0    7,657,812.0  8,524,428.2  11,079,369.6
Portfolio Investments:                                                                               IFF Resources Taken Over    1,031,396.6   1 243 647.9     ,g43-7    75 886.5           664,217.2
Total long-Term Debts     7,640,076.4  10,4       .l0      526064  9,90d,735.4  712,304,01,3
Investment Credits    8,206,502.8   9,559,206.3  10,237,354.5  10,996,115.0  12,935,789.9
Working Capital                                                                                  Central Bank Deposits:        1,296,930.9   1,296,930.9    1,296,930.9  1,296,930.9   1,296,930.9
Credits             1,526,643.3  1,960,983.8   1,574,231.7   1,085,251.5   2,115,349.6
Credits under Special                                                                           Shareholders' Ebuity:
Law                   592,069.0    575,400.0    533,880.4       340,786.8     175,338.4
Share Capital               1,000,000.0   1,000,000.0    1,000,000.0  1,023,322.4   1,036,537.7
Less: Provisions                                                                                (Authorized TL 2 billion)
for Possible       _ieserves                                                                                                 184,949.5     244,6u0.i       260,/~62.2    502,47-1.     34u,394.7
Losses               (1,326.5)       (634.9)     (1,754.3)     (1,754.3)        (634.9)        Current Year Profit (Lose)    140,639.0   (208,a44.9)        5d,o64.1    166,829.3      200,399.1
Portfolio Invest-                                                                                  Total Net Worth           1,325,588.8   1,035,763.2    1,324,826.3  1,492,623.2   1,631,831.5
ments (Net)      10,323,888.6  12,094,955.2  12,343,762.3  12,420,399.0  15,225,843.0
Fixed Assets:               6,721.2       9,341.2      13,764.6      19,394.5      19,434.4
Total Liabilities &
Total Assets         10.812.200.6  13,158.188.3  13,009.512.0  13,197,795.4  15,898,512.3          Shareholders, Equity       1,12,         13,158,188.3   13,009,412.0 13,200,795.4  15.898,512.3
Working Capital Funds
Administered on                                                                                 Liability to Ministry of
Behalf of Ministry                                                                                 Finance fcr Working
of Finance                   -        350,000.0    350,000.0    413,300.0       707,821.1          Capital Fonds                      _         350000.0       350,O00.0    413,300.0    707,821.
RATIOS
Total Debt/Equity               7.2          11.7           8.8            7.8           8.5
Long-Term Debt/Equity           6.7          11.4           8.6            7.5           8.1
(If Central Bank Deposits
are treated as debt)
Long-Term Debt/Fauity           2.9           4.5           3.8            3.6           4.1
(If Central Bank Deposits
are treated as quasi-equity)
Reserves and Provisions
as % of portfolio             3.2           3.0           2.6            3.8           3.9
Book value as % oP Par        133           104           132            149           168
F12NA/IC&DFC
March 26, 1974



DEVLEr YATItRIM HANKASI
Arrears (Principal and Interest)
(TL '000)
Dec. 31, 1971        Dec, 31, 1972       Dec. 31, 1973
Cement Industry of Turkey                                      21,731               -                   10,138
Machinery & Chemical Industries Co.                            85,014              27,519               36,651
State Railways                                                496,900             150,642               58,999
Nitrogen Industry Co.                                         188,670              44,370               68,770
Sumerbank                                                     119,175              14,342              1o9, 414
Maritime Bank                                                  11,094               9,138               30,228
Pulp & Paper Factories                                          3,093              41,331               16,590
Feed Industry                                                   -                   5,078                5,160
Turkish Electricity Board                                       -                  31,980               51,927
Petroleum Office                                               47,499              16,e30               14,992
Ankara Cement                                                  11,374
Iron & Steel Works of Turkey                                  119,802               -                    _
Maritime Bank Cargo Lines                                       -                    6,293               2,201
Post, Telegraphs & Telephone                                    -                  19,139                -
Turkish Petroleum Company                                       -                  28,725               24,801
Turkish Sugar Company                                           -                   -                    4,365
Turkish Coal Corporation                                        -                                       43,096
Etibank                                                   _      _-                 -                   21,586
T o t a 1                                         1,104,352             395 387              498,918
EMENA/IO&DFC
February 25, 1974
0



ANNEX 11
DEVLET IATIRIM BANKASI
Forecast of Cperations, 1974-1977
(TL Million)
1973      1974       1975      1976       1977
(Actual)  --               r e c7ias t-------
Approvals
Loans:  Local currency                      9,045.0   6,ooo.o   6,000.0   8,ooo.o   7,000.0
Foreign currency
Antalya Project
IBRD                           418.6
EIB                            294.0
IBRD Line of Credit                 -         280.0     280.0      280.0     280.0
Commitments
Loans:  Local currency                      3,877.6   4,382.0   5,275.o   6,600.0   7,705.0
Foreign currency
Antalya Project
IBRD                           418.6
EIB                            294.0
IBRO Line of Credit                 -         280.0     280.0      280.0     280.0
Disbursements
Loans:  Local currency                      3,489.8   4,210.5   4,965.o   6,120.0   7,370.0
Foreign currency
Antalya Project
IBRD                            -        126.0      126.0      126.o     126.0
EIB                             _          84.o      84.o       84.o      84.0
IBRD Line of Credit                 -         140.0     210.0      280.0     280.0
R4WA/IC&EDFC
February 25, 1974



DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Projected Income Statements, 1973-1977
(TL Million)
INCOME                                                   1973            1974           1975           1976               1977
Interest and commissions on Loan                    1,210.6         1,191.9         1,554.4        2,026.6            2,252.3
Interest on advances                                   25.4            35.0            35.0           35.0               60.c
Interest on savings bonds                               -               1.4             1.4            1.4                1.4
Penalty interest on overdue loans                       -               23.4           24.8           31.0               39.2
Interest on working capital loans                       0.1            -               -              _                  -
Net earnings on foreign exchange loans                   o.6             1.2            3.7            7.0               10.0
Gross income                                  1,236.7         1,252.9         1,619.3        2,101.0            2,362.9
EKPENSES
Interest on bonds and other long-term debt            750.8           841.7         1,141.3        1,473.7            1,533.4
Interest on Special Deposit (Central Bank)              55.0           55.0            55.0           55.0               55.0
Interest on Special Law Credits                        26.2            24.1            -
Interest on IFF debt                                   28.2            25.1            21.7           17.9               14.0
Losses on foreign exchange transactions                 31.5            -               -
-General Administrative expenses                         9.6            14.5            15.5           16.5               17.5
Depreciation                                             0.7            0.5             o.5            0.5                0.5
Total expenses                                  902.0           960.9         1,234.0        1,563.6            1,620.4
Profit before taxes                             334.7           292.0           385.3          537.4              742.5
TAXATION                                                 133.8           121.8          159.9          223.0              214.0
Net profit                                       200.9           170.2          225.4          314.4              528.5
APPROPRIATIONS
Provisions for Possible Losses                                          25.5            33.8          47.2               79.3
RATTOS
Total Income/Average Total Assets                          8.5             7.2             7.9           3.5                 7.9
Administrative Expenses/Average Total Assets               0.05            0.10            o.o8           0.07               o.o6
Financial Expenses/Average Total Assets                    5.9             5.5             5.9           6.3                 5-3
Earnings Before Tax/Average Net Worth                     21.1            16.7            20.3          22.6               22.9
Net Profit/Average Net Worth                              12.7             9.8            11.9          13.2                16.3
Net Profit/Year-end Share Capital                         18.5            14.8            19.3          18.3                21.1
EMENA/IC&DFC
Harch 26, 197T



DEVLEr YATIRIM BANKASI
Projected Balance Sheets, Year-end 1974-1977
(TL million5
1973       1974       1975        1976       1977                                                         1973        1974        1975       1976        1977
(AE~~~~-l)        - F-o re caWs-t                                                                    (Actual)        For:ast
(Actual)  - -                                                                Fore c, a s t - - - - - (cul               
ASSETS                                                                                              LIABILITIES & SHARB2OLDES' EQUITY
Current Assetss                                                                                       Current Liabilities:
Cash                                      0.2        0.2         0.2        0.2         0.5          Accounts Payable                                4.8       12.5        12.5        12.5       15.0
Central Bank                             25.3       20.0        20.0       20.0        20.0          Transitory & Intermediate Accounts            610.1      648.6       461.1       530.5      728.0
Banks                                     5.0       35.0        35.0       35.0        41.0          SEE Deposits                                   -          46.o        46.o        46.o       46.o
Interest Receivable                     526.o      595.9       359.9       68.1       156.3
Other Receivables                         7.1         905        7.5        5.5         7.3             Total Current Liabilities                  614.9      707.1       519.6       539.o      739.0
Bonds and Stocks                         89.0       52.0        52.0       52.0        30.0
Accounts to be Liquidated                 o.6         0.6        o.6       -           _           Long-Term Debts:
Total Current Assets                  653.2      713.2       475.2      180.3       255.1          Long-Term Loans
Lira Loans                                 561.2      721.3       905.4    1,283.2    1,243.2
Portfolio Investments:                                                                                    Bonds                                   11,079.4   13,331.6   16,244.4   13,230.5   19,556.6
Foreign Currency Loans                      -         238.0       700.0    1,260.0    1,190.0
Investment Credits                                                                                   IFF Resources Taken Over                     664.2       529.9       403.6       286.0      253.4
Lira Credits                       12,935.8   16,542.6   20,075.7   24,681.3   30,858.5            Borrowings from Unidentified Sources           -         123.9       291.5    1,339.3    5,o39.o
Foreign Currency Credits               -         350.0       770.0    1,260.0    1,190.0
Working Capital Credits               2,115.3    1,050.0    1,OO0.0    1,000.0    1,000.0               Total Long-Term Debts                   12,304.8   14,999.7   13,549.9   22,399.0   27,337.2
Credits Under Special Law               175.3       193.5      116.5        44.8       30.0
Central Bank Deposits:                       1,296.9    1,296.9    1,296.9    1,296.9    1,296.9
Less: Provisions for
Possible Losses               (o.6)     (59.6)      (93.4!)   C1i0.6)    (219.9)        Shareholders' Equity:
Net Portfolio Investments          15,225.8   18,076.5   21,868.8   26,845.5   32,858.6            Share Capital (Authorized TL 2              1,036.5    1,149.8    1,170.5    1,720.9    2,500.0
billion, 1973)
Fixed Assets:                              19.4        20.1       20.1        20.1       20.1           Reserves                                     394.4       511.6      635.6       773.4       761.5
Current Year Profits                         200.9       144.7      191.6       267.2     -449.2
Total Shareholders' Equity               1,631.3    1,306a      1.997.7    2,761.5    3,710.7
Total Assets                         15.893.4   18.809.8   22,364.1   27,046.4   33,133.8             Total Liabilities & Shareholders'         15,893.4   18.809.3   22,364.1   27,046.4   33,133.3
W.orking Capital Funds Administered                                                                   Liability to Ministry of Finance for
on Behalf of Ministry of Finance        707.3       450.o      500.0       500.0      500.o           Working Capital Funds                        707.3       450.0      500.0       500.0       500.0
RATIOS
Total Debt/Equity                           8.5         9.0        9.1         9.0         3.9
Long-Term Debt/Equity
(If Central Bank Deposits
are treated as Debt)                     8.1         9.0        9.9         8.6        7.7
Long-Tem Debt/Equity
(If Central Bank Deposits
are treated as nua i-eguitY)            4.1         4.8        5.6         5.5       5Sn
tterxer*r r.nd Pre-v  iionE as
% of Portfolio                           3.9         3.9        4.2         4.4         4.3
Book Value as % of Par                    168         157        171         160        148
RM4ENA/IC&DFC
March 26, 1974



ANNEX 14
DEVLEr YATIRIME BANKASI
Projected Cash Flow, 1974 - 1977
(TL Million)
1974      1975      1976       1977
Sources
Net profits before
provisions and taxes                     292.0      380.3    515.6    742.5
Depreciation                                0.5        0.5       0.5       0.5
Borrowings
Social Security Fund                  2,518.0   2,206.0   1,778.0)
Pension Fund                            210.0      150.0      65.0)
Meyak /1                                550.0      550.0    600.0) 2,000.0
Bagkur7/2                                -         100.0    125.0)
Antalya (EIB and IBRD)                  210.0      210.0    210.0    210.0
IBRD                                     28.o      140.0    280.0    280.0
Share Capital Increase                     -           -        500.0    500.0
Loan Collections
Credits                               1,041.6   1,191.8   1,358.4  2,032.8
Special Credits                         124.8       -         -
IFF 13                                   74.2       77.0      71.7      _
Arrears                                 248.3      310.2    316.0        -
Unidentified Sources                       128.9   1,0614   2,050.3   3,679.7
Total Sources                           5,426.3   6,377.2   7,800.5  9,445.5
Applications
Lending
Local currency                        4,350.5    5,175.0   6,400.0  7,650.0
Foreign exchange
Antalya                               210.0      210.0    210.0    210.0
IBRD Lines of Credit                  140.0      210.0    280.0      280.0
Repayment of borrowings
Bond repayments                         402.0      493.2    581.9    673.9
Credit repayments
IFF                                   127.8      121.3    122.6       27.6
Special Law Credits                    43.7       45.9      48.2      40.0
IBRD                                   -          -         -        140.0
EIB                                    --                   -        210.0
Taxes                                   152.3      121.8    157.8    214.0
Total Applications                       5,426.3    6,377.2   7,800.5  zh445.5
/1 Government employees fund
72 Socia1- Security Fund for Self-Employed
73 Internal Financing Fund
EMENA/ITCDFC
February 25, 1974



ANNEX 15
DEVLE YATIRI BANKASI
Projection Assumptions
Local Currency Lending
1. DYB's disbursements would be around 25% of the total investments
in operating SEEs in current prices for 1975-1977.
2. Around 95% of DYB's annual commitments for new and on-going projects
-would be disbursed in the current year and 5% in the following year.
Foreign Currency Lending
1.          i * l4onjgo  IBRD and EIB funds) would be disbursed each year for the
Aa ya  roj   .     a
2.  Under IBRD's line of credit, all DYB's Board approvals would be
committed (by loan agreements) in the same year.
DMEMA/IC&DFC
February 25, 1974



ANNEX 16
DEVLET YATIRIM BANKASI
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements of the
Proposed Loan
(us$ '000)
1974    October - December                                 2,000
1975    January - March                                    2,000
April - June                                       2,000
July - September                                   3,000
October - December                                 3,000
1976    January - March                                    3, 5oo
April - June                                       3.,500
July - September                                   4.,000
October - December                                 4.,00C)
1977    January - March                                    4,0ooo
April - June                                       3,000
July - September                                   2,000
October - December                                 1,000
1978    January - March                                    1,000
April - June                                       1,000
July - September                                     500
October - December                                   500
Total                                            $40 ,00
EMbrA/I2,DFC
February 25,, 1974



PROVISIONAL LIST OF NNEW !ANUFACTURING AND PROCESSING PROJBCTS
TO BE FINANCED BY D.Y.B. IN 1974
Starting &            Total Capital Cost          DYB Approximate
Project Name                          S.E.E.                      Sector                 Locatiout        Completion Dates      Forergp           Total          Financing
TToo TL)       (lOoL)
1. Bergama Shirt Confection Factory        SUMERBANIK               Textile and Clothing        Ismir              1974-1974           5,000              i,7`0               3,700
2. Industrial Felt Plant                                                                        Istanbul           1973-1974          26,20D0            35,000              31,600
3. Merinos Knitting Plant                                                                       Bursa              1974-1974           7,000              9,600               9,600
4. Fusible Linens Plant                                                                         Istanbul           1974-1974           1,500              3,500               3,500
5. Raincoat Mfg. Plant                                                       "Manisa                               1974-1974           2,500              4,500               4,500
6. Gemlik Cellophane Plant                                          Chemicals                   Bursa              1973-1976          55,510             144,726            102,696
7. Synthetic Leather Plant                      '                   Plastics                                       1974-1975          33,200             62,310              39,300
8. Bosuyuk Floor Tile Unit II                                       Ceramics                    Bilecik            1974-1976          32,500            144,500             121,963
9.  Tanker Construction                     PETROL OFISI            Petroleum Products                             1974-1976          26,220             96,313              91,506
10.  Aluminum Sulphate Plant                 ETIBANK                 Chemicals                   Konya              1973-1975           2,2)46            12,551              11,054
11.  Copper-Alloy Foundry & Mills E:m.      M.K.E.K.                 Non-Ferrous Metals          Kirikkale          1974-1974           5,670             11,450              11,450
12. Shot-Gun Shells Factory                                          Metal Products              Istanbul           1974-1975          13,454             26,542              24,414
13. Shop Machines & Tolls Factory Exp.           "                   Machinery                   Kirikkale          1974-1974           7,000             10,000              10,000
14. Machines Mfg. Factory Exp.                   ""                                              Ankara             19714-1974          3,550              7,000               7,000
15. Woodworking Shop Expansion                   "                   Wood Products               Ankara             1974-1975            4,740             14,137             12,794
16. Dalaman Chlor-Alkaline Plant             SEKA                    Chemicals                  lMugla              1973-1975          29,000             105,900             30,003
17. Modern Slaughterhouse                    EBK                     Food                        Sivas              1974-1976           1,000              40,soo
18.     't                                                             f,                        Afyon              1974-1976           1,000            4Lt, oo
9.                                           "t                                                   Hakkari           1974-1976           1,000              40,Boo
20.     "          "                          "                        "                         Bingol             1074-1976            1,000             40,800
21. Gemlik Ammonia Plant                     AZOT                    Fertilizer                  Bursa              1974-1977         271,275             595,174            330,000
22. Alabey Shipyard Expansion                DENIZCILIK              Shipbuilding                Izmir              1973-1975           49,400            144,o00
23. Special Steel Factory                    M.K.E.K.                Iron-Steel                  Kirikkale          1974-1977         225,000             500,000            400,000
24.  II Petro-Chemicals Complex              PETKIM                  Petro-Chenical              Izmir              1971-1977       3,190,033           7,615,131          3,500,000
25. Ferro-Chrome Plant Expansion             ETIBANK                 Non-Ferrous Metals          Antalya            1974-1975            7,000             35,000             35,000
26. Ergani Copper Complex Flotation
Plant Expansion & Modernization          tf                                               Elazig             i974-1975           7,000              20,000             20,000
27.  Ipras Oil Refinery Expansion            TPAO                    Petroleum Products          Izmit              1974-1976         467,700             390,030            550,000
23. Beet Sugar Plant Expansion               T. Seker Fab.           Food                        Burdur              1973-1976          41,000            234,000            196,920
29. Beet Sugar Plant                              " 1                                            Afyon               1973-1976         101,200            627,000            535,790
30. Beet Sugar Plant Expansion                    "                    t                         Malatya             1974-1979          21,030            144,300            124,460
31.                     ft It   It  1                                  'Erzurum                                      1974-1975           7,900             12,300             11,400
32. Sugar Beet Cake Unit Fxpansion                                                                Erzurum            1974-1976           3,850             18,500             17,330
33-                         It                                                                    Elazig             1974-1976           3,110             20,850             19,070t
34-                         it                                                                    Erzincan           1974-1976           3,110             20,850             19,070
35.                                                                                              Kastamonu           1974-1976           3,110             20,850             19,070
36.    "    "     "   ft   ft                                                                     Usak               1974-1976           3,110             20,850             19,07D
37. Machine Tools Factory Expansion                                  Machinery                    Eskisehir          1974-1976          11,000             34,000             30,000
The ProjeCts 1 through 16 have already been submitted to DYB as of April 30, 1974. The rest are expected to be submitted during the next mionths.
Source: DYB



