Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2656-1 IVC
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Economic Recovery Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 20, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2656-1 IVC
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 1994, between the REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Economic Recovery Credit), dated October 21, 1994 (the Development 
Credit Agreement) for
the purpose of assisting in the financing of the program referred to in Recital (A) of 
the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement (the Program);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Program by increasing the amount made 
available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to fifty  five million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
55,200,000); and
(C)
the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this
Page  2
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments to the Development
Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by the 
deletion of the word "and" at the end of Subsection (a); the deletion of the 
punctuation mark "." at the end of Subsection (b); and the substitution therefor of 
the word and punctuation mark "; and", and by the addition of a new Subsection (c) as 
follows:
"(c) "Amending Agreement" means the Agreement Amending the Development 
Credit 
Agreement (Economic Recovery Credit) between the Borrower and the 
Association, dated 
December 20, 1994."
 
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred twenty 
five million, nine hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 125,900,000) 
(the Credit), which includes an original amount in 
various currencies equivalent to 
seventy million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 
70,700,000) and an additional amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty 
five 
million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 55,200,000) (the Additional 
Financing)."
Section 1.03. A proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04 (a) of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
"; provided, however, that any commitment charge on the Additional 
Financing shall 
accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the Amending 
Agreement."
Section 1.04. The following paragraph is added at the end of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement:
"4.  After a date twelve months from the date of the Amending Agreement, 
no 
withdrawals shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to, or on 
the order of, the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be 
financed out of the proceeds of 
the Additional Financing. At any time after such 
date, the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount 
of the Additional Financing from the Credit Account 
or any part thereof."
 
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the 
execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been 
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and 
is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its 
Page  3
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date sixty (60) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If 
this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
By /s/ Moise Koffi Koumoue
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Acting Regional Vice-President
Africa
