Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3706-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 2.6 MILLION
AND A
PROPOSED SPECIAL FUND CREDIT OF SDR 4.7 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR THE
DAKAR CONTAINER PORT PROJECT
March 29, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1   = CFAF 392
CFAF I m = US$2551
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC)
Metric                                          British/US Equivalent
1 meter                                         3.28 feet (ft.)
1 square meter (m2)                             10.76 square feet (sq. ft.)
1 cubic meter (m3)                              35.50 cubic feet (cu. ft.)
1 kilometer (km)                                0.62 mile (mi.)
1 square kilometer (km2)            =           0.39 square mile (sq. mi.)
1 hectare (ha) = 10,000 m2          =           2,47 acres
1 metric ton (t)                                2,205 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACC             Agent Comptable Central
BADEA           Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique
BMOP            Bureau de Main d'Oeuvre Portuaire
BOM             Bureau d'Organisation et Methodes
CCCE            Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CEP             Centre des Etablissements Publics
CIF             Cost, Insurance and Freight
CVCCEP          Commission de Verification des Comptes et de Controle des
Etablissements Publics
DSP             Directorate of Studies and Programming, Ministry of Equipment
DWT             Dead Weight Ton
EPIC            Etablissement Public a Caractere Industriel et Commercial
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
GRT             Gross Registered Tonnage
ICS             Industries Chimiques du Senegal
INNA/DPB        Association Internationale des Aides a la Navigation/Direction
des Phares et Balises (France)
KF              Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
KfW             Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau (German Aid Agency)
LCL             Less Than Container Load
LLW             Lowest Low Water
ONCAD           Office National de Cooperation et; d'Assistance pour le
Developpement
PAD             Port Autonome de Dakar
PAM             Port Autonome de Marseille
RCFS            Regie des Chemins de Fer du Senegal
SEFICS          Societe d'Exploitation Ferroviaire des ICS
SEMPAO          Syndicat des Entreprises de Manutention des Ports d'Afrique
Occidentale
TEU             20' Equivalent Unit Container
FISCAL YEAR of PAD
July 01 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SENEGAL
DAKAR CONTAINER PORT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    Government of Senegal
Beneficiary:                 Port Authority of Dakar
Credit Amount:               SDR 2.6 million (US$2.65 million equivalent) from
IDA. SDR 4.7 million (US$4.85 million equivalent)
from the Special Fund administered by IDA.
Terms:                       Standard
Relending Terms:             At current IBRD interest rate -- 20 years, includ-
ing four years' grace.
Project Description:         The primary project objective is to reduce freight
costs for Senegal's external trade and enhance
Dakar's position as a port of transfer for neigh-
boring countries by provision of additional facil-
ities and rehabilitation of existing ones and by
strengthening the Port's management and opera-
tions. The project provides for (i) construction
of new infrastructure for container handling,
including construction of a 430 m long quay wall,
reclaiming of an 8.2 ha area for container hand-
ling, paving and installation of related utili-
ties; (ii) rehabilitation of some port facilities;
(iii) consultant services and technical assistance
for project supervision, financial management and
operations, information systems and procedures,
and tariff and port management studies; and (iv)
training of port staff in operations, management
and finance.
Benefits and Risks:          The quantifiable economic benefits from the pro-
posed project include savings in ship service time
and in handling costs stemming from more efficient
operations resulting from the project and avoid-
ance of double handling of containers which would
have resulted due to saturation of existing port
storage areas.   Costs include physical construc-
tion costs, incremental maintenance and all asso-
ciated capital costs, i.e., project supervision,
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



training and studies, representing 90% of total
project costs. On the basis of a 25 year economic
life, the proposed project yields an economic rate
of return of 23%.
There are no significant economic risks associated
with the project since the larger part of project
construction costs are based upon actual bid
prices.   Additionally,  adequate  safeguards  have
been taken to ensure that the new terminal will be
efficiently operated and that expected benefits
will  materialize.    On  the  financial  side,  the
Port's finances are sufficiently robust to with-
stand reduced leveLs of tariff charges and a drop
in forecast traffic.   The base financial analysis
has been tested under adverse conditions of traf-
fic, tariff and operating cost changes which show
that the downside risk is minimal.  The main risk
is ultimately institutional in that PAD's internal
structure may not develop as envisaged and that,
as a result, PAD's management would not improve to
the extent forecast.   The provision of technical
assistance and the action plan measures to be
taken early in the project would minimize this
risk.
Estimated Cost:
---I$M;11ions-
-.cal    Foreign    Total
i. Civil Works                                2.53      9.13     11.66
ii. Consultant Services                        0.14     0.99      1.13
iii. Technical Assistance                       0.10      1.20     1.30
iv. Training                                    --       0.13     0.13
v. Deferred Maintenance                       0.44      0.19      0.63
Base Cost (Feb. 1934 prices)               3.21     11.64    14.85
Physical Contingencies                     0.43     1.72      2.15
Price Contingencies                        .63      2.C0      2.63
Total Preect Cost (Net of Taxes)           4.27     15.36    19.63
Taxes and Duties                           5.55      __       5.55
Total Project Cost                         9.82     15.36    25.18
Interest d-uring Construction              1.23     1.14      2.37
TOTAL F2ACING REQU=                       11.05     16.50    27.55



- iiil -
Financing Plan:
U$ MXiIJons-
Local         Foreign         Total
Special Fund Admin;stered
by MA                         -             4.85           4.85
IDA                            -              2.65           2.65
CCCE                           1.8)           4.85           6.65
Kuwait FTmd                    1 .08          3.01           4.09
Total External Sources          2.88           15.36          18.24
PAD                             8.17            1.14           9.31
TOML                          11.05          16.50          Z7.55
Estimated Disbursements of Special Fund Administered by IDA:
-      US$ Millionc
FYB5     FY86     FY_7       _
Amual.                 -        1.4      2.6      0.85
Cumulative             -        1.4      4.0     4.85
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
-U$ Millions-
FY85     FE36     FY_7       _       FY_9
Am2al                 0.7       1.1      0.6     0.15       0.1
Gumulative            0.7       1.8      2.4     2.55      2.65
Economic Rate of Return:    23%
Staff Appraisal Report:         Report No. 4625-SE, dated March 29, 1984
Maps:                            IBRD 17165   Port of Dakar -- Existing Port and
Approaches
IBRD 17166   Project Detail






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND SPECIAL FUND CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR THE DAKAR CONTAINER PORT PROJECT
1.        I submit  the  following  report  and  recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Senegal for SDR 2.6 million (US$2.65
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms and a proposed Special Fund Credit
administered by IDA of SDR 4.7 million (US$4.85 million equivalent) on terms
adopted by the Executive Directors of IDA 1/ to help finance the Dakar Con-
tainer Port Project.  The Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) of
France would make a loan of FF 52 million (US$6.7 million equivalent) for 17
years, including four years of grace, at 7% per annum.   The Kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development (KF) would make a loan of KD 1.3 million (US$4.1
million equivalent) for 20 years, including five years of grace, at 4% per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 2/
2.        A report entitled  "The Economic Trends and Prospects of Senegal"
(1720a-SE) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 10, 1980,
followed by a   President's Report for a  Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit
(P-2869a-SE) dated November 26, 1980, which contained an expanded section on
the economic situation. . A new Country Economic Memorandum on Senegal is
currently being prepared. Country data appear in Annex I.
Economic Structure and Past Developments
3.        Three-quarters of Senegal's territory lies in the Sahel zone, which
suffers from low rainfall and periodic droughts.  The mainstays of the tradi-
*        tional economy are millet cultivation and nomadic cattle-raising for domestic
consumption, and groundnut cultivation for exports. The modern sector of the
1/   Resolution No. IDA 82-6 of October 26, 1982.
2/   The text of this Section remains substarntially unchanged from that
included in the President's Report for the Fifth Highway Project which
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 23, 1984.



economy is concentrated in Dakar, the capital, a city of over one million
inhabitants, the economic base of which consists of excellent port facilities,
an important industrial sector, and a small but fast-growing tourism indus-
try. With a population of 6.0 million in mid-1982, Senegal's per capita GNP
for 1982 was estimated at US$440.
4.        At Independence in 1960, Senegal lost its privileged position as the
center of French West Africa, and subsequently has had to adapt to reduced
economic, administrative and political circumstances.   In the latter part of
the 1960s, income from groundnuts (the principal export) fell due to unfavor-
able weather and declining export prices as a result of loss of EEC special
preferences.    Over the decade,  the Senegalese economy experienced virtual
stagnation as real output increased at a rate! estimated at 2.5% per annum,
hardly more than the rate of population growth.
5.        During the 1970s,  Senegal's groundnut production was again hit by
sharp climatic fluctuations, and even with higher rates of pri-vate and public
investment, average annual growth did not rise above the level of the previous
decade. Buoyed by a series of good harvests andi relatively high international
prices, real GDP increased at about 5% a year between 1973 and 1977, but
declined by 2% a year between 1977 and 1981 , reflecting the effect of three
severe  droughts  during this  period.   A marked recovery from the previous
depression occurred in 1982 with an estimated 10% real growth in GDP. Results
of the 1982/83 agricultural season were also good, leading to an estima-ted 3%
growth of GDP in 1983.  However, indications for the 1983/84 crop year suggest
a disastrous groundnut and cereal harvest, due to another severe drought in
the Sahel region this year. The FAO has recently estimated Senegal's food aid
requirements for 1984 at over 250,000 tons and is coordinating pledges for the
additional aid required.
6.        Fluctuations in physical  output have been aggravated by the price
volatility of Senegal's major exports and imports.  For example, in 1974, the
terms of trade improved by over 21% due to exceptionally high prices for
phosphate rock, Senegal's second export commodity; however, in 1975, export
prices for groundnuts declined sharply, followed by a decline in export prices
for phosphates since 1976. Increases in oil and rice prices brought a further
deterioration in the terms of trade, causing a total loss in income of roughly
6% of GDP between 1974 and 1982.  This deterioration in terms of trade, along
with the unsatisfactory performance of the economy as a whole, led the Govern-
ment to launch an economic and financial stabilization program in 1980.  The
main objectives of the  Government' E five-year program were to stabilize the
economy during the first two years and to achieve an economic growth rate of
4% per annum in the following three years.  This program was supported by an
Extended Fund Facility (EFF) of US$243 million equivalent approved by the IMF
in August 1980, and a US$60 million Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit (SAL)
approved by the Bank in December 1980.
7.        The structural adjustment program consisted of an economic stabili-
zation plan (agreed with and monitored by the IMF), introduction of new produ-
cer incentives, reorientation of the public investment program, a change in



the national policy on parastatal enterprises, and a package of structural
reforms in the agricultural sector.   Despite delays caused by a record low
1980/81 groundnut crop and by the change of government in early 1981 , the
Government achieved significant progress in arrears reduction, investment pro-
gramming, parapublic sector management and industrial incentive policies.
However, in other areas, and especially in the reform of agriculture policies
and control of government expenditure, action was disappointing.
Balance of Payments
8.         The  new  balance  of  payments  policies  introduced  under the  1980
stabilization program were based on strict control of overall demand through
import tax and consumer price increases, combined with increased producer
prices for major export crops and the introduction of special incentives for
manufactured exports.  However, the hoped-for reduction in the trade balance
could not be achieved, mainly because of the 1980/81 drought and difficulties
in implementing reforms in groundnut marketing. The fall in groundnut oil and
seedcake exports from a past five-year average of US$220 million/year to US$94
million in 1980 and US$34 million in 1981 , together with exceptionally high
import bills for petroleum and rice, increased the current account deficit in
1981  to US$590 million, or 23%  of GDP.   In 1980 and  1981, the Government
received exceptional aid averaging US$170 million a year from bilateral and
multilateral donors.  Even this, however, was insufficient to avoid a further
fall in net foreign assets, from US$80 million in 1980 to a level of negative
US$460 million at the end of 1981.  The resource gap was estimated at 20% of
GDP in 1981, narrowed  to  14%  in  1982, and  is  estimated  at about 13%  for
1983.  Good rainfall during the 1981/82 growing season permitted a five-fold
increase in the 1982 value of groundnut exports, despite exceptionally low
world market prices for vegetable oils.   However, the CFAF value of imports
rose by about 13%, despite the policy measures introduced to contain urban
demand.  With total imports for 1983 estimated at about 42% of GDP (as com-
pared to around 30% in the early 1970s), further economic adjustment needs to
be achieved in the coming years, in order to reduce the current account def-
icit to a level which can be financed on acceptable terms.  This will have to
be achieved mainly through containment of consumption levels, and improved
investment efficiency, and through food import substitution and strong promo-
tion of non-agricultural exports.
Producer and Export Incentives
9.         The structural adjustment program addressed the need to improve the
country's trade balance by increasing the basic rate of import duties from 10%
to 15% of f.o.b. value and by introducing an export premium system for certain
manufactured  goods.   The export premium  system has already had a positive
impact on export and employment levels in the five industries to which it was
applied, especially fishing. An extension to 20 other agricultural and indus-
trial branches, as well as a refinement of the payment system, is being imple-
mented during the current fiscal year.  To contain imports, in February 1982
the Goverrnment adopted a 31% lncrease in the official consumer price for rice,
which was again raised substantially (24%) in August 1983, in order to reflect



- 4 -
increased import costs and to provide a measure of protection for domestic
cereal production.   The net producer price for groundnuts was increased sub-
stantially in 1981 but has subsequently had to be reduced in order to limit
the losses borne by government on both input and output marketing operations.
Public Finances
10.       Although the Government successfully implemented a 1981/82 Standby
Arrangement with the IMF, the new program initiated in 1982/83 could not be
completed due to the Government's inability to restrict domestic credit
growth, to remain within public borrowing targe)ts, and to reduce its payment
arrears.   This was partly due to an unforeseen 50% drop in export prices for
groundnut products and to a less-than-expectecl inflow of foreign budgetary
support.  In August 1983, the Government signed a new Standby Program with the
IMF for the current 1983/84 fiscal year, under which it is committed to ob-
serving strict limits on civil service recruitment,  new foreign borrowing,
domestic credit expansion, and public sector payment arrears;  the Government
is also repaying a large volume of outstanding crop credit and ONCAD debts
held by the commercial banks.   As part of the austerity program,  in August
1983 the Government announced a series of sharp increases in domestic consumer
prices for rice, vegetable oils,  and petroleun products.   Even with these
improvements in fiscal performance, however, the! Government will be left with
a financing gap equal to roughly 10% of the FY84 budget and the outlook for
1984/85 is even less encouraging, given the extremely poor groundnut crop
expected this year.   It appears unlikely that by 1985 the Government will be
able to finance from budgetary savings 25% of the public investment program,
the target the Government set itself in the original structural adjustment
program.   A major constraint on the Government's finances is the serious and
growing burden represented by service of the external debt, which amounted to
US$1.4 billion in June 1983.  In November 1982, the Government was required to
obtain from the Paris Club a second debt rescheduling and agreed on a third
round of rescheduling with the Paris Club and commercial banks in December
1983.
Investment Program
11.       The outlook for the national investment program has deteriorated
dramatically since establishment of the structural adjustment program in
1980.   While the latter imposed ceilings on the investment program to re-
establish macroeconomic equilibrium, implementation of even the reduced pro-
gram has become problematic.   Private investment has stagnated and public
investment is suffering from financing problems because the country is not
creditworthy for foreign commercial loans, and domestic credit expansion has
to be constrained. In the present climate, a carsful screening of new invest-
ment projects according to economic criteria is especially needed, together
with an increased attention to rehabilitation and. maintenance needs of exist-
ing assets.



Parastatal Sector
12.       Reform of the large parastatal sector in Senegal continues to be a
high government priority.  Over the last three years the Government has taken
significant steps to reduce the budgetary burden presented by non-viable
enterprises (through the liquidation of close to 20 comparies) and has trans-
ferred ownership of several other companies to the private sector.  For some
of the remaining public enterprises,  the Government has moved to increase
managerial autonomy by negotiating multi-year contrats-plan which set clear
financial  objectives  for  company  operations  and  spell  out  the reciprocal
obligations of the Government and enterprise managers.
13.       To date,  the Government has signed six contrats-plan and several
others are well advanced.   The main objective of the Second Parapublic Tech-
nical Assistance Project, approved by the Board in July 1983, is to provide
technical assistance to 12 public enterprises for the development cf rehabili-
tation programs, which can serve as the basis for realistic contrats-plan, and
to strengthen the institutional framework for contrats-plan monitoring in
support of Government efforts to improve the financial performance of the
parastatal sector as a whole.   These objectives are also supported by other
projects in the Bank's lending program, including the proposed Technical
Assistance Project for Urban Management and Rehabilitation.
Long-term Prospects
14.       The Government's  long-range development  strategy continues to be
based on the promotion and diversification of agricultural and export-oriented
activities. The agricultural program calls for the development of areas less
susceptible to drought (Casamance and Eastern Senegal) where cash crops other
than groundnuts can be grown,  and increased incentives for domestic millet
production to replace imported rice.  Agricultural research will be oriented
more to farming systems than to individual crops, with the objective of lower-
ing the costs of yield-raising agricultural techniques and better adapting
them to farmers' constraints.  Irrigated cereal production is being developed
in the arid northern part of the country along the Senegal River.  Construc-
tion has started on the two large dams planned for the Senegal River by the
Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur de la Vallee du Senegal (OMVS), but the
high level of state subsidies required on irrigated rice will severely con-
strain the pace of new irrigation development.
15,       The phosphoric acid and fertilizer project is now well advanced, and
the combination export subsidy/import duty increase designed to effect a
realignment of the Senegalese CPA currency should help to attract more light
export industries once the international economy has improved.   However, in
the medium-term, at least, export diversification is unlikely to offset the
uncertain prospects for groundnuts, still Senegal's main export commodity.
Groundnut oil exports suffer from irregular supplies and from an increased
supply of competing vegetable oils; exports of groundnut cake have also been
depressed due to the risk of aflatoxin contamination, which has resulted in
the complete closure of some export markets.  As a consequence, in the next



- 6 -
few years, the share of total exports in GDP is expected to remain below the
levels attained in the early 1970s.
16.       The exceptional foreign aid granted to Senegal in support of the
Government's 1980/85 stabilization program has helped the country survive in a
period of extraordinary economic difficulty, but these efforts have not been
enough to bring the economy back to a path of balanced growth.   The over-
extended public sector, as well as heavy domestic arrears and external debt
service charges, continue to impose serious burdens on public finance and will
make necessary further debt rescheduling.   The Treasury will not be able to
absorb substantial additional recurrent cost charges from development projects
and will continue to need exceptionally high shares of foreign financing for
the investment program.   The unfavorable balance of payments situation calls
for a reassessment of Senegal's longer term development strategy and the
establishment of a new program of action to azhieve the required structural
adjustments.   The Bank will continue to focus its country dialogue on these
problems and, in the interim, will finance its lending programi in Senegal on
IDA terms.
PART II - BANK GROIJP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
17.       As of March 51, 1984, the Bank Group had approved 55 operations in
Senegal for a total of US$551 .1 million, including 30 IDA Credits, 12 Bank
loans, five blends of Bank and IDA funds, five IFC operations, two blends of
Bank and IFC funds, and one blend of Bank, IDA and IFC funds. P'hysical execu-
tion of projects is progressing reasonably well,, although some operations are
affected by the shortage of counterpart funds due to the Government's continu-
ing difficult public finance situation. Annex II contains the Status of World
Bank Operations in Senegal.
18.       Until a few years ago, our assistance was mostly project-oriented
with a strong emphasis on diversification of the economy and improvement and
expansion of basic infrastructure.  The acuity of the financial crisis of the
past two or three years has led to a major shif-t in our strategy, with empha-
sis being placed on assisting the Government in (i) implementing investment
policies and incentives to develop and diversify Senegal's production and
export  base;    (ii)  increasing  the efficiency and savings capacity of the
public sector;   and (iii) redirecting investments towards rehabilitation and
maintenance of existing social and economic infrastructure and developmental
recurrent costs, rather than expansion investments.   The Bank Group plans to
continue financial and institutional support through project lending and
technical assistance for operations or reforms that would encourage a stronger
role for the private sector, as in the phosphate and petroleum industries.
Bank Group operations now cover a wide spectrum cf sectors.
19.       In agriculture, operations have aimed at improving productivity for
traditional food and cash crops, together with diversification into new crops
and new regions.   In recent years,  the portfo:Lio was somewhat modified by



-7-
finarclng a forestry project and arn agricultural research project which focus-
ses on improving agricultural systems.   In August 1983, the Board approved a
cotton/food crop project in the rainfed regions of Eastern Senegal and Upper
Casamance. A dialogue is currently underway with the authorities on prospects
for developing irrigated rice farming in the Senegal River Valley along the
northern border of the country.   The feasibility of new activities in the
heavily-populated Groundnut Basin will depend on further progress with struc-
tural reforms in input distribution, extension services, crop marketing, and
agricultural credit.
20.       Diversification has also been supported by lending to the growing
industrial sector through the Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le Develop-
pement de l'Industrie et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT), a development finance compa-
ny established with Bank assistance in 1974, in which IFC is a shareholder and
for which three lines of credit hEave been approved.  The Bank has assisted in
the realization of a major phosphoric acid/fertilizer complex by financing the
rail infrastructure component;  the project, for which IFC has been an impor-
tant lender, is now well underway and commercial operations are expected to
start in the fall of 1984.  The Bank also responded to the effects of the past
oil crisis by assisting the Government in its search for new energy re-
sources:   a petroleum exploration project was approved in FY83.   Finally,
diversification has been encouraged by assisting in the promotion and develop-
ment of tourism, one of Senegal's major resources; a project, which consists
of basic infrastructure and includes a line of credit to provide long-term
financing as a catalyst for potential private investors in hotel construction,
is virtually completed.
21.       Past projects have strongly supported modernization and expansion of
the country's infrastructure in a:Ll modes of transport:  highways, rail, port
and airport. But with a stagnant economy and heavy past investments, emphasis
is now being placed on better utilization and maintenance of existing facili-
ties.   The recently approved Fifth Highway Project supports the Government's
limited capacity to provide funds for priority maintenance, and the proposed
Dakar Container Port Project presented in this report would also emphasize
rehabilitation and maintenance.  Similarly, the proposed Technical Assistance
Project for Urban Management and, Rehabilitation emphasizes maintenance and
rehabilitation of urban infrastructure in support of industrial development.
22.       While Barik strategy has supported the emphasis on financing produc-
tive projects and rehabilitation needs, it has also recognized the need to
support the social sectors, with due consideration to the capacity of both the
Government and users to bear the recurrent costs involved.   In education,
efforts have been directed at primary education and at technical and vocation-
al training to support activities in the productive sectors. A health project
directed at primary care in the rural regions was approved in FY83, and a
water supply project in secondary centers is in the final stages of prepara-
tion.
23.       As it became increasingly clear that many of Senegal's economic and
financial problems run across the board and could not be addressed exclusively



- 8 -
through project lending, the Bank program began to shift in the late 1970s
towards multi-sectoral technical assistance and structural adjustment lend-
ing.   In 1978, a technical assistance project was directed at improving the
Government's knowledge and management of the parapublic sector. In July 1983,
a second parapublic project was approved to help consolidate results already
achieved and to begin rehabilitation of some key public enterprises through
detailed action plans. Under another technica:L assistance project, assistance
is being provided to the Ministry of Planning t:o prepare and select projects
and to monitor the investment program. In December 1980, a structural adjust-
ment program, supported by a Bank Loan and an IDA credit, aimed at supporting
the Government's efforts to control aggregate demand, redireclt public invest-
ments, and promote industrial exports and other productive act5.vities through
improved price and incentive policies.   The lDcal currency counterpart funds
of the Structural Adjustment Loan were used fDr the financial rehabilitation
of several parapublic enterprises which had agreed with the Government on
contrats-plan. However, since the performance of the Government in some areas
of its agricultural policy was deficient, the second tranche of the Structural
Adjustment Loan was cancelled in June 1983.
24.       Given the need to focus Senegal's public investment program on high-
priority rehabilitation and maintenance needs and developmental recurrent
costs, improved donor coordination is now assuming increased importance.  The
Bank is pursuing its economic dialogue with Senegal in close coordination with
the IMF and bilateral and multilateral donors.   In this connection, Senegal
has requested the Bank to convene a consultative group meeting in the second
half of 1984 to which it would submit its priority financing needs. The Bank
is assisting the Government in preparing documentation for this meeting and is
willing to play a major role in coordinating donor activity.   The Bank is
prepared to play an active role in aid coordination for Senegal, but on condi-
tion that Senegal's expectations are realistic and that the aid coordination
effort is based on extensive preparatory work.
25.       The Bank Group's share in total external aid disbursements to Sene-
gal over 1980-82 averaged approximately 18%, cf which roughly two-thirds was
IDA-financed. The Bank Group's share in outstanding disbursed debt was 17% in
1980 and may approach 20% by 1985.   The Bank Group's share in external debt
service is expected to increase from 3.7% in 1980 to about 7.5% in 1985.
PART III.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Introduction
26.       Senegal has a fairly well-developed transport system,  whose main
components, based in or linked to Dakar, serve also an important international
transit function.   The Senegalese road system, comprising about 14,000 km of
roads (including 3,500 km paved), carries some 95% of all domestic traffic,.
Over the past ten years, with relatively impressive investments, the road
network has become one of the best in West Africa.   The Senegalese Railway,



- 9 -
covering about I ,000 km, has gradually lost traffic to road transport due in
large part to operational inadequacies and the unreliability of its ser-
vices. Currently, the railway handles mainly imports for Mali and short-haul
phosphate exports, each accounting annually for some 140 million tons-km,
while only some 10 million tons-kn correspond to general cargo and ground-
nuts.   Passenger traffic declined some 70% over the past decade.   Coastal
shipping and river navigation are also declining as better road connections
are developed. The main international airport at Dakar experienced irmpressive
traffic growth during the 1970s and was upgraded accordingly.   The national
airline, Air Senegal, plays a relatively minor role in domestic passenger
transport.
2,.       Dakar has a major international deep-water port located on the main
international shipping routes connecting Europe with West and South African
ports and the East Coast of South America.   While its important bunker oil
traffic has sharply dropped following reopening of the Suez Canal, as have
transshipments of cargoes for Nigeria, its general cargo import traffic has
grown slowly but steadily during the last decade, and container traffic has
increased substantially during recent years.   With continued development of
container traffic, Dakar now has an opportunity to reestablish its position as
one of the major ports of transit for West Africa.  However, while the exist-
ing port facilities are adequate to handle most general cargo and bulk traf-
fic,  they are inadequate to handle the increasing container traffic.   The
container handling facilities are practically saturated causing inefficient
operations.   Thus, while there is no ship-waiting time, service times are
unnecessarily high.
Sector Planning and Investments
28.       Transport planning and coordination are shared by three agencies:
the Ministry of Planning has overall responsibility for the preparation of the
development plans; the Ministry of Equipment proposes and executes government
policy and works in the transport sector;  and the Ministry of Finance deter-
mines investment ceilings, tax policy and allocations of operating funds.  In
1981, a National Transport Plan was prepared with Bank assistance, as a first
step in strengthening permanent planning institutions.   It identified the
priority projects for Senegal in all modes and made policy recommendations.
Transport system planning can be considered generally adequate, although
qualified staff is in short supply.
29.       Investments in transport absorbed 21% of total public investment
during the Fifth Plan period (1977-81) and a 16% allocation for the Sixth Plan
(1981-1985)  was foreseen.   A significant scale-down of the Plan is likely
inasmuch as financing has been secured for only some 25%, and the Government's
transport strategy, with the Bank's encouragement, gives priority to maintain-
ing the already extensive investments in the transport sector, improving
efficiency, and focussing investments on renewals. This policy is particular-
ly important in the current situation where the transport network is already
well developed and where the Senegalese economy is in a crisis which does not
allow generation of a surplus for investments or create additional demand for



- 10 -
services.  The recently approved Fifth Highway Project (exclusively for main-
tenance) and the proposed Dakar Container Port Project (aimed at reducing the
cost of Senegal's international trade and regaining its position as port of
transit) support this investment strategy.
30.       In addition  to  the Bank  Group's  activities,  the Government has
received external assistance for transport-related investments from several
bilateral and multilateral sources including the Fonds Europeen de D'veloppe-
ment (FED), the Federal Republic of Germany, the Saudi Fund, and commercial
banks (for road construction);   the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(CCCE) (for feeder road development, railways, and ports); the Arab Bank for
Economic Development in Africa (BADEA)  (for ports);   and France (for avia-
tion).
Role of the Bank Group
31.       The Bank Group adheres to the Government's policy of maintaining,
rehabilitating and upgrading the transport irLfrastructure needed to support
development  of the productive  sectors.   Since  the start of operations in
Senegal  in  1966,  the  Bank  has  invested  about  US$140  million  under  13
loans/credits in addition to financing feeder roads under agricultural pro-
jects.
32.       Projects have been approved at an average rate of almost one per
year,  and there are now active operations in every sub-sector.   Bank Group
lending   has helped finance:    four railway   projects   (Cr. 96-SE,   1966;
Cr. 314/Ln. 835-SE,  1972;  Ln. 1518-SE,  1978;  and Ln. 2025-SE,  1981);   two
projects  in  the  aviation  subsector  (Ln.  867-SE,  1972,  and  Ln.  1665-SE,
1979);   four projects in the road subsector (Cr. 198-SE, 1970;  Cr. 366-SE,
1975;   Ln.  1222-SE,  1976;   and Ln. 1810-SE,  Cr. 993-SE,  1980);   a fifth
project in the highway subsector was approved by the Executive Directors on
March 13, 1984; and two projects in the ports subsector (Ln. 493-SE, 1967 and
Ln. 1405-T-SE, 1977).
33.       The  first  two  railway  projects  concentrated  on  improvements  in
physical infrastructure, while the third project, almost completed, emphasizes
management and organization improvements  and maintenance.   The most recent
railway project supports the transport needs of the Industries Chimiques du
S'negal (ICS), a fertilizer complex financed by IFC and other bilateral and
multilateral agencies.  The aviation projects emphasized expansion and devel-
opment of airport infrastructure at Dakar and two domestic airports.   While
the first road project emphasized feeder road construction, subsequent pro-
jects have concentrated on road main-tenance and the development of the Govern-
ment institutions in this vital area.
34.       The first port project improved the Port of Dakar's infrastructure
and operations. The second project, cofinanced with CCCE and BADEA, provided



- 11 -
for construction of a fishing wharf and ancillary works. The Project Perform-
ance Audit Report of the First Port Project stated that it had been a success-
ful investment with a satisfactory rate of return and well-executed engineer-
ing works. The facilities of the Fishing Port were completed well within cost
and became operational in 1981; they are being efficiently utilized by the
fishing sector.   The technical assistance components are now being completed
and therefore the PCR has not yet been prepared.
The Port of Dakar
Facilities, Operations and Traffic
35.       The Port of Dakar, located on the westernmost tip of West Africa,
enjoys an excellent sheltered location free from heavy swells and siltation.
Two long breakwaters enclose a large port basin providing a total of 37 gen-
eral cargo and five petroleum berths with various alongside drafts in varying
maintenance conditions.   Most facilities were constructed according to the
traditional system of providing narrow finger piers with substantial berthing
space  for vessels but with very limited operational areas.   The recently
completed Fishing Port Project provides some 1,500m length of new berth and
10.5 ha of reclaimed land, capable of handling all forecast fishery-related
activities.   Dakar also has the largest ship repair facilities on the West
African coast comprising a 60,000 DWT floating dock, a 25,000 DWT drydock and
1,200 DWT synchrolift.
36.       Port  operational  areas now available  for general cargo handling
amount to some 16.7 ha, of which 3 ha are reserved for container handling.
The container handling areas are, however, dispersed and generally unsuitable
for modern operations.  Vessels unload and load a large number of containers
in a few hours, thus requiring large operational areas and adequate equip-
ment. Despite these shortcomings, the Port handled some 59,000 containers in
1983.  However, the utilization of the available areas has reached its limit,
and any additional container traffic will further decrease the overall effi-
ciency of operations, causing congestion on the wharfs and delays to ves-
sels.   The Port owns limited, but run-down, cargo-handling equipment.  Most
cargo is handled by the ship itself with its own gear or onshore, with equip-
ment belonging to the private stevedoring companies.
57.       From the operational point of view, the Port is managed and operated
on the traditional French concept whereby the Port Authority, the owners of
the Port, operate the Port as a Landlord Port (Port de Service).   Private
companies perform all cargo handling and stevedoring operations, tugboat
services and other traditional port operational activities, using their own
equipment. This concept has its merits as it removes from PAD managerial and
operational burdens relating to employment of labor, handling of cargo and
dealing with vessels, but it does not always ensure efficient use of facili-
ties and limited operational areas.   Mere addition to operational capacity
will not suffice;   hence, the proposed project includes technical assistance
to the Port management to improve operations, optimize use of existing areas
for general cargo handling and improve operating efficiency so that the Port



- 12 -
becomes a more active manager of its infrastructure and facilities. An action
plan based upon a consultants study was agreed upon during negotiations and
would be implemented under the project in accordance with an agreed time-
table; under the action plan, the recruitment; of a suitably qualified port
operations expert would be a special condition of Credit effectiveness (such
an action plan was agreed in accordance with Sections 3.01 (a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement and of the Special Fund Agreement and Article III
of the draft Project Agreement; see also Section 5.01 (d) of the draft Devel-
opment Credit Agreement).
38.       An analysis of port traffic data and foreign trade statistics shows
that liquid and dry bulk traffic declined by about 30% over the past decade,
caused mainly by the reduction of imports of petroleum products (due to the
decrease in bunkering activities) and exports of phosphates. However, general
cargo imports have increased steadily since 1975 reaching some 1 .25 million
tons in 1982. The composition of general cargo is changing and rapid contain-
erization is taking place. Dakar handled 5,800 containers in 1975, 36,000 in
1982 and 39,000 in 1983. In addition, Dakar Port is continuing its tradition-
al transit role for Mali and Mauritania, handling some 80,000-100,000 tons and
30,000-40,000 tons per year for each, respectively, during the pas-t five
years.
39.       Container traffic is expected to grow rapidly in coming years mainly
as a result of changes in shipping technologies.   These changes stem from
economic considerations in a highly competitive market as shipping lines have
introduced larger vessels and moved toward increased containeriza-tion.   Fur-
thermore, in an effort to streamline operations and reduce costs, liner con-
ferences serving West African ports are expected to concentrate their route
structure on a few major ports, viz., Dakar, Abidjan, Lagos and Douala, where
they would provide regular scheduled services and use these ports as main
transshipment points.
Organization and Staffing
40.       The Port Authority of Dakar (Port Autonome de Dakar, PAD) was formed
in 1959, and since 1960 has been an "etablissement public a caractere indus-
triel et commercial" (EPIC).   This arrangement, which permits permanent con-
trol by numerous Government agencies with frequently conflicting and overlapp-
ing responsibilities and interests, limits the Port's financial autonomy by a
priori control of all budget expenditures and -hy the Central Treasury cbtain-
ing all revenues.   As PAD is one of a few profit-making public enterprises
with a large positive cash flow, i-t effectively subsidizes deficits of other
public enterprises in the Central Treasury pool but is unable to use its own
cash balances  in a timely fashion for its own needs.   Under the proposed
project, major modifications to this restrictive system were agreed with the
Government and will be progressively implemented during project execution to
enable full financial and managerial autonomy by 1988.   In order to achieve
such an objective, the Government agreed to review, in consultation with the
Association, the suitability and the modalities of transformation of PAD's
legal status and to communicate to the Association, prior to June 30, 1986,



- 13 -
its conclusions and proposals in this respect (in accordance with Section 3.02
(ii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement and of the draft Special Fund
Agreement).
41.       PAD's Board of Directors comprises 18 members, of which eight repre-
sent the Government, five the Port users, one the Government of Mali, one the
National Assembly, one the Chamber of Commerce, and two the Port's person-
nel.   All executive functions are vested in the General Manager of PAD, who
also acts, under the authority of the Minister of Equipment, as coordinator of
all activities of various Government departments and agencies in the Port--
health and immigration services, gendarmerie, customs, and railways.   These
agencies, however, not only act completely independently but interfere at
times in the smooth operation of the Port as PAD has very little actual say in
their day-to-day activities.
42.       PAD has a total of 727 employees engaged mainly in the non-opera-
tional service sectors organized into five departments, each reporting direct-
ly to the General Manager.   This organization is not very satisfactory and,
excluding the Director of the Engineering Department, none of the other direc-
tors is an active decision-making 'Line manager.  In particular, the lack of a
financial manager and well-organized financial staff has resulted in non-
existent internal controls, poor follow-up of financial matters and confusion
in PAD'S financial information flow.   The problems of the Port's financial
organization have been well studied under a recently completed audit, and its
recommendations form the major thrust of the organizational reform to be
carried out under the proposed project.
Accounting and Finance
43.       PAD's accounting system broadly follows the Senegalese Accounting
Plan, itself a deviate of the French system. There is as yet no cost account-
ing system in place, but consultants financed under the Fishing Port Project
are helping PAD set up and implement one. Major weaknesses in PAD's account-
ing procedures and practices were revealed by the external audits carried out
under the Fishing Port Project.   As a result, an action program has been
defined and is being implemented to rectify major errors, reorganize account-
ing records pertaining to receivables and fixed assets, and introduce proper
systems and procedures.   Under the proposed  project,  long term  technical
assistance will be provided to organize the accounting and financial manage-
ment functions.
44.       A fixed asset revaluation was carried out by PAD in 1980.  However,
as a result of the recently completed audit, the validity of the revaluation
is in doubt; it had relied on an inaccurate fixed asset inventory and inade-
quate  procedures.   Consequently,  it has been agreed that PAD would first
rectify and update the fixed asset ledger per the balance sheet of June 30,
1985,  before undertaking a new revaluation exercise.   Furthermore,  it is
likely that some existing assets will need to be retired from the fixed asset
base, once the proposed container terminal is completed and certain existing
facilities are rendered obsolete or are transformed to other non-port uses.



- 14 -
Hence, incorporation of new asset values will take some time to achieve.
Moreover, as PAD may not be able to legally upvalue its assets under Senegal-
ese accounting legislation, it has been agreed that by no later than December
31 , 1985, PAD would present annual pro forma balance sheets incorporating the
revalued asset base, to be corrected from time to time for retirement of non-
productive assets.
Tariffs
45.       Port tariffs are set by PAD's Board and approved by the Ministers of
Equipment and of Finance.   PAD has not experienced any delays in obtaining
such approvals, and tariffs have more or less kept pace with inflation in
recent years,  averaging 10% a year.   Under the Fishing Port Project,  PAD
substantially revised its tariff structure applying to the new facilities.
However, a more general revision of port tariffs for a cost-based structure
has rnot been carried out pending implementation of a cost accounting system.
A comparative study of port tariffs at major West African ports reveals that
Dakar is substantially cheaper by some 15-20% on the average in all aspects of
port services and operations.
46.       The presence of such significant differences suggests undercharging
by PAD for its services, due not only to inability to accurately record costs,
but to the obsolete nature of the basic tariff structure.  PAD's inefficient
management of port space also stems from inadequate use of charging policies
as a means of achieving improved performance from the private cargo handling
operators.   Weak and passive port management has sustained inadequate tariff
levels and led to non-optional use of port areas.  As stated in para. 37, the
Port has agreed to implement an action plan to improve its operational and
managerial  performance.    In parallel,  PAD hais also agreed to undertake a
thorough tariff study both in preparation of appropriate charging policies for
the proposed new facilities, and to restructure the tariffs for its existing
facilities and services, such restructuring to be carried out not later than
July 1, 1987 (Sections 4.03, 4.04 and 4.05 (EL) of the draft Project Agree--
ment).  A preliminary restructuring will be carried out on July 1, 1985, when
the results of an ongoing review of tariffs will be available.
PART IV:  THE PROJECT
Origin and Background
47.       Under the Fishing Port Project (Loan 1405-T-SE, 1977), funds were
provided for a feasibility study to assess the need for the Port of Dakar to
develop more substantial container handling facilities by the mid-eighties, in
light of rapid containerization that was becoming apparent in the late-seven-
ties.   The consultants Port of Marseille (PAM) carried out the technical and
economic feasibility studies.  The proposed pro,ject emerged from the review of



- 15 -
the  consultants'  recommendations.    Project  preparation,  preappraisal  and
appraisal missions were carried oul; by the Bank in 1982 and 1983, with active
participation of both CCCE and the Kuwait Fund.
48.       The physical dimensions of the project emerged as a result of the
feasibility studies, after careful review of alternatives, while an evaluation
of PAD's operations left no doubt that PAD's performance could be substantial-
ly improved both in managing port operations and in its administration.
Negotiations were held in February 1984, in Paris, with a Senegalese delega-
tion led by the Minister of Planning.   Staff Appraisal Report No. 4625-SE,
dated March 29, 1984 is being distributed separately to the Executive Direc-
tors.
Project Objectives and Description
49.       The proposed project would reduce freight costs for Senegal's ex-
ternal trade and enhance Dakar's position as a port of transfer for neighbor-
ing countries by the provision of additional facilities and rehabilitation of
existing ones and by strengthening the Port's management and operations so
that it may fully carry out its role as a vital public service in Senegal. To
meet these aims, the proposed project would consist of:
(i) Civil Works involving:
(a) construction of a quay wall in a total length of 430 m suitable
to berth simultaneously two large container vessels;
(b) dredging of areas alongside the berth and from the Port en-
trance to the terminal area;   hydraulic sand filling of the
area behind the quay wall to reclaim the terminal's container
handling area of 8.2 ha;
(c) paving of the container handling area, installation of utility
services and fuel lines, and connection of the terminal area to
the national railway network; and
(d) repair and rehabilitation of certain port facilities.
(ii)  Consulting Services and Technical Assistance
(a) consultants' services to supervise the construction of the
container terminal and train PAD engineers to work on construc-
tion supervision;
(b) study of the management of the container terminal;
(c) training of PAD personnel in container terminal management and
operations;



- 16 -
(d) technical assistance, consultant services and training to
improve the Port's financial management, carry out account
audits, study tariffs and recommend structural changes, and
provide data processing support; and
(e)  technical assistance and training to improve the Port's opera-
tional management.
Project Implementation
50.       PAD will be responsible for project execution with the assistance of
qualified consultants to be employed on terms and conditions to be acceptable
to the Association and co-lenders.  Civil works are expected to take about 27
months to complete, starting in October 1984.  Some activities of the techni-
cal assistance program will continue into FY87/88.  An action plan to improve
the Port's operations and management, based upon a consultants' study, was
prepared and agreed upon during negotiations, and its implementation will
start  following review by the  other co-lenders.   The Port also requested
consultants'  proposals for technical assistance in accounting and financial
management, and recruitment of experts is expected to be carried out by July
1984.  Funds available under the ongoing Fishinag Port Project (Loan 1405-T-SE)
would finance a part of the above two items until funds to be provided under
the proposed Credit and from the other co-lenders are effectively available.
PAD's Engineering Department will prepare and advertise the bids and supervise
the works to be completed under the deferred maintenance program component,
which will start in early FY85.
Project Cost and Financing
51.       The estimated cost of the project, net of taxes and financial costs,
is US$19.63 million equivalent (including physical and price contingencies)
with a foreign exchange component of US$15.36 million equivalent. The project
will not be exempted from taxes and duties, which amount to some US$5.55
million  equivalent.    Interest  during  construction  would  amount  to about
US$2.37 million equivalent.   Thus,  the total cost, including taxes and in-
terest during construction, would equal US$27.55 million. The cost estimates
for the civil works Lots #1 and 2, comprising construction of the quay wall
and dredging and reclamation works, are based Dn actual bid prices received in
December 1983--which are valid without escalation until April 1984--and the
bid evaluation carried out by PAD. The cost estimates for the remaining civil
works prepared by consultants and PAD are baEed on final engineering designs
and on costs of recent  similar works,  including the Fishing Port Project
completed in 1980/81 and updated to early 1984 cost levels; they compare
favorably with international bids received recently for similar port works on
the West African Coast.  The project also includes provision for consultants
and advisory services totalling some 206 man-months.   Physical contingencies
assumed vary between 10%-20% depending upon the type of work.  Price contin-
gencies have been calculated for local costs at 10% a year and foreign costs
at 7.5% for 1984, 7.0% for 1985, and 6% a year thereafter.



- 17 -
52.       Of the total project cost (net of taxes), the proposed Kuwait Fund
loan would finance the equivalent of about US$4.1 million or 21%, the CCCE
loan US$6.7 or 34%, and the IDA and Special Fund Credits US$2.65 million and
US$4.85 million or 13% and 25%,  respectively.   PAD would contribute about
US$9.3 million equivalent from internal cash generation.   PAD's contribution
would cover all taxes and duties on the project, the interest during construc-
tion and 7% of the net-of-tax project cost.   Any potential cost overruns or
exchange rate losses would also be covered by PAD, as there is at all times
sufficient  cash flow from operations.   The proposed IDA and Special Fund
Credits would be made on standard terms to the Government who would onlend the
proceeds to PAD on standard Bank terms, under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the
execution of which would be a special condition of effectiveness (Section 5.01
(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).   The onlent funds would be
repayable by PAD in equal semi-annual installments over 20 years including a
four-year grace period.   The proposed CCCE loan of FF 52 million would be a
blend of soft and hard terms, bearing approximately a 7% interest rate, and
would be repayable in equal semi-annual amortizations over 17 years including
four years' grace. The proposed KF Loan of KDinars 1.25 million would be made
to the Government at a 4% interest rate, repayable over 20 years including
five years' grace.   It would be onlent to PAD on the same terms. 1/  The
Government would impose a 1% guarantee fee on the CCCE loan.
Procurement and Disbursement
53.       The construction of quay walls would be procured under competitive
bidding which was limited to the Franc Zone and would be financed by the CCCE
and PAD.   Procurement of Lot #2, dredging/fill,  following Bank Group guide-
lines for international competitive bidding, would be financed jointly by the
Kuwait Fund and IDA. The KF earlier agreed to the list of prequalified bid-
ders. Lot #3 (US$4.93 million), utilities, would be financed by proceeds from
the Special Fund Credit, and procurement would be limited to goods produced
in, or services from, any of the following countries:  (a) any Part II member
of the Association and (b) those countries who at the time of signing the
Credit Agreement have notified or advised the Administrator in writing that
they intend to make a Special Fund Contribution in a minimum amount conforming
with paragraph 4 of the Special Fund Resolution, or (c) which had notified or
advised the Association in writing that they intend to make a Special Contri-
bution in such a minimum amount to the FY84 Account and had advised the Asso-
ciation in writing that such Special Contribution was to be treated in the
same manner as a Special Fund Contribution for purposes of any future adjust-
ment of the voting rights of the members of the Association.   The deferred
maintenance work would be financed by PAD and the Association and would follow
local procurement  procedures  acceptable  to the Association.   The training
1/  The KF has already agreed to a loan of KDinars 2.1 million based on
the financing plan at appraisal. As a result of lower-than-forecast bid
prices, the new financing plan is substantially lower and any excess
amounts would be cancelled at the end of the project.



- 18 -
programs would be funded entirely by the CCCE.   The other project items--
consultant services and technical assistance contracts--would be procured
following Bank Group guidelines for employment of consultants, and funded
jointly by PAD,  the Kuwait Fund, and the Association.   Project supervision
would be carried out by PAM and funded jointly by IDA, CCCE and PAD.  Consul-
tant services for the Action Plan would be funded jointly by KF, CCCE and
IDA.  The data processing component would be funded entirely by the Associa-
tion.   All contracts would be financed by -the co-lenders on a net of tax
basis, and the relevant taxes and duties will be separately invoiced, accoun-
ted arnd paid by PAD.
54.       The IDA Credit, covering 13.1% of the estimated total project cost,
would be disbursed over a five-year period, FY885-89.  It would cover specif-
icall;y the following expenditures:  35% of the total cost of Civil Works Lot
#2 (dredging and fill); 48% of the cost of the Project supervision contract;
23% of the total cost of Consultant Services for tariff and container terminal
management studies, audit, and financial management; 100% of the data proces-
sing component; 17% of the cost of consultant services for Action Plan imple-
mentation; and 35% of the total cos-t of deferred maintenance works carried out
after signature of the Credit Agreement.   The! Special Fund Credit, covering
25% of the estimated total project cost, would finance 98% of the total cost
of Lot #3 (paving and utilities).   It would be disbursed over a three year
period from FY86-88.
Environmental Impact
55.       No adverse ecological impact is expected to occur with the construc-
tion of the proposed container port, nor disturbance to marineX ecology in the
vicinity of the existing port.
Economic Evaluation
56.       The proposed project would enable PAD to handle the growing number
of containers (estimated at 115,000 by 1995) efficiently and at a reasonable
cost.  The proposed new container terminal would allow container ships using
it and general cargo ships using the existing port to be serviced much more
expediently and cargo to be handled more efficiently, eliminate the need for
double handling of containers, and would alleviate congestion at existing
berth-side and storage areas.   The consultants analyzed three basic alterna-
tives for a container terminal.  The proposed projet is the Phase I develop-
ment of the recommended alternative and comprises the construction of 430
meters of quay and 82,000 m2 of container handling and storage areas.   The
terminal's Phase II development, to be built at a later stage, foresees the
extension of the quay to 725 m and increasing the operational areas to 175,000
m2.   The terminal,  when fully developed,  would allow adequate coverage of
berth and storage needs beyond the year 2000, would have good road and rail
transport access, and its construction would only minimally disrupt ongoing
port operations. Without the project, container handling would be increasing-
ly slowed and expensive at ill-adapted facilities, adding unnecessary costs to



- 19 -
Senegal's international trade.  The project would also reinforce the role of
Dakar as a transit port for Mali and Mauritania and for transshipment to and
from other West African ports.
57.       The institutional components of the project are expected to improve
productivity, efficiency of port operations in general and cargo and container
handling in particular, improve the level of management and its information
system and increase the Port's financial autonomy.
58.       The economic rate of return of the terminal is estimated at 23%.  A
sensitivity analysis, including increases in costs and shortfall as well as
lag in benefits, showed satisfactory results even under pessimistic assump-
tions: if all benefits were to lag by two years, the return would be 18%, and
if investment costs were 20% higher and all benefits 20% lower, the return
would be 17%.   No rate of return has been calculated for the maintenance
components, but such works generally have extremely high returns.
Financial Evaluation
59.       PAD's long-term financial objective is to be a fully autonomous,
commercially oriented public enterprise.   In recent years, however, the Gov-
ernment has exercised an over-zealous control over PAD and has not permitted
PAD to achieve the autonomy foreseen in its statutes.   This situation would
change under the proposed project.  As a first step, the Government agreed to
permit a portion of PAD's revenues (15% in FY84, 30% in FY85, rising to 40% in
FY86 and beyond) to be isolated from the currency pool in a Special Account
held with the Treasury, and then to be transferred to an external bank account
held with a commercial bank; this move would permit PAD to ensure that its
cash contribution to the project financing plan is clearly set aside without
fear of delays in paying contractors, as does occur now under the currency
pooling arrangement (Section 4.08 of the draft Project Agreement).  It would
also permit PAD to finance its annual renewal programs without the delays it
currently experiences.   The Government agreed that PAD would not be exempt
from taxes and duties on the project.  As a step towards ultimate financial
autonomy, PAD has already been permitted to raise the ceiling on its revolving
fund for current expenditures substantially so that PAD's budgeted maintenance
works and other recurrent expenditures can be carried out more independently
of the normal channels of Government payment procedures.   The Government and
PAD also agreed to present for Association review and comment no later than
June 30, 1986, a plan, including proposals for any legislative/statutory
changes needed, to achieve the basic objective of financial and managerial
autonomy free of counterproductive constraints imposed by the present system
(para. 40 above).   In addition, as a special condition of Credit effective-
ness, the Government and PAD should agree to a plan and timetable for clearing
of arrears on payments of mutual debts (payments for services performed by PAD
for the Government and/or its agencies, and tax and interest payments due from
PAD) and to a mechanism to ensure regular payments by the Government for PAD
services (Section 5.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 20 -
60.       The  translation of full cost  recovery into action would require
changes both in PAD's tariff structure and levels. A revised tariff structure
based on an ongoing review of PAD tariffs would be put into operation by July
1, 1984.  However, incorporation of a revalued asset base in the tariff set-
ting formulae would be feasible only by July 1, 1986, i.e., after completion
of a revaluation exercise in FY85.  However, the levels, and possibly struc-
ture, would need further adjustment once the new container terminal is com-
pleted and once proposals have been made for re-use and/or temporary closure
of certain facilities that would no longer be needed, at least for the next
several years.   As this second phase of tariff changes cannot occur before
FY88 (i.e., when the container terminal project; is completed), it was agreed
that a rate of return covenant would only be set as a long-term target.  A
target of 6% return on revalued net fixed assets, in use appears appropriate
and satisfactory to cover PAD's future financial needs (Section 4.04 of the
draft Project Agreement).  However, it was agreed that no later than June 30,
1987, this proposed target would be reviewed and adjusted as deemed neces-
sary. In the meantime, the main operative financial covenant would be a cash
flow target.  This target would ensure that each year, PAD's net; internal cash
generation after debt service would cover at least 40% of total capital in-
vestment expenditures averaged over a three-year period (prior, current and
following years).   Such a criterion would permit PAD to fuLly finance its
annual renewals and other investments, allow for necessary working capital
increases, and contribute 33% to the project financing plan, including taxes
and duties and interest during construction (Section 4.03 of the draft Project
Agreement).   PAD's financial performance would be reviewed annually at least
90 days prior to the close of its fiscal year, so that any corrective action,
including tariff increases if needed, may be taken (Section 4.05 of the draft
Project Agreement).
61.       PAD's projected financial performance in line with the above short-
term and long-term targets shows that, in addition to the recently enacted
tariff increase averaging 12.7% for FY84, PAD would need to increase its total
revenues by about 10% at the start of FY85 in order to meet the target cash
flow requirements.   As this tariff increase is critical to satisfactory pro-
ject execution, its enactment is a special condition of effectiveness (Section
5.01  (c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).   Beyond FY85, revenue
increases averaging about 10% in FY86 and in FY87 would be needed to ensure a
satisfactory flow of funds to the project.  These increases could partly come
through the restructuring of tariffs (para. 46), partly through tariff increa-
ses to keep pace with inflation, and partly through cost reductions, as pro-
ductivity improves.
62.       PAD would pay the taxes and duties on the project (estimated at CFAF
2,176 million equivalent) under a flexible arrangement which would permit PAD
to schedule the payments up to June 30, 1989, should cash flow be lower than
forecast.  PAD would set up and maintain separate tax liability accounts that
would be eventually cleared against payments out of the Special Account (para.
59).  A Government/PAD agreement spells out the mechanism in detail and pro-
vides PAD the flexibility to defer payments up to a maximum of two years but
not beyond June 30, 1989.



- 21 -
63.       PAD's  projected  financial  position  remains  satisfactory  with  a
maximum debt/equity ratio of 46/54 and with adequate current ratios exceeding
2.0 in each of the intervening years through to project completion.   Debt
service coverage is adequate. However, in order to ensure that PAD's capital
structure and debt service burden are not strained further until the container
terminal is in full operation, a debt limitation covenant has been agreed
(Section 4.07 of the draft Project Agreement).  It provides for prior consul-
tation with the Association before incurrence of any additional debt that
would tend to lower overall debt service coverage of the maximum debt service
burden below 2.0.
Risks
64.       No economic risks of significance are associated with the project
since there has been a good base for estimation of construction costs and
adequate safeguards have been taken to ensure that the new terminal would be
efficiently operated and that expected benefits would materialize.   The main
risk is institutional in nature. If PAD's internal structure does not develop
as envisaged and its financial management does not improve to the extent
forecast, one result would be inefficient use of a heavy investment by Senegal
in a container port facility and possible loss of tax revenues to the Govern-
ment, due to PAD's inability to generate the level of revenues for which it
would have been equipped.   A sensitivity analysis of financial factors was
carried out to determine the robustness of PAD's finances under adverse oper-
ating conditions.  The base analysis was carried out on a fairly conservative
traffic forecast; nevertheless, an even lower rate of overall traffic growth
(2.5% a year versus 3.5% a year under the base forecast) compounded by higher
rate of inflation of working expenses (12.5% a year against 10% in the base
case) was analyzed. The results demonstrate that even in the worst scenario,
PAD would still be able to fully cover its financial contribution to the
project out of its own earnings and would be able to pay the taxes due on the
project investment no later than June 30, 1989.   Marginal additional tariff
increases, however, would be needed to achieve the financial targets.   The
sensitivity analysis also shows that the projected tariff/revenue increases
are critical to achieve the financial targets.   Nevertheless,  even if such
increases are limited, PAD's financial position remains acceptable, although
continued delays in appropriate tariff setting could jeopardize PAD's financi-
al prospects.   The agreement to hold annual consultations would,  however,
ensure that corrective action is taken well before serious deterioration of
PAD's finances occurs.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Development Credit Agreement and Special Fund Agreement
between the Republic of Senegal and the Association, the draft Project Agree-
ment between the Port Autonome de Dakar and the Association, and the Recommen-
dation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the



- 22 -
Articles of Agreement of the Association, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
66.       The  following  are additional  conditions of effectiveness  of the
Credits, namely:
(a)  execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Republic of
Senegal and the Port Autonome de Dakar (Section 5.01 (a) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement);
(b) execution of an Agreement between the Republic of Senegal and the
Port Autonome de Dakar providing for the full settlement by June 30,
1987, of existing reciprocal debts as of December 31, 1983, and for
all necessary arrangements to ensure prompt settlement of such debts
arising between January 1 , 1984 and June 30, 1985 (Section 5.01 (b)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement);
(c) effecting of a tariff increase as of July 1 , 1984, of at least 10%
on all PAD services (Section 5.01 (c) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement); and
(d) appointment of a suitably qualified port operations expert (Section
5.01 (d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
67.       Special conditions of the Development Credit and Special Fund Credit
are listed in Section III of Annex III.
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit and Special Fund
Credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Devel-
opment Credit, and Special Fund Credit.
A. W. Clausen.
President
Washington, D. C.
March 29, 1984
Attachments



- 23 -                                                               ANNEX I
T     A B L F  3A                                         PAGE I
SENEGAL                   - SOCIAL. INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SENECAL                                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                         (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
__b          /b  RECENT                MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCCME
1960/        1970-  ESTIMAT/-           AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAST
AREA (TROUSAND SQ. KM)
TOTAL                                   196.2         196.2        196.2
AGRICULTURAL                             99.2        104.5         1D9.3
SNP PER CAPITA (US$)                       180.0         240.0        430.0               1147.9                        1340.0
ENERGY CONSUMPT ION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          555.0        519.0         364.0                724.2                        810.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATIOON,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    3498.0          4391.0        5862.0
URBAN POPULATION (T OF TOTAL)            23.0         30.0          33.8                 28.5                         47.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                    10.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MULL)                                      36.4
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                     2155
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. RM.                            17.8         22.4          29.1                 56.5                         36.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND                 35.3         42.0          52.2                131.8                        449.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTI[RE (1)
0-14 YRV                              42.7         43.9          44.8                 45.9                         43.9
S-64 YRS                              54.3         53.2          52.4                 51.2                         52.8
65 AND A30VE                            3.0          2.9           2.8                  2.8                           3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE %l)
TOTAL                                   2.4          2.3           2.6                  2.8                           2.9
URBAN                                   3.0          4.9           3.7                  5.3                           4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)             47.9         46.8          47.9                 47.6                          42.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)             26.5         23.2          21.0                 15.2                          12.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   3.2           3.2          3.2                   3.2                          3.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)
USERS (; OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..            ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FDOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                           125.0          83.0         90.0                 95.7                          97.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (1 OF REQUIREMENTS)           97.0         96.0         100.0                 97.1                         102.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)               65.0         64.0          71.0                 56.0                         72.0
OF WHICi ANIMAL AND PLLSE             20.0         20.0          19.0/c               17.2                         17.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE              41.9          36.8         31.1                 23.6                          15.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)            37.2          40.3         43.9                  51.9                         57.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)           181.7        164.4         144.6                117.6                         104.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                    ..            ..         37.0/d               25.4                          59.3
URBAN                                    ..            ..         68.07d               70.5                          84.9
RURAL                                    ..            ..         23.07;               12.3                          37.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..            ..
URBAN                                    ..            ..           ..
RURAL                                    ..            ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              24990.0      16700.0       13800.0/e            12181.6                       3536.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                2840.0/      3 1940.0      1400.0/c             2292.0                       1820.7
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 840.0        810.0         900.0/c             1075.4                         643.3
URBAN                                 390.0/f      450.0         560.0/c              402.3                         545.0
RURAL                                1810.0o7     1240.0        1280.07W             3926.7                       2462.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..          22.2         29.2/c                  ..                         26.4
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                    ..            ..
URBAN                                    ..           7.6/h         ..                    .
RURAL                                    ..          6.0/h
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOm
TOTAL                                   1. 5/i         ..
URBAN                                    ..            ..
RURAL                                    ..            ..           ..                    .
ACCESS TO ELECT. (T OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..            ..           ..                    ..                         46.2
URBAN                                    ..            ..           ..                    ..                         77.6
RURAI, ..                                             ..           ..                    ..                         16.1
_- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _    _ _    _ _   _ _   _ _    _ _    _ _   _ _   _ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _   _ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ -



-24 -                                                            ANNEX I
T A B L E  3A                                            PAGE 2
SENEGAL                   - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SENEGAL                                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /s
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT  lb         MIDDLE INCOM4E            MIDDLE INCOME
1960/        1970-  ESTIMATE-          AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                      27.U          38.0         44.0                 97.2                         89.6
MALE                      36.0          47.0         53.0                103.1                        104.8
FEMALE                    17.0          30.0         35.0                 88.5                         72.4
SUCONDARY: TOTAL                       3.0           9.0         10.0                 17.2                         41.7
MiALE                      4.0          13.0         14.0                 23.5                         52.o
FEMALE                     2.0           5.0          7.0                 14.2                         31.2
VOCATIONAL (X OF SECONDARY)              23.1          9.2          8.8                  5.2                         10.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               43.0/f        45.0         43.0                 42.9                         31.9
SECONDARY                             34.0          34.0         21.0/c               23.7                         23.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                   5.6/j       10.0         10.0/c               37.1                         43.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP               5.7          8.7          9.2/k               18.8                         18.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             35.7         61.0         52.6                 97.8                        138.1
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                  ..          0.3          0.7/d               18.6                         45.6
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PEE THOUSAND POPULATION                  5.7          4.6          4.5                 18.2                         31.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA            ..           ..          0.7                  0.6                          1.7
LABOR FORCE
fOTAL LABOR FORCE (rIOUS)             1598.0        1931.0       2468.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      40.         40.2          39.8                 36.1                         10.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 84.0          80.9         76.9                 56.8                         42.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     5.0           7.0         10.0                 17.5                         27.8
PARTICIPArIIN RATE (PERCENT)
IOTAL                                 45.7         44.0          43.3                 37.0                         25.6
MAL.                                  54.4          53.1         52.6                 47.1                         45.4
FEMALE                                37.1          35.0         34.1                 27.0                          5.6
ECONOMtIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.U          1.1          1.1                  1.3                          1.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENr OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGiEST 5X OF iOUSEHOLDS              36.8/1          ..
riIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEiOLDS            62.5/1
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               3.2/1
LOWEST 40X OF HOUSEHOLDS                9.47 
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE PUVERTY INCOIME
LEVEL (US$ PEE CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..            ..           ..                534.2                        276.1
RURAL                                    ..           ..         B2.0/e              255.9                        177.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..            ..        194.0/e              491.5                        400.0
RURAL                                    ..           ..           ..                186.1                        283.3
ESTIMATEiD POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOiE LEVEL (X)
URBAN                                   ..            ..           ..                   ..                         22.0
RURYAL                                   ..           ..           ..                   ..                         3U.o
..aOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N OT  E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to asy year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate' between 1979 and 1931.
Ic  1977; /d 1976; /e 1978; /f 1962; /g 1963; /h 1973; /i 1955; /j African population only; /k 1974; /1 Population.
May 1983



ANNEX I
- 25-3
TOT FIMTOIi  OF SOCIAL iOOlOaOon
aenstin  50000  r cim  odo  nr Icnot  toos .and  tioacttioncoraloeas  Oft~ "r ,In-n  hrto Iccn .r.5                                                       -
morbadt  o-_bt_     issr         fsr5    aoaeA  it-   tins a-se  ie bodletor  de-rte atoronr Latobo    tAo                             no.   n tsf ,n-ff ,rto    aeh
aRI   thoado.ahssstosn 5    n.   soeolci-ib   nnco  peon ic-c
1Tssod 8P  ant,                                                                              Pslotcore  Nartloc  _r ea- TnOnnt-  jit-de-Scosr01pofs
NIl and INf  Iota.                                                                               Ppirinethaital On  - roe-o, -b-dp   -dys-ol-t'oitinIro
_ro,      trh     Issiod by oPsIr nJ,    n~    oa Orr    oe           ,,o sds
TSP lid 1001rA IPI) - - lO   o  000  s'tsssF               sosr- oI=      rIesettoo is I  polls- ah rct   rns   s   poor -i b-sn   -a ad
faS, APP7, Ona IN    As                                                                                at  ln    r  Oysra      e-lI iaonncidig poI                     I  a  O  ato  s
SMIf CONSUI(MON F~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~nssne nt csafd.las)bopiel, nlos, n-si rsIt n
IN6T. NIP, and 1i8P oats-oho tsyel   nni550clcnlarrlboel,odc i
in5a.                                                                     loss ras~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ipist,5 ilnldod by sb   nn)sttOrn
llros  npf oianiPrrss o    eal  -tell  ra ssboo enIt,tlpy.I'll,
dLtfsts    eif     oo   r   tr  rsare   Ie-  snaotaltly of seljAsiNS
so-tI  ocls   NO    Nl   n  05   sa                                                                     gjyn-n                  -rttpaOooii-ofgP-,a                              so
Posnlnsssn Oon)atisso                                                          S~~~~ 11111~11  111i d OfnfIf itg-sro d-sioo.-AtI h-rfsoqnbs
pess.Pt  paansst ir  s-llilty -nsa also hsslnlseeasofciprs
Neetoso   asslanls-  lo a - saLoIr  popfos-- s-en f-n gro
roslscs   n.tOol he sctselslb        oP-     nrsIs sitadosogorenoOso
dal r  a  asceaoesrlosotslressrnssosro,sa-                                             ronayrnrnnofaanross-rseooe                                   saradrrl
gsosotii nnsano rOlots farloesaef5.Onesis Ossrn                  rsf rsn      al   kranS  hc ftean  lon  o  oo-snsgssoP rnpeelo
rssfatnslssaeo  si-innoh  hss  a  n   pn;ssd   hoarer                      potn-   nbs- fo0sletin              nr all   ns".l ons -n5   lro  sps  -l
Idlso   oeynasfa        arsot-Ic  saos    -t riel-.n                                         o r--tad1-a nsderonLioOD e  Klrst                                     --ss    o
rsrteitr Vta e  atylcsrs- ieat.                                 cn it-sa at,  5555al   nosalss nn-al-nes   ns -Ln in   rssc
555  onsbssrsnyooetto  s  oaosod-  b  Str aee5stalnaryslonne   -nf aasnh-Is  r bts  he...oralos'ofOre
tossnr.tesft                                                                                       O tso   soOrn 5      o   oryar5O  ppnr-rsarpts-oOtn
oo.lp;, Ini- Ao- an--0N   naa                                                                    Osalotnollotyrn    lnIasn        aaloa    oto
P-ooslaslns hi   icser   orst   -Iiin               -iaSao     shn-t    i-                             ollssobl    tAa                - nt  0 Ir  p -opo    -sn-s  ..r.s  isProd-
p lio    iSI'f, i acT, ner  r ng 70  - Iota.                                                snnpl-l-tehcnisotnyadsonots-Ooison srlldo
I~jslniss Onstt  oes lso-esl - ensal-   Osslaoe   otsn   ola  -claoa    aop0   onsdot.                                                     cns.
lrd _   ab  rr  la  onotot  -d hi-n   rosP                  nsn   nod-ertnsgsas-trosssdpolsoioeesn    n
pspioioo;fnl,IPO.ns  ioi Oos         --,,,sosnp  ons-he  sghtrfcoo   sand-s  sho\a  t,Sessonso
nnn  on Ksto   sas-nnnf   na-ore                                                                                                              ..dogotsa..a sl  to.s  U  scysndl
11bes "asI  rernoslsprs0Iet   nytnns   saosnsathoi                                                  ndsOclss     sso.tniopltis dgiprarnes'ntrai
ss-grnn.                                                                             00 hsnofnarasi',E-iy  -   LeLb   --btnaznlnln   -01  rs   os    ob   sn
a)0 onart    Onnr  n 5.55 Ann trst.                                             O-.tyoppr-trnl-ndta  yffl lnna             i-j4oa   - hfO ro                 ..ss
am    ts-  -d Toll                                                                                      en     Ot         s---rsttnoieY-n.r-  0    a   -                         niOn
sAt   nnlsaatag    rrnioenernfi--lradP
On                                                                                    bps 0  0501~~~~aa ,  60
Prplsos    otn  rso    prsc  n   o~insns   -Isyrd  ro                                       hTlIs -sans-Its-ottol -,bs-srlso   asIs.-ernnItonlaeo  ao
tssgrinoabes         d Io on   oplr-aaoal             -ssntr   per noiac osssaaabnrnhsocolgInnato   odonnes.ssrn
day.  honfisols ooiplIea nssprtn  dnssstl   p5sdoonn.  fs)nnroe '55  5opointocs o   li nfss.   eoebnviann  In sopsoa-nnnrP Oa gre 0          d
essorot, sri nnnessnaotoaob.   list  nypslns noolods  nfoal toad, sneda  anparoIte-NoP,  105 no-s 1P5  doss
naaoiliio ansi  o food  rarseelg,  coOIassos I   iftcb P .,   t-sbtnraoP    ai    ao   ansa   erne--Oma    oo   oe
teonirrnoroesrsetneoa         -dbsralhso dss Iy-alnn:elssdntnPaoI   _&slotOoorr-anrs--oaobgfsr  y.osio_
anlsspnssnsonadrirottrr- soi- epraaJebi_etcteOtolp-    prssoo--bsaoanratsop-lrl-odNtd-s
a5sosl  ssdleo Hth   an    II'pnnlss. If osdaibolsrerOrs-                                      ddbr   i eeU-lnntno nso. osiri,asbroo
si  ooebod  nos;   OuNI,lNn nd   hO  ot.                                                 nastore-n,lasr  ndinnasPr250                     .a.rss  .sn  ts... ihi
Pee apeoa  arrlsof rrisln  trers   Lor lay) -  rtlssnsstratnOPalnO   ns
ne  aloy   r  ta   pnsda.    seaplpofesais drenosa sears                               asnpoh-         asIsssnI-  oa,sn,oasns-rrbtaln
Iof    aeeePr Ofnm   fsstn  ISao   hOproi   s   fbs-n-alpossnr9nyno                                                                    Anto    esesn'na-lbr0pba
*          Psr sasise peseeto sopolc  tenn            and) olrPnet    npp               Os                         rhcoano   Pat-rn --kd) R- -dh
oeie    rt  nsi n,  pntni aIsyslp'   niSo  INT d-sat. 2ml)                                                                                                   -1   --t
_santa'.is a  deo_sel i-   n  1- lfls sabes blr    ill1 oti li.  dot.                               cne-i
_tOnrsa-or tios  I s-rs  - leA-Ps n-ethr af y-os  sO lOt, eaenoIT-d-teO0  atas    t'  oyopnsos    ssono   oes  fe-el, sni
at sboth; 1960, JP9  an  iNtO  sa--                                                                  .h......reoosstaslsaneaos
peat, of anspeP tins-ni lire. tI'rePe; INoC   IN I so  [Nil data.                                    slesoa  anoy_nos  fsl     sasbin    enb   enoslo  aost
_ien  Oisis djoersd   I__nes    It npplot  -1-  -oa ,1 o-lasad  co-ni                             ootet ~Isis) i      pd --ros   dIs  Iftesrn  Ia sn-rod    sol nar-        n-  o
Nooses s  ressltltsiai,  shos, si sIsl-tsit-nssaf  ares  tosJ atna.-I.
erea  so pry  tnollat  te-s's n_t _ oosooronco.      o  batd                              Oslois  Pbt Ilnl P-oosms tirhss -fto) ItIr  yes  oblo -sro   oi-oa
aaeoreorhatsr-ss.bd .  boss psto-id   -ao           -ns,sslh ,f asd                         sar_af rotspoee             ro    reln ------------o-a--r---------s
s'sheseasbasnothoid A.ssssss,   snpossonoesae                       psait Ifocr.
Soes  a  rss ros  bn,nn I  eso sOrntao l-   sss  a-ban, and
raes-hsnsr  O pesIaIrstl.  n-ia, tl noafonsna..byenrs
dlesea  onpsnanafs  o~soat  ee ertro  soalsiso.   rorsadlapa-ot
sossnood  ti  rslarts   o  b Iinss l , U      tsr slhs   rooaO,o                                                                   r-'snOsilhm Ios



SENEGAL-ECONOMIC INDICATORS
rtlJl at Ictr,: 53;.3 (rnsd--19------------, th-------
G,NP per capitai 430 US$(1981)
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_ _- - - - - - - - - - --_ _- - - - - - - - - - - - - --_- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --__ _ _ _ _- - - - - - -
Amournt
(rni 11,USi$                                   Annual growth rates(%) at constant price
at    current                                  -----------------------------------        -----
prices)
1980          1977       1978        1979        1980        1981        1982       1983        1984        1985        1990
NAT I ONAL ACCOUNTS
Cross DOsr.estic Product           3042        -1,3        -3.9        10.1       -1.5        -2.4         9.8         3,0         2.7         2,6        2.6
All-:lJULTURE                     568       -6,9       -23.6        27.1       -18.3       -5.6        24.3         2,5         2,4         2,4         2.4
IND:USTRY                         796        5,1        -9.0        11.1      -15.8         4.7         8.8         4,1        .3,9         3,8         3,8
OTHER                            1678       -3.7         9,3         3.3        13,.0      -3.7         5.3         2.7         2.2         2.2         2.2
C0n21.JFPwT l C)N                  3lk1es      I,          2.6        8.7        -1.4        -0,7         EJ, 7       0r1         4.0        2.6         2.8
fROSS lliV-Sr!'IJNT                 522         3,2       -5,9         9.8       -161.        14.5         6,0         5.6        3,2         2.6          1.4
EXJPuBS OF CI4rFS                   785         6,8      -31.8        25,0       -27.2        -9,9        41.2         6,2       -1.2         3.1          3.3
VIIP0RTS OF GNFS                   1265        15.6      -15.9        16.8       -25.0         4.0         4.5       -0.1          2.9        3.0         3,0
CRO O S NAT 1 O'tFW SfiVING3        -31          -       -76,6        -5 .3         -        132.4          -        -7.9
PRiC S3
GDP DLFLP.TuR (1979-100)                       88         94         100         112         123         134        147         163         180         266
EXCHANGE RfTE (USl.-  )                      Z46         226         213         211         272        329         365                                                     Na
Share .-f GDP at rw3rket prices(/.)                                   Averag.e lArnual lrcrease (1)
(at currert prices)                                                  (at cc'r.tar.t pricQs1
1975'      1975        3980        19s5        1990                  1970-75    1975-80    1980-8:i   1985-90
GR`SS OD6MESTIC PRODUCT                       100,0      1 00. 0     100,02      I) 100.0    100. 0                    2.4         2.0         -,6         2;6
ICJL ULTURE                                24,1        30.2        18.7        19.2        18.7                    2.2        -3.3        E5 8         2.4
21,5       24.0        26.2        25,1        26,9                    3,2        -0,2         5.1         :3.a
OTHER                                       54,4        45.8        55,1        55.7       54.4                     2.1         5,2         2.2         Z22
CE JFFOl 1 ON                                 88.9       87,7        98.6        92.7        93,7                     1,7        4,7          1.4         2,0
,RCu3$, lNELSTrENTr                            15.7        17.8       17.2        21.0        19.0                     3.9       -1,1         5,8          1,4
EXFORTS 'S C-NFGS                              27,4       36,4        25.8        30.5        31. 5                    1.2       -3,6         B,4         :5.3
11-`1ORT,3 OF  WNFS                           32.0        41,9        41.6        42.0       41,9                      1.,        0,9         2.6          3.0
PU2LbZ fINONIE                                 FY78       FY79        FY80        FY81        FY82       FY83
r yrRL.r FEVEN_J-                           97.1       122.6       132.9       125.5      151.9       175.5
CU(RORfcT EYRFNDITURE                       94,1       105.5      144.9       151.3      165.5       189,9
Cl.IRPERINT rEL8:E                           3,10       14,1       -12.0      -25.8       -13,6       -14.4
CAPiTaL EXPIENDI-URE  a                      9.5        12.0        13.2        21.3        4.3        16,3
SURPLUi OR DEFICIT(-)                       -6,5         2.1      -25.2       -47,1       -17,9       -30,7
a*. Central governrment on1j,e.xc ludes parastata1 s,
b. Inc ludir.g 8,8 bill.CFAF for settlerent of the Fifth Plar. operations.



SENEGAL - EXTERNAL TRADE                                           Sept.28, 1983
P,P-rlation: 5863 (mid-1981 ,thous)
GNP pr      _ capita: 430 USS  (1981)
Af,,o,r,t
INDICATOR                  (mill US$                                   Arnual growth rates (%) at constant prices
at current                                  -----------
prices)
1980        1977        1976      1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       1985        1990
EXTERNRL TRADE
MERI Hf-, DISE EXPORTS            491        6.0      -47,1       37.2      -31.9      -12.8       50.2       15.1        -2.8        3.0        3.1
PRIMPRY                        329         0.5     -52.0        46.6      -31.9      -18.1       74.7       15.4       -3,4        3.1         3.Z
FETROLEUM                        87      87.5        41.8      -42.5      -25,3       17,0      -13,0i      32.5        3,0         3.0        3.0
OTHERS                           75       19,5     -81,0      309,3       -36,2      -11.3       11.2       -0.7        2.7        2.7         2.7
MERCHANDISE IMPORTS               999       13,b      -13.2       15.4      -25.7       -1.4        4.7        0.2         2.8        2.9        2.9
FC'CD AND REVERACES            210        7.6         5.8       13.3      -30.5       10,2        2 2,6     27.0        0,0        0.1         0,1
FETRC,LEUM                     275        12,8       1Z,7      -12,0       16.1      -10.0        3.6       -8.5        4.2        4.0         4,0
MR:OHINARY AND EOUIPRENT        157       18.4      -2,1         3.8      -40.0       -0.3        6,8       -3.5        4.0        3.5         4.0
OTHERS                         357       14.5      -32.6        37.4     -28.9        -2,9        5.4       -7.8        3,5        4.0         3,7
PRICES
EXPORT PRICE INDEX(1979=100)                91.8       95.3      10r,.0     114,3      148,5      134,7      137,6       157.7      182.6      270.6
IMPORT PRICE INDEX(1979-100)               89.2       90,9       100,0      129.0      154.0      166.9      179.8      194,9      214.3       310.6
TERMS OF TRfiDE INDEX                      102,9      104,8      1 00,0      88,6       96,4       80,7       76,5        8kl,9      85,2       87.1
COMPFOSITION OF MERCHANDISE TRADE)'.)             AVERAGE ANNUAL INCREASE(%)
(at current price)                          (at c.nstant prices)
1975      1980       1985       1990               1975-80   1980-85   19B5-90
MER04HRA.DISE EXPORTS                      100,0      100.0      100.0      100.0                  -0,1       11,3         3,1
F<IPMiJiRY                               70,5       67,0        75,7       76,7                   0.1       12.8        3,2
PETROLEUM                                  7.0       17,7       10.6       10.9                   6.8        7.4        3,0
OTHcR5                                   22.5        15,3       13.7       12,4                  -1,2        1.5         2.7
MERiHONDISE IMPORTS                        100,0      100,0      100.0      100.0                   2.2         1.9        2.9
FOOD AND PEVERAGES                       23.2       21,0        23.7       21.4                   2.3        8,5        0,1
PETROLEUM                                 12,0       27,6       22.8       25.5                   7,1       -1.5        4.0
MrOfHINARY AND EOUIPMENT                  18.4       15,7       17,1       16,9                  -3.9        1.9         4,0
OTHERS                                   46.4        35.7       36.4       36,2                  -3,r0       0,1        3.7
SHARE OF TRADE WITH                           SHARE OF TRADE WITH                          SHARE OF TRADADE WTH
INDUSTRIAL COUNTRIES( N)                    DEVELOPING COUNTRIES(%)                OIL EXPORT ING DEVELOPING COUiTRN:ES(%
DIRECTION OF TRADE a                        1975       198B       1981                  1975       1980        1981                  1975       1980        1981
EXPORTS                                     66,4       50,4       47.5                  Z0,0       35,6       36,3                               2.5         2,a
IMPORTS                                    67.1        60.6       68.4                  11.5       18.8       15,8                    4,1       18,1        12,9
a. Exports ,f.o.b, and lsports,c,i,f,(sourc.IIMF,SM/83/199)



Sept.29, 19683
SENEGAL - EALANCE OF PAYMENTS ,EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
( ftillions US$ at current prices)
------------------------------------------------------------__---------------__-----------------------------------------------------------__----------
Actual                                                                        Projected
Indicator                                   P_________________________              _
1977       1978       1979       19r30      1981        198Be               1983       1984        1985       1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
E>pcrts c.f gz.c,ds & NFS                       852        665        944         785        671        764                    760        769        903        15S1
of w6-ich:Nerchan.-ism(f.o,b)                   467        402        627         491        433        488                    517        519         619       lC70
Imcpcrts c-f goods & NFS                        1024        965       1339        1Z65       1190       1114                   1086       1093       1239        2G95
of which:MercFhandise(f,o.b)                    773        744       10i5        999        914        857                    833        833         942       1578
Net factor income                                -55        -75        -96        -111       -1 03       -93                   -131       -142       -150        -l185
Net tra-nsfers                                    28         28          33         38         31         30                     30         33          36         50
Current Accourt Balance                        -199       -347       -458        -553       -591       -413                   -427       -433       -450        -66?
PrivAte direct investment                         36         43          71         86         70         55                     47         52          56         76
Official Grant Aid                                79         93          72       1i4         122        1I00                   104        113         124        169
Net MLT Losr.s(DRS)                               64        155         145        124        176        104                    182        216         204        254
Dsstl ririlant2100l                                       224        224        245         228        197                    275        322        317         419
Pe'rj, jer ts                                   36         69         78         121         52         93                     93        106         114        166
Other Capital a                                   11        -28          90         92         58         39                    -3Z        -76         -72        -47
Dscr c a'e irn reserves                            9         84         80         117        165        115                    12b        128         138        2.7
i;et forcjc i c;-4 ac .cets(incl.IMF)            -55        171       -298        -413       -490       -526
a Irnc lvd's errors aand ornissior,r.
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                                                              00
GROSS DI SEURSMEN rs
OFFTI:IAL GRANTS                              79.4       92,6       7Z,4      133.5       122.2     1i80.3                  13,6       113.4      124.2       169.4
CON:ESSIoNJAL LOANS                           37,6       54.7       63.8       65,4       157,7      139,1                  1868,    219.8        212.7       275.4
D t                                        15,4        12,8       18.5       12.5       33.8       4Q).8                  43.2       51.4        60.3       E-,.
C,Or_G-:                                    2,2 .1               6,7        01.8      55.6       25,1                   69.1       92.2        71.2       62.7
IDR                                         7.7        9.7       ;16.2       i2.1       47,5       21,0                   27.6       30.5        34.,3      4_.6
OTNER                                      IZ,3       3,2Z        22.4       40.0       20.8       42,2                   46.9       45,7        4S.9      68,7
NON-CC4NCESSIONAL LOANS                       62.2      169,4      159,9      179.7        70.0       68.2                  88.3    12.0        104.7       145.9
OFFICIAL EXPORT CREDITS                     6,9        26.7       4i.5       70.6       30,1       26.LI                  11.0       3S,l        33b6        44,8
I ERD                                      12,9        6,6        11.0       18.0       21.9        4,8                   27,8        ),9        lo.:       12.1
OTHER MOL)TILATERAL                         0.2         6.6        1.8       13.6       10.4        9,8                   a8,3       25.0        25.6       38.5
FrIVA TE                                   42.2      129.5       136.6       77.5        7,6       27.6                   Z1.2      Zl ,k'      Z5.2       44.5
EXTERN.AL DE8T                                 824.8    1177.6    13Z5,I   1634.2    1925.1    2182.7                       Z3a849    2525.9    27Z7.4    4044.8
DEDT Ot-'ST. & DISBUIRSED                   424,6       609.3      792,1      926.2    1120.0    1206.2                   1388.4    1604.3    1838.0    2790,1
o :FICIAL                                 241,7      :45,4       459,3      608.6      817.6      956,9                 165 ,7    1396.6    1605,1 2.5I     Z   ,4
FF,IVllTE                                 182,9      263.9       332,8      317.6      284,4      249.3                  222,7      207.7       202.9      19S,7
UNDISDURSED DEBT                            400.2       568,3      533 ,0     7118.0     823.1       976,5                 996.5       921,6      929.4    1254.7
DEDT srPr ICE
o1  L SE-RVICE PAYMENTS 1/                   56.5        99,5      122,5      177.0       92,2      136,3                  153.9      185.8       199.3      274.6
1rirmLiLST                                 20,8       30.5       44,1        56,2       40.3       43,1                   61,0       79.8       85,5       13a. 8
Pfk','rENT RS % OF EXPORTS                     6,6       15,0       13,0       22,5        13.7       17.8                  20.3        24.2       22.1'       17.6
PVERRAE INTEREST RATE ON NEW LOANS                                                                                              4,7        4,9        5,7        .S.5
AVERAGE MaTURITY OF NEW LOANS(YEARS)            11,2       12.8       20.5        21.4       19.6       22.0                   24.0       21 .3      210,2      1l.o
AVERAGE GRARE PERICD(YEARS)                                            5,7   -   6,2          5.3        6,0                    6.3        6,0        5.6         4.8
AVERAGE GRANT ELEMENT(%)                                                                                                       Z,8       28.1       23,9        21,E
1, Exclucding IMF repurchases



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1983)*
Amount, (less cancellations) 2/
Loan/Credit                                                             (US$ Million)
Number         Year    Borrower    Purpose                     Bank     IDA 3/ Undisbursed 4/
Ten Loansl/ and seventeen Credits fully disbursed             50.78   108.7
530-SE         1975    Senegal      Education II                        15.0        2.20
633-SE         1976    Senegal      Eastern Senegal Livestock            4.2        0.14
1405-T-SE      1977    Senegal      Dakar Fishing Port         6.0                  0.54
1412-T-SE      1977    Senegal      Petite Cote Tourism        8.0                  2.35
1413-SE        1977    Senegal      Petite Cote Tourism        5.6                  1.63
775-SE         1978    Senegal      Debi-Lampsar Irrigation             20.0        3.33
1518-SE        1978    RCFS         Railways III                        11.0        1.22
1665-SE        1979    Senegal      Second Airport             7.0                  2.18
S-23-SE        1979    Senegal      Water Supply Eng. & T.A.             2.5        0.79
908-SE         1979    Senegal      Education III                       22.0       11.33
991-SE         1980    Senegal      Small Rural Operations              11.0        7.87
993-SE         1980    Senegal      Fourth Highway                      28.0        8.40
1810-SE        1980    Senegal      Fourth Highway            10.0                 10.00
S-26-SE        1980    Senegal      Power Eng. and T.A.                  3.3         1.88
1061-SE        1980    Senegal      T.A,. for Planning                   5.3        2.73
1931-SE        1981    Senegal      Structural Adjustment    13.8                   0.11
1973-SE        1981    SOFISEDIT   Investment Promotion        6.5                  5.40
1136-SE        1981    Senegal      Investment Promotion                 2.5        1.60
2025-SE        1981    SEFICS       Rail Transport             19.3                18.41
1103-SE        l981    Senegal      Forestry                             9.3        7.27
1176-SE        1982    Senegal      Agric. Research                     19.5       17.06
1310-SE        1983    Senegal      Rural Health                        15.0       13.88
1323-SE        1983    Senegal      Petroleum Exploration                9.5        8.37
1360-SE        1983    Senegal      Phos. Ind. Dev. Eng.5/               7.7        7.50
1398-SE        1983    Senegal      Second T.A./Parapublic              11.0       10.40
1406-SE        1983    Senegal      E.S. Rural Dev. 5/                  16.1       15.75
Total                                                    137.98   310.60      162.34
of which has been repaid                               15.67      2.56
Total now outstanding                                    122.31   308.04
IBRD    IDA
Amount sold                           3.43    0.10
of which has been repaid           3.24    0.03         0.19      0.07
Total now held by Bank and IDA 4/                        122.12   307.97
Total undisbursed                                         41.84   120.50      162.34
1/    A loan of US$3.5 million for agricultural credit (584-SE) made in 1969 was cancelled
on March 25, 1971.
2/    Prior to exchange adjustments.
3/    Computed at the rate of the approval date.
4/    Computed at the September 30, 1983, rate of SDR = 1.05684 US$.
5/    Not yet effective.
* The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1983)
Amount (US$ Million)
Equity
Fiscal      Obligor              Type of Business         Loan    Investment      Total
1967     Societe Industrielle   Fertilizer Plant          2.45        1.01        3.46
d'Engrais du S6negal
1972)    B'UD Senegal S. A.
1973)                            Vegetable Export          -          0.84        0.84
1976)
1974     SOFISEDIT               Development
Finance Company          -          0.24        0.24
1980     Banque de l1:4abitat    Money and Capital
du Senegal, S.A.        Market                   -          0.47         0.47
1980     Societe Hoteliere
du Barachois, S.A.      Tourism                 3.00         -           3.00
1982     Industries Chimiques
du Senegal              Fertilizer             25.00                    25.00
Total Gross Commitments                        30.45        2.56        33.01
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments, Sales and Losses                    2.45        1.89         4.34
Total Commitments now held by IFC              28.00        0.67        28.67
Undisbursed Balance                            24.00        0.00        24.00
,~ 



- 31 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
DAKAR CONTAINER PORT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the Project:           36 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                         PAD with the assistance
of port consultants
(c) Date of first IDA mission to consider
the Project:                                March 1982
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:   April 1983
(e)  Negotiations completed:                      February 1984
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:               October 1984
Section II:  Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
During Credit negotiations, the Government and PAD provided
assurances for the following principal items:
(a) Plan of Action for: improving operations in the Mali Port Zone,
cleaning  and  reorganizing  port  operational  areas;    reducing
container  dwell  time;    improving  customs'  and  gendarmeries'
activities within the Port area;   improving deployment of PAD
staff; improvement of maintenance (para. 37);
(b) draft compensation plan for settlement of reciprocal debts (para.
59);
(c) financial targets on rate of return, accounts receivable, net
internal cash flow as a percent of capital expenditures (para.
60);
(d) revaluation of fixed assets (para. 44);
(e) annual consultations on PAD's financial performance (para. 60);



- 32 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(f)  debt limitation (para. 63);
(g)  mechanism for payment by PAD of Project taxes and duties (para.
62);
(h)  comprehensive plan to free PAD from cash pooling arrangements and
restore full financial autonomy (para. 40); and
(i)  mechanism for transfer of part of PAD revenues into a Special
Account (para. 59).
(j)  Special Conditions of Credit Effectiveness would be:
i) finalization of compensation plan (para. 59);
ii) implementation of 10% tariff increase beginning July 1
1984 (para. 61);
iii)  execution  of  a  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement  on  terms  and
conditions satisfactory to the Association (para. 52); and
iv)  appointment of a suitably qualified port operations expert
(para. 37).



AT''   \   2 7   '   X '   ; 3 ' 'M SAY;  i-  0   i   -   SEN EG A L
.t _  ,           .      i racHrtLrs N C tg   ;$ f     DAKAR PROPOSED CONTAINER PORT PROJECT
: g                                                     J ~ ='  Existing Port and Approaches
4K                         I~~~~~~~DA        
_ll                      A   ALA tSLrA'^ - FL/ t<>? obc  .eAFLEA LAS                       G
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LL ?wc W''l B g    Aed'. 
, RF                                                               - '  '  - P Pundory
4/N''SE    a,.=r._fFi'.,,---\, eT AALI
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                       CH,A'TS< AT    K ASK
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
AT5                                  AT A1t05                                                         I 
.                    X                              -.2 . d    P. bicL  TEE'sD
:,   _ -   '   ='  =   L-  =   '  =:'                 IA   22
~~ '-_        .- ,                                   'VIA                                 - _ 
=   *    ~~~~   ~~  -   ~ ~  - F F 7. _;             GA /
-~~~~~ ,-D      -K-  X= R-.
SAT  AAF,C,ACC  C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~   ~    .C
_ ~ ~~     ~~          Ki> Z7//IT
'o *.                  /                                                     A   A 
~~~,  F   t    m eees- _
,A   ;8'IJINA-BISA, _p 
*=_ 15') GUINE r X-G






10          ~~20' ALGER [A
20    MAURITANIA                     2'< 20                                               l                                " Zlz                                                    EEA
M A LIf                                                                                                                 DAKAR PROPOSED CONTAINER PORT PROJECT
/NI GEFR                                         0,                                                                                           PROJECT   DETAIL
OAMRsA  /-~                    UPPER  r. 
GUNA  ~         N      'VOLTA    '-
0   ISU   <GiEA.-
fT -,         _G H      T2       1
SIRE    2,   VR/~SI{IE
LiO    I                                                                  7~vrrrrxr REFRIGE RATED CONTAINERS
-CUSTOMS FENCE
I0               2                                                                                                                                      - -       -RAILWAYS
7ZL!:ziPARKING (Trucks)
a                                        -   -.  -  ~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
f-N.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, ~~~~Note: depths indicated, refer to zero (0)
0                               ,?,                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hydrographic of the port, which is 0.4
~~~~ ~~~meters below LLWI.
r-. ~~~~~)  Ok~~~~e                                           ,rrs roapras~~~~~~bl or,,rP-d baa
&-   (I(0 0O<)~                                                              0   5,0  100  150  200            rarrtorfner,re
OK  ~~~~~~~~~~~~,METERS                                              .rre       Thr,r W.orr d B,'crr
<V  A~~~~~~~~5                                                            an~~1  d thrrnrtna,on-afFra,.
p                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C-p-trarOf Tme d-noT-rra,rr
,                                                           Parr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' of The Wcrrkf B,rdk -rd fo
'K 7                                                                                                                                                       rrertrF F -,rr Cop-r-t-
/             0                                      P~~~~~-H0
/                               Devselo~~~~Ph iseni                   /
_   I                                      5F  SHI   
0                                                                         5                                        5~~~~~~~M0    
Rank Project
(Loan, 1405   T  SE 1977)
0110                                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m _v
m ~
o   ____~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



