Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4625-SE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SENEGAL
DAKAR CONTAINER PORT PROJECT
March 29, 1984
Western Africa Projects Department
Transportation Division I
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1   = CFAF 392
CFAF 1 m  = US$2551
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC)
Metric                                           British/US Equivalent
1 meter                                          3.28 feet (ft.)
1 square meter (m2)                  =           10.76 square feet (sq. ft.)
1 cubic meter (m3)                   =           35.50 cubic feet (cu. ft.)
1 kilometer (km)                     =           0.62 mile (mi.)
1 square kilometer (km2)             =           0.39 square mile (sq. mi.)
1 hectare (ha) = 10,000 m2           =           2.47 acres
1 metric ton (t)                     -           2,205 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACC              Agent Comptable Central
BADEA            Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique
BMOP             Bureau de Main d'Oeuvre Portuaire
BOM              Bureau d'Organisation et Mejthodes
CCCE             Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CEP              Centre des Etablissements Publics
CIF              Cost, Insurance and Freight,
CVCCEP           Commission de Verification des Comptes et de Contr5le des
Etablissements Publics
DSP              Directorate of Studies and Programming, Ministry of
Equipment
DWT              Dead Weight Ton
EPIC             Etablissement Public a Caractere Industriel et Commercial
GNP              Gross National Product
GRT              Gross Registered Tonnage
ICS              Industries Chimiques du Senegal
INNA/DPB         Association Internationale des Aides a la
Navigation/Direction des Phares et Balises (France)
KF               Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
KfW              Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau (German Aid Agency)
LCL              Less Than Container Load
LLW              Lowest Low Water
PAD              Port Autonome de Dakar
PAM              Port Autonome de Marseille
RCFS             Regie des Chemins de Fer du Sen6gal
SEFICS           Societe d'Exploitation Ferroviaire des ICS
SEMPAO           Syndicat des Entreprises de Manutention des Ports
d'Afrique Occidentale
TEU              20' Equivalent Unit Container
FISCAL YEAR of PAD
July 01 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SENEGAL
DAKAR CONTAINER PORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  INTRODUCTION ............................................            1
II.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ....................................            2
A.  General .............................................           2
B.  Sectoral Context ....................          .                2
C.  Sector Planning and Investments              .       .          4
D.  Bank Assistance to the Sector .......................           5
III.  THE PORT OF DAKAR .......................................            6
A. Port Facilities and Operations               .        .          6
B. Stevedoring Companies                   ..                       9
C. Traffic - Past and Present                 .        .           10
D. Port Authority of Dakar                   .         .           12
IV. THE PROJECT .17
A. Objectives and Concept    .                .17
B. Project Description    ..18
C. Cost Estimates    ..20
D. Financing Plan    ..21
E.  Project Implementation and Reporting        .     .            23
F.  Procurement and Disbursements ......................           24
G. Action Plan   ..27
H. Environmental Impact    ..27
This report was prepared by Messrs. H. Levy (Economist), R. Venkateswaran
(Financial Analyst), and R. Scheiner (Engineer) on the basis of an ap-
praisal mission in April/May 1983. It was typed by Miss M. E. Houle and
Mrs. L. Juskalian.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (continued)
V.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION ..................................... .28
A. Project Objectives .28
B. Traffic Forecast .28
C.  Alternative Terminal Locations .30
D. Project Benefits .30
E.  Economic Return, Sensitivity Analysis and Risks            32
VI. FINANCIAL EVALUATION ....33
A. Recent Financial Performance
and Current Financial Position .......................    33
B.  Financial Objectives and Targets..                         37
C.  Forecast Financial Performance .......................    40
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .....49
ANNEXES
3-1 Port Traffic: Actual 1973-1982 and Forecast 1985, 1990, 1995
3-2 PAD Organization Chart
4-1 Project Cost Estimate
4-2 Project Execution Time Schedule
4-3 Disbursement Plan
4-4 Estimated Disbursement Schedule
4-5 Plan of Action
5-1 Forecast of Containerizable Traffic
5-2 Forecast of Containerized Traffic by Zone
5-3  Forecast of Container Traffic at Dakar by Type of Ship in 1985
5-4 Containerization Rates: Actual 1980 and Projected 1985, 1990, 1995
5-5 Container Traffic at Dakar Port: Actual 1980-1982 and Forecast
1985, 1987, 1990 and 1995
5-6 Alternative Locations of New Container Terminal
5-7 Key Data for Economic Evaluation
5-8 Costs and Benefits for Economic Evaluation
5-9 Rate of Return Sensitivity Analysis
6-1  PAD - Forecast Income Statements
6-2 PAD - Statement of Source and Applicat:ion of Funds
6-3 PAD - Forecast Pro Forma Balance Sheet
MAPS
IBRD 17165     Port of Dakar -- Existing Porlt and Approaches
IBRD 17166     Project Detail



- iii -
Senegal
Dakar Container Port Project
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN TIHE PROJECT FILE                    File  Code
1.  Report by consultant, Mr. Francis Lefebvre,   Senegal - Ports (3)
dated September 2, 1982.                         BTO - Corres. File
2.  Report by consultant, Mr. Francis Lefebvre,   Senegal - Ports (3)
dated January 18, 1983.                          BTO   Corres. File
3.  Feasibility Study, "Etude du Terminal ai
Conteneurs et du Schema Directeur du
Port de Dakar,"   by  Port  Autonome de          Doc. # 220-033 (Al-A8)
Marseille/GETRAM, dated March 1981 (six
volumes and one Annex Volume).
4.  Complementary Report to the Feasibility           Doc. # 220-033 (B)
Study, dated September 1982.
5.  Complementary Report to the Feasibility           Doc. # 220-033 (C)
Study, dated January 1983.
6.  Port Autonome de Dakar, Statistiques              Senegal - PAD - M.
Comparees, December 1982.                        Stat.R., Dec. 1982
7.  Statutes of SEMPAO.                               Doc. # 220-033 (D)
8.  Report by Consultants Messrs. Bastard
and Rivoal, dated December 1983,
"Plan d'action pour l'exploitation du            Doc. # 220-285
PAD, Rapport relatif a l'elaboration
du plan."



- iv -
SENEGAL
DAKAR CONTAINER PORT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     Government of Senegal
Beneficiary:                 Port Authority of Dakar
Credit Amount:               SDR 2.6 million (US$2.65 million equivalent)
from IDA.   SDR 4.7 million (US$4.85 million
equivalent) from the Special Fund adminis-
tered by IDA.
Terms:                        Standard
Relending Terms:              At current IBRD interest rate -- 20 years,
including four years' grace.
Project Description:          The project provides for (i) construction of
new infrastructure for container handling,
including construction of a 430 m long quay
wall, reclaiming of an 8.2 ha area for con-
tainer handling, and paving and installation
of related utilities; (ii) rehabilitation of
some port facilities;   (iii) consultant ser-
vices and technical assistance in project
supervision, financial management and opera-
tions, information systems and procedures,
and tariff and port management studies;  and
(iv) training of port staff in operations,
management and iinance.
Benefits  and  Risks:         The  quantified  economic  benefits  from  the
proposed project include savings in ship
service time and in handling costs stemming
from more effic:Lent operations resulting from
the project and avoidance of double handling
of containers which would have resulted due
to  saturation  of  existing  port  storage
areas.  Costs include the physical construc-
tion costs, incremental maintenance and all
associated capital costs, i.e., project su-
pervision, training and studies, representing
90% of total project costs.  On the basis of



v 
a 25 year economic life, the proposed project
yields an economic rate of return of 23%.
There are no significant economic risks asso-
ciated with the project since the larger part
of the project construction costs are based
upon actual bid prices.   Additionally,  ade-
quate safeguards have been taken to ensure
that the new terminal will be efficiently
operated and that expected benefits will
materialize.    On  the  financial  side,  the
Port's finances are sufficiently robust to
withstand reduced levels of tariff charges
and a drop in forecast traffic.    The base
financial analysis has been tested under
adverse conditions of traffic, tariff and
operating cost changes which show that the
downside risk is minimal.   The main risk is
ultimately institutional in that PAD's in-
ternal structure does not develop as envis-
aged and that, as a result, PAD's management
does not improve to the extent forecast. The
provision  of  technical  assistance  and  the
action plan measures to be taken early in the
project would minimize this risk.
Estimated Cost:
---U$  Millions------
Local    Foreign    Total
i. Civil Works                                2.53      9.13     11.66
ii. Consultant Services                        0.14      0.99      1.13
iii. Technical Assistance                       0.10      1.20      1 .30
iv. Training                                    --       0.13      0.13
v. Deferred Maintenance                       0.44      0.19      0.63
Base Cost (February 1984 prices)           3.21     11.64     14.85
Physical Contingencies                     0.43      1.72     2.15
Price Contingencies                        0.63      2.00     2.63
Total Project Cost (Net of Taxes)          4.27     15.36     19.63
Taxes and Duties                           5.55       -       5.55
Total Project Cost                         9.82     15.36    25.18
Interest during Constructi-on              1.23      1.14     2.37
TOTAL Y1XANCIl MEU=ED                     11.05     16.50     27.55



- vi -
Financing Plan:
----US$ Millions--
Local         Foreign         Total
Special Fund
Admuinstered by TDA           -              4.85           4.85
TDA                             --            2.65            2.65
CCCE                           1.8C            4.85           6.65
Kuwait Fuzd                    1.C8            3.01           4.09
Total EKternal Sources           2.88           15.36          18.24
PAD                              8.17            1.14           9.31
TOT~AL                        11.05           16.50          27.55
Estimated Disbursements of Special Fund Administered by IDA:
----------U$ Millions--
FY85     FY86      FY7      FYE
Annual                          1.4       2.6     0.85
CumlLative              -       1.4       4.0     4.85
Estimated IDA Disbursements
-      ---US$ MiIlions-
FY85     FYB6      FY87     F_E       FY89
Annual                 0.7      1.1       0.6     0.15       0.1
Cunmlative             0.7      1.8       2.4     2-55      2.65
Economic Rate of Return:         23%



SENEGAL
DAKAR CONTAINER PORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Dakar has a major international deep-water port.   While its
important bunker oil traffic dropped sharply following reopening of the
Suez Canal, as did transshipments for Nigeria, its general cargo import
traffic grew slowly but steadily during the last decade, and container
traffic increased some tenfold during the period.
1.02      Because  of  economic  considerations  in a highly  competitive
market, most of the shipping companies, in an effort to streamline opera-
tions and reduce costs, are continuing to introduce large fully contain-
erized vessels in many of their liner operations from Western Europe, the
Mediterranean and the Far East to the West African main ports:  Dakar,
Abidjan,  Lagos,  and Douala.   These vessels,  built in the late seven-
ties/early eighties, are likely to continue on this route for the next
two decades.   Because of the regular and reliable services offered to-
gether with freight rates competitive with those of general cargo vessels
and lower insurance, an increasing share of general cargo and break-bulk
bagged-cargoes is shipped in containers.
1.03      During appraisal of the Port Autonome de Dakar (PAD) Fishing
Port Project (Loan 1405-T-SE, US$6 million, 1977), it became apparent
that the process of containerization was developing at a very fast
pace.   Based on experience in other countries, it was already evident
that the available port facilities would soon become inadequate to handle
container traffic, both from the cargo and the shipping points of view,
thus reducing the potential advantage of containerization and adding
unnecessary costs to Senegal's international trade.  The Loan provided,
therefore, some US$250,000 for a feasibility study to assess requirements
for container handling facilities.  The technical and economic feasibil-
ity study for container handling was executed by the Bureau d'Etudes of
the Port of Marseille  (PAM).   The study showed that port facilities,
while adequate to serve most general cargo traffic needs, are indeed not
suitable to handle containers efficiently. The consultant's final report
was  issued in January 1983;   the total project cost is estimated at
US$27.6 million equivalent.



1.04      The Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE, France)
and the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (KF) have agreed to co-
finance the project;   the proposed IDA Credit of US$2.65 million would
finance only 10% of the project cost net of taxes and interest during
construction, and the proposed Special Fund Credit of US$4.85 million
equivalent would finance 28% of the same total. Both the CCCE and the KF
participated in the project preparation actively, including the appraisal
mission during early May 1983.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. General
2.01      Most of Senegal's 196,000 km2 are in the Sahel Region, with
relatively unfavorable climate and soils for agriculture. Despite this,
the population of about 6.0 million, growirng at an annual rate of 2.7%,
is predominantly rural and 80% dependent on agriculture.   Nevertheless,
this sector generates only 25% of GDP;  the principal crops are ground-
nuts, mainly for export, and millet for domestic consumption.
2.02      Senegal's economic growth is hampered by lack of natural re-
sources.  The country's main foreign exchange earners are phosphate rock
--although the price has been depressed for many years--, groundnuts,
tourism and fishing.  The industrial sector is small, and most consumer
goods as well as food products are and will continue to be imported.  An
important component of the country's GNP has been the transit services to
air and shipping lines provided by Dakar, the national capital, strate-
gically located in the most western tip of the region.  This transit role
has diminished since the mid-70s due to the growth of other cities in the
region and changes in airway and maritime routes requiring less transit
stops. As the GNP has stagnated lately, the income per capita decreased
to US$440 eQuivalent.  ICS, a major phosphoric acid fertilizer plant pro-
ject, is expected to make an important contribution to export earnings
when it opens in October 1984, and the only other major export earning
potential would be the Miferso iron ore deposits, dependent on favorable
world prices.
B. Sectoral Context
Ports and Shipping
2.03      Dakar has a major international deep-water port in an excellent
sheltered location, on the main international shipping routes connecting
Europe with West and South African ports and the East Coast of South
America. The Port is frequented by many conference lines. These lines,
in an effort to streamline their operations and reduce costs, are intro-
ducing large container vessels carrying 1,200-1,400 containers in their
West African services.  The port facilities are adequate to handle most



- 3 -
general cargo and bulk traffic, but its limited container handling facil-
ities are practically saturated causing inefficient operations.   Thus,
while there is no ship waiting time, the service times are unnecessarily
high.   Further,  as in other countries, as a result of the imbalanced
trade, bagged cargoes, which traditionally were exported in general cargo
vessels, are increasingly shipped in containers. Details are provided in
Chapter III.
2.04      Coastal shipping, serving the secondary ports at Kaolack, Zi-
guinchor and St. Louis, is minimal, to some extent due to limited access,
and to some extent due to faster land transport;   river navigation is
possible during part of the year only, and is also declining as better
road connections are developed.
Railways
2.05      The Regie des Chemins de Fer du Senegal (RCFS) was developed as
a feeder to the Port with two main lines, one to the Mali border and one
to St. Louis, and several smaller branches.   The railway has gradually
lost traffic to road transport;  currently, it handles mostly imports for
Mali and short-haul phosphate exports, each of these accounting annually
for some 140 million ton-km, while only some 10 million ton-km correspond
to general cargo and groundnuts.   Passenger traffic declined some 70%
over the last decade. The railway has major operational problems result-
ing in inability to handle all available traffic.   While staff numbers
have been reduced over the last years, they are still plethoric and earn
high and fast-rising salaries which cannot be covered with revenues.
2.06      In response to railway inadequacies, the track to Mali is being
rehabilitated under the ongoing railway project, and additional financing
is being considered by France (CCCE) and the Federal Republic of Germany
(KfW);   a Cooperative Management Service with the Malian Government was
created to coordinate international services; and the Industries Chimi-
ques du Senegal (ICS) created with Bank (IFC) 1/ assistance its own rail-
way subsidiary, Soci6te d'Exploitation Ferroviaire des Industries Chimi-
ques du Senegal (SEFICS), with rolling stock and locomotives that will
lease CFS's track and run its own freight traffic starting in 1984. Mali
has included in its 1981-85 Economic Development Plan facilities to adapt
the railway to the needs of container traffic.
Road Transport
2.07      Some  95%  of all domestic transport  in Senegal is done by
road. Senegal's road network totals some 14,000 km, of which some 3,500
km  are  paved.    Over  the  last  10  years,  with  relatively  sizeable
1/ IFC Report No. IFC T-369. SENEGAL ICS Fertilizer and SEFICS Rail
Transport Projects, May 1981.



- 4 -
investments, the road network has become one of the best in West
Africa:  paved roads increased from some 2,250 km to 3,500 km, and all-
weather gravel roads increased from some 2,280 km to 5,500 km.  Some 20%
of the paved roads are less than five years old and 40% less than 10
years. In parallel, the vehicle fleet has increased to some 65,000 units
at about 7% p.a., and used some 7% more fuel every year. Some 80% of the
car fleet and 60% of other vehicles are based in Dakar, where about 75%
of all traffic originates or terminates;   the most trafficked road sec-
tion, joining Dakar and the rest of the network through the Cap Vert
Peninsula, has reached some 14,000 vpd.  Thus the importance of preserv-
ing the network and keeping vehicle operating costs to a minimum.  How-
ever, the Government has been unable to fund properly maintenance activi-
ties, and IDA and other agencies are providing assistance in this field
under a recently approved Fifth Highway Project.
Aviation
2.08      The main international airport at Dakar has had an impressive
traffic growth during the 1970s and has been upgraded to handle it;  as
further growth should be slower, and the trend towards wide-bodied air-
craft is expected to continue, the runway capacity should suffice until
the year 2000.  The traffic is mainly passengers, as freight by ship has
a clear price advantage over airborne traffic. The national airline, Air
Senegal, provides scheduled flights to 13 domestic airports, the busiest
routes being Dakar-Cap Skirring, a touris-t resort, and Dakar-Ziguinchor,
Senegal's third largest city, each with some 10,000 passengers yearly.
Only two other routes, those to St. Louis and Tambacounda, have more than
1,000 passengers per year.  In general, the airline runs a deficit from
some low traffic routes imposed by the Government and again, road trans-
port has gradually become more and more competitive as roads are improved
and services expanded.
C. Sector Planning and Investments
2.09      The responsibility for transport planning and coordination is
shared by various agencies: the Ministries of Plan, of Equipment, and of
Finance.  Plan has overall responsibility for the four-year plans, while
Equipment acts through its Directorate of Studies and Programming (DSP),
and through the Department of Transport.   Finance specifies investment
ceilings in each mode, structure and level of taxes, collects all tax
revenues and payments due to the parastatals, such as the Port, and allo-
cates operating funds.   Interministerial committees address particular
subjects, as road maintenance funding, tariffs of transport services and
subsidies.
2.10      A National Transport Plan which contains valuable information
was completed in 1981 by the DSP under the Third Highway Project;   it
identified the priority projects for Senegal in all modes including the



proposed container terminal project and made policy recommendations. The
transport system overall can be considered adequate, although qualified
staff is in short supply,
2.11      Investments in transport in Senegal absorbed 21% of total pub-
lic investment during the Fifth Plan period (1977-81).   Road projects
accounted for more than 70% of the transport sector investments.   The
past two Plan Investments were as follows:
Senegal - Investnent in Transport
during Fourth and Fifth Plans
(Millions of CFAF)
Ports
and
Roads    Rail   Shipping  Aviation  Total
Fourth Plan, 1973/77
(actual investnents)    20,000   4,300    3,200  3,500   31,000
Fifth Plan, 1977/81
(actual investments)  40,245   3,692    8,053    3,403   55,393
The Sixth Plan foresaw a 16% allocation of total investment to the sec-
tor, or CFAF 71 billion, but the Plan was significantly scaled down in
1983 since financing was not available and the Government's investment
policy has been shifting, with Bank's encouragement, to maintaining as-
sets, improving efficiency, and focussing investments on renewals and on
projects needed to satisfy rapidly increasing demands and which will not
impose a financial burden on the Government.
D. Bank Assistance to the Sector
2.12      The World  Bank Group  has actively helped  finance  transport
investments.   Since the start of operations in Senegal in 1966 to date,
the Bank Group has invested US$138.6 million under 13 loans/credits, in
addition to financing feeder roads under agricultural projects, and mobi-
lized considerable cofinancing. There have been five highway, four rail-
way,  two aviation, and two port projects.   Currently underway are two
highway and two railway projects.   The railways, aviation and port pro-
jects were conceived, in addition to helping meet Senegal's domestic
transport needs, to support Dakar's role as an international transit
point.
2.13      The port projects consisted  of the First Dakar Port Project
(Loan 493-SE, US$4 million, 1967) to improve infrastructure and opera-
tions and the Second Project, the Dakar Fishing Port Project (Loan 1405-
T-SE, US$6 million, 1977), cofinanced by BADEA and CCCE, which provided



- 6 -
for construction of a fishing wharf and ancillary works, technical assis-
tance and studies of the fishing industry and of a container terminal.
The Project Performance Audit Report of the First Project stated that it
had been a successful investment with a satisfactory return and the phy-
sical works well executed.  The physical facilities of the Fishing Port
were completed well within cost and became operational in 1981; they are
being efficiently utilized.   Since the technical assistance components
are being completed, the PCR has not yet been prepared.
2.14      The recently approved Fifth Highway Project exclusively for
maintenance and the proposed container project are the only new Bank
transportation projects foreseen under the Sixth Plan period.   These
projects' objectives support the Government strategy of emphasis on main-
tenance and rehabilitation.
III. THE PORT OF DAKAR
A. Port Facilities and Operations
Facilities
3.01      The Port of Dakar enjoys an excellent sheltered location free
from heavy swells and siltation.   Two long breakwaters enclose a large
port basin of some 210 ha providing a total of 37 cargo and five petrole-
um berths with various alongside drafts and in varying maintenance condi-
tion. Twenty-seven cargo berths are for vessels with drafts of 9-1lm at
LLW and 10 berths are for vessels with drafts of 5-9m at LLW (IBRD Map
No. 17165).   Most berthing facilities were constructed according to the
traditional system of the mid-thirties to fifties, providing narrow fin-
ger piers with substantial berthing length totalling some 4,380 m but
having very limited operational areas totalling 16.7 ha only. The system
was satisfactory since vessels' cargo unloading rates were extremely low-
-50-150 tons/day--and most cargoes--in small packages--were directly
hauled from ship's side to storage areas out of the port, i.e., direct
delivery (similarly with loading operations).   Nowadays, due to modern
shipping and cargo handling technologies (Ro-Ro vessels -- roll-on, roll-
off --, unitized cargoes, containers, etc.), loading speeds have in-
creased 20- to 30-fold.   Ships unload or load large quantities of cargo
in a few hours, thus requiring large operational areas and excellent
cargo handling equipment. Modern facilities require an area of about 4-6
ha per berth of 200-220m, compared to the less than one ha available at
present.
3.02      Port operational areas now available for container handling
amount to some 3 ha but these are dispersed and generally unsuitable for
modern operations.   Additional difficulties are caused by the fact that
the existing facilities are located in the older section of the city, and



all containers leaving or entering the port area must use the main com-
mercial thoroughfares, thus increasing traffic congestion and causing
accidents.   In spite of these inadequate conditions, the Port handled
some 36,000 containers (40,000 TEU)  1/ in 1982 and 39,000 containers
(42,000 TEU) in 1983.  However, the capacity of the available areas has
reached its limit, and any additional container traffic will further
decrease the overall efficiency of operations, causing congestion on the
wharfs and delays to vessels. A new container handling operational area
of some 0.8 ha, together with Ro-Ro vessel berthing facilities, was com-
pleted in October 1983.   This new area, though in the vicinity but not
contiguous to the existing areas, will alleviate the operational diffi-
culties for two to three years only, when the number of containers
handled should reach about 46,000 containers (50,000 TEU). However, the
non-continuity of operational areas requires double handling and substan-
tially  longer  hauling  distances  of  containers  by  forklift  and
tractor/trailer.
3-03      The recently completed Fishing Port provides some 1,500m length
of new berth with varying drafts of 7-lOm at LLW and 10.5 ha of reclaimed
land, capable of handling all forecast fishery-related activities.
3.04      Dakar has the largest ship repair facilities on the West Afri-
can coast comprising the following capacities: 60,000 DWT floating dock,
25,000 DWT drydock and 1,200 DWT synchrolift.   The floating dock, fi-
nanced largely through suppliers' credits, was opened early in 1981, but
has since been suffering from lack of work caused by the general slump in
the shipping industry. The Government hopes that ship repair facilities
will eventually become a major foreign exchange earner.
Operations
3.05      The Port is managed and operated on the traditional French
concept whereby the Port Authority, the owner of the Port, operates the
Port as a Landlord Port (Port de Service), with limited operational func-
tions, mainly those of the harbor master in charge of pilotage and berth-
ing of vessels, and the provision and operation of shore and floating
cranes.  The Port owns the pilot vessels;   five 6-ton shore cranes, two
of which are beyond repair;   one 60-ton floating crane downgraded from
100 tons;   and one 17-ton mobile crane.  The floating crane and two of
the shore cranes are the only equipment used occasionally by vessels for
handling heavy lifts, as ships normally use their own gear.   Private
companies perform all cargo handling and stevedoring operations, tugboat
services and other traditional port operational activities. This concept
has its merits as it removes from PAD all managerial and operational
burdens relating to employment of labor, handling and storage of cargo,
1/ TEU = 20' Equivalent Unit Container. One 20' container presents 1
TEU; one 40' container presents 2 TEU.



- 8 -
dealing  with  agents  and  vessels,  etc.   On the other hand,  certain
difficulties have developed in the Port mainly as a result of the limited
involvement of management in the Port's day-to-day operations:
- inefficient operations in the Mali Port Zone (para. 3.06);
- inefficient use of some of the Port's operational areas due
mainly to the unscheduled arrival of food grain vessels
(para. 3.10); and
- insufficient control of the customs and gendarmeries' activ-
ities within the Port area (para. 3.12).
3.06      The Mali Port Zones, in the Port; of Dakar, comprise an area of
about 1.7 ha in the southern part of the Port on Mole 3 (for general
cargo) and 1.6 ha in the northern part of the Port (for bulk).  In ac-
cordance with the 1963 agreements between the governments of Senegal and
Mali, these zones are exclusively reserved for the cargo destined for the
Republic of Mali.   Railway lines connect to both areas.  Although Mali
traffic on M5le 3 comprises between 2% and 4% of general cargo handled in
the Port of Dakar, it occupies some 18% of the operational general cargo
handling areas available in the Port, i.e., a ratio of one to six. While
other port operational areas suffer from congestion resulting in ineffi-
cient operations at times, the Mali Port Zone has space underutilized and
inefficiently operated. The storage areas of Mali cargo are highly dis-
organized, and cargo is thrown around and spoiled to an extreme degree.
The agreement between the two governments, however, does not permit PAD's
unilateral intervention to improve the Mali Zone's operational efficiency
or to reduce its allocated operational areas to suit the overall cargo
demand.  Such an improvement would benefit Mali economically while free-
ing some operational areas which PAD could lease from them and put to
good use until the new container terminal becomes operative sometime in
1987. It was agreed during negotiations to try to improve the operations
in the Mali Zone following the recommendations to be made by the ongoing
study "The Transportation Link Bamako-Dakar." 1/
3.07      The project allocates major inputs to improve the Port's opera-
tions and management levels through experts' services preceding Credit
effectiveness and through technical assistance as part of the project.
As a first step, with remaining funds from the Fishing Port Project (Loan
1405-T-SE), the Port engaged two operations experts to review in detail
the Port's present managerial and operational systems, and to make recom-
mendations on measures to improve Port operations, augment management's
involvement in the Port's activities and ensure that the Port will be
1/ This study is financed by the "Fonds d'Aide et de Coop'eration" (FAC)
of the Republic of France following the requests of the governments of
Mali and Senegal.



- 9 -
able to handle the growing traffic of general and containerized cargo
until the new container terminal becomes operative sometime in 1987.
Following the experts' recommendations, a detailed action plan together
with timetable and manpower inputs, aimed at achieving the aforesaid
objectives, was agreed upon during negotiations. In addition, the action
plan foresees the review of alternative uses for some existing facilities
(particularly M5le 2) which would remain underutilized for several years
after the opening of the new terminal, with a view to reducing mainte-
nance costs, and generating revenues through leasing of such facilities
for other uses. Implementation of the agreed action plan will begin soon
with funds remaining in Loan 1405-SE.
B. Stevedoring Companies
3.08      Ten private  stevedoring  companies  are engaged in the daily
cargo handling operations.   Of these, the three largest have been hand-
ling, since 1980, some 75% of the total cargo throughput of the Port of
Dakar, both general cargo and containers.   Each stevedoring company is
allocated an operational area both for general and containerized cargoes
based on the quantities of cargoes and number of containers it handled in
the previous year.
3.09      Operations of the stevedoring companies are regulated through
the Syndicat des Entreprises de Manutention des Ports d'Afrique Occiden-
tale (SEMPAO) which deals with PAD and regulates their internal rela-
tions. The companies engage their stevedoring and dock labor through its
service company, Bureau de Main d'Oeuvre Portuaire (BMOP). The companies
have their own training program for labor and equipment operators who are
efficient and hard working.   Good relations prevail between the larger
companies who help each other with equipment and spare parts, and share,
during peak periods, some of their operation areas.
3.10      The use of the operational areas for general cargo is not very
satisfactory, and disorder prevails in many areas, partially caused by
the physical deterioration of the storage areas and delays caused by
customs. Additional operational difficulties are caused by the unsched-
uled arrival of food grain vessels which discharge up to 200,000 tons of
bulk cargo per month.   Because of lack of adequate storage facilities,
the grain is unloaded wherever space is available.
3.11      The use of the container handling port areas is still marginal-
ly efficient if we consider the given constraints. The present difficul-
ties of the container handling operations are:
(a) the shortage of storage areas available to the stevedoring com-
panies;
(b) the relatively high average length of stay of full containers
within the Port area (15 days) before being claimed by owners
and taken out of the Port for unstuffing;



- 10 -
(c)  most of the stevedoring companies maintain operational areas
outside the Port where they have their own sheds to handle LCLs
both for unstuffing and stuffing.   The number of containers
handled there is about 15% of the total container traffic.  A
customs officer must accompany the containers from the Port to
the company's area;  however, customs' time allocation is lim-
ited to two hours in the morning and two hours in the after-
noon, and a high cost is charged by the customs for this ser-
vice; and
(d) the high degree of corruption and pilferage involving, directly
and indirectly, both the gendarmerie and customs, resulting in
serious losses, which are passed on as higher consumer prices
and result in a general feeling of insecurity.
3.12      Currently, insurance companies charge 2% of CIF landed value
for breakbulk and general cargo and 1.5% for containerized cargo.  Both
numbers are above accepted charges in European and many Mediterranean
ports.   A strong and active hand of the Port Authority can improve the
security situation in the Port and could facilitate the cumbersome re-
quirements by the customs and gendarmerie.   The recommendations of the
operations experts relating to the improved use of general cargo opera-
tional areas, the reduction of container dwell time, and avoidance of
cumbersome customs requirements were discussed during negotiations and
were included in the action plan for improvements agreed upon.   As a
first step, the Port will engage for a period of three years a port oper-
ations expert to organize and improve the Port's operational functions
(para. 4.17).
C. Traffic - Past and Present
3.13      Traffic at Dakar Port, as it evolved over the past ten years,
is detailed in Annex 3-1 and summarized as follows:



- 1 1 -
Senegal - Traffic at Dakar Port, 1973-82
COm) Toms)
1973   1975   19    1981   1982
Dry Cargo                    1,261    797  1,C86  1,185  1,232
Liquid Blk                   1,711  1,347  1,276  1,072    995
Subtotal    2,972  2,144  2,362  2,257  2,227
Exports
Dry Cargo                    2,182  1,974  1,869  1,684  1,870
Liquid Balk                  1,124    679    262   240   341
Subtotal    3,306  2,653  2,131  1,924  2,211
TOTAL   6,278  4,797  4,493  4,181  4,43B
(in containers)    (-)    (41)  (214)  (233)  (275)
3.14      Dry general cargo and fuels are the main import categories and
phosphate is the main export.  Total traffic declined slightly over the
last decade and experienced shifts in its composition, mainly because of
the reduction of imports of petroleum products and the export of phos-
phates.   Dry cargo imports were at their lowest level in 1975;   they
increased steadily since then, and by 1982 had reached 1.23 million
tons.   More recently, however, growth has been slower--4.7% per year
since 1979. Food products accounted for 720,000 tons in 1982, represent-
ing about 60% of total dry cargo imports. Dry cargo exports have amount-
ed to about two million tons, but in recent years, they have been some-
what lower due to the depressed phosphate market. In 1982, they amounted
to 1.87 million tons, of which 1.56 million tons was phosphate and some
100,000 tons each were groundnut products and fish. The export of fish
and its products is developing adequately following the completion of the
fishing port under Loan 1405-T-SE.
3.15       Dakar Port has traditionally served a transit role for Mali and
Mauritania foreign trade, handling annually some 80,000-100,000 tons and
30,000-40,000 tons for them, respectively, during the last five years.
3.16       For many years, Dakar also was an important fuel re-supply stop
for ships. In 1973, the Port provided one million tons of bunkering fuel
and needed to import a correspondingly high volume of petroleum pro-
ducts.  Mainly due to changes in maritime routes after the reopening of
the Suez Canal in 1974, Dakar has been gradually losing this service
which, by 1982, had gone down to 170,000 tons.  Still, fuel imports are
near the one million ton level per year.



- 12 -
3.17      The growth of containerized traffic has been the most signifi-
cant change in Dakar's traffic and service in recent years.  In 1975, the
Port handled 5,800 containers (in and out) carrying 40,500 tons of dry
cargo;   in 1983, this traffic had reached 39,000 containers (or 42,000
TEUs), carrying some 290,000 tons.   The growth of container traffic is
also reviving Dakar's role as a transit stop:  in 1983, some 1,900 con-
tainers were in transit from or to other West African ports.
D. Port Authority of Dakar
Administration
3.18      The Port Authority of Dakar (Port Autonome de Dakar, PAD) was
formed in 1959, and since 1960 has been an agency of the Republic of
Senegal.  Its legal status is that of an "etablissement public a carac-
tere industriel et commercial" (EPIC).  In practice, this means the pre-
sence of an over-zealous control by numerous Government agencies, which
often have conflicting and overlapping reEsponsibilities.  It also means
that the Port's financial autonomy is fairly limited by a priori control
of all budget expenditures and by a centraL treasury pool into which all
port revenues must be deposited under the so-called "unicit' de caisse"
concept.  For PAD, it has meant the inability to use its cash income for
its own needs on time (para. 6.01).
3.19      The Board of Directors of the Port Authority has 18 members and
meets at least three times a year.   The chairman is appointed by the
President of the Republic;  the vice-chairman represents the Minister of
Finance.  Eight members of the Board are Government representatives, one
each represents the Government of Mali, the National Assembly and the
Chamber of Commerce, five represent the Port users, and two represent the
Port's personnel.   Decisions of the Board are subject to the joint ap-
proval of the Ministers of Equipment and Finance. Port charges on goods
also require prior agreement of the Minister of Commerce.
3.20      PAD manages and maintains the port facilities, and is respons-
ible for all improvement and expansion works.   All executive functions
are vested in the General Manager of PAD, who also acts, under the au-
thority of the Minister of Equipment, as coordinator of all activities of
various Government departments and agencies in the Port--health and immi-
gration services, gendarmerie,  customs, and railways.   These agencies,
however, act almost completely independently and the PAD has very little
actual say in their day-to-day activities.
3.21      Maintenance of the Senegalese navigation aids is carried out by
a sub-division of PAD, and managed by expatriate staff from Association
Internationale des Aides a la Navigation/Direction des Phares et Balises
(INNA/DPB, France) which also provides the buoy tender LEON BORDELLE
without charge.



- 13 -
Organization and Staffing
3.22      PAD has a total of 727 employees engaged mainly in the non-
operational service sectors.   The staff is organized into five depart-
ments reporting to the General Manager (Annex 3-2).  The functioning of
the existing organization is not very satisfactory and, excluding the
director of the engineering department, none of the directors is an ac-
tive decision-taking line manager, and most of the decision-making is
left to the General Manager.   BOM is currently carrying out a study to
recommend a new organization for PAD.  The action plan (paras. 3.25 and
4.17) foresees the review and comments by port organization experts of
the proposed reorganization.
3.23      In particular, the lack of a financial manager and well-organ-
ized financial staff has resulted in non-existent internal controls, poor
follow-up of financial matters and no financial information flow.   The
manager of the commercial department functions as the financial officer
and budget manager, but lacks both expertise and enterprise to do either
job, besides taking care of client accounts, claims, billings, etc.  At
the same time, the Port accountant runs an isolated accounts section that
is very poorly organized and that has continued to prepare annual ac-
counts bearing little relation to reality.   The problems of the Port
financial organization have been well studied under a recently completed
audit, and the recommendations form the major thrust of the organization-
al reform to be carried out under the project.   As a first step, with
remaining financing from the Fishing Port Project (Loan 1405-T-SE), the
Port will hire not later than September 1, 1984, a full-time Director of
Finance (Controller), to organize the Port's financial functions, its
financial information flow and set up its internal controls (para. 4.12)
for a period of at least two years. In addition, provision has been made
for expert assistance on an as-needed basis in other areas of accounting
and general financial management.  This technical assistance effort will
continue at least through June 1987 under the proposed project in each
area, so that PAD staff can be properly trained and financial control and
management information systems established.
3.24      The 207 staff permanently employed in PAD's engineering depart-
ment are in charge of new constructions and maintenance of buildings,
utilities, transit sheds and port infrastructure. Larger works are done
by outside contractors.   The inadequate level of maintenance is caused
mainly by lack of funds. It is for this reason that the proposed project
includes provision of funds for deferred maintenance and for improving
maintenance.
3.25      There is no port operations information system, and PAD has no
organized up-to-date information relating to cargo, vessels, labor, out-
puts, demurrage,  etc.;   all of this is kept by the stevedoring compa-
nies. This lack of data prevents PAD from practically any possibility of



- 14 -
monitoring the efficiency of the operational activities in the Port, and
from proper setting of fees. The plan of action agreed upon during nego-
tiations covers, among others, the following:
(a) a more efficient deployment of PAD's staff;
(b)  a general improvement of the Port's financial organization;
(c)  a general improvement of the Port's data processing and manage-
ment information systems;
(d) a more efficient deployment of PAD's engineering department's
staff; and
(e) the general improvement of the level of maintenance.
Accounting
3.26      PAD'S general accounting system broadly follows usual commer-
cial principles and is based on the Senegalese Accounting Plan. There is
as yet no analytical or cost accounting.   Technical assistance was pro-
vided under the Fishing Port Project towards the introduction of a modern
cost accounting system, but this work has not been completed, partly due
to delays in acquiring a computer system.  The cost accounting system is
now expected to be implemented and should be fully operational by mid-
1984.
3.27      Major weaknesses in the accounting procedures were revealed by
the external auditors in their report of January 1983. During appraisal,
measures to rectify these deficiencies and reorganize PAD accounts were
discussed.   The scope of work of the auditors was somewhat modified to
provide for greater accounting assistance.   As part of these immediate
measures, PAD recruited more junior level staff to distribute the work-
load more efficiently.   The expert consultant attached to the Govern-
ment's Central Accounting Office (CEP) was seconded to PAD on a part time
basis to supervise this immediate work of rectifying major accounting
errors (in fixed asset schedules, accounts receivable, billings cycle,
tax liability and long term debt schedules) revealed by the audit.  Much
of this work has now been satisfactorily completed and the auditors are
completing the FY1982 and FY1983 audit programs.
Budget and Finance
3.28      Annual budgets are prepared in the Commercial Department with
inputs from the other departments.  The Commercial Director acts as Bud-
get Director.   However,  this would change under the proposed project.
PAD has agreed to set up a proper Finance Department to handle all finan-
cial matters pertaining to budgets, investments, internal controls and



- 15 -
financial planning. Under the Port statutes, which are those of an 'ta-
blissement public a caractere industriel et commercial (Public Enter-
prise), under Senegalese legislation, the Port's Chief Accountant func-
tions under authority granted by the Minister of Finance. His main res-
ponsibilities cover the basic bookkeeping and fiduciary functions.   Fi-
nancial planning, budget and cost control, internal audit and such other
controllership functions are left to the General Manager to organize.
The soon-to-be-recruited Director of Finance would assume and discharge
these responsibilities in a systematic and organized manner.
Revaluation of Fixed Assets
3.29      PAD last revalued its fixed assets in 1968.  Under the Fishing
Port Project, a new revaluation was carried out, but it was not incorpor-
ated in the books due to the legal difficulties under Senegalese account-
ing regulations to incorporate such changes. Moreover, the fiscal impli-
cations of a major change in asset values have not been examined with the
tax authorities.   In all likelihood they would involve a large tax lia-
bility.   Moreover,  the audit of FY80 and FY81  accounts revealed major
underrecording of asset values and depreciation on PAD's books and thus
makes PAD's proposed revaluations dubious and incorrect. A more thorough
physical inventory of all fixed assets is needed before a revaluation
exercise can be undertaken.  During appraisal it was agreed that such a
physical inventory would be carried out under the audit program now un-
derway and that the existing fixed asset ledger would be first rectified
and updated as at June 30, 1984.   During negotiations, PAD agreed to
prepare a revaluation of its corrected fixed asset base as at June 30,
1985, and incorporate the figures into a set of pro forma accounts, to be
presented to the Association no later than December 31, 1985, and annual-
ly thereafter.   The pro forma accounts should permit PAD to demonstrate
its adherence to the proposed rate of return covenant that would become
operative in FY1988.
Audit
3.30      PAD's external audits were carried out in the past by the Na-
tional Audit Commission (CVCCEP). However, due to its limited staff, the
Commission could only do an in-depth financial and management audit once
every five years.  The Port's audit was entrusted under the Fishing Port
Project to HELIOS (a French audit firm with ties to Arthur Young) who
have just completed an exhaustive audit of FY80 and FY81 accounts.  The
audit program would be continued under the project so that with progres-
sive improvement of PAD's internal organization, certification of PAD
accounts will be rendered possible.  During negotiations, agreement was
obtained on a four year external audit program.   Beyond that, PAD also
agreed to furnish annual external audits consistent with generally ac-
cepted international audit practice.



- 16 -
Tariffs
3.31      Port tariffs and regulations, authorized by the Board, require
the approval of the Ministers of Equipment and of Finance. In the past,
the Port has not experienced any delays in the approval procedures.  The
general tariff proposals are also discussed informally with the main port
users so that a broad consensus is arrived at prior to presentation to
PAD's Board.   Tariff increases have been effected regularly to comply
with financial ratio agreements under the Fishing Port Project, and to
generate additional revenue to meet increased obligations.  Tariffs have
increased about 10% a year on the average.  Under the Fishing Port Pro-
ject, the Port carried out a study of tariffs to be applied to the new
fishing facilities and substantially revised its tariff structure in
accordance with recommendations of the study.   However,  the delays in
establishing analytical cost accounting have prevented PAD from doing a
more general cost-based revision of its tariff structure.
3.32      A review and comparison of PAD tariffs with those of the other
major West African ports reveal that the Port of Dakar is considerably
less expensive (by as much as 50% in some cases and 15-20% on the aver-
age) in all areas of port activities and services--berthing, pilotage,
tugboat, wharfage and general port dues.  Even when the costs of steve-
doring and other shore-related service charges by the private sector
operators are added, the Port of Dakar compares very favorably with other
large West African ports in the total costs of throughput of a ton of
merchandise.   However,  the tariff structure in many cases is based on
outdated technology when vessels had to wait many days at berth to use
quayside equipment.   Thus, berthing and ship-stay charges increase with
the time spent at berth in days, when, in fact, many modern container
vessels and other ships discharge and reload merchandise in less than
half a day using their own gear, and even this short working time will be
reduced with the proposed project.  Such anomalies prevent the Port from
obtaining a fair return on its capital investment. The tariff structure
also does not have sufficient built-in incentives for efficiency of the
private operators, and indeed few, if any, disincentives and penalties
for poor performance. It is a passive structure consonant with the con-
cept of a "public service."   In the past, the availability of capacity
did not require the Port to be a very active inciter of efficient beha-
vior. Now, however, the Port needs to exercise its tariff setting capa-
bility to require its private operators to improve performance and opti-
mize space usage. Moreover, in order to maintain and enhance its compe-
titive edge, the Port needs to monitor rate setting by private operators
of stevedoring, tugboat and other services in monopoly or near-monopoly
situations, so as to ensure that the services being provided are effi-
cient and at a level consistent with the rates charged.  Rate ceilings
are normally approved by joint decree of the Ministers of Commerce and of
Finance, after informal consultation with the Ministry of Equipment and
the PAD.  Since the Ministry of Commerce does not have a global view of
the port services provided by PAD and the private operators, PAD has



- 17 -
requested that, in future, the Ministry of Equipment be also a third
party to the Interministerial decree.   This has now been agreed by the
Government.
3.33      One of the main project objectives is to ensure full cost re-
covery for port services (para. 6.07).  As a first step, PAD would con-
tinue to effect tariff increases at least averaging 10% a year. In addi-
tion, PAD agreed to impose a surcharge on Senegal-bound container traffic
of up to 14% in FY1984.  PAD's Board has already approved the FY84 in-
crease;   the effect would be an approximately 13% overall increase in
port revenues. The approval of a tariff increase averaging 10% effective
July 1, 1984, would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Cred-
it (para. 6.21).   A brief study of the impact of such tariff increases
has been carried out by PAD with assistance from consultants, and the
results will be incorporated by PAD in its tariff structure effective
July 1, 1984, (i.e., for FY85).   Some readjustments of port tariffs are
being proposed pending a more general structural revision by the start of
fiscal year 1988, when the new container port is opened for service and a
tariff structure study would be completed.   Agreement was obtained at
negotiations that PAD would review the recommendations of a tariff struc-
ture study not later than March 31, 1987, and incorporate these into a
new tariff structure operable no later than July 1, 1987.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Concept
4.01      The main objectives of the proposed project are twofold:
(a)  to reduce freight costs for Senegal's external trade and en-
hance Dakar's position as port of transfer for neighboring
countries through provision of adequate port facilities re-
quired to handle the increasing container traffic; and
(b) to rehabilitate and strengthen the Port as a vital national
public enterprise through:
(i)  improvement  of  the  efficiency  of port  operations  in
general and cargo and container handling in particular;
(ii)  improvement  of  the  Port's  financial  and  operational
management and introduction of satisfactory management
information and control systems; and
(iii)  increase of the Port's financial autonomy.



- 18 -
4.02      To achieve these objectives, the project provides for:
(a) construction of new infrastructure for container handling;
(b) rehabilitation of certain port facilities; and
(c) expert assistance in port operations, accounting and financial
management and management information systems and procedures to
help the Port progress towards being a commercially oriented,
financially autonomous public enterprise.
4.03      The proposed project is the Phase I development of the contain-
er port of Dakar. The consultants who prepared the feasibility and engi-
neering studies have developed a long term Master Plan for the develop-
ment of the container port, calling for Phase II implementation around
the year 1995 when container traffic should reach about 115,000 TEU
(para. 5.04).
B. Project Description
4.04      The main components of the proposed project are:
(a) Civil Works
(i) construction of a quay wall (gravity block type) in a
total length of 430 m suitable to berth simultaneously
two large container vessels.   The designed alongside
depth is 12 m at LLW, enabling vessels with 11.5 m
draft to come alongside at any stage of the tide;
(ii) dredging of areas alongside the berth and from the Port
entrance to the terminal area;  hydraulic sand filling
of the area behind the quay wall to reclaim a container
handling area of 8.2 ha;
(iii) paving of the container handling area, installation of
services:    water,  electricity,  telephone  and  fuel
lines, and connecting the terminal area to the national
railway grid; and
(iv) rehabilitation and deferred, maintenance of certain port
facilities; and
(b) Consulting Services and Technical Assistance
(i) consultants' services to supervise the construction of
the container terminal and training of PAD engineers to
work on construction supervision;
(ii)  study of the management of the container terminal;



- 19 -
(iii)  training of PAD personnel in container terminal manage-
ment and operations;
(iv)  consultant services, technical assistance and training
to improve the Port's accounting and financial manage-
ment, carry out financial and managerial audits, study
and recommend a new tariff structure, evaluate informa-
tion processing needs, supply and install both new
hardware and appropriate software, and introduce man-
agement information and control systems; and
(v) technical assistance and training to improve the Port's
operations and operational management.
4.05      No container handling or other cargo handling equipment will be
provided under this project.   The stevedoring companies have recently
acquired new equipment (average service life 8-10 years) which they will
be able to use in the container terminal.  By 1990, or about three years
after opening of the terminal, the equipment will need to be replaced,
and new modern equipment will then be procured to suit the operational
conditions at the new terminal.
4.06      All the larger stevedoring companies use their own sheds, lo-
cated outside the Port area, for stuffing and unstuffing of LCL (Less
than Container Load to single consignee) containers, their own offices
and their own equipment repair facilities.   It has been agreed, there-
fore, not to consider at present the construction of any sheds, offices
or workshops under the project.   The smaller companies which have no
storage facilities are currently stuffing and unstuffing containers right
on the wharf--causing congestion and additional operational difficul-
ties.  Since it is not intended to continue a similar system in the new
terminal, the future terminal management will review again the need to
build additional sheds--in or outside the terminal--but these would be
financed by the companies themselves.
4.07      During negotiations,  assurances were obtained from PAD that
through the existing agreements with the stevedoring companies or other
arrangements as necessary:
(a) sufficient and modern container handling equipment will be
available at all times for efficient and effective operation of
the container terminal;
(b) sheds for stuffing and unstuffing of containers will be made
available for use by the smaller companies; and
(c) offices and workshops will be available for efficient operation
of the terminal and its equipment.



- 20 -
C. Cost Estimates
4.08       The total estimated cost of the project, net of taxes and fi-
nancial costs, is about US$19.6 million equivalent (including physical
and price contingencies) with a foreign exchange component of about
US$15-3 million equivalent.   The project will not be exempted from taxes
and duties amounting to some US$5.5 million equivalent, and interest
during construction will amount to about US$2.4 million equivalent.
Thus,  total  cost  is  about  US$27.5  million.    Details  are  given  in
Annex 4-1, and are summarized in the following table.
Project Cost SLatiry
CFAF Millons         US$ MLUions       % of Total
Item              Foreign Local Total  Foreign Local Total  Base Cost
1 . CIVIL WOWKI
for Container Port        3,581    991  4,572   9.13   2.53 11.66       78.5
2. CX$ULTANT SERVICES
(Project Supervision,
Audits & Studies)          3E6      55    441   0.99   0.14  1.13       7.6
3. TEMZCAL ASSIMANCE
(Operaticnal Improvements,
Accountin&/Finance,
Data Procesing)          469     39    50B   1.20   0.10  1.30       8.7
4.TRAINf                         50      1     51   0.13    -    0.13        0.9
5. DREDMAIt  r 5 1AICE           75    174    249   0.19   0.44  0.63        4.3
TOTAL BASE COSTS              4,561  1,260  5,821  11.64   3.21  14.85     10Y.0
(Febury 1984 pricem)
- H>sical                   675    169   844   1.72   0.43  2.15        14.5
-Price                      784    245  1,029   2.0X  0.63  2.63        17.7
TOM CC flIGEJC1E              1,459    414  1,873   3.72   1.06  4.78       32.2
TOML PROJET COE
(net of taxes)              6,02D  1 ,674  7,694  15.36   4.27 19.63     132.2
TAXS and DUTIES                  -   2,176  2,176    -      5.55  5.55      37.4
TOMAL PROJECT COST            6,020  3,850  9,87)  15.36   9.82 25.18      169.6
fINTEM   UR1C(INS. /a           446    482    923   1.14   1.23  2.37       15.9
TOMAL FlNmCnu  RQUTRED        6,466  4,332 10,798  16.50  11.05 27.55      185.5
Totals may not add due to rouling.
/a Excludes interet during 197/88.



- 21 -
4.09      The cost estimates for the construction of the quay wall and
the dredging and reclamation works (para. 4.04 (a) (i) and (ii)) are
based upon the actual bid prices received in December 1983 which are
valid, without escalation,  until April 1984.   The cost estimates for
paving and installation of services and maintenance works to be commenced
in 1986 (para. 4.04 (a) (iii) and (iv)) were prepared by the consultants
and PAD based on final engineering designs and on costs of recent similar
works, including the Fishing Port Project completed in 1980/81 and up-
dated to early 1984.   The estimates,  reviewed by Bank staff, compare
favorably with international bids received recently for similar port
works on the West African coast.   Consultant and advisory services to-
talling 206 man-months, (long term technical assistance for opera-
tional/financial management:   60 man-months;   construction supervision:
50 man-months;   tariff structure and container port management studies:
30 man-months;   technical assistance for operations improvements:   42
man-months;   and short term technical assistance for data processing and
port traffic statistics:   24 man-months)  are costed at an average of
US$10,500 per man-month including per diem, transportation and other
reimbursable items.   The above fee is reasonable in light of current
living conditions and costs in Dakar.   Civil works are expected to be
completed by end-1986 (27 months' construction time), while the technical
assistance and consultant services are expected to last four years.
Physical contingencies assumed vary between 10%-20% depending upon the
type of work.  Price contingencies have been calculated for local costs
at 10% a year and foreign costs at 7.5% for 1984, 7.0% for 1985, and 6% a
year thereafter.   Price contingencies on Lots 1 and 2 (construction of
quay wall and dredging) are based on the price revision formula proposed
by the successful bidder. Under this formula, the December 1983 base bid
prices will be adjusted according to the escalation formulae specified in
the bidding documents for the period April 1984 (see above) to September
1984, the expected start of works.   (This adjustment is estimated to
reach 5% for the period.) The adjusted price would then be increased by
a flat 7.5% in lieu of any price escalation during the project execution.
D. Financing Plan
4.10      PAD's financing plan for the project execution period (FY84-
FY88) is summarized in the following table.



- 22 -
PAD - Funds Required during FY84-a3 and Financing Plan
CFAF Millions U$ Millions   _
Funds Required
Proposed Project                  7,694       19.63      43.9
Interest during Construction        928        2.37       5-3
Taxes and Duties                  2,176        5.55      12.4
Renewals and Other Investnents    3,839        9.79      21.9
Payments of Arrears to Govenment  2,297        5.86      13.1
Net Purchases of Treasury Bonds     16()       0.41       0.9
Required Increase (Decrease)
in Working Capital                434        1.11       2.5
Total Requirements                 17,528      44.72     100.0
Source of Funds
Net Inomne after Taxes but
before Interest & Depreciation  13,550      34.57      77-3
Less: Debt Service                4,477       11.42      25.5
Net Internal Cash Generation      9,073       23.15      51.8
Proposed Special Fund Credit       1,895       4.83      10.8
Proposed IDA Credit                1,036       2.64       5.9
Proposed CCCE Loan                 2,607       6.65      14.9
Proposed KF  loan                  1,604       4.09       9.1
Total New Borrowigs               7,142       18.21      40.7
Existing Borrowings (1405-T-SE)     120        0.31       0.7
Payments of Arrears by Government   900        2.30       5.1
Total Sources                     17,235       43.97      98-3
Net Increase (Decrease)
in Surplus Cash                   (293)     (0-75)     (1-7)
4.11       The proposed IDA and Special Fund Credits and the CCCE and KF
loans would together finance 93% of the total project cost net of taxes,
which is the full foreign exchange cost and 67% of local cost.   PAD's
internal cash generation would finance all project taxes and duties, the
interest during construction and the remaining 7% of the total project
cost.   PAD would also cover out of its internal resources any potential
cost overruns or exchange rate losses.  PAD's overall contribution would
amount to 33% of the total project cost including taxes and duties and
interest during construction.   The proposed IDA and Special Fund Credits
of US$2.65 million and US$4.85 million, respectively, to the Government
would be onlent on standard Bank terms to PAD;   the onlent amounts would
be repayable in equal semi-annual installments over 20 years including a



- 23 -
four-year grace period. The conclusion of an onlending agreement between
the Government and PAD on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credits.   The
proposed CCCE loan of FF 52 million (US$6.7 million equivalent) would be
a blend of soft and hard terms, bearing approximately a 7% interest rate,
and would be repayable in equal semi-annual amortizations over 17 years
including four years' grace.  The proposed KF loan of KDinars 1.25 mil-
lion (US$4.09 million equivalent) would be made to the Government at a 4%
interest rate, repayable over 20 years including five years' grace. I/
It would be onlent to PAD on the same terms. The Government would also
impose a 1% guarantee fee on the CCCE loan that is made directly to PAD.
E. Project Implementation and Reporting
4.12      PAD will be responsible for project execution with the assist-
ance of qualified consultants to be employed on terms and conditions to
be acceptable to the Association and co-lenders.   The civil works are
expected to take about 27 months to complete, starting in September 1984
(Annex 4-2). Some activities of the technical assistance program will
continue into FY87/88. The engineering department will prepare and ad-
vertise the bids and supervise the works to be done under the deferred
maintenance program component, which will start during FY85.  Technical
assistance in accounting and financial management is expected to start by
early 1984, and recruitment of experts is underway.   Terms of reference
and desired profiles have been drawn up. Funds for their recruitment are
available under the ongoing Fishing Port Project and should also cover
the costs of about six months of their services. Their contracts beyond
September 1984 would extend for about three years each and would be fi-
nanced jointly by the Association and the Kuwait Fund (para. 4.15).
Other technical assistance and consulting services for studies, audits
and data processing will be implemented starting June 1984 and will ex-
tend through June 1988--particularly for the audit component.
4.13      In addition to the submission by PAD of annual audit reports
(para. 3.30), PAD would submit quarterly project progress reports and
semi-annual financial reports on its overall operations (para. 6.11), as
well as annual pro forma financial forecasts (para. 6.13), the format and
content of which were agreed upon during negotiations of the project.
PAD would also prepare a project completion report and provide such in-
formation as may be reasonably requested by the Association for the post-
project performance audit. In addition, PAD will report on a semi-annual
basis, for a period of five years after project completion, on the fol-
lowing: traffic -- general cargo and containerized; vessels and service
1/ The Kuwait Fund has agreed to a loan of KDinars 2.1 million (US$6.88
million equivalent) prior to the proposed award of bids on Lots 1 and
2. Any amounts in excess of the indicated KF participation in the
financing plan would be cancelled at the end of the project.



- 24 -
times; and financial performance, including a comparison of budgeted vs.
actual results.
F. Procurement and Disbursements
4.14      Procurement  arrangements  are  summarized  in  the  table which
follows:
Methods of Procauenent under the Project
(US$ Millions)
Procurnent Method      Total
Project Element          ICB    LCB    Other       Cost
Civil Works
1. Lot #1 (Quay Wall)           -       -       6.66      6.66
2. Lot #2 (Drdng/ill)          3.90      --     -         3.90
(1 -37)                    (1-37)
3. Lot #3 (Paving/Utilities)   4.93     -       -         4.93
(4.83)                     (4.83) (Special Fumd)
4. Deferred Maintenance         -      0.83      -        0.83
(0.29)            (0.29)
Consultant Services &           -               3.31      3.31
Tecbmical Assistance            _              (0.98)    (0.98)
Total Cost (Net of Taxes)      3.90    0.83    14.90     19.63
(1.37)  (0.29)   (5.81)    ( 7.47)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed
by the Association/Special und.
Lot #1 (US$6.66 million), the constructicon of quay walls, would be fi-
nanced by the CCCE on the basis of competitive bidding which was limited
to the Franc Zone. Lot #2 (US$3.90 million), dredging and fill, would be
jointly financed by the Association and KF on the basis of international
competitive  bidding  (ICB)  following IBRD guidelines;    KF had earlier
approved the list of prequalified contractors. Lot #3 (US$4.93 million),
utilities, would be financed by proceeds from the Special Fund Credit,
and procurement would be limited to goods produced in, or services from,
any of the following countries:   (a) any Part II member of the Associa-
tion and (b) those countries who at the time of signing the Credit Agree-
ment have notified or advised the Administrator in writing that they
intend to make an SF Contribution in a minimum amount conforming with
paragraph 4 of the Special Fund Resolution, or (c) which had notified or
advised the Association in writing that they intend to make a Special



- 25 -
Contribution in such a minimum amount to the FY84 Account and had advised
the Association in writing that such Special Contribution was to be trea-
ted in the same manner as an SF Contribution for purposes of any future
adjustment of the voting rights of the members of the Association.  De-
ferred maintenance works (US$0.85 million) would be procured through
local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Association, in-
cluding award of contract to the lowest evaluated bidder.   Consultants
for training, technical assistance, studies and audits would be selected
in accordance with IBRD guidelines.
4.15       The following table provides a summary of the project disburse-
ment plan agreed among the co-lenders, PAD and Government at appraisal
and subsequently modified and agreed at negotiations.   The plan is de-
tailed in Annex 4-3.
Project Disbirseent Plan
(U3 Millions)
K?      CCCE       IDA   SPc. Fn      PAD    TAL
Mt. %   Amt.n%At.    . Amt.  %  _t.   %  Amt.  %  AMT. /a
Iot No. 1 (Quay Wa-)        -   -  5.99  90  -    -   -    -  0.67  10  6.66
Lot No. 2 (Dredgii/FM.)    2.46 63  -    -  1.37  35  -    -  0.07   2  3.90
Lot No. 3 (Paving-Utilities)  -   -   -    -   -    -  4.83  98 0.10   2  4.93
Other Cponentsm_
- Pzoject iSpervision       -   -  0.29  48 0.29  48  -    -  0.03   4  0.61
- Defered Maintenance       -   -   -    -  0.29  35  -    -  0.54  65  0.83
- Taining                   -   -  0.18  10)  -    -   -    -   -    -   0.18
- Data Processing           -   -   -    -  0.20  10)  -    -   -    -   0.20
- Studies, Audit, Tech. Assistance  1.29 77  -    -  0.38  23  -    -   -    -   1.67
- Ation Plan               0.34  54 0.19  29 0.11  17  -    -   -    -   0.64
Total Net of Taxes         4.09 21  6.65  34 2.65  13 4.83  25  1.41   7  19.63
interest during Constructicn  -    -               -         -  2.37  10)  2.37
Taxes                      -                   -   -         -  5.55  10Q  5.55
Total Project              4.1'; 9        24. 2.65  10  .8.  19 ,.M  .M
/a Totals may not add due to r=uning.
The disbursement plan is based upon joint and parallel financing of the
civil works lots, and mainly joint financing of the other components.
The experts to be recruited to assist PAD in the immediate operational



- 26 -
improvements would be initially financed under the existing Fishing Port
Project Loan (1405-T-SE) as would the experts to help in PAD's financial
management.  The training programs would be funded solely by CCCE.  Pro-
ject supervision would be carried out by PAM consultants and funded
jointly by CCCE and the Association. Data processing services and equip-
ment would be solely funded by the Association. The Action Plan consul-
tants would be funded jointly by the three co-lenders. All other consul-
tant services and technical assistance contracts would be procured fol-
lowing IBRD guidelines, and funded jointly by the Kuwait Fund and the
Association.   Should any particular contract awarded be ineligible for
disbursement under either the IDA or the Kuwait Fund or CCCE regulations,
these items would be set aside for parallel financing by one or the other
of the co-financiers.  All contracts would be financed by the co-lenders
on a net of tax basis, and the relevant taxes and duties will be sepa-
rately invoiced, accounted and paid by PAD (para. 6.18).
4.16      The tentative IDA Credit and Special Fund Credit disbursement
schedules are summarized below and detailed in Annex 4-4. They are pred-
icated upon Credit effectiveness occurring around September 1984.   The
major civil works contracts would require a contract mobilization and
down payment of about 15% for Lots #1 and #2. PAD would pay the advances
out of its Special Account (para. 6.08) and would thereby allow for con-
tract execution to start on September 1, 1984.   Monthly billings for
works would require payment within 90 days.   Payments for consultant
services would take on the average 45 days after the monthly invoices are
prepared,  verified and sent to the financing sources.   The Bank-wide
profile for Ports projects has been used, but it has been modified for
two reasons:  firstly, the civil works will only require about 27 months
to be executed;   secondly, the recent experience under the Fishing Port
Project has been very satisfactory both as to time and cost. The Fishing
Port Project was disbursed as follows:  28% at end of year 1, 73% at end
of year 2, 86% at end of year 3, 89% at end of year 4, and 93% at end of
year 5, the long tail (still incompleted) being attributed to continued
upward movement in the US$/CFAF exchange rate and a late start on tech-
nical assistance components.  Under the proposed project, it is not ex-
pected that the combined disbursement rates of the IDA and Special Fund
Credits will be as rapid. Instead, a more gradual build-up is forecast,
but with a less pronounced tail, as much of the technical assistance will
be procured early at the start of the project, unlike under the previous
project, and as one major civil works contract will be let before credit
effectiveness of the IDA and Special Fund Credits.



- 27 -
Smmaary Forecast Disbursements
(U$ Millions)
IDA CREDIT           SPEIAL FUN CREDIT
Fiscal Year    In FY  Cumulative   %    In FY  Cumulative   %    Combined %
1985       0.7      0.7       26      -             -            9
1986       1.1      1.8       68    1.4       1.4      29       43
1987       0.6      2.4       91    2.6       4.0      82       85
1988       0.15     2.55      96    0.85      4.85     1(X       99
1989       0.1      2.65     100    -         4.85     100)     100
G.  Action Plan
4.17       In order to achieve the objectives of the project -- to improve
PAD's port operations and strengthen its organizational, operational and
financial management -- an action plan was agreed upon during negotia-
tions. Accordingly, the various experts to be engaged under the techni-
cal assistance program of the project will help PAD's management to
achieve  the  aforementioned  objectives.    The  Government  and  PAD have
agreed to undertake all actions required to carry out the seven steps
listed in the action plan as per the following dates: (Annex 4-5).
Action                                        ry Date
1. Engage port operations expert          ..              ..............  Credit effectiveness
2. Engage Senegalese national to be trained
as director of Port operations     .......................    September 01, 1984
3. Engage experts for financial management   ..................    September 01, 1984
4. Prepare 1986/8 IData Processing Plan ....................................   June 30, 1985
5. Complete reorganization study for PAD's headquarters    . .. Denmber 31,1984
6. Complete reorganization study for PAD's engineering departnent ..........    December 31, 1984
7. Prepare training program for PAD's personnel        .       .December 31, 1984
H. Environmental Impact
4.18       No  adverse  ecological  impact  is  expected  to  occur with  the
construction of the proposed container port. Of the 420,000 m3 of mater-
ial to be dredged within the Port area, some 60,000 m3 will be dumped and
disposed outside the Port area in depths of 20 meters, and the balance be
used for reclamation of an industrial zone just outside the Port's north-
ern breakwater.   In addition,  some 600,000 m3 of sand will be dredged
from a sandbank north of the Port and pumped over a water distance of 5 m
to reclaim the container handling area of 8.2 ha. No significant distur-
bance to marine ecology in the vicinity of the existing Port is expected
to occur.



- 28 -
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Project Objectives
5.01      The physical components of the proposed project are designed to
ensure that PAD will be able to handle the growing number of containers
efficiently and at a reasonable cost.   Without the project,  container
handling would be increasingly slow and expensive at ill-adapted facili-
ties, adding unnecessary costs to Senegal's international trade.   The
project would also reinforce the role of Dakar as a transit port for Mali
and Mauritania and for transshipment to and from other West African
ports.
5.02      The project's institutional deve]opment components, which con-
tinue and expand those included in the First Dakar Port Project and the
Dakar Fishing Port Project, are aimed at assisting the Port of Dakar to
move progressively towards  a fully commercial,  financially autonomous
operation through a package of technical assistance and short and medium
term measures.   This should result in improved operating and financial
performance and ensure that existing and future port facilities are ef-
ficiently utilized and investment costs adequately recovered.
B. Traffic Forecast
5.03      Traffic projections were prepared by Port of Marseille consul-
tants and agreed with PAD and the appraisal mission. They are based on a
commodity by commodity analysis, the latest revision of Senegal's Sixth
Development Plan and the implementation status of major projects and
activ-ties with significant traffic content.   The projections are de-
tailed in Annex 3-1, as well as in Annexes 5-1 through 5-5 and summarized
below. The key assumptions of the traffic forecast as they relate to the
proposed project are:
(a)  Senegal will continue to import over 700,000 tons of food pro-
ducts annually until 1990 with a possible decrease to 600,000
tons by 1995 if major agricultural projects under preparation
are successful;
(b)  imports of consumer products will continue to grow in accord-
ance with projected annual increases in GNP of about 4%;
(c)  imports of intermediate goods will grow following the require-
ments of major projects -- the main one being the ICS industri-
al project, which will become operational in 1984 -- and should
reach 325,000 tons by 1990 compared to 205,000 tons in 1982;
and



- 29 -
(d)  fish exports, mainly shipped in refrigerated containers, would
more than double during the present decade and would be expect-
ed to reach 220,000 tons by 1990.
5.04      Container traffic has been projected to grow as follows:
Dakar Port - Container Traffic Forecast
1975   1982    1985   1937   1990   1995
Actul
TEU (thousand units)
With project        -       -       -     65.7    91.3   115.0
Without project     5.8   40.0   52-5   65.7   74.3   94.3
TON (in thousands)
With project        -       -       -      465    715    931
Without project    41      275    350    465    544    719
The main assumptions, with the project, are that dry cargo will continue
to be containerized at increasing rates, particularly since a growing
percentage of ships serving Dakar will be full container vessels.   In
addition, it is anticipated, based on current trends, that new container
shipping lines connecting West Africa with the United States and Japan
will start service within the next five years.   By 1995, the rates of
containerization for containerizable cargo moving between Dakar and Eu-
rope would be on average about 80% for general cargo, 40% for refrigerat-
ed cargo and 40% for bagged cargo, compared to an average rate for all
three categories of about 50% in 1980.  The relatively high rate of con-
tainerization projected for bagged cargo stems from Senegal's trade imba-
lance which makes it profitable to containerize bagged export commodi-
ties.  Even if the project is not carried out, container traffic will--
mainly because of the cargo composition and the pressure of the shipping
lines--continue to grow at a high pace (see table above).  The handling
costs of containers would, however, in that case, increase substantially
(paras. 5.07-5.11), and at the same time, it is likely that the economic-
ally advantageous transit traffic of Dakar would partially diminish as
shipping lines seek other faster ports with adequate modern container
terminals to deposit transshipment containers destined for ports not on
their list of calls.   Similarly, it is likely that because of long ser-
vice times and inadequate conditions at Dakar, some shipping lines may,
at times, choose to unload containers destined for Dakar at more effi-
cient nearby ports. These containers would then be transshipped to Dakar
on feeder vessels resulting in much higher cost without actually reducing
the total number of containers handled at Dakar.



- 30 -
C. Alternative Terminal Locations
5.05      In their feasibility study, the consultants proposed three port
zones -- for which they prepared a total of seven alternative site lay-
outs -- for possible location of the new container terminal (Annex 5-
6).   The recommended alternative, consisting of the construction of 725
meters of wharf and 17.5 ha of container handling area in the Port's
northern area between Moles 6 and 8, is a satisfactory technical solu-
tion. Its Phase I development, comprising the construction of 430 meters
of quay and 8.2 ha of container handling area including the west side of
Mole 6 but allowing the continued full use of the phosphate quay and of
Mole 8 in its present form for general cargo, will be built under the
proposed project.   While this alternative has less expansion potential
than the external one (Annex 5-6), it would still allow, when fully de-
veloped, to cover needs beyond the year 2000, has good road and rail
transport access, and its construction would only minimally constrain
ongoing port operations.  The possibility of building initially only one
berth of about 250 m length with a corresponding smaller storage area has
been considered but discarded as the savings in the initial construction
cost of some US$4 million out of US$16 mil:Lion would have been offset by
the overall increase in construction cost (higher unit cost because of
smaller quantities in addition to double mobilization and supervision
costs, when the extension to 430 m were to be built) and the increase in
vessels'  and cargo's handling costs.   These cost increases would stem
from the diversion of a large number of container vessels to the existing
facilities because of the reduced berthing and container handling capac-
ity at the smaller container terminal.
D. Project Benefits
5.06      The analysis assumes that the operational improvements referred
to in paras. 3.07 and 4.17 would allow, without the new investments in-
cluded under the poposed project, a certain increase (possibly 10-15%) in
the utilization of the existing storage.   However,  these improvements
would gradually be reduced with the increase of the number of containers
due to the physical constraints imposed by the limited container handling
areas available.   Therefore, the benefits attributed to the project in-
vestment are over and above the increases in capacity brought about by
the policy and operational agreements and improvements reached in connec-
tion with the project.
5.07      The quantified benefits from the proposed project are savings
in ship service time and in handling costs stemming from more efficient
operations allowed by the project and avoidance of double handling of
containers which would have resulted due to saturation of existing port
storage areas. The benefits are computed based on the container traffic
projected without the project. Potential additional benefits which would
occur if the incremental traffic with the project materializes are exclu-
ded from the base economic  evaluation.   The main assumptions are ex-
plained below and details given in Annex 5-7.



- 31 -
Savings in Ship Service Time
5.08      The construction of the proposed new terminal will allow ships
docking at the new facility, mainly full container ships and Ro-Ro ves-
sels (with slewing ramps), to enjoy a much faster service than they would
in the increasingly congested existing port area for containers.   In
addition, Ro-Ro vessels with fixed stern ramps and multi-purpose vessels
carrying general cargo as well as some containers will continue to be
served in existing facilities but will be handled more efficiently since
congestion at berth-side and storage areas will be alleviated as a result
of most container movements being diverted to the new terminal.   The
quantification of ship service time savings is based on separate analysis
of service times for ships docking at the new terminal and at the exist-
ing Port; and for the latter, savings are differentiated between multi-
purpose ships carrying containers as well as general cargo and conven-
tional ships carrying general cargo only. Similarly, the costs per ship-
day have been assessed for each type of vessel.   The proposed project
would save the equivalent of 526 ship-days by 1990, when some 205 full
container ships are expected to call at Dakar Port.
5.09      Most of the ships which will benefit from the improved service
are foreign-owned. Empirical evidence indicates that in shipping, there
are significant time lags until savings to shippers are fully transferred
to users through lower rates. Overall, for the purpose of this analysis,
it is assumed that only 50% of the ship service time savings would be
retained  initially by Senegal.   Conversely,  without  the project,  the
increased congestion and resulting further decline in service efficiency
would likely be reflected in increased maritime costs to Senegal.   Sav-
ings in service time accruing to domestic ships are fully transferred to
the Senegalese economy.  Freight carried today under the Senegalese flag
by four small domestic shipping lines which either lease hatch-space or
vessels, or own small vessels, is small but is increasing.  On this ba-
sis, it is assumed that by 1992, Senegal would augment the portion of
retained service time savings to 60%, a percentage which would be expect-
ed to remain constant until the end of the project's economic life.
Cargo Handling Savings
5.10      The proposed project will also allow more efficient handling of
containers at the new terminal as well as improved efficiency of cargo
handling at the existing Port due to increased operational areas avail-
able,  resulting in cargo handling savings.   The benefit quantification
considers each type of cargo handling operation and specific handling
rates with and without the project for full container, roll-on--roll-off,
multipurpose and conventional ships; it takes into account the equipment
and labor handling costs for the traffic served at the existing Port, and
savings in labor costs only in the new terminal since the increased effi-
ciency will require a proportional increase in equipment. Savings in



- 32 -
labor costs have been taken at relevant shadow prices in the case of
general cargo only, since handling of containers requires skilled equip-
ment operators who are in high demand.
Savings in Double Transport of Containers
5.11      The traffic of containers projected without the project would
largely exceed the capacity of the Port's existing storage areas. These
areas which are, in addition, dispersed, were saturated in 1982/83.  An
additional 8,000 m2 of new area (the new Ro-Ro Terminal) which were put
in service in October 1983 will alleviate the congestion, and improved
operationa:L measures should help the Port handle the traffic until the
new terminal is operational.   Without the project, containers exceeding
the Port's capacity would have to be transported to an intermediate in-
bond storage area outside the Port until cleared by customs for delivery
to consignee.   Even full utilization of existing areas requires some
double transport for grouping by stevedoring companies;   transport bet-
ween the Port's Northern and Southern area is expensive since it has to
go through city streets, and costs some US$90 per container, excluding
road user (fuel) costs and taxes.  Transport to an outside storage area
would cost at least as much.   The proposed project will eliminate the
need for such unnecessary transport and its related investments in in-
bond storage infrastructure, equipment, and operating costs.
E. Economic Return, Sensitivity Analysis and Risks
5.12      The economic analysis compares a reference (without) case con-
sisting of continuing utilization and increasing congestion of the exist-
ing Port facilities with a situation where the new container terminal is
built.   The economic benefits considered are those described above and
the costs (excluding all taxes) comprise the construction and incremental
maintenance of the terminal and all associated services (construction
supervision, management and operation study, and related training), rep-
resenting 90% of all project costs. The remaining project costs comprise
technical assistance to the rehabilitation of PAD as a vital public en-
terprise, for which no separate economic analysis has been done.   The
economic life of the facility is taken at 25 years. Savings in unskilled
labor have been quantified at their shadow price.   Savings in ship ser-
vice time have been taken only to the extent that they are expected to be
retained by Senegal. Costs and benefits are summarized in Annex 5-8.
5-13      On the basis of these assumptions, the proposed project would
yield a satisfactory rate of return of 23%.   The first-year benefit is
estimated at 15%. The estimate of the investment cost is based on actual
bid prices received and on similar works recently completed at Dakar
under the Fishing Port Project and should not be subject to large varia-
tions.   Overall, the sensitivity analysis, including increases in costs
and shortfall as well as lag in benefits, gave satisfactory results even
under pessimistic assumptions: if all benefits were to lag by two years,
the return would be 18%, and if investment costs were 20% higher and all



- 33 -
benefits 20% lower, the return would be 17% (Annex 5-9).  Benefits from
container traffic which the project might generate, both transshipment
and additional cargo that could be containerized with the project, were
considered uncertain and excluded from the main evaluation;   benefits
from additional PAD revenues and reduced transport insurance charges on
the incremental containerized cargo to and from Senegal would bring the
return to 24%.
5.14      There are no economic risks of significance associated with the
project since there has been a good base to estimate construction costs
(bid prices for major civil works were known before negotiations), and
adequate safeguards have been taken to ensure that the new terminal will
be efficiently operated and that expected benefits will materialize
(para. 4.07).
5-15      The project's economic rate of return is substantially higher
than the 5-6% financial rate of return on PAD's revalued net fixed assets
projected through 1995 (para. 6.15).   Two reasons explain this differ-
ence.  First, the two rates are not comparable because the economic re-
turn is based on benefits accruing to the Senegalese economy while the
financial return is based on Port's revenues. While the Port will recov-
er some of the economic benefits through appropriate charges on its new
facilities which will ensure recovery of the investment, other benefits
such as savings in cargo handling and avoidance of double transport will
accrue to private operators and will be expected to be passed on to con-
sumers through lower stevedoring charges. Second, the economic return is
incremental on the container terminal investment costs (and benefits)
only, while the financial return is based on all Port's assets. The Port
has a large asset base which cannot be utilized at optimum capacity be-
cause changes in shipping and packing technologies, particularly with the
introduction of containers, have made them temporarily idle which brings
the financial returns down.
VI. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Recent Financial Performance and Current Financial Position
6.01      PAD's recent financial performance is summarized in the table
which follows.   It shows a deterioration of PAD's annual rate of return
on fixed assets, mainly due to inadequate tariff levels in relation to
operating costs. PAD's tariff revision formula works on the basis of the
agreed rate of return targets set forth in the ongoing Fishing Port Pro-
ject. However, due to the delays in revaluing the asset base, and due to
material error in the fixed asset and depreciation accounts, the rate
setting formula resulted in inadequate revenue levels.  Besides the tar-
iffs being too low, the revenues they generate mainly served to increase



- 34 -
PAD's theoretical liquidity in the Senegalese Treasury.   This is due to
the cash pooling arrangement that public enterprises in Senegal are sub-
ject to.   Effectively, enterprises such as PAD, and the Post and Tele-
communications entity, which are generally profit-making entities with
substantial cash flows (despite weak tariff structures), provide the
operating cash to support weaker enterprises in the pool.  In addition,
the pool, which is maintained as an account in the Treasury, serves to
shore up the Government's weak finances. The solidarity and integrity of
this pooling arrangement have been zealously guarded by the Ministry of
Finance and form the main bone of contention of enterprises such as PAD
seeking greater financial autonomy and more independent use of their own
cash flows.   On the books,  however,  PAD's financial position remains
sound with a low debt/equity ratio even after the borrowings for the
Fishing Port Project.



- 35 -
PAD - Recent Summary Inomoe Statenents
(CFAF Millions)
ACTUAL                ESIMALE
77/78  78/79  79/80 80/81   81782 -W8-3
Operating Revenues                    2,623   2,699   2,648   3,010  3,585   3,800
Working Expenses
Staff                               637    717    780    872    980   1,1Dl
Other                               548    622    581       702    904       995
Depreciation                            755     500    542    584    579         561
Provisions                                -      17      77       -    320       _-
Net Operating Revenues                 1,083    523     668    852    802    1,143
Interest Charges                        326    164       83     218    140       408
Net Incone before Tax                   757    359    585    634    662          735
Taxes o  Income                          152     60     115    106      110        -
Net Inoome                              605    299    470       528    552       735
Extraordinary Gain (loss)                 -       -       -       -       -   (2,235)/c
Net BEok Profit (loss)                  605    299    470       528    552   (1 ,50)
Working Ratio (%)                        45      50      51      52      53       55
Operating Ratio (%)                      59      76      71      72      72       70
Rate of Return /a on Average Net
Fixed Assets7b                       11.6    4.9     4.9     5.8    5.1       8.7/d
Rate of Return /a-if Revaluations Had
Been Carried Out in 79/80(%)        11.6    4.9      4.9    4-0    3-5        3.5
/a After tax.
/E  Historic asset values.
/c One time correction of i) writeoffs of unrecoverable accounts receivables;
(ii) under-recorded depreciation in prior years;  and iii) under-recorded interest
charges on long-term debt onlent to PAD.
/d Anomalous increase because tax liability expected to be zero due to imaact of large
extraordinary book loss.



- 36 -
6.02      The main points worthy of note in PAD's recent income accounts
are:
(a)  the increase in PAD's wage bill due to general salary increases
mandated by the Government;
(b)  the inadequate level  of maintenance  expenditures,  caused  in
part by PAD's inability to use! its internal cash generation;
and
(c)  the increase in revenues derived from fishing port operations--
a beneficial impact of the improvements introduced with the
completion of the Fishing Port Project.
PAD's published statements reflect inadequate depreciation charges and
provision for losses on accounts receivable and omit the differential
interest charge on the onlent IBRD and BADEA loans for the Fishing Port
Project. The correction of these errors and omissions is likely to pro-
duce a net impact on PAD's 1982/83 income statement of about CFAF 1 500
million in extraordinary losses, when the final audited statements become
available sometime in early 1984.
6.03      PAD's accounts receivable increased substantially between 76/77
and 80/81 mainly due to increasing arrears in payments by Government
agencies, and due to inadequate client account supervision and follow-
up.  Improved collection since then has reduced the level of net receiv-
ables to around 35-40% of annual revenues (if adequate loss provisions
are netted out of the balance sheet figures). Whilst this is still high,
PAD management has been taking stringent measures and expects to reduce
the level to around three months of revenues by mid-1984.  A first step
in this process is a complete overhaul of PAD's client accounts to recti-
fy major errors, and to accurately identify potential losses.  The tech-
nical assistance team and the auditors are helping PAD in this cumbersome
process.
6.04      The following table summarizes the recent evolution of PAD's
financial position and the estimated corrected FY1983 balance sheet.
Despite the corrections to be effected, PAD's financial position remains
sound with a low debt/equity ratio, and an adequate level of net working
capital.



- 37 -
PAD - Recent Sumnay Balnce Sheets
(CFAF Millions)
At June 30    1978    1979    1980    1981      1982    1983
(est.)
'Net Fixed Assets   8,672   10,597   12,200   13,6C8   13,228   12,587
Other Assets (net)   348      348      400      423     345      150
Net Curxent Assets   2,1C0    2,141    2,250    2,570    3,376    2,454
Total Net Assets    11,120   13,086   14,850   16,601   16,949   15,191
Finnced by:
Iong Term  ebt       530    1,721    2,750    3,849    3,574    3,316
Equity and
Retained&nirlgs   10,590   11,365   12,100   12,752   13,375   11,875
Total
long-term capital    11,120   13,C06   14,850   16,601   16,949   15,191
Debt/Equity Ratio    5:95    13:87    19:81    23:77    21:79    22:78
6.05      However, there is one worrisome issue relating to large amounts
due from the Government for services performed by PAD in the maintenance
of buoys and beaconage on Senegal's coastline and for operating the
Dakar-Goree  ferry.    The  most  recent  level  of  payment  arrears  at
March 31, 1983, showed an amount of nearly CFAF 1 billion, going back to
FY79.  At the same time the audits have revealed a potential income tax
liability, the magnitude of which needs to be estimated during the next
phase of the audit program.   The Government and PAD discussed with the
Association at negotiations a plan and timetable for clearing all their
mutual debts and obligations.   The plan also covers the measures to be
taken through appropriate budgetary mechanisms to prevent a reoccurrence
of Government payment arrears.   A covenant to this effect was agreed at
negotiations.   The signature of a formal agreement between PAD and the
Government on the compensation of past mutual debts and obligations would
be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit.
B. Financial Objectives and Targets
6.06      PAD's stated long-term objective is to be a fully autonomous,
commercially-oriented public enterprise.   In recent years, however, the
Government has exercised an over-zealous control over PAD and has been
responsible for setting financial policy contrary to the objective of
full-cost recovery: although no direct operating subsidies are involved,
ad-hoc tax exemptions and insufficient recurrent expenses for maintenance
due to unavailability of funds result in artificially low costs, further



- 38 -
aggravated by the postponement of asset revaluations.   Tariffs covering
these costs are low and are currently earning an insufficient return on
its invested capital.   The Government has up to now been unwilling to
release PAD from the strict control of its treasury pooling arrangement.
6.07      This situation would change under the proposed project.   The
Government has recognized the need to undertake a total reform of the
parapublic sector and has agreed that an essential step would be the
return to the objective of full cost recovery of enterprises like the
Port of Dakar. Coupled with this, the Government has agreed that finan-
cial and managerial autonomy would be restored to the enterprises--albeit
in a progressive manner. Under the project, the major emphasis would be
on preparing PAD's internal structure and strengthening PAD's internal
organization to fully assume the statutory objective of financial and
managerial autonomy and accountability.  This process will take at least
the next four years to achieve;   several intermediate objectives have
been agreed at appraisal and were confirmed during negotiations.   These
are as follows:
(a) no exemption of taxes and duties on the project investment;
(b)  creation of a mechanism to isolate at the source, a part of
PAD's cash revenues into a separate account so that these funds
are directly available to PAD to finance its share of project
costs (including taxes) and its annual renewals and invest-
ments;
(c) increase of the ceiling (from CFAF 10 million to CFAF 125 mil-
lion) of PAD's existing revolving fund for operations, so that
a greater portion of PAD's cash flow would also be isolated
from the currency pool; and
(d) setting up of an arrangement to ensure regular payment by Gov-
ernment of its bills for services rendered by PAD (primarily in
operating the navigational aids and buoyage and beaconage ser-
vices along the Senegalese coastline, and in running the de-
ficit-ridden Dakar-Goree ferry services).
6.08      The Government and PAD management have taken the first three of
the above steps.  PAD's Special Account in the Treasury has been opened
and since July 1983, 15% of daily revenues are being transferred to this
account, from which PAD will transfer out to an external bank account the
funds needed for the project.   The percentage of transfer will rise to
30% in FY85 and 40% in FY86 and FY87. Nearly 50% of incremental revenues
over the project period will be so transferred and isolated.   Together
with the increase in PAD's revolving fund for operations, PAD will be
able, in practice, to control nearly 70-80% of its annual cash flow.
6.09      By the time the new container facilities are opened in July
1987, the objective would be to set PAD completely free of the a priori



- 39 -
expenditure control system.  This was agreed at negotiations.  The tech-
nical assistance provided under the project would have instituted and
strengthened internal controls and management structures within PAD so
that annual external audits, coupled with any other ad-hoc external re-
views by the Government's control organizations, should be sufficient
means of supervising PAD's financial and managerial performance. Insofar
as the pooling of cash flows is concerned, it was agreed at negotiations,
that the Government would present for the Association's review and com-
ment, not later than June 30, 1986, a comprehensive plan to transform
PAD's legal status to such a suitable form as would permit greater finan-
cial and managerial autonomy than what has been agreed under the pro-
ject.   In addition,  the Government has agreed on a series of interim
measures to provide PAD with increasing autonomy under the scope of pre-
sent legislation.   These interim steps would be implemented before the
end of 1984.  Among the interim measures are further relaxation of the a
priori expenditure control system and the progressive separation of a
greater part of PAD revenues into a Special Account.
6.10      The translation of the full-cost recovery objective into action
would require changes in PAD's tariff structure and levels. As stated in
para. 3.33, a tariff structure study is being carried out by PAD and the
results would be incorporated into PAD's tariff structure by July 1,
1984. Adjustment of tariff levels to fully reflect the cost of new fac-
ilities and retirement of assets no longer deemed productive would not
occur before FY1988 when the terminal would be in full operation. A rate
of return objective would not therefore be practical to specify and moni-
tor until after project completion. A realistic target that would satis-
fy full cost recovery has been estimated at 6% of average re-valued net
fixed assets in use.  This estimate would be reviewed no later than June
30, 1987, and incorporated as the long-term financial objective for
PAD.   During the project implementation period, in view of the need to
isolate PAD's cash flow to finance PAD's share of project costs, and to
ensure an adequate flow of cash into the Special Account mechanism, a
specific cash flow covenant will be set as the short-term financial cove-
nant under the project. The rate of return objective will permit PAD to
more easily and simply defend its tariff policy vis-a-vis the main port
users in the long term; the cash flow covenant will permit PAD to ensure
adequate internal cash generation for the project and for ongoing renew-
als and other capital investments. Simply put, PAD's tariff increases or
structural changes should generate sufficient additional revenues each
year to cover PAD's cash operating needs, debt service, PAD's share of
project costs (including interest during construction and taxes and du-
ties), provide fully for annual renewals and reinvestment needs at least
equal to its book depreciation, and cover all required increases in work-
ing capital. This requirement would mean that each year PAD would cover



- 40 -
at least 40% of the average capital expenditures for the prior, current
and following years out of the current year's internal sources after
meeting debt service.   The averaging procedure would smoothen large an-
nual variations in capital investment needs.
6.11       Financial targets in line with the above financial objectives
agreed upon at negotiations are summarized as follows:
PAD - Fnancial Targets
81/82  84/85  85/86  86/87  87/88 and Byond
(Actual) ---          Objective---
a) Cash Flow from Operations
after Debt Services as %
of 3-year Average Arnml
Capital EKpenditures              131     -      - Not less than 40----
b) Rate of Return on Revalued
Net Fixed Assets in Use (%)             not specified-        not less than 6
c) Accounts Receivable as %
of Anmnal Operating
Revenues (not to exceed)           45   35      30    30            25
During the project implementation period, annual consultations would be
held with PAD at least 90 days prior to close of the fiscal year, so that
PAD's proposed budget for the following year can be reviewed in time to
ensure any corrective action needed to achieve the above targets. During
negotiations, agreement was obtained on the format of semi-annual report-
ing by PAD on a set of key indicators of financial performance (working
ratio, operating ratio, ageing of accounts receivable, variances from
budget revenue and expenditure forecasts, etc.).
C. Forecast Financial Performance
Income Account
6.12       The financial forecast for FY1984-1990 has been developed in
current prices (with an average rate of inflation of 10% a year on oper-
ating expenditures 1/ -- corresponding to recent PAD experience) on the
1/ A sensitivity test of a higher rate inflation in operating costs has
been carried out (see para. 6.20). No reductions in staff arising from
produc-tivity improvements envisaged under the project have been taken
into account in the base analysis.



- 41 -
basis of the financial objectives, the project financing plan and traffic
forecasts. The revenue forecast closely follows the traffic forecast and
no allowance has been made for the beneficial effects that a restructur-
ing of tariffs would have.   Revenues in constant terms are forecast to
increase an average of 3.5% a year through 1989/90, i.e., at about the
rate of growth of total traffic, and 1.5% a year thereafter.
6.13      The calculation of the annual rate of return has been adjusted
for a pro forma revalued asset base, given the legal difficulties of
having PAD's books reflect the revaluation (para. 3.29).  After PAD has
carried out the asset revaluation, it will use these values as the basis
for future tariff setting, even though the books may not reflect the
revalued asset values.   PAD agreed at negotiations to furnish annually
pro forma statements demonstrating that its rate of return on revalued
net fixed assets in use meets or exceeds the agreed targets.  PAD also
agreed to maintain the pro forma revaluation current by appropriate in-
dexing and should review at least once every five years the physical
condition of its assets. The summary forecast income account is shown in
the table which follows and detailed in Annex 6-1.



- 42 -
PAD - Summary Forecast Income Statements
(CFAF Millions)
82/83   83/84    84/85    85/86    86/87   87/88   88/89    89/90
(Et.)  -            --------Forecast--    -
Operating Revenues        3,8X0   4,452    4,860    5,532    6,299    7,172    8,016    8,959
Working Expenses           2,096    2,442    2,522    2,774    3,C51    3,356    3,692    4,061
Operating Expenses        2,657    3,373    3,519    3,877   4,273   4,987    5,530    5,895
Operating Income           1,143    1,079    1,341    1,655    2,026    2,185    2,486    3,064
Interest Charges            409      456      571      725      872      926      888      825
Net Income before Tax       735      623      770      930    1,154    1,259    1,598    2,239
Taxes on Income             -        -        -        137      192      291      533      746
Net Income:                 735      623      770      793      962      968    1,065    1,493
Extraordinary Gains
(Losses)      (2,235)     --       --                -        --       -        -
Net Book Profit (Loss)   (1 ,5C0)    623      770       793     962      968    1,065    1,493
Working Ratio(%)              55      55       52       50       48       47       46       45
Operating Ratio (%)          70       76       72       70       68       70       69       66
Rate of Return
Revalued Average
Net Fixed Assets
in Use                    19,740   18,781   19,972   22,274   27,045   28,150   29,840   31,630
Net Income after Tax
and before Interest
Corrected for
Depreciation on
Revalued Asset Base          691     743      891    1,156    1,472    1,690    1,805    2,075
Rate of Return (%)           3.5     4.0      4.5      5.2      5-4       6.0     6.0      6.6



- 43 -
6.14      The main assumptions used in the forecast are summarized below:
(a) After the average tariff increase of 13% enacted by PAD's Board
prior to the start of FY84, revenue increases through tariff
increases and structural changes are expected to total an aver-
age of 10% (composed of an 8% average on all traffic categories
and a 12% surcharge on Senegal bound container traffic) in each
of the fiscal years 85, 86, 87 and 88 and a nominal 8% (i.e.,
no further surcharges) in years thereafter.
(b) A provision for losses on receivables has been set at 5% of
prior years' revenues and 3% of revenues of the year before.
This is in accordance with recent review of the potential los-
ses on PAD's accounts receivable. However, with improved man-
agement of client accounts, PAD should be able to reduce this
provision annually to about 3% of revenues (2% of prior year
and 1% of the year before); beyond FY87, the lower figures are
used in the analysis.
(c) Taxes on income are calculated on the basis of existing tax
code provisions which permit loss carryforwards of up to five
years and deduction from taxable income of up to 50% of invest-
ment expenditures financed from internal sources subject to no
more than a 50% reduction of taxable income in any year; any
excess investment tax credits are carried forward up to seven
years (the income tax rate is 33%).
(d) PAD would not capitalize interest during construction.
The analytical accounting adjustment for depreciation on a revalued asset
base has been made on the basis of a revalued base calculated using aver-
age international inflation indices of manufacturing and estimates of
future international inflation.   At the same time, allowance has been
made for a possible reduction of PAD's assets in use beyond 1987 when the
new terminal would enter into service and some existing berths become
redundant, or are put to new uses (para. 3.33).
6.15      The main conclusions from the analysis are:
(a) PAD should raise additional revenues in each year through tar-
iff increases or structural adjustments to achieve the cash
flow targets in FY85-87 and earn a rate of return on average
revalued net fixed assets in use of at least 6% in FY88 and
each year thereafter.
(b) PAD should make appropriate loss provisions as recommended by
its auditors.



- 44 -
Cash Flow Analysis and Forecast Financial Position
6.16       The forecast Statement of Source  and Application  of Funds is
summarized in the table which follows and detailed in Annex 6-2.
PAD - Summary Forecast Sources and App]ication of Fands
(CFAF Millions)
Total
82/83  83/84  84/85  85/86  86/87  87/8f  Project  88/89  89/90
(E-st.T )                                      8488)
Tnternal Sources             1,704  2,010  2,338  2,621   3,056   3,525    13,550  3,791   4,152
Borrowings                     --      60  2,477  2,726   1,853    146    7,262    -          --
Total Sources              1,704  2,070  4,815   5,347  4,909  3,671    20,812  3,791   4,152
- The Project
(incl. taxes)             -       ---  3,246   3,796  2,654    174    9,870
- Interest during Construc.    --     -       134    312    482    -          928    --
- Other (Investments
and Renewals)          6C0    703    730    726    800    880    3,839    960  1,200
- Net Compensation
Ptyments /a               --      --     328      56    180    833    1,397    953    --
- Increase (Decrease)
in Worklng Capital        230    531    (97)  (362)    15    347          434     36      79
- Net Purchases of
Treasury Bnds             --       60     62      31       1      6       160      1      68
- Debt Service                 685    798    790   7X        T77   1,324    4,477   1,788  1,736
Total Applications         1,515  2,092  5,193   5,347  4,908  3,564   21,105  3,738  3,083
Net Increase (Decrease)
in Surplus Cash            189   (22)  (378)        0      0    107    (293)       53  1,069
Debt Service Coverage          2.5    2.5    3.0    3.3    3-9    2.7         3.0    2.1    2.4
% of Capital Expenditures
Financed by Intermal
Sources after Meeting
Debt Service /b           131    172      40      40      57    147        62    209    201
/a Fayments of arrears and back taxes owed to Goverment less payments received frcm Govenment.
/b Average of prior, current and following year's capital expenditures.



- 45 
6.17      Over the project implementation period, PAD cash flow under the
minimal tariff/revenue increase assumptions of para. 6.14 would provide
full coverage of PAD's share of project costs and all of its renewal and
investment needs, together with its debt service obligations and minimum
needed increases in working capital.   It would also provide sufficient
surplus cash to permit PAD to settle its outstanding income tax and in-
terest arrears with the  Government, under the terms of a compensation
plan that was discussed and agreed upon at negotiations.   The debt ser-
vice coverage is adequate at over 2.0 in all years of the forecast pe-
riod;  coverage of total capital expenditures out of internal cash gene-
ration is satisfactory and in keeping with the stated financial object-
ives.  The coverage of the maximum debt service (occurring in FY90) in-
creases from just under 1.0 in FY84 to 1.25 in FY86 and nearly 1.8 by the
end of the project implementation.   This is satisfactory.   However, to
ensure that the position does not deteriorate during the critical years
following implementation of the project, a financial covenant was agreed
at negotiations stipulating that until completion of the project, no
additional debts (other than those agreed under the project financing
plan) may be incurred by PAD without prior agreement of the Association
if the maximum debt service resulting from the additional debt and the
debt service from the existing debt were not in toto covered at least 2.0
times by the cash flow from internal sources in the year in which such
additional debt is to be incurred. At the same time, it was agreed that
the final shape of the compensation plan specifying the annual reciprocal
payments should be acceptable to the Association. The proposed plan with
known amounts would be initialed by PAD and the Government as a condi-
tion of effectiveness of the Credit.
6.18      A separate analysis of the flow of funds into PAD's Special
Account mechanism showed  that some flexibility in payment of project
taxes out of the Special Account will be needed so that sufficient funds
are always available in the Account to cover the next three months of
PAD's share of project expenses and provide a reserve against possible
exchange losses.   However, in no circumstances should this flexibility
permit a delay in PAD's settlement of its fiscal liability beyond
July 1, 1989.   This was confirmed at negotiations.   All project related
contracts would be let net of taxes, and separate project tax accounts
would be maintained by PAD so that the extent of its tax liability is
fully recorded and payments made out of the Special Project Account. The
detailed mechanism for achieving PAD's payment of project related taxes
is spelled out in a side letter.
6.19      PAD's forecast financial position is summarized in the table
which follows and detailed in Annex 6-3.



- 46 -
PAD - Summary Forecast Balance Sheets
(CFAF Millions)
At June 30    1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
ASSETS
Net Fixed Assets in Use    12,650  13,045  16,915  22,283  22,320  21,990  21,740
Work in Progress          -      2,921   2,847    133     -      -       -
Other Net Assets         2,940   2,593   2,20B   2,089   1,972   1,847   1,786
Current Assets           4,170   3,951   4,019   3,774   3,925   4,301   5,711
Iess: Current Liabilities    1,392   1,398   1,964   2,368   2,687   2,032   2,305
Net Current Assets    2,778   2,553   2,055   1 ,406   1 ,238   2,269   3,406
TOT1AL N  ASES          18,368  21,112  24,025  25,911  25,530  26,106  26,932
FINNCED BY
Net Long Tenn Debt       5,115   7,10B   9,331  10,666   9,789   8,752   7,701
Other Long Term
Liabilities           2,622   2,266   1,786    953     --      -       -
Eqiuity and Reserves    10,631  11,738  12,90X3  14,292  15,741  17,354  19,231
TOTAL                   18,368  21,112  24,025  25,911  25,530  26,106  26,932
Current Ratio            3.0    2.8    2.0       1.6    1.5    2.1    2.5
Total Debt/Equity Ratio   42:58   44:56   46:54.  45:55   38:62   34:66   29:71
Net Accounts Receivable/
Gross Operating Revenues(%)  42      40      35     30      25      25      25
PAD's debt/equity ratio reaches a peak of 46/54 in FY86 due to the highly
leveraged financing plan.   However,  as shown in para. 6.17,  the debt
service coverage remains adequate.  PAD's current ratio remains high and
is entirely satisfactory. Other assets include the capitalization of the
estimated exchange losses on PAD's external debt under the Fishing Port
Project, as the repayment of such debt is denominated in US dollars;
they are amortized in relation to the annual repayments taking place.
They also include the compensation payments due from Government beyond 12
months, as well as PAD's net balance of treasury bonds. Other long term
liabilities include the compensation payments owed by PAD beyond 12
months. The current portion of all compensation payments is reflected in
the net current assets, as are the short term deferrals of payments of
project taxes and duties.
Major Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
6.20      The main  risk  associated  with  the project  is institutional
(para. 6.22). On the financial side, the Port's finances are sufficient-
ly robust to withstand even lower levels of tariff changes and even a
drop in traffic. The base analysis was carried out on a fairly conserva-
tive  traffic  forecast and the downside  risk is minimal.   Sensitivity
tests were carried out to see the effect of a lower traffic growth, a
higher rate of inflation in working expenses, and lower tariff/revenue
increases. The results are summarized in the table which follows.



- 47 -
PAD - Sensitivity Analysis of Financial Indicators
(CFAF Millions)
83/84  84/85  85/86  86/87  87/88  88/89  89/90
BASE CASE:
1. Net Income after Tax                     623    770     793      962     968   1,065   1,493
2. Net Internal Sources
after Meeting Debt Service            1,212   1,548   1,833   2,Z79   2,201   2,003  2,416
3.  Cash Surplus (Deficit)                  (22)   (378)    -       --      107      53   1,019
4. Project Taxes Paid                       -       332     593    779      472     -       ---
5. Debt Service Coverage (tines)            2.5     3.0     3.3     3-9     2.7    2.1      2.4
6. Rate of Return (%)                       4.0    4.5      5.2    5-4    6.0       6.0    6.6
7. Net Compensation Payments to Gov. /a    -        328      56     180    833    953       -
8.  Current Ratio                           3.0     2.8     2.0     1.6     1.5    2.1      2.3
9. % Capital Investments
Covered by Internal Sources             172     40       40      57     147     209    201
CASE 1:  Lower traffic growth (2.5% a year versus 3.5% a year) + higher rate of inflation of
working expenses (12.5% vs 1C% a year).
1. Net Incme after Tax                     623    770      696     745      687     694    896
2. Net Internal Sources
after Meeting Debt Service            1,212   1,548   1,736  2,060   1,912   1,618   1,806
3. Cash Surplus (Deficit)                   (22)   (378)        --          --      -       --
4. Project Taxes Paid                       -       332     578    741      525     -       -
5. Debt Service Coverage (times)            2.5    3.0      3.2     3.7     2.4     1.9    2.0
6. Rate of Return (%)                       4.0    4.5      4.6     4.2    4.3      3.9    4.0
7. Net Coapensation Payments to Gov. /a    -        311     (43)    (16)   491      5CB    456
8.  Current Ratio                           3.0    3.1      2-3     1-9     1.8    1.9    1.7
9. % Capital Investments
Covered by Internal Sources             172      40      38      52     123     169    151
10. Additional Tariff Increases (%)
Needed to Attain Cash Flow
and ROR Targets                         ---     -        +2     -      +2.5     --       +2
CASE 2:   Base traffic growth (3.5% a year) + higher rate of inflation (12.5%).
1. Net Income after Tax                    623     770      740    844    845    833   1,170
2. Net Internal Sources
after Meeting Debt Service            1,212   1,548   1,780  2,161   2,078   1,771   2,093
3. Cash Surplus (Deficit)                   (22)   (378)    -       -       --      --      117
4. Project Taxes Paid                       -       332     593     779    472      -       -
5. Debt Service Coverage (times)            2.5     3.0     3-3    3.8    2.6       2.0    2.2
6. Rate of Return (%)                       4.0    4.5      4.9     4.7     5.2     4.7    5.2
7. Net Compensation Payments to Gov. /a    -        311     (21)     34    7C8    745       573
8.  Currant Ratio                           3.0    3.0    2.2       1.7    1.6      1.7    2.2
9. % Capital Investments
Covered by Internal Sources             172     40       39      54     139     184    174
10. Additiornal Tariff Increases (%)
Needed to Attain Cash Flow
and ROR Targets                         -       -        +2     -      +1.5     -       --
CASE 3:  Lower traffic growth (2.5% a year) + higher rate of inflation (12.5%) + no container
surcharge after FB84.
1. Net Income after Tax                     623    681      550    479      295    373    640
2. Net Internal Sources
after Meeting Debt Service            1,212   1,459   1,585   1,781   1,498   1,262   1,523
3.  Cash Surplus (Deficit)                  (22)   (378)    (87)   (107)    (99)     60      63
4. Project Taxes Paid                       -       315     518    632    711       -       -
5. Debt Service Coverage (times)            2.5     2.8      30      33     2.1     1.7    1.9
6. Rate of Return (%)                       4.0    4.0    3.6       2.7     1.8    2.1      2.8
7. Net Compnsation Payments to Gov. /a    -         270     (50)    (50)    -       -       -
8.  Current Ratio                           3.1     3.0     2.2    2.1      2.2     2.4    1.1
9. % Capital Investments
Covered by Internal Sources             172      38     35       46     86      131     127
10. Additional Tariff Increases (%)
Needed to Attain Cash Flow
and ROR Targets                         -        +2   +1.5      --    +4.0       -    +2.0
/a Net jsyments = payments made - peyments received.



- 48 -
6.21      Four major effects are discernible.   First, as a result of a
lower cash flow in the three alternatives tested, PAD needs a longer
period to complete its payments of income tax arrears to the Govern-
ment.   The worst case scenario (case 3) shows that with the cash flow
available, PAD is not able to settle its outstanding arrears (amounting
to an estimated CFAF 2,500 million) during the project years nor during
the entire projection period.   Second, there is a lowering of the debt
service coverage.   However,  even in the worst case,  the debt service
coverage remains a satisfactory 1.7 in the peak debt service year
(1988/89).   Third, there is a lowering of the target rate of return in
the outer years and reduction of the coverage of capital investments by
internal sources, particularly in the critical years of projet execu-
tion.    In  the  worst  case  scenario,  the  coverage  drops  to  35%  in
1985/86.   Additional tariff increases will then be needed to attain the
targets.   These are estimated in the table, but are fairly marginal in-
creases except in the worst case scenario.   Nevertheless, it is amply
evident that PAD will need to effect the minimum tariff increases postu-
lated in the base analysis (para. 6.14) in order to withstand the com-
bined effects of lower traffic growth and higher level of working expen-
ses. It is for this reason that PAD must at a minimum implement a tariff
increase of the order of 10% at the start of FY85 as a condition of ef-
fectiveness of the proposed Credit.   Further tariff increases will be
needed in FY86 and FY87 and will be monitored through the proposed cash
generation covenant.   Annual consultation will be required at least one
month prior to close of PAD's fiscal year so that the cash flow target
can be reviewed and corrective action taken. The importance of the cash
covenant and timely tariff increases is further underscored by the fourth
major effect in the above table, i.e., the current ratio, which in the
worst case scenario falls to a low 1.1 at the end of FY90.  In each case,
however, the lower net revenues result in lower income taxes, thereby
mitigating the effect of lower traffic growth and higher inflation. Cash
flow from operations thus does not fall as steeply as do net operating
revenues and even in the worst case scenario, PAD is able to maintain
sufficient flexibility to cover any conltingent increases in project
costs.   This flexibility is provided both by the cushion of available
liquidity and the ability to defer payment of project taxes (para. 6.18).
6.22      In the final analysis,  the main risk is that PAD's internal
structure does not develop as envisaged and that as a result, its finan-
cial management does not improve to the extent forecast.  This would re-
sult in inefficient use of the heavy investment by Senegal in a container
port facility and possible loss of tax revenues to the Government, due to
PAD's inability to generate the level of revenues it would have been
equipped to do.



- 49 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      The  following  agreements  were  reached  with  the Government
and/or PAD during negotiations:
(i)   Plan of Action for:   improving operations in the Mali
Port Zone (para. 3.06); reorganizing operational areas
(para.  3.10);   reducing container dwell time  (para.
3.12); improving customs' and gendarmeries' activities
within the Port area (para. 3.12); redeployment of PAD
staff and improvement of maintenance (para. 3.25); and
related target dates (para. 4.17);
(ii)   PAD to revalue its committed fixed asset base and in-
corporate the new values into pro forma accounts to be
presented for Association review no later than December
31, 1985 (para. 3.29);
(iii)   external audit program (para. 3.30);
(iv)   PAD and Government  to review recommendations of the
tariff structure study not later than March 31, 1987,
and convert these into a new tariff structure operable
not later than July 1, 1987 (para. 3.33);
(v)   assurances from PAD that the new terminal will be oper-
ated with modern and sufficient container handling
equipment;   and that sheds, offices and workshops will
be made available (para. 4.07);
(vi)   draft compensation plan on the settling of reciprocal
debts and on avoidance of future arrears between the
Government and PAD (para. 6.05);
(vii)   the mechanism for transfer of a part of PAD's daily
cash revenues into the Special Account, and annual
percentage of revenues to be transferred (para. 6.08);
(viii)   not later than June 30, 1986, Government to present for
Association review and comment a comprehensive plan to
increase PAD's managerial and financial autonomy and to
effect a suitable transformation of PAD's legal status
(para. 6.09);
(ix)   annual review of long-term rate of return target (para.
6.10) and consultation on financial performance no
later than June 30, 1987 (para. 6.10);



- 50 -
(x)   financial targets on rate of return, accounts receiv-
able and net internal cash flow as percent of capital
expenditures (para. 6.11);
(xi) reporting requirements (paras. 4.13, 6.11, 6.13);
(xii)   PAD  to  incur no  additional  debts  (other than those
agreed upon under the project financing plan) without
prior Association agreement if the maximum debt service
resulting from the additional debt added to the exist-
ing debt service were not in toto covered at least 2.0
times by the cash flow from internal sources in the
year in which such additional debt is to be incurred
(para. 6.17);  and
(xiii)   mechanism for PAD to reimburse the project's taxes and
duties to the Government (para. 6.18).
7.02      A condition of effectiveness would be the finalization of the
compensation plan referred to in (vi) above, including a schedule and
amounts to be settled. A further condition of effectiveness would be the
implementation of a 10% tariff increase beginning FY85 (July 1, 1984)
(para. 6.21) as well as the employment of a suitably qualified port oper-
ations  expert  (para. 4.17).   Finally,  the conclusion of an onlending
agreement on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association would
also be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit (para. 4.11).
7.03      Based on the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable
for an IDA Credit of SDR 2.6 million (US$2.65 million equivalent) and a
Credit from the Special Fund administered by IDA of SDR 4.7 million
(US$4.85 million equivalent).
WAPT1
April 1984



SPES8AL
DAKAR CCAIR  PORT P1WJBT
S1TAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Port Traffic: Actual 1973-1952 and Forecast 1985, 1990, 1995
('0x) tons)
1973     1974     1975      1976     19g7      1978     1979      1g90    1981      1982    1985      1990      1995
=iports
A. DryCa Lo                            1,261     1,058      797    1,017    1,011     1,199    1,073     1,086   1,185    1,232    1,4C0      1,529    1,535
. Geral cargo                        681      593       42      7504       512      617       58f2     552      575      634      675       802      865
2. Bmp                               362      323       2B       323       356      377       339      364      424      448      410       415      320
3. Bik                               218       142      165      190       163      2Q5       152       170     186       150     315       312       350
B. Petroleun Products                  1 ,033     875       673      503       780    1,412      755       460      454      506      640      7TO       750
C. Crude Oil (W Bo)                      666      672       653      697       766      758      842       79B      595      474      600      8am       8)0  
D. Other Liquid Blk  (cheicals ICS)      12       15        21       28        14       23        26       18       23       15       45        60       75
Total                              2,972    2,620    2,144    2,245       2571    3,392    2,696    2,362   2,257    2,227    2,685    3,089    3,160
Erports
A.   y0 Cargo                          2,182    2,407    1,974    2,052    2,348    2,175    2,263    1,869   1,684    1,870   2,140    2,485    2,855
1. General cargo                     174      232       159      278       255      251       195      205      214      258      325       496
2. BNpg119                                     144       77       43        45        85    64          76       97       57      115       145       19D
3. Rl1k (inc. ICS fertilizer)      1,899    2,031     1,738    1,731    2,048    1,836    2,001       1,58B   1,373    1,555    1 ,700    1,850    2,000
B. Petroleun Products                     70       40        39       73       151      102       248       14       64       86      115       220      225
C. BlkerrEuel                          1,002      778      512       447      454       376      281       203      138      168      150       100      100
D. Other Liquid Ba]k (IC%, other)         52       82       128      155       130       39       102       45       38       87      180       230      275
Total                              3,306    3,307    2,653    2,727    3,CB3    2,692    2,894    2,131    1,924    2,211    2,585    3,035    3,455
'YTAL                              6,278    5,927    4,797    4,972    5,654    6,0e4    5,590    4,493   4,181         4,438   5,270    6,124    6,615
Sarre: PAD, Feasibility Study by PAM (1983) and Bank estimates.
March 19s4 



Accounting
0  r      General Office-- -   n
5   a  r          Personnel
OD      rSocial
Assistance
a          Medical 
o         Services               r  \
Public                                       a  z
HRelations                       \                     c 
o                                         \o5 0  a
Statistics                                   \/
v        & Computer                       \
*0~~~~~~~~~~
Invoicing           _  _D2 
a          Claims
tm         Office-    r      
:3         Controler
Makein                       C)
Pinlotage  ___        a
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
lParbor Yiaster
Pilots and    _ _                  I 
Pofficeaf
Workshops                  1  
Operationso//
& Equipment        -      r/
Land Use                 oH'   
Cargo Operations
Marine and
H~~~~~~~~ ~ Zq
New Works~o                                         ~                            0
Buildings               ,-i          r 
w rD
Hardstandings               o           - H
Roads & Railways         _ 
-                    o                                      0N
- ~  ~       ~      ~       N 
z-E XiNNV ~ ~      ~        ~       ~       0
_ 0 05



-  53 -                                                                       ANNEX  4-1
SENEGAL
D3AKAR CONTAINER PORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Project Cost Estimate
84/85                    85/86                     86/87                    87/88                TOTAL  OCF07   HILL)    TOTAL  (IN US$   HILL)   Z TOTAL
FOREIaN  LOCAL  TOTAL  FOREIGN  LOCAL  TOTAL  FOREOTH  LOCAL  TOTAL  FORE108  LOCAL  TOTAL               FOREIGN  LOCAL   TOTAL  FOREIGN    LOCAL   TOTAL  DAOECGST
1. CIVIL AORKO
LOT l(00AY WALL)                      790    340  1,135         589    252    841          88      38    126         -       -       -        1,472    630   2,102    3.755    1.007   5.362           36.1
LIT 2(0REDOING/FILL)                  560       49    609       416      36    452         62       6     60                                  1,038      91   1,129    2.648    0,232   2.880          19,4
LIT 3(PAVING/OTILITIES)                  -      -       -       446    113    559         625    157    728           -      -       -        1,071    270   1,341    2,732    0.689   3.421           23.0
--  -     - -     - -    -  - -    -  -    - -     - - -     - -     - -     - - -     - -      - -      -  - -    -  -    -    ---  -  -    - - -     - - -   - - - -
TOTAL BASE COST                         1,355    389  1,244    1,451    401  1.852           775    201    976           -      -       -        3,581    991   4,572    9.135    2.528  11.663            78.5
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                    191      44    235       231      55    286        146      36    T82          -       -      -          568    135       700    1.449    0.344   1.793          12.1
PORICE COININSENCIES                       0      56    256        223      68    291        186      65    251          -       -      -          609    189       798    1.554    0,402   2.036          13,7
TOTAL C8NTTNGEHCIES                       39I1000    490           454    123    577         3372    101    433          -      -       -        1,177    224   1,501    3,003    0,027   3.830           2.
TOTAL CIVIL 608KS                       1,746    489  2,235    1,905    524  2,429    1,107    302'  1,409               -       -      -        4,758  1,015   6,073   12.030    3.055  15.493          104,3
--  -     - -     - -    -  - -    -  -    - -     - - -     - -     - -     - - --  -  - -  - -  -     - - -  -  - - -   - - -     - - -     - - -     - - -   - - - -
2. CONSULTANT SERVICES
PROJECT SUPERVISION                    53       A      A         52       A      50        49      5      54N       13       1      14          169      18     107    0,431    0.046   0,477           0.2
AUDITS                                  15      4      19        23       6      29        15       5     20        30.      0      39           04      23      107    0,214    0.059   0.273          1.8
MNANGENENT STUDIES                      -       -       -        26       2      28        52       0     0         16       2      18           94      00     104    0.240    O.026   0.266           I.8
TARIFF STUDIES                           -      -       -        19       2      21        20       2     22         -       -       -           39       4       43    0.099    0.010   0.109          0.7
--  -     - -     - -    -  - -    -  -    - -     - -  -    - -     - -     - - --   - - -  -  - -     - -  - -  - -  -  - - -     - - -     - - -     - - -   - - - -
TOTAL BASE MUT                             70      10      80      120      16    136        636      08    154         60      11     71          086      55      441    0,985    0.140   0.125           7.61
PNYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                      8       1      9        12       2      14        14       2      16         6      1       7           40       6       46    0.102    0.015   0,117           0.8
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                         5       1       6        19      2      21        34       7      41        19       6     25           77      16       93    0.196    0.041   0,237           1.6
--  -     - -     - -    -  - -    -  -    - -     - - -     - -     - -     - - --   - - -  - -  -     - -  - -  - - -   - - -     - - -     - - -     - - -  -  - - -
TOTAL CONTINGENCIES                        10       2      15       31       4      35        48       9      57        25       7     32          117      22      139   01,298    0.056   0.354           2.4
--  -     - -     -       - - -     - -     - -     - - -     - -     - -    - - --   - - -  -  - -     - - -  -  - -  -  - - -     - - -     - - -     - - -  -  - - -
TOTAL CONSULTANT SERVICES                  U2      12     95       151      20    171        184      27    211         85     18    103           503      77      580    1.283    0.196   1.479          10.0
--  -     - -       -     - - -     - -     - -     - - -     - -     - -     - - --  - - -  -  - -     - -  - -  - -  -  - - -     - - -     - - -     - - -   - - - -
3. TECIHNICAL. ASSISTANCE
ACTION PLAN8                           61       3      64        62       3      65        67      3      70         -       -       -          190      9      199    0,485    0.023   0.508           3.4
DATA PROCESSING                         14      1      15        14       1      15        15       1     16        13       1      14           56       4      61    0,143    0.010   0.153           1.0
ACITI/FIHANCIAL MNANNEMENT             73       8      81        72       8      80        78     10      80         -       -       -          223     26      249    0.569    0.066   0.605           4.3
TOTAL BASE COST                           148     12    160        140      12    160        160      14    174         13      0      14          469      39     508    1.196    0.099   1.295            8.7
PNTSICAL CONTINGENCIES                     15       1      16        15       1     16        17       1      18         2       -      2           49       0       52    0,125    0.008   0.133          0.9
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                        10       I1    11        23       1      26        39       4      43         5      -       5           77       8       85    0.196    0.020   0.216          1.5
--  -     - -     - -    -  - -    -  -    --  -  - - -  -  - - -     - -   - - - -  -  - -    ---     - - -  -  - -  -  - - -     - - -     - - -     - - -  -  - - -
TOTAL C0HTONSNCIES                         25       2     27        38       4      42        56       5     6Al         7      -       7          126      11      137    0.321    0.328   0.049          2.4
TOTS. TECHNICAL ANSISTMM                  173      04    187       186      16    202        216      19    235        20       1      21         595       58     645    1.S1U      1.128   1.646        08.1
4. T8A18188
UNIINIS ATWNR CONT.PO80 -            -         -         -        -        -00                      1     1          8       -             8         10          I?    0.046    0.003   0.849           0.3
OTHER PORT PERSOA4NL                     9      -       9         8       -       8         8       -      8         7       -       7          22       -       32     0.082         -  0.082          0.6
TOTAL USE COST                              9       -      9         8a      -       a        18a      1      19        15       -      5           58       1      51    0.128    0.003   0.131           0.9
PHYTSICAL ONTINGA4IES                       II-                     0I       -       1         3       -       3         2      -       2            7      -        70.018              - 0.018           0.1
PRICE CONTINOENCIES                         1       -       I         II                                -      5         5       -      5           12       -      12    0.031          -   0.031         0.2
TOTAL.CONTlNGENCIES                         2       -      2          2      -       2         8       -       a8        7       -      7           19       -      19  0.048            - 0.048           0.3
TOTS. TRAINING                         . 11         -      11        10o     -      10        26       1      27        22       -     22           69       1      70    0,176    0.002   0.179           1.2
5, OEF88E MAINTENANCE
TOTS. BASE COST                            34     82    116         31      70    100         10      22     32          -              -          75    174       249    0.1910 ,1444   0.635             4.3
PHYSTICAL CONTONGE8IES                      5      102    17         5      10      15         1       3       4         -                          11     25       36    0.028    0.064   0.092           0.6
PRICE CONT1N8EIIES                          2       a8    18         5      16      21         2       a8     10         -              -            9     32       41    0.023    0.082   0.105           8.7
TOTS. CONTIWNGEZES                          7     26      27        l0      26      36         3      11     14          -  -       -     j        20      57       77    0.050    0.145   0.196           1.3
TOTS. KUtERED NAINTENMEE                   41    102    143         41      96    137         13      33     46          -                          5    231       326    0.242    0.589   0.B31           5.6
6. GRAND TOTS. PRO1CT
BAS  COSTIFEX 84 PRICES)                1,616    493  2,109    1,758    499  2,257    1,099    256  1,355               88     12    184        4,561  1,268   5,821   11.635    3.214  14.849           108.8
PHTSICAL CONTINGENCIES                    220      58    278       264      68    332        101      42    2213        10       1     11         675    169       844    1.722    0.431   2.053          04.5
PRICE CCHINRENCI1ES                       208     66    284        271      OS    360        266      84    250        29       6      35         784    245   1,029    2.000    0.625   2.625            07.7
TOTS. COST MET OF TAX                  2,854    617  2,671    2,293    656  2,949    1,546    282  1,928              137      09    146        6.020  1,674   7,694   15.357    4.270  09,627          132.2
TAXES I LETIES                              -    575    575           -    847    847          -    726    726           -     28      291          -  2,176   2,176           -    5.551   5.551        37.4
TOTS. COST WITH TAXES                   2,854  1,092  3,246    2,292  1,582  3,796    1,546  1,188  2,654              127     47    174        6,020  3,858   9,970   15.337    9,821  25.178          10496
7.  INTERST TOEING CU4STRIRTION            55     79    134        137    175    312         254    228    482           -      -       -         446    482      928    1.138    1.230   2.368          15.9
TOTS. FIMCING RE881RE0                 2,189  0,270  3.38        2.430  0,67B  4,108    1,801  1.336  3,136           127      47    174  -  646   4,22   08,798    16.495   11.051  27,546             185.5
Source: PAD & MLssion Estimates
March 13, 1994
Note:   Base  prices  for  Lots  1 &  2 are  fixed  prices  valid  until  3/31/84.   Base  prices  for Lot  3 and
other items have been updated to February 1984.



SENEGAL
DAKAR CONTAINER PORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Project Execution Time Schedule
1984 /a       1985          1986           1987           1988
1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4
I Civil Works
Lot 1 --Marine Works                                              _ 
Lot 2 -- Dredging and Fill                       -   -  -  _  =   -  -
Lot 3 -- Asphalt and Services
II  Consulting Services                                 _       -  -
III  Technical Assistance                                -       -  _              - _  _                   -
IV Training                                            T                       - - - I
V  Deferred Maintenance                                        -  -  -  m  -  -         -                     L
/a  Credit Effectiveness:  September 1984.
Source: Prepared by Bank Staff.
March 1984



I          -,        N.     -,            a      IN   a      a    -.    -      a,-
Na              -.  N         -. a         'N          -                               ..     N           -gINNOIN                    'N
WIN                N          S  N          N          N          N      'N    N.             0    N      N    N    --       N
aaaafl0aaNNcNaa'NagaaaINa  N INa  aa NaN. aaa Na  N.... NIN Nfl .1'Nna Nt'Na tNO  tOn ON
p'.   01C100          N0t      N ONIINO      N..Nl1NO    IIIN'N    10  -. NI na-NO,-., a  Na  000   N IN ' IN   fl0  N
a   a INaOa.OININNOIN'N-NOOI--fl0   N. IN - N N.                                              N  N a  NINNINNO1NON  00  a N.  a11
3..   N     aN      'N     N    -        a    N    Nl          S             IN     -    N      0llN  NM   N  a    N-..     a           tI   N
IN            N  N.         N            0            a         -      -             a      N                              Na                a     0.
a             a            N                                           N           N      a                    'N     0       -*
a            t          N.          -                N             N.     a    N      N                  N N      N        N
*               IN  N        'N    N                              N     N                    N     N      -                   N      "        N.
-'     a     a  N          -' N                      a      -             N      N    N      N    a    a        N -, --  N       C
N      N  N  N      N  a                      a      -.            N      -    N      a    a    N        -N   a  a        N
(N  -     a      a      a                               N                    N.   a            N    N         IN     N        N
'N        N  N          0  N          0  (N                     -     N.                    N           N    N    N        ON   N  N        a
*          IN  N  a     N      (N    1k    N                           N                    N           N    -'   a        N    I)  N
*         N   'N   'N          N      IN                        a      -                    -           N         -        N N  N
H'        -      -      -. 0  N       -  0                      N      N                                          N        ON   N
o         a  a  0       S  -  N       -  N                      N      N                    0           N                  N N  -
N  a      -  N  a       a  1k                                                N                      IN        N
IN   IN          N  N                                5      'N                   N           0         N          a  a
N            a   N  N      NI    N                   -      IN                   N           N          N         'N  N
N  N         N      N      N   'N                    a      IN                   a           N         'N         N  N
0  0'        N             N  N                             N                    N           N         N          a  N.
N.     N     N.                               N                    N           N          N             a
a                                                           N                    N
N         a      N      a                               a                     N
-                N.                                     -                     N.
N                0                                      a                     a
N                a                                      a                     N
0
I         N   I         S  I        I  I             I      I      I      I    I      I     I    I       I                 I
a    kN.  I    a   Nag       a   I10g        I  I      I      I             I      I    I      I     I    I       I        I        I    a
tNINgO   WNICNN.N.N.ONtEaN.N.C 'NI  a  a  l             I      I              I      I    I      I    I             I        I   '010 loaN. I.    I I a      N  (N  0
*0101.1  11tH otaN'N.NaS N.ONNN.NNgO I aaN..-A  N.H *aaIaoa Ha a    a    I             I  NI a NOICI         I        I        I  a.oa ,a.a  'a         IN
..o,-a Ho I Iota OlaIla I..            I aj   'N 'Na   CON.  000110 'Na  000100   000' 0a i aa I aN.0'-I IN.  tal 00a0 I N''N                                        ' I a
*                       I                     I      I      I             I           I     I            I        I        I                       N   "I  IN  0
a  a    II. I      aalOI        aagNJI          I  I      I      I       I      I      I    I      I    I    I        I        I        I
..NaoNgNJNa I(NaaaalHaIN.NllNoaIag   a  ala.             I        0     I      I      I    I      I a  I             i      OH 0  N.10 H'NaN IN    I It       '  F
0001A N 'N I .1.100101, N. I a10tON.  010000 I a I *aa I woa I 'N a  i        I aa   I N.alaN.,II.1alal             I a  aaI-IaOIaON.lO    'N I N'
aN.a'Nt NO' a0N.OaNa I NININ.0, lag aOogN 'aI *.ala'NgNla 001000' N'O0 I 001 ..NlNa I 00 'aOl aN.OININ. N.aIN.aN'N.Iat 0
I  I        I  I     .'      I      I             I    I      I     I    I       I        I        I      I     0  IN'        0   0
a      akg.gg       alINol        al .'.l       I  I       I      I      I      I      I           I    I             '      ala
oH   a  ala,           l.1a.aa    aa    4.'Na Oa : 10lNaiN.aiaaia  INN. 10  N3              INN.     a'a    '-I             NI
N10000(N.SNI0NJONIHIOI10000N.l 'NlalNaN.,INlaaN. I *aOga aN' 10N.a INOOl 0N 110001 'Na IaN'' N'..1.IOININ. 100 I a10a10 I
N I I I I I I I I I ' I I I I I
N   I         I  I        I  I      I      I       I     I      I    I      I     I    I       I        I
al        gal              ,       I      I      I    I      I    I    I        I        I
aN'N.0  Nag a  N.00I10 I   NICNNAI NI  N'N.CIIgCg         I       I  .0,0,      I NJ  Iaa 'a       I  01 aalaaalN.             I
CNJOO 101 no.100k NIl 00100101 OOaa IN') 'NaN 100010 01010001000' 'Na laNol 001 Na' 1000010 00'aOaa, 000
*         I  I                                                                                                             I  I    a
I     I      I       '      I      I    I           I                      I        I      I      I  IN
CNONJ.Na fbI a-aaa btg         aaaIOl             al      I      g       I      '      I           '    I    I        I      ala         a  ala
'N'N000(0laON.0'O(I'NgOIANIO'NIN'la0aNNlN' 10    I aa    Ni a    a    I a  I a                 aa  N.  I    '   aa Ia    ala  '00,101011. IN'    '
0000.01105 atO 0g.1 Igla0 0010101 a-NoN 1101 N.O.I0,00ga aol I 0-NO (NON. 'N al 0aa I a.,oalaaaal'N 1001 INN.N'N.IN.N'IO 'a
,OoOatg'N'N.NJabag ta.-ialala 0 boalaloola ' OaalOaN.I-0N. o'aa I oa 101001 'Na 101000,010 00, lN. 0, 10N.01 0
lal          11101         Ia: aaoa   'N aaaoaoa  ta :000:000'                           I    I    I        '        I        I      I     N. IN
-o                                               I    I aNN lao' aol 000010   o.I.aaa  11000 ''N    -
.I.
N.o'N0t01000'NON'Nlaa0N.gN'100 N'N$lNbaaa 00010 aalN.aolaaOl N.10'aa 0a1a01 aoaalN' aol 'N0'NN.l 00010 ala
N.'tcNN.lltRlNIgta0 flgaa0tl N.H ..-41.i'NtlN.100a I Oat 10 tO lOaNi 'Not I 'Na 1001.11 aalaO ION. 0a ' ON.' N.t'NN' I 00010
I         I  I        I  I      I      I       I      I      I    I      I    I    I        I        I       I       I
II  I        HI  I         I   I       I   S      I     I       I      I      I    I      I    I     I       I        I        I      I
lag          gal         lag        1a      a     I a      a      .a Ia    I .-.alaala         II-.     I *-'    I a    Ia
gNaaa 1101  aaN.N.l,0l    N.N.g'NlagNag.1lalNnNNa I Ooa I 0 0101001010010100100010010010   .010                            010   010100010
aINoOtNOl   OnONNOI   Oatl  01 *0Na 101100010001 0 ON. lOON. lOON.  00 100,0100 1001 000010   10t 101000100010



- 56 -
ANNEX 4-4
SEMMAL
DAKAR CONTAINER PORT PROJECT
SLAE? APPRAISAL REPORT
Estimated Disbursement Schledule
(US$ millions)
TDA CREDIT              SPECIAL FUND  CREDIT
Fiscal Year and Quarter      Quarter    Cumulative         Quarter    Cumulative
1985
To September 30, 1984        -            -
To December 31, 1984         0.2           .2
To March 31, 1985            0.2           .4
To June 30, 1985             0.3           .7
1986
To September 30, 1985        0.3          1.0             0.4          0.4
To December 31, 1985         0.3          1.3             0.4          0.8
To March 31, 1986            0.3          1.6              0.2          1.0
To June 30, 1986             0.2          1.8             0.4          1.4
1987
To September 30, 1986        0.2          2.0             0.6          2.0
To December 31, 1986         0.2          2.2              0.7         2.7
To March 31, 1987            0.1          2.3              0.8         3.5
To June 30, 1987             0.1          2.4              0.5         4.0
1958
To September 30, 1987        0.05         2.45             0.25        4.25
To December 31, 1987         0.05         2.50             0.3         4.55
To March 31, 1938            0.03         2.53             0.2         4.75
To June 30, 1988             0.02         2.55             0.1         4.85
1989
To September 30, 19E8        0.05         2.60             -           4.85
To December 31, 1988         0.05         2.65             -           4.85
Source: Mission Estimates
March 1984



57 -                      ANNEX 4-5
Page 1 of 4
SENEGAL
DAKAR CONTAINER PORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Plan of Action
1.        Operational Management:
Objectives:
(a) improve the efficiency of the Port's general cargo, bulk
cargo and food grains handling operations;
(b) reduce the container dwell time in the Port;
(c) streamline customs procedures relating to containerized
cargoes;
(d) improve the level of security in and around the Port and
reduce pilferage;
(e)  make  additional  Port  areas  available  for  container
storage;
(f) ensure optimum use of Port facilities freed as a conse-
quence of the new container terminal; and
(g) ensure, to the extent possible, the implementation of the
recommendations of the study of the Dakar/Bamako transport
axis, notably those relating to the rational use of the
Mali Port Zone. 1/
Among the measures required to attain the above objectives is the re-
cruitment by the date of effectiveness, for a period of 36 months, of an
expatriate "Directeur d'Exploitation" with experience and qualifications
satisfactory to the Association and the other co-lenders of the Project.
The "Directeur d'Exploitation" shall also train a Senegalese
national to take over the position at the end of his contract period (see
also Part 2 which follows).
1/ The study is being financed by the "Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation"
of the Republic of France, at the request of the Governments of Senegal
and Mali.



- 58 -                          ANNEX 4-5
Page 2 of 4
2.        Department of Port Operations:
Objective:
To prepare and train a Senegalese national to take over the
management of the Department of Port Operations within a three-year
period.
To attain this objective, PAD will designate a Senegalese na-
tional not later than September 1, 1984, who will then:
(a) be trained in port operations in the Port of Dakar by the
"Directeur d'Exploitation" to be recruited under (1.)
above;
(b) be trained in port operations in an overseas port of sim-
ilar operational systems as Dakar and similar types of
cargoes for two separate periods of six months each; and
(c) be working together in the Port of Dakar with the "Direc-
teur d'Exploitation" as "Directeur Adjoint d'Exploitation"
for a period of six months after return from overseas
training, and then take over the management of the depart-
ment.
3.        Financial Management:
Objectives:
(a) implement the recommendations arising from the report of
the Port's auditors in respect of organization and manage-
ment of the Port's accounting systems and procedures;
(b) organize a "Direction Financiere" having overall responsi-
bility for all financial matters including budget prepara-
tion,  investment  and  debt  management  and  financial
planning; and
(c) reinforce the budget control and internal audit groups in
the Director General's office.
In order to attain these objectives, PAD will recruit, after
evaluation of the bids arising from the bidding underway, and in any case
not later than September 1, 1984, and for a 24-36 month period, a Char-
tered Accountant  (Expert Comptable  dipl8me),  whose qualifications  and
experience are judged satisfactory by the Association and the other co-
lenders of the Project. Other short term financial experts, with qualif-
ications and experience judged satisfactory by the Association and the
other co-lenders, will be recruited as necessary for specific tasks in
relation to the above objectives.



~ 59 -                       ANNEX 4-5
Page 3 of 4
4.        Management Information Systems/Data Processing:
Objectives:
(a) improve data processing methods and information systems
relating to Port traffic statistics, and other managerial
and operational performance measures;
(b) introduce a modern management information system appropri-
ate to the Port's needs;
(c) carry out periodic data processing audits at least once a
year; and
(d) prepare a Data Processing Plan for the 1986/1988 period
and update it at least every other year.
To attain these objectives, PAD will continue to employ the
services of the Direction de Traitement Automatique de l'Information (D.
T. A. I.) of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, supplemented by other
data processing experts not belonging to DTAI, particularly for the con-
duct of data processing audits and improvement of management information
systems relating to Port statistics.
A Data Processing Plan 1986/88 will also be prepared not later
than June 30, 1985, and PAD will take the required steps to implement
such a plan during 1985/86, in consultation with the Association.
5.        Infrastructure Department:
Objectives:
(a) improve the deployment of the department's staff;
(b) increase the work and cost efficiency of the department;
and
(c) improve the level of maintenance of the Port's infrastruc-
ture.
6.        PAD's Headquarters:
Objectives:
(a) increase headquarter's operating efficiency;
(b) deepen headquarter's involvement in the Port's daily ac-
tivities;
(c) prepare management and staff towards the larger financial



- 60 -                          ANNEX 4-5
Page 4 of 4
and managerial autonomy to be provided PAD.
7.        Training:
Objectives:
(a) enhance the knowledge of the staff in their field of ac-
tivities;
(b)  increase  their  knowledge  i.n  various  aspects  of  Port
operations;
(c) retrain staff to work in different positions following
PAD's reorganization;
(d)  train   staff   towards   the   computerization   of  PAD's
services; and
(e) train staff in Senegal and overseas for the management
activities in the new container terminal.
In order to better define the means to attain the objectives in
Sections (5), (6), and (7) above, PAD will carry out with the aid of
consultants the second phase of the Plan of Action study to be completed
not later than December 31, 1984.
The conclusions of this study, after review and comment by the
Association and the other co-lenders, will be implemented during 1985 in
consultation. with the Association and the other co-lenders.



- 61 -
ANE 5-1
SEN1B~AL
DAKAR CONTAIDER PORT PROJECT
SFl  APPRALSAL REPORT
Forecast of Containerizable Traffic /a
('000 tons)
(Estimate)                Forecast
1982           1985     1990    1995
Non-refrigerated                      386             430      498      540
Refrigerated                           40              45       47       50
Bagged                                448             410      415      320
Total Containerizable  nbound         874             885      960      910
Non-refrigerated                      135             175      260      320
Refrigerated                           95             185      240      320
Bagged                                 68             115      145      190
Total Containerizable Outbound        298             475      645      830
TTAL Inbound and Outbound           1,172           1,360    1,605    1,740
/a Eccludes transit.
Source: FeasibiliJty study by PAM (1983), PAD and Bank estimates.
March 1984



SENEAL
DAKAR COTAIDR PORT PROJETr
STAFF APPRASAIL REPORT
Fbrecast of Containerized Traffic E0r Zone /a
'OCO tons)
-_ _ _ _  _  __1_9_5                                     1ggo                                         1995
Non-re-   Refrig-             Containerized   Non-re-    Refrig-           Containerized   Non--re-    Refrig-            Containerized
frig.     erated    Bsgged         B         frig.      erated    Bagged      A       B    frig.      erated    Bagged      A        B
DM
airope, North & West     206        20        20        12)            239        21        20     193    165        258        22         15    222      192
Erpe, Meditermnean        90         4        11         51            104         4        11      82      75       113         4         8       95     87
Africa- intemal trade    40         12        13         16             46        13        13      26      24        50        14        10      35      33
Africa- interchange        5         0         0          4              6         -         -       5       5         6         -         -       5        5
Transit /b               (40)        0         0          -            (50)        -         -      50       -       (60)        -         -      60        -
Other                     89         9       366         37            103         9       371      59      59       113        10       287      83      83
Total /b                 430 /b    45        410        228            498        47       415     415   3TB         540        50       320      5C0)   4C0)
OUIRD
Erope, North & West       48        30         4         34             73        35         5      68      60        89        57         6      96      86
ahiope, Mediterraenan     3G        5)         5         21             42        35         6      46      42        50        57         7      64      60
Africa- intemal tde    47          101        8fl        19             69       140       112      71      49        83       166       152      124     86
Africa- interchange        27        0         0         22             41         -       112      35      35        50         -         -      45       45
Transit /b               (40)        0         0          -            (50)        -         -      50       -       (60)        -         -       60       -
Other                     23        24        18         19             35        30        22      30      30        43        40        25      42      42
Total /b                 175       18        115        115            260       240       145    300)   216         32        32        190    431      319
TOAL IN AND OUT          65                                            758       27        560    715   554          860       37510 LO          931     71
/a A = Wpothesis with project; B = hypothesis without project resulting in slower growth of containerization.
 Transit traffic not counted in containerization totals.
Source: Feasibility Study by PAM, 1982.
March 1994



SFENlAL
DAKAR CONTAINER PORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Forecast of Container Traffic at Dakar by Type of Ship in 1985
DAKAR-ATLANTIC & NORTHERN EURCPE
INBOUND                                                                 OUTBOUND
tons (0XX)                                                        tons (OX)
No. calls/    tons/call       in        conventional    total    No. calls/    tons/call         in        conventional   total
year                   containers                                 Year                    containers
FC  (1400 TEU)      52           1,300         67.4              -         67.6         24            660         4.4              -           19.2
RoRo 22300 DWT      24           1,100         12.0            14.4        26.4         18            5C0         3.0             6.0           9.0
MMP 16000 DWT       60           1,5C0         36.0            54.0        90.0         60           9Cm         17.0            35.0          54.0
MTP 8Co0  DrT       20             8C0          3.2            12.8        16.0         20            5C0         2.0             8.0          10.0
Other                              -            3.2               -         3.2          -            -           1.6            23.6          25.1
Total                -             -          122.0            81.2       203.2          -            -          38.0            74.0         119.0
DAKAR-MEDITERRANEAN
INBOUND                                                                 OUTBOUND
tons (00)                                                        tons (COX)
No. calls/    tons/call       in        conventional   total    No. calls/    tons/call          in        conventional    total
year                   containers                                 Year                    containers
FCS (90O TEU)       24           1,0X0          24               -          24          20            5C0         10               -           10.0
RoRo 2230 DWT       12           1,0^0           6               6          12          12            6C0          2              5.2           7.2
RoRo 1150 DWT        12            700           4               4           8.4        12            400          1              3.8           4.8
M1P  160C0 DWT      25           1,100          10              17.5        27.5        35            OX)          9             26.0          35-0
MTP 800D  DWT       12             700           5               3.4         8.4        10            600          1              5.0           6.0
Other                -            -              2               -           -           -              -          -               -             -
Total                -            -             51               -          80           -           -            23               -           63
FCS =  Full container ship
RoRo =  roll-on roll-off
MTP = multiparpose vessel
Source: Feasibility Study by PAM (1983)
March 1984



SENEGAL
DAKAR CONTAINER PORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Containerization rates: Actual 1980 and Projected 1985, 1990, 1995 /a
(in percentage)
1985                                  1990                                     1995
Non-                                 Non-                                 Non-
refrig-    Refrig-                   refrig-    Refrig-                   refrig-    Refrig-
1980       erated      erated      Bagged        erated     erated     Bagged         erated     erated     Bagged
B          B          B           A    B     A    B     A    B         A    B     A    B     A    B
UDMm
Europe, North & West         48          55         35         0           75  65    50   45   20   0           80   70    55   50    25    0
Europe, Lediterranean        50          55         35         0           75  70    55   50    25    0         80   75    60   55    30   0 
Africa - internal trade)   2             40          0         0           50   50    10  10    20    0         60   60    20   20    25    0
Africa - interchange     )               80          0         -           85  85      0    0      -    -       90   90     0    0      0    0
Other                        22          40                    0           55  55    25   25       0    0       70   70    40   40      0    0
OUTBa
Europe, North & West         57          60         15        20           80   70    25   25    55   30        85  75    30  30    60   35
Rarope, Mediterranean        50          55         15        20           80  70    25  30    60   35          85   75    30  35    65   40
Africa - internal trade  )13             40          0         0           50   50    10  10   20   0           60   60    20   20    35    0
Africa - interchange     )               80          0         -           85  85      -    -      -    -       90  93      -    -      -    -
Other                        15          40         40         -           50  50    40   40       -    -       60   60    40   40      -    -
/a A = hypothesis with project; B   hypothesis without project resulting in slower growth of containerization.
Percentage on non-refrigerated is over containerizable general cargo traffic.
Source:  Feasibility Study by PAM, 1982.
March 1984



DAKAR CONTAINER PORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Container Traffic at Dakar Pbrt: Actual 1980)-1982 and Forecast 1985, 1967, 1990, 1995 /a
Inbound                        Outbound             TranashipTent /c               _                          Total
Number of Containers
OCO tons          Number      OCO tons          Number       0(0 tons Number        000 tons              Actual               20' Equivalent (TEU)
Year /b       Gross/Net   Full    Ebpty   Gross/net  Full          Emipty   (gross)    Full    Gross  Net   Full    Ehpty         Total   Full      Ekpty   Tbtal
1980 /d       133          10,696   1,307  74             6,28E0    5,773       15    1,175      Z57   214    19,326    7,080    26,406    21,913  8,031   29,944
(12,154)  (1,483)               (7,089)   (6,548)          (1,335)
191 /d       142          11,440    1,724  71            5,891     7,416      22    1,402       258   233    20,135    9,140    29,275    22,337  10,142   32,475
(12,854)  (1,809)               (6,330)   (8,333)          (1,575)
1W  /d /e    177           14,240    1,877  75            6,378    10,123      26    1,691       304   Z75   24,000   12,00X   36,020       26,500  13,500  40,000
(16,0c0)  (2,10D)               (6,7(W)  (11,40:)          (1,900)
1985         225/202       18,4C0   2,600  100/89         8,100    12,9C0      30    2,250       385   350    31,0C0   15,500    46,500          -       -   52,500
1 gat        266/240      21,8X0    2,900   150/135       12,300    12,4C0     34    2,520       484  441    39,140   15,300    54,440           -       -   62,052
1990 7
HA       362/325      29,5X0   5,500  234/210        19,100    13,900      90   6,700        776   715    62,000   17,400   79,400          -       -   91,300
HB       320/298      26,200   3,100   195/176       16,000   13,3C0      40    3,0C0        595   544    48,200   16,400    64,6C0         -       -  74,3C0
1995
HA       433/390      35,5(0    4,300  356/321       29,2C0    10,680     110   8,1(X)    1,029  931    80,9C0   14,930    95,800           -       -  115,000
HB       3E8/350     31,800   3,800  298/269         24,580    11,189      50    3,780       786   719    63,700   14,900    78,680         -       -   94,300
/a Detailed infonmation is not available before 1980. Number of containers
and total tonnage 1975-1979 is as follows:
Year    No.       Tons
Tin thous Y
1975    5.8       40.5
1976    8.0       59.8
1977    11.7      89.6
1978    18.8      147.6
1979    25.0     184.2
/b  HA = hypothesis with terminal; HB  hypothesis without terminal.
F  Counted twice for total.
Fd  In brackets, breakdown of 1990-82 traffic in TEUs.
Fe Estimate based on nine months.
Source: Feasibility Study by PAM (1983)
March 1994



- 66 -
ANNEX 5-6
Page 1 of 2
SENEGAL
DAKAR CONTAINER PORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Alternative Locations of New Container Terminal
1.        Three port zones with a total of seven alternative site layouts
were studied by the consultants who carried out the feasibility study of
the new container terminal:
Zone     (i) -  southern part of the Port (Moles 1-3) - three
alternative sites evaluated,
Zone   (ii)  -  northern part of the Port (Moles 6-9) - three
alternative sites evaluated,
Zone  (iii)  -  outside the existing Port on an area to be re-
claimed and connected to the Port by road and
railway - one site evaluated.
One of the alternatives in Zone (ii) -- the northern part of the Port --
was selected for the project.  The southern area alternatives were dis-
carded because they would have resulted in:
(a)  an almost  total interruption of operations  on most of the
berths on Mo?les 1 and 2 and Mole 3, the Mali Zone, for the
duration of construction of about thirty months.   Moles 1, 2
and 3 provide currently some 90% of the Port's container
handling facilities, some 57% of' the Port's general cargo
handling facilities, and some 65% of the Port's covered storage
areas;   75% of the operational area of Mole 3 is reserved
exclusively for the Mali traffic and any interruptions of
operations there would be unacceptable;
(b)  limited future expansion possibilities and draft limitations;
(c)  limited operational area utilization as berths are at right
angles to each other; and
(d)  increased use of  the already congested central city access
roads.



- 67 -
ANNEX 5-6
Page 2 of 2
The external location, consisting of a new wharf and a reclaimed storage
area to be built outside the northern breakwater but connected to Mole 8,
was considered as a good technical solution which would have provided for
a completely separate container terminal area with excellent road access
and good long-term expansion possibilities.   However,  this alternative
would need an additional expensive breakwater and substantial dredging
and was rejected because it would have cost 2.5 times the recommended
solution for equivalent berthing and storage areas while not yielding
additional benefits during the first 10 to 15 years.
2.        In addition,  the Bank's staff analyzed an alternative based
upon the use of the Mali Port Zone, (an area of 1.7 ha on Mole 3), which,
together with an adjacent port area, could provide nearly 3 ha of area
and nearly 400 meters of bulkhead near the Port entrance and deep
water. This area and bulkhead is currently grossly underutilized and the
question arose if it could not provide a lower cost alternative to the
new container terminal planned on the north side of the Port between
Moles 6 and 8.  It was found that while Mole 3 could be converted into a
small temporary container terminal serving the immediate needs of the
Port for a period of 5-6 years -- given that the Mali Government would
agree to the relocation of its Port zone -- the site does not provide an
opportunity for subsequent expansion.   As a result,  such an approach
would only offer a holding action and require a delayed development of
the new container terminal at the proposed site on the north side of the
port. Such an approach would furthermore result in the existence of two
small container terminals when and if a second container terminal devel-
opment phase is implemented, which would probably be required by 1992-
93. Selection of Mole 3 as a first phase container terminal development
site would also introduce major operational and relocation problems.  At
this time, M8les 1 and 2 are both fully utilized.  Transfer of the Mali
Port activities to either of these moles before completion of the conver-
sion of Mole 3 for use as a container terminal would cause unacceptable
congestion for a period of several years, and may, furthermore, be un-
feasible for security and operational reasons. The new container termi-
nal as proposed is considered to present the best engineering, operation-
al and, in the medium-term, least expensive solution.



- 68 --                                      ANNEX 5-7
Page 1 of 4
DAKAR CONTAINER PORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Key Data for Economic Evaluation /a
Data for Computing Savings in Ship Service Thme /b                    1987 /c           1990             1995
New Terminal - TJLL Container Ship (KS)
NJumber of containers, w/o project                                34,0C0           40,300           48,0o3
Service rate, containers/day, w/o project (old port)                 175              155              155
Ser,ice rate, containers/day, with project                           390              390              390
Cost of ship-day in port, CFAF million                               6.4              6.4              6.4
New Terminal - Roll-on/Roll-off Ship (RR)
Number of containers, w/o project                                  3,OCY            4,0C0            5,000
Service rate, containers/day, w/o project (old port)                  80               70               70
Service rate, container/day, with project                            160              160              160
Cost of ship-day in port, CFAF million                               3.7              3.7              3.7
Old Port - Multi-Purpose Vessel (MEP)
Number of containers/tons of general cargo, w/o project     17,400/40,0C0   20,5C0/55,0C0   25,500/60,000
SService rate, containers/day; ton/day, w/o project              105/590           94/525           94/515
Service rate, container/day; ton/day, with project               110/700          1 10/700         110/700
Cost of ship-day in port, CFAF million                               3.0              3.0              3.0
Old Port - Conventional Vessel (CONV)
Tons                                                             670,oC0          700,000          760,ooo
Service rate, ton/day, w/o project                                   340              315              3C5
Service rate, ton/day, with project                                  360              360              360
Cost of ship-day in port, OFAF million                               2.1              2.1              2.1
/a   Savings in ship service tine, cargo handling and avoidance of double transportation are based on traffic
"without (w/o) project". Potential benefits fro generated as well as transshilment containers which may
be induced by the project are excluded from the base economic evaluation.
/b   Benefits retained by Senegal - 5C0  through 1991, 60% in 1992 and thereafter.
/c   It is assumed that the new terninal will be fully operative from mid-1937 when the quay wall, dredging, and
the container unit area will have been completed. Fgures are for the whole year but benefits are taken at
5C%.
Source: Prepared by Bank Staff
March 194



- 69 -                                      ANNEX 5-7
Page 2 of 4
SEEAL
DAKAR CONTAINER PORT PROJECT
STAF APPRAISAL REPORT
Key Data for Economic Evaluation
Savings in Cargo Handling                                               1987           1990       1995
New Terminal - FCS
Handling rate, container/gang-hour, w/o project (old port)               4.5            4.0        4.0
Handling rate, container/gang-hour, with project                        10.0           10.0        10.0
Hourly cost per gang-hour, CFAF                                       10,000         10,000      10,000
Factor for labor shadow price                                            1.0             1.0        1.0
New Terminal - RR
Handling rate, container/gang-hour, w/o project (old port)               5.0            4.5        4.5
Handling rate, container/gang-hour, with project                        10.0           10.0        10.0
Hourly cost per gang-hour, CFAF                                        7,500          7,500      7,5CC
Factor for labor shadow price                                            1.0             1.0        1.0
Old Port - MIP
Handling rate, container/gang-hour; ton/gang-hour, w/o project      4.3/10.3       4.0 /9.5   4.0 /9.2
Handling rate, container/gang-hour; ton/gang-hour, with project     4.5/10.8       4.5/10.8   4.5/10.8
Hourly cost per gang-hour, CFAF                                       22,400         22,40C     22,4(0
Factor for labor shadow price (0.6) applied to general
cargo only /a                                                          0.8            0.8        0.8
Old Port - CONV
Handling rate, tons/gang-hour, w/o project                              10.3            9.5        9.2
Handling rate, tons/gang-hour, with project                             10.8            10.8       10.8
Hourly cost per gang-hour, CFAF                                       17,000         17,000      17,000
Factor for labor shadow price (0.6)                                      0.8            0.8        0.8
/a Sidlled labor handling containers not shadow priced, and assuming costs of general cargo handling is 5C0
equipment, 50% labor.
Source: Prepared by Bank Staff
March 1984



- 70 -
ANNEX 5-7
Page 3 of 4
SEIESAL
DAKAR CONTAIER POWRT  EOJECT
S7AFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Key Data for Econmic Evaluation
Avoidance of Double Transport
A) Transport Costs
(i7    Tzffic reached in 1982 was port capacity:              36,0O) containers
(ii)   New area being added in 1983 (7,0^0 m2 usable)
gives additional                                         10,000 containers
(iii)   Operational improvanents under project                   8,000 containers
Total Capacity                                54,0X0 containers
(iv)  Minus double transport already done in 192
between/within North and South zones                     10,XO
Net capacity requiring no double transport              44,0C0 containers
v)  Double transportation without project:
1987       1990        1995
Container traffic                          54,440      64,600     78,60O
Capacity                                   44,0^0      44,0^0     44,000
10,440     20,6C0      34,6(X
Minus LCL requiring intennediate stations
in arV case (i15%)                          8,170      9,700      11,790
Net double transport economic costs of
double transport CFAF 31,800/container 20'  2,270      10,900     22,810
1987        1990        1995
CFAF (millions)
but average of existing, shorter-distance
double transported estimated at CFAF
21,0X)/container, applicable below 10,000
containers savings, CFAF million:
Savings at 21,0C0                             48          210        210
31,800                              -           29        407
Total                              48          239        617
Factor 40' container (13%)                    54          270        697
B) Investment Costs Freight Station
Storage area 10,0CO sq. meters   = CFAF 160 million
C) Operating Costs Equipnent:                 = CFAF 113 million
Sunnary of Double Transport Benefits
CFAF million
1967    198    1959   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
Avoidance of:
Transport                        54    126    198    270    355    440    525    610    697
Investments infrastructure      160       -       -      -       -       -       -               -
Operating costs equipnent        65      65      65    113    113    113    113    113    113
Total Investnents         279    191    263    373    468    553   6T8    723    810



- 71                                       AM-5-7
Page 4 of 4
SRAL
DAKAR CONAIM    PORT PROJECT
SW? APPRAISAL REPORT
Key Data for Econamic Evaluation
Savin  frm Generated Containerization Cargo Tob/Frm Se      (excluding Transit) /a
1985        1987        1990         1995
In/Out      in/Out      Tn/Out       In/Out
Containerized cargo, w/o project,  'C00 tons       202/89     255/144     288/176       350/269
Containerized cargo, with project, 'O0X tons       202/89     255/144     325/210       390/321
Generated containerized cargo, 'CC) tons              -           -         37/34         40/52
Value of generated cargo, at CFAF 20),OG/ton,         -           -      7.40/6.80    8.00/10.4
billion CFAF
Saving in insurance costs                             -           -         37/17         40/26
(0.5% lower for containerized cargo;
savings taken as 0.25 for exports
since most are FOB).
Total Savi                                 -            -            54           66
/a Not used in base econanic evaluations, for sensitivity analprsis only.
Source: Prepared by Bank Staff
March 1984



ANNEX 5-8
SENEGAL
DAKAR CONTAINER PORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Costs and Benefits for Economic Evaluation
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1929    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994 1995-2011
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _ _-_- -_-_ _-_- -_-_ _-_- -_-_ _-_- -_- -_-_ _-.   _    _ _    _      _    _ _    _      _    _ _    _      _ 
(CFAF MILLION)
COSTS
INVESTMENT                                        1023    2140    1764        692        -        -        -        -        -        -        -          -
OFERATIONAL                                          -        -        -       12       12       12       12       12       48       48       48         48
TDTAL COSTS                                       1023    2140    1764        704       12       12       12       12       48      40        48         48
SAVINGS IN SHIP SERVICE TINE
NEW TERMINAL
FULL CONTAINER SHIF                                  -        -        -      172      395      446      498      518     645      '69      693         716
RD RO                                                -        -        -       1S       43       52       60       63       79       82       85         89
OLD F'ORT
FuLL CONTAINER SHIP/MULTIPURPOSE                     -        -        -       15       43       58       72       79      102      11G      119         127
CONVENTIDNAL                                         -        -        -       58      174      233      292      313      401     420      454        480
SAVINGS IN CARGO HANDLING
NEW TERHINAL
FULL CONTAINER SHIF                                  -        -        -       21       45       54       60       62       64       67      70          72
RO RD                                                -        -        -        1        3        3        4        4        4        5        5          5
OLD PORT
FULL CONTAINER SHIP/MULTIPURPOSE                     -        -        -        4       13       19       25       27       28       29      31          33
CONVENTIONAL                                         -        -        -       22       67       93      120      129      138      147      156        166
AVOIDANCE DOUBLE TRANSPORT
-       -         -     279       891     263      383      468      553      638      723        S10
INCREMENTAL REVENUES TRANSIT CONTAINERS
-       -        -       18       39       42       45       47       48       49       51         53
TOTAL BENEFITS                                       -        -        -      608    1016    1263    1559    1710    2062    2224    2387             2551
NET BENEFIT                                      -1023   -2140   -1764        -96     1004    1251    1547    1698    2014    2176    2339             2503
March 15, 1984



- 73 -
ANNEX 5-9
SEN1EAL
DAKAR CONTAINER PORT PR (ELP
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Rate of Return Sensitivity Analysis
Rate of Return
Base Case                                                                    23
Sensitivity Analysis
Investment costs, 1CS higher                                              22
23% higher                                               20
All benefits, 1C% lower                                                   21
2C% lower                                                    20
Individual Benefits, 20% lower
Savings in ship service time
Full container ship, new terminal                                    20
Ro-Ro ship, new terminal                                             23
Multipurpose ship, existing port                                     23
Conventional ship, existing port                                    22
Savings in cargo handling
Rill container ship                                                  23
Ro-Ro                                                                23
Multipirpose                                                         23
Conventional                                                         23
Avoidance Double Transport                                             22
Investment costs 1C% higher and all benefits 1C% lower                    20
Investment costs 20% higher and all benefits 2Cs lower                    17
Lag all benefits together, 1 year                                         20
2 year                                          18
tee Individual bernefits, 2 years
Savings in ship service time
Full container                                                       21
Ro-Ro                                                                23
Miltipurpose                                                         23
Conventional                                                         22
Savings in cargo handling
Full container                                                       22
Ro-Ro                                                                23
Multiparpose                                                         23
Conventional                                                        23
Avoidance Double Transport                                             21
Savings in ships service tine retained by
Senegal remain at 5C0 throughout project                                  22
Including Revenues froa Incremental Transit Containers (TC)               23
Including Insurance Savings (IS) from Generated Container Cargo
(but excluding revemues fron Incremental Traisit Containers)              23
Including both TC and IS                                                  24
Source. Bank estimates
March 194



ANNEX 6-1
- 74 -
SENEGAL
DAKAR CONTAINER PORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAD - Forecast Income Statements
(CFAF Millions)
83/84     84185    85(86       86187    87/88    88189    89/90
Operating Revenues(1982 Tariffs)           3950       3920      4057      4199       4346      4498S     4655
Revenue Increases through
tariff restructuring/
tariff increases
12.7 X 83/84                        502        498       515       533        552       571       591
10 7 84/85                                  442        457       473       490        507       525
10 7. 85/86                                            503       521       539        558       577
10 Z 86/87                                                       573       593        613       635
10 7. 87/88                                                                652        675       698
a 7 88/89                                                                            594       614
8 % 89/90                                                                                      664
Total Increases                             502        940      1475      2100       2826      3518      4304
Total revenues                             4452       4860      5532      6299       7172      8016      8959
Working Expenses                           2442       2522      2774      3051       3356      3692      4061
Oepreciation                                633        660       726       SOO       1150      1290      1450
Provision for loss
or receivables                              298        337       377        422       481       548        384
Total Operating Expenses                   3373       3519      3877      4273       4987      5530      5895
Met Operating Revenues                     107?       1341      1655      2026       2185      2486      3064
less:interest charges
Fishing Port Project                  456       437       413        390       366       343        318
Container Port Project                  0       134       312        482       560       545        507
Total Irterest charges                      456        571       725       872        926       888       825
Net Income before tax                       623        770       930      1154       1259      1598      2239
Income taxes                                   0         0       137        192       291       533        746
Net Incose                                  623        770       793       962        968      1065       1493
Ratios
1. Working Ratio(%)                           55        52        50         48        47        46         45
2. Operating Ratio(7.)                        76        72        70         68        70        69         66
Sources: PAD & Mission
March 15, 1984



- 75 -                                        ANNEX 6-2
SENEGAL
DAKAR CONTAINER PORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAD - Statement of Source
and Application of Funds
(CFAF Millions)
83/84    84/85    85/86    86187    87/88   Total           88/8?     89/90
-----    -----    -----    -----  Project    -----
SOURCE
Met Income                                  623       770       793       962       968      4116      1065      1493
+ Depreciatzon                             633        660       726      800       1150      3969      1290      1450
+ Provisions                               298        337       377       422       481      1915       548       384
* Interest Charges
Fishing Port                  456       437       413       390        366     2062        343       318
Container Port                  0       134       312       482       560      1488        545       507
Internal Sources                          2010      2338      2621       3056      3525    13550       3791      4152
Exterbal Sources
- IDA Credit                            0       431      1134      1316        50      2931
- CCCE Loan                             0      1336      1009       230        32      2607
- KF' Loan                              0       650       583       307         64     1604
- Other(balance 1405-SE)               60        60                                      120
Total external sources                       60     2477       2726      1853       146      7262
Other Hiscellaneous(PBE refunds)              0         0        46        78        90       214        96        39
Payments of arrears by Government                     300       300       300                 900
Total Sources                             2070       5115      5693      5287      3761     21926      3887      4191
APPLICATION
ReneNals                                   633        660       726       800      08-0      3699       960      1200
Container Port Project
- financed by borrowings                      0     2417       2726      1853       146      7142
- financed by internal sources
physical components                       0       254       223         75         0       552
interest during construction              0       134       312       402          0       928
Taxes and Duties                          0       575       847       726         28      2176
Total Container Port Project                  0     3380       4108      3136       174    10798
Other investments
- Pre-project technical assistance           30        50                                      80
- Other                                      40        20                                      60
Debt Service
- Fishing Port
Interest charges                    456       437       413       390       366      2062       343       31B
Repayments of principal             342       353       375       387       398      1855       409       420
- Container Port Project
Interest charges                                                            560       560       545       507
Repayments of principal                                                                         491       491
Total Debt Service                         798        790       788       777      1324      4477      1788      1736
Payeents by PAD of arrears                            250       250       250                 750
Payments of past incone taxes                         378       106      .230       833      1547       953          0
Payments of PBE(treasury bonds)              60        62        77        79        96       374        97       107
Inc(Dec) of working capital                531        -97      -362        15       347       434        36        79
Total Applications                        2092      5493       5693      5207      3654    22219       3834      3122
=====    =====    =====  ~=====    =====    =====    =====    =====
Inc(dec) in surplus cash                   -22      -378          0         0       107      -293        53      1069
Cash at beginning of year                 1200       1178       SOO       800       800      1200       907       960
Cash at end of year                       1178        800       800       800       907       907       960      2029
Debt Service coverage ratio                2.5        3.0       3.3       3.9       2.7       3.0       2.1       2.4
2 of capital investments/reneuals
financed by internal sources after
debt service                                172        40        40        57       147        62       209       201
Sources: PAD & Missio'?
March 15, 1984



- 76 -                                       ANNEX 6-3
SENEGAL
DAKAR CONTAINER PORT PROJECT
STAFV APPRAISAL DEPORTr
PAD - Forecast Pro Forma Balance Sheet
(CYAF Mlillions)
at 30 June                                  1984      1985       1986       1987      1988       1989       1990
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross Value                             20483      21538     26134      32302      33489      34449     35649
less:mccumulated  depreciation           7033       8493      9219      10019      11169      12459     13909
Net Value                               12650      13045     16915      22283      22320      21990     21740
Work iii progress                            0      2921      2847        133           0         0          0
Total Fixed Assets                      12650      15966     19762      22416      22320      21990     21740
Other Assets (net)
Long tern  accounts receivable            600        300          0          0         0          0          0
Deferred exchange losses                 2130       2021       1905      1785       1662       1536      1407
PRE Tre,tsury Bonds                        60        122        153       154        160        161        229
Other                                     150        150        150        150       150        150        150
Total Other Assets                       2940       2593      2208       2089       1972       1847      1786
Current Assets
Cash 6 Banks                             1178        800        800       800        907        960      2029
Accounts Receivable(gross)               2433       2570      2629       2676       2723       3062      3185
less provisions                           298        337        377       422        481        548        384
leos:;rite-offs                           282        298        337       377        422        481       548
_ - -     - - -      - - -      - - -      - - -     - - -      - - - - -  _ _ _ _ _ _             _ _ _ _ _ _           
het Accounts Receivable                  1853       1935       1915      1877       1820       2033      2253
Inventory(spares)                          98        108        119       131        144        158        174
Other Current Assets *                   1041       1108       1185       966       1054       1150       1255
Total Current assets                     4170       3951      4019       3774       3925       4301      5711
TOTAL ASSETS                               19760      22510      25989     28279      28217      28138      29237
fincluding current portion  of compensation  paypents due
and current portion  of exchange losnes on debt service payments
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                          305        315        347       381        420        462        SOo
Project Taxes & Duties payable               0       243        497       444           0         0          0
Income Taxes Payable                         0         0        137       192        291        533        746
Current flaturities                       353        375        387        398       900        911        922
Other current liabilities                 734        465        596       953       1076        126        129
Total Current Liabilities                1392       1398       1964      2368       2607       2032      2305
Long Term Debt
Gross Value
Borrowings Fishing Port                3887      3947       3947       3947       3947      3947       3947
BorroNings Container Terminal             0      2417       5143       6996       7142      7142       7142
Total Gross Value                        3887       6364       9090     10943      11089      11089     11089
less:accumulated repayments               549        902      1277       1664       2062       2962      3873
less4current maturities                   353        375        387       398        900        911        922
Met Value                                29S5       5087       7426      8881       8127       7216       6294
#Revaluatzon of borrowings
denominated  in US0(LT portion)          2130       2021       1905      1785       1662       1536       1407
Total Loeg Term Debt                     5115       7108       9331     10666       9789       8752       7701
Other Long Term Liabilities *               2622      2266       1786        953          0          0
Equity 6 Reserves
Equity                                   8851       8851       8851      8851       8851       8851       8851
Reserves A Retiined Earnings             1780       2887       4057      5441       6890       8503     10380
Total Equ;ty                            10631      11738      12908     14292      15741      17354      19231
TOTAL L1A8ILiTIES 6 EQUiTY                  19760     22510      25989      28279     28217      28138      29237
==,======  =====     ===== ...., , ,, ..
*includimg long term portion of compensation
payents due fron PAD to Government
Ratios
Current ratio                                3. 0      2.8        2 0        1 .6       1 5       2. 1       2. 5
LT Debt/Total LT Debt * Equity                42         44        46         45         38         34        29
Net AIR I Gross Operating gevemue             42         40        35         30         25         25        25
Source:  PAD) & Mission
March 13, 1914



SENEGAL
r4c12T (040                 DAKAR PROPOSSED CONTAINER PORT PROJECT
Extsfnog Port andt Approaches~
7                                                                                    0             2coo    300\'  40 %OP0% H&
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
0"~~~~~~
z1"                                          AI                                                   
4o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tootWrst e
-D,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----  otSodr
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CsooBodr
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 
(I          .     .                                H      12tH  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C00~~A   00053
Wind Rgine~~~~~~F  t
C~~~~~~.; lVY
'K'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I14






10         ~~~~0'ALGERlIA
20         MAURITANiA   I                   26                                                                                                                       SENEGAL
M AL I                                                                                                    DAKAR PROPOSED CONTAINER PORT PROJECT
N I GER                                                                                                                 PROJECT   DETAIL
THlE
GAMBIIA                   "U~/PPER '
G   7NE            f VOLTA   ,-
10  ISSAU   UIA                     B     1
LEON  N                    4162 Li                                                                         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   REFRIGERATED CONTAINERS
UBERI                                                                                                -          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CUSTOMS FENCE
10  20                                                           /                                - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILWAYS
/                       - iiiiiiii ~~~~~~PARKING (Trucks)
-.-.-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
/                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~Note: depths indicated, refer to zero (0)
0                          ,s5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, ~~~~hydrographlic of the port, which is 0.4
~~~~~~' ~~~~~~~~~~meters below LLW.
/  /                                                      T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~he, maP has b-ee seneep 
a'-~ ~                  0   ,'~                          ~te                0   5,0  100   52     ~          WId6-  -f
eeae,   anlh sC,,bl  hm
METERS                 et-rnl as pthh OC Ee-k
//                                        A                                                               hSbp peP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-, the b.eepae,- sh-w
/ l                           N                    C )                                                             he  ttPs  m ph   p h h httttlh h,  Oh  the~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G
N -                                                                                                                                   h ht<t a t h p t   T e p e e s   - Ptb h y,   -h e h
0  0              pet' hehdPtbet beWl te k l -a ptthS
-n.e       \e                                                     C16                       htphb teee,theh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F- he any ll
/        eppheSste~~~~~tshtpeahhebtdthh
/  t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
I/0        F I-S  I N
0                            ~~~~~~~~~~(Loat 1405 -T -SE 19771
\N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
m X7



