F6FICIAL                        CREDIT NUMBER 1459 SE
SPECIAL FUND CREDIT NUMBER SF-14 SE
Project Agreement
(Dakar Container Port Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FUND
established with funds contributed by
certain members of the
International Development Association
and
PORT AUTONOME DE DAKAR
Dated        0Inc    O            , 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1459 SE
SPECIAL FUND CREDIT NUMBER SF-14 SE
PROJECT GREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   'I -     tC             , 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, acting on its own behalf
and as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FUND established with funds
contributed by certain members of the International Development
Association (hereinafter called the Association) and PORT
AUTONOME DE DAKAR (hereinafter called PAD).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Senegal (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to two million six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 2,600,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that PAD
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by the Special Fund Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Association, acting as
Administrator of the Special Fund established by Resolution No.
IDA 82-6, adopted on October 26, 1982 by the Executive Directors
of the Association, the Association, acting as such Administra-
tor, has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies, equivalent to four million seven hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,700,000) on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Special Fund Credit Agreement and on
the further condition that PAD undertake such obligations as are
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and PAD, the proceeds of the credits
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement and the
Special Fund Credit Agreement will be made available to PAD on
the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS PAD, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement and the Special Fund Credit
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obliga-
tions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the Special Fund Credit
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) in each
case have the respective meanings therein set forth, except that
the term "Association" means either the International Development
Association  or   the Administrator  or  both, as    the  context
requires.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PAD declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and to the Special*Fund Credit Agreement and,
to this end, shall carry out the Project described in said
Schedule with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and port
practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist PAD in carrying out Parts
A.5 and B of the Project, PAD shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association, such consultants to be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or
the Special Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) PAD undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Special Fund Credit
and relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of


﻿-3-
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable by PAD to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) PAD shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit or the Special Fund Credit and relent
to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the purposes of
the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) PAD shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) PAD shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or
the Special Fund Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) enable the Association's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Special Fund Credit and any relevant records and
documents; (iii) furnish to the Association quarterly progress
reports of such scope as the Association shall reasonably
request; and (iv) furnish to the Association at regular intervals
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by PAD of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or
the Special Fund Credit, the Association may publish a descrip-
tion thereof, the name and nationality of the party to whom the
contract was awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between PAD and the
Association, PAD shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the


﻿Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by PAD and the Association of their respec-
tive obligations under the Project Agreement and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Credit and the Special Fund Credit.
(e) PAD shall enable the Association's representatives   to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of PAD and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. PAD shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, PAD shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) PAD shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agre(!ent, and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and the Special
Fund Credit.
(b) PAD shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit
and the Special Fund Credit, or the performance by PAD of its
obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PAD
Section 3.01. PAD shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial
and port practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. PAD shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and port practices.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.03. To permit sound operation of its container
terminal and adequate maintenance of the container handling
equipment to be operated in such terminal, PAD shall ensure that
all necessary office space and workshop facilities shall be
available in a timely manner.
Section 3.04. PAD shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section  3.05. PAD   shall  take  all  necessary   measures,
including all arrangements as may be required with stevedoring
enterprises, to ensure that:
(i) sufficient modern container handling equipment
willI be available at all times to permit operation
of PAD's container terminal included in Part A of
the Project in accordance with Section 3.01 of
this Agreement; and
(ii) sheds for stuffing and unstuffing of containers
will be made available at a reasonable fee to
stevedoring enterprises which, because of the size
of their operations, do not own such sheds.
Section 3.06. PAD shall duly exercise its rights and comply
with its obligations under the agreement referred to in Section
5.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. PAD shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. PAD shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
satisfactory to the Association;


﻿- 6 -
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year: (i) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(c) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts, financial statements, records and
expenditures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree:
(a) PAD shall, from time to time take, or cause to be
taken, all such measures (including, without limitation, adjust-
ments of the structure or levels of its tariffs) as shall be
required to produce, for each of its fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on June F", 1984, funds from internal sources
equivalent to not less than 40% of the annual average capital
expenditures of PAD incurred, or expected to be incurred, during
the year, the prior fiscal year, and next following fiscal year.
(b) For the purpose of this Section:
(i) The term "funds from internal sources" means the
difference between:
(1) the sum of gross revenues from all sources
related to its current operations, net non-
operating income and any reduction in non-
cash working capital; and
(2) the sum of all expenses of current opera-
tions, including maintenance and adminis-
tration (excluding depreciation and other
non-cash operating charges), interest or
other charges on debt (excluding interest
during construction), repayment of loans
(including sinking fund payments, if any),
all taxes or payments in lieu of taxes, all
cash dividends and other cash distributions
of surplus, increase in net working capital


﻿-7-
other than cash, and any other cash outflows
other than cash expenditures related to
current operations.
(ii) The term "capital expenditures" means all expendi-
tures incurred on account of fixed or capital
assets, including interest during construction of
the container terminal.
Section 4.04. Except as the Associ.tion shall otherwise
agree:
(a) PAD shall, from time to time, take, or cause to be
taken,  all   such  measures   (including,  without  limitation,
adjustments of the structure or levels of the tariffs for all
services of PAD) as shall be required to produce, for each of its
fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on June 30, 1987, an
annual return of not less than 6% of the average current net
value of PAD's fixed assets in operation.
(b) For the purpose of this Section:
(i) The annual return shall be calculated by dividing
PAD's net operating income for the fiscal year in
question by one-half of the sum of the current net
value of PAD's fixed assets in operation at the
beginning and at the end of that fiscal year.
(ii) The   term  "net  operating  income" means gross
revenues from all sources related to PAD's
current operations less all expenses related to
PAD's current operations, including administra-
tion, adequate maintenance and taxes or any
payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for
depreciation on a straight-line basis at a rate
of not less than 2.5% per annum of the average
current gross value of PAD's fixed assets in
operation. Interest and other charges on medium
and long-term debt shall not be deducted from
gross revenues.
(iii) The term "current net value of PAD's fixed assets
in operation" means the gross value of PAD's
fixed assets in operation less the amount of
accumulated depreciation, as valued from time to


﻿- 8 -
time in accordance with sound and consistently
maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, PAD shall: (i) as soon as possible upon its completion and
not later than March 31, 1987, review with the Borrower and the
Association the recommendations of the tariff study to be carried
out under Part B.2 (d) of the Project; and (ii) before March 31
in each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on
June 30, 1984 on the basis of forecasts to be prepared by PAD on
a basis satisfactory to the Association, review the adequacy of
all its tariffs to meet the requirements of Sections 4.03 and
4.04 of this Agreement and shall furnish to the Association the
results of such review upon its completion.
(b) If any such review shall show that PAD would not meet
the said requirements in the course of PAD's fiscal year covered
by such review, PAD shall promptly take all the necessary
measures   (including,   without   limitation,   adjustments   of
the structure of levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such
requirements.
Section 4.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, PAD shall take all necessary measures to reduce its
accounts receivable to a level of not more than 40% of gross
revenues by June 30, 1985, 35% by June 30, 1986, 30% by June 30,
1987 and 25% by June 30, 1988, and thereafter maintain its
accounts receivable at such latter level. For the purposes of
this Section:
(a) the term "accounts receivable" means all amounts due to
PAD on account of services rendered by PAD; and
(b) the term "gross revenues" means gross revenues from all
sources related to PAD's current operations.
Section 4.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, PAD shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast
of the revenues and expenditures of PAD shows that the projected
internal cash generation of PAD for each fiscal year during the
term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least two times the
projected debt service requirement of PAD in such year on all
debt of PAD, including the debt to be incurred. For the purposes
of this Section:


﻿- 9 -
(a) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of PAD maturing
by its terms more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement or other instrument providing for such debt
or further modification of its terms of payment, on the date of
such  contract, agreement    or  instrument; and   (ii)  under   a
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent that the
guaranteed debt shall be outstanding.
(c) The term "internal cash generation of PAD" means gross
revenues of PAD from all sources, adjusted to take account of
PAD's rates in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even
though they were not in effect during the twelve-month period to
which such revenues relate, less all operating expenses of PAD,
including expenses chargeable to administration, maintenance and
taxes (or payments in lieu of taxes), but before provision for
depreciation of assets and interest and other charges on debt.
(d) The term "debt service requirement" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any)
of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
(e) The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast pre-
pared by PAD in the fiscal year in which the debt in question is
to be incurred, which both the Association and PAD accept as
reasonable and as to which the Association has notified PAD of
its acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since such
notification which has, or may reasonably be expected in the
future to have, -a material adverse effect on the financial
condition or future results of PAD.
(f) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of currency of the Borrower, debt
payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Association.
Section  4.08. Until the steps referred      to in    Section
3.02 (ii) of the Development Credit Agreement and in Section
3.02  (ii) of the Special Fund Credit Agreement shall have been


﻿- 10 -
taken, PAD shall take all necessary measures required on its part
to: (i) maintain its special account (hereinafter called the
Special Account) established at the Borrower's Treasury from
which PAD shall be able to transfer in a timely manner to its
commercial bank accounts all funds necessary for carrying out the
project and for covering all its renewal expenses; (ii) transfer
on a daily basis to the Special Account 30% of its gross revenues
in fiscal year 1984-1985 and 40% in the following fiscal years;
and (iii) ensure that, until the completion of the Project, at
least 50% of the transfers referred to in paragraph (i) above be
made into PAD's bank accounts from which shall be debited the
funds necessary for carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
and the Special Fund Credit Agreement become effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of PAD thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) either the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement or the date on which the Special Fund
Credit Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with their terms whichever date shall be the
later; or
(ii) a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If either the Development Credit Agreement or the
Special Fund Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with their
respective terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii)
of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify PAD of
this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For PAD:
Port Autonome de Dakar
14, Boulevard de la Libgration
Dakar
S6n6gal
Cable address:                    Telex:
PORCOMER                          406 SG
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any document required or permitted to be executed,
under this Agreement on behalf of PAD may be taken or executed by
PAD's Director General or such other person or persons as PAD's
Director General shall designate in writing, and PAD shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.


﻿- 12 -
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above 4ritten.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
acting for itself and as ADMINISTRATOR of
the SPECIAL FUND established with funds
contributed by certain members of the
International Development Association
4(//'ij Regional Vice President
Western Africa
PORT AUTONOME DE DAKAR
ByA/u thorize                  Re  4   a
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines; provided,
however, that in the case of goods and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Special Fund Credit, the eligibility
restrictions set forth in Section 2.02 (b) of the Special Fund
Credit Agreement shall apply and such restrictions shall be
stated in the tender documents for the procurement of such goods
and civil works.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, PAD shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifica-
tion to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
goods and works in question. PAD shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account


﻿- 14 -
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Individual works included in Part A.4 of the Project may be
procured following competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with the Borrower's procurement procedures acceptable
to the Association, provided that under such procedures the
selection method of the lowest evaluated bid ("appel d'offres")
shall be applied.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. PAD shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to
be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said
procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by PAD to the
Association for its comments before the applicants are notified
of PAD's decision, and PAD shall make such additions to, dele-
tions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Association
shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts
With respect to all contracts, other than those referred to
under Part B above, estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, PAD shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿- 15 -
(b) After bids have     been  received and   evaluated, PAD
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the con-
sultants referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform PAD and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of tie contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, PAD shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform PAD and
state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 5% of the original price, PAD shall inform the Associa-
tion of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change
order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform PAD and state the reasons
for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


