CREDIT NUMBER 1459 SE
DOCUMENTS.
Development Credit Agreement
(Dakar Container Port Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated        s                   ,1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1459 SE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   7      J 4 C  .           , 1984, between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Asso-
ciation).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Association in its
capacity as Administrator of the Special Fund established by its
Executive Directors by Resolution No. IDA 82-6 of October 26,
1982, to assist in the financing of the same Project by granting
a Special Fund Credit (hereinafter called the Special Fund
Credit) to the Borrower equivalent to four million seven hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,700,000); and the Associa-
tion as such Administrator (hereinafter called the Administrator)
is willing to grant the Special Fund Credit pursuant to the
Special Fund Credit Agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Administrator (hereinafter called the Special
Fund Credit Agreement);
(C) the Project will be carried out by the Port Autonome de
Dakar (hereinafter called PAD) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to PAD the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(D) by an agreement to be entered into between the Kuwait
Fund for Arab Economic Development (hereinafter called the Kuwait
Fund) and the Borrower (such agreement hereinafter called the
Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement), the Kuwait Fund intends to make a
loan (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund Loan) to the Borrower in
an aggregate principal amount of about 1,300,000 Kuwaiti Dinars
to be onlent to PAD to assist PAD in financing Parts A.2 and B of
the Project on terms and conditions set forth in the Kuwait Fund
Loan Agreement; and
(E) by an agreement to be entered into between the Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (hereinafter called CCCE) and
PAD (such agreement hereinafter called the CCCE Loan Agreement),
CCCE intends to make a loan (hereinafter called the CCCE Loan) to
PAD in an aggregate principal amount of about 52,000,000 French
Francs to assist it in financing Parts A.1 and B of the Project
on terms and conditions set forth in the CCCE Loan Agreement;


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith among      the Association, the
Administrator and PAD;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Ganeral Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General   Conditions  Applicable  to  Development   Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Statutes" means the Borrower's Decree No. 67-146    of
February 10, 1967 organizing PAD, as amended by Decree No.67-1184
of October 31, 1967, Decree No. 70-460 of April 25, 1970, Decree
No. 72-1493 of December 26, 1972, Decree No. 73-779 of August 13,
1973 and Decree No. 74-138 of February 11, 1974.
(b)  "Project AwrtE!-*2c   means the agreement among     the
Association, Lhe Administrator and PAD of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(c)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and PAD pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement and of Section 3.01 (b) of the Special
Fund Credit Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent     to
two  million   six  hundred  thousand   Special  Drawing   Rights
(SDR 2,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1989 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligi ble currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
Yof 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each
year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1994, and ending
March 15, 2034, each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 15, 2004, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.10. The Director General of PAD is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project;
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its ,other obligations under the Developmer-
Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause PAD to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all t,.,,
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable PAD
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such per-
formance.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
PAD under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and PAD under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association and which shall include a
repayment period of 20 years, including a grace period of four
years, an interest rate of not less than 10.08% per annum and a
provision whereunder the foreign exchange risk shall be borne by
PAD.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Credit, and except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
required on its part:
(i) to   permit PAD   to maintain and    operate PAD's
Special Account referred to in Section 4.08 of
the Project Agreement; and
(ii) to grant PAD such greater financial and adminis-
trative autonomy as shall be required to permit
PAD to comply with its obligations under Section
3.01 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall duly exercise its rights
and comply with its obligations under the agreement referred to
in Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that adequate provi-
sion shall be made in its national budget and in the budget of
the "commune" of Dakar to cover payments for projected services
to be rendered by PAD, including in respect of the Dakar-Gor4e
ferry services and of maritime security (buoyage and beaconage
services). The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to
ensure that all bills for such services rendered by PAD shall be
settled within four months.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿-6-
(a) PAD shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of   the Development Credit Agreement, an       extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
PAD will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c) The Statutes shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of PAD to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of PAD or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower or PAD to withdraw
the proceeds of any loan or credit (including
the Special Fund Credit) made to the Borrower
or PAD for the financing of the Project shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
the agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan or credit shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower or PAD establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematur-
ing is not caused by the failure of the Borrower
or PAD to perform any of their obligations under
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower or PAD from
other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower or PAD under
this Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:


﻿-- 7 -
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and PAD;
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) any event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and PAD;
(b) an agreement satisfactory to the Association1 has been
concluded between the Borrower and PAD providing for: (i) the
full settlement by June 30, 1987 of existing reciprocal debts as
of December 31, 1983; and (ii) all appropriate arrangements to
ensure settlement of reciprocal debts arising between January 1,
1984 and June 30, 1985.
(c) PAD has effectively increased, with       effect as  of
July 1, 1984, the tariffs for all services of PAD in effect    on
the date of this Agreement by an average of at least 10%;
(d) an expert in port operations with qualifications,
experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association
has been employed by PAD; and
(e) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of, or
initial disbursements under, the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement, the
CCCE Loan Agreement and the Special Fund Credit Agreement have
been fulfilled.


﻿-8-
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by PAD, and is legally binding upon PAD in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that   the  Subsidiary   Loan  Agreement has   been  duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PAD and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and PAD in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date   OL.604A 2,0, /10*0       is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.02, 3.04 and 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this
Agreement, the Minister responsible for finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere de i'Economie
et des Finances
B.P. 4017
Dakar
Republic of Senegal


﻿-9-
Cable address:                         Telex:
MINIFINANCES                         3203 SG
Dakar, Sdn4gal
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By /$/              LkL.
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/Sf/~
14 4        Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works for:
(a) Part A.2 of          1,280,000          35%
the Project
(b) Part A.4 of            240,000         38%
the Project
(2) Consultant services
for:
(a) Part A.5 of            240,000          48%
the Project
(b) Parts B.1 (a),         410,000          23%
B.2 (b),
B.2 (c) and
B.2 (d) of the
Project
(3) Consultant services         180,000          100%
and equipment for
Parts B.2 (e) and
B.2 (f) of the
Project
(4) Unallocated                 250,000
TOTAL               2,600,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the  disbursement   percentages  set   forth  in   the  table   in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will
be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion  of  the   Association  are  not needed   to  meet   other
expend.tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage       then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under   such  Category   may  continue  until   all   expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures  which  would   otherwise  have  been  eligible   for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The principal objectives of the Project are:
(a) a reduction in freight costs through the strengthening
of the container handling capacity at the port of Dakar
and through rehabilitation and maintenance of other
facilities; and
(b) strengthening of PAD's organization and operations as a
commercially-oriented and financially-autonomous public
enterprise.
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Facilities at the port of Dakar
1.   Construction of a 430 m long quay wall (gravity block type)
to permit the simultaneous berthing at any stage of the tide of
two container vessels with up to 11.5 m draft.
2.   Dredging to a depth of: (a) about 11.6 m below datum of the
areas alongside the quay referred to in Part A.1 above, and (b)
about 11 m below datum of the areas from the port entrance to the
said quay; and reclaiming of an area behind the said quay wall of
8.2 ha for container handling.
3.   Paving of the said container handling area and installations
and linking of services including water, electricity, telephone,
fuel lines and railway.
4.   Rehabilitation and deferred maintenance works of certain
port facilities.
5.   Assistance to PAD in the supervision of the above con-
struction works and training of PAD personnel in such super-
vision.
Part B:   Strengthening of PAD's organization and operations
1.   (a)  Study of management requirements for the new container
quay included in Part A of the Project; and (b) training of PAD
personnel in container terminal management and operations.


﻿- 13 -
2.   Assistance, and related training, to PAD to:
(a) improve its operations and operational management;
(b) improve   its accounting   systems and   procedures and
financial management;
(c) carry out financial and managerial audits;
(d) st:udy and recommend a new tariff structure;
(e) evaluate information processing needs and provide to
PAD necessary information processing means; and
(f) introduce improved management information and control
systems.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1988.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day ofT______
198   .
FOR SECRETARY


