Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2819 YEM
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
                    (Transport Rehabilitation Project)
                                  between
                             REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated March 6, 1996
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2819 YEM
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated March 6, 1996 between REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   The Association has received letters, dated November
20, 1995, and December 13, 1995 describing programs of actions,
objectives and policies for the development of the Borrower's
road and civil aviation sectors (hereinafter referred to as the
"Programs");
      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from a bilateral aid
development organization ("Cofinancier") a loan or grant
("Cofinancing") in an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 to assist
in financing Part B of the Project on terms and conditions to
be set forth in an agreement (the "Cofinancing Agreement") to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Cofinancier; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
                   "Except as the Association and the Borrower
                   shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be
                   made: (a) on account of expenditures in the
                   territories of any country which is not a
                   member of the Bank or for goods produced in,
                   or services supplied from, such territories;
                   or (b) for the purpose of any payment to
                   persons or entities, or for any import of
                   goods, if such payment or import, to the
                   knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by
                   a decision of the United Nations Security
                   Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter
                   of the United Nations."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "CAMA" means the Civil Aviation and Meteorological
Authority, a semi-autonomous governmental authority established
and operating under the Borrower's Law No. 12 of 1991, and any
successor thereto;
      (b)   "MOCHUP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Construction,
Housing and Urban Planning;
      (c)   "GCRB" means the General Corporation for Roads and
Bridges of the Borrower, a semi-autonomous governmental
authority established and operating under the Borrower's Decree
No. 16 of 1972, and any successor thereto;
      (d)   "YRFB" means the Yemen Road Fund Board, a semi-
autonomous governmental authority established under the
Borrower's Law No. 1-44-95-81 of 1995, and any successor
thereto;
      (e)   "Road User Surcharge" means a surcharge on the sale
of all petrol and diesel fuel in the territory of the Borrower,
initially set at Yemeni Riyal .50 per liter of petrol sales, to
be deposited into the Road Maintenance Fund established
pursuant to Law No.1-44-95-81 of 1995 of the Borrower; and
      (f)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-four million seven hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 24,700,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
Page  3
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part A and Part
B of the Project, open and maintain in United States Dollars
two special deposit accounts in the Central Bank of Yemen.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
      Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1
commencing May 1, 2006 and ending November 1, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
November 1, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
Page  4
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the
Project through MOCHUP; and shall carry out Part B of the
Project through CAMA; all with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate aviation, engineering, financial
and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the
General Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower
shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project;
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof, including CAMA.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
Page  5
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the
                   Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Association shall have
                   reasonably requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives
                   to examine such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate
                   opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during
                   such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                   and internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                              Other Covenants
      Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause CAMA and the YRFB:
      (a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice;
      (b)   to carry on their respective operations and conduct
their respective affairs in accordance with sound transport,
aviation, administrative, and financial practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers; and
      (c)   at all times to operate and to maintain their
Page  6
respective offices, facilities, equipment and other property,
and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with
sound aviation, engineering, and financial practices.
      Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that all
revenues from the Road User Surcharge are collected and
deposited into the Road Maintenance Fund in accordance with the
procedures and objectives set forth in Law No. 1-44-95-81 of
1995 establishing the Road Maintenance Fund and the YRFB.
      (b)   The Borrower shall cause the YRFB to maintain records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of
the Road Maintenance Fund.
      (c)   The Borrower shall cause the YRFB to:
            (i)    have the records, accounts and financial
                   statements of the YRFB and the Road
                   Maintenance Fund (balance sheets, statements
                   of income and expenses and related statements)
                   for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                   with appropriate auditing principles
                   consistently applied, by independent auditors
                   acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Association shall have
                   reasonably requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning such records, accounts
                   and financial statements and the audit thereof
                   as the Association shall from time to time
                   reasonably request.
      Section 5.03. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1996,
ensure that regular axle load surveys are conducted at the
three weigh bridges at Hodeidah, Mokha and Harad in a manner
satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 5.04.  The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1996,
cause the YRFB to appoint in accordance with Section II of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement: (i) the Consultants to carry out
the study for planning and prioritizing road maintenance needs
under Part A (2) of the Project, and (ii) the Consultants to
assist the YRFB and the Road Maintenance Fund under Part A (3)
of the Project.
      Section 5.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 9.06 of the General Conditions:
      (a)   by November 30, 1999, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Association for its review and comments, a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project, in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and
      (b)   (i)    the Borrower and the Association shall, not
                   later than December 31, 1999, hold a mid-term
                   exchange of views on the progress achieved in
                   the carrying out of the Project and the
                   actions described in the Action Plan; and
            (ii)   the Borrower shall thereafter take all
                   measures necessary to ensure the efficient
                   completion of the Project and the achievement
                   of the objectives thereof, taking into
Page  7
                   consideration the results and conclusions of
                   the report referred to in paragraph (a) hereof
                   and the Association's views on the matter.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   Law No. 12 of 1991 of the Borrower shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of CAMA to perform
any of its obligations under this Agreement;
      (b)   Law No. 1-44-95-81 of 1995 of the Borrower shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of the YRFB to
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement;
      (c)   the Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of CAMA or the YRFB or for the suspension of
their respective operations;
      (d)   that a situation has arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Programs, or a significant part thereof,
will be carried out; and
      (e)   the Cofinancing Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by December 31, 1996 or such later date as the
Association may agree; provided, however, that the provisions
of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes
to the satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement; and
      (f)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                   (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any of the loans or grants
                         included in the Cofinancing shall have
                         been suspended, cancelled or terminated
                         in whole or in part, pursuant to the
                         terms of the Cofinancing Agreement
                         providing therefor, or
                   (B)   any of the loans, included in the
                         Cofinancing, shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity
                         thereof.
            (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                   apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                   satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
                   suspension, cancellation, termination or
                   prematuring is not caused by the failure of
                   the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
                   under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds
                   for the Project are available to the Borrower
                   from other sources on terms and conditions
                   consistent with the obligations of the
                   Borrower under this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   that the events specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and
(c) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
Page  8
      (b)   that the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the
proviso of paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.
                                ARTICLE VII
                                Termination
      Section 7.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VIII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 8.01. The Minister of Planning and Development of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Planning and Development
            P. O. Box 175
            Sana'a
            Republic of Yemen
            Cable address:                       Telex:
                   CENPLAN                       2266 CENPLAN YE
                   Sana'a
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                       Telex:
                   INDEVAS                       248423 (MCI) or
                   Washington, D.C.               64145 (MCI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                   REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                   By/s/ Mohsin A. Alaini
                                                Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By/s/ Inder K. Sud
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
Page  9
                                             Middle East and North Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                                Credit              % of
                               Allocated        Expenditures
                             (Expressed in          to be
      Category              SDR Equivalent)       Financed
(1) (a)  Civil Works          10,000,000        70%
         Under Part A
         of the Project
    (b)  Civil Works           7,000,000        80%
         Under Part B
         of the Project
(2) (a)  Consultants'          3,000,000        100% of foreign
         Services Under                         expenditures and
         Part A of the                          95% of local
         Project                                expenditures
    (b)  Consultants'          1,300,000        100% of foreign
         Services Under                         expenditures and
         Part B of the                          95% of local
         Project                                expenditures
(3) (a)  Equipment under         700,000        100% of foreign
         Part A of the Project                  expenditures
    (b)  Equipment under         700,000        100% of foreign
         Part B of the Project                  expenditures
(4) Unallocated                2,000,000
                              __________
      TOTAL                   24,700,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; (b)
expenditures under Category (1) (a) until consultants for the
supervision of Part A (1) of the Project shall have been
appointed in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement; and (c) expenditures under Categories (1) (b) and
3(b), until: (i) consultants for the design and supervision of
Part B (1) and (2) of the Project shall have been appointed in
accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(ii) civil aviation tariff increases, satisfactory to the
Association, have been implemented.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Page  10
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for each contract for works and goods estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $200,000; for each contract for the
employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $100,000; and for each contract for the
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each, under such terms and conditions
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) assist the
Borrower in carrying out high priority rehabilitation works in
the road transport and civil aviation sectors; (b) improve the
institutional capacity for maintenance of the road network; (c)
develop the civil aviation sector; and (d) strengthen transport
policies and regulations in the road transport and civil
aviation sectors.
      The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Road Sector
1.    Rehabilitation and reconstruction of the Hodeidah-Salif
Road and the Am Ayn-Naqabah Road.
2.    Preparation of an inventory of the existing condition of
the road network; preparation of a plan for maintenance
thereof; and development of detailed designs for rehabilitation
of the highest priority maintenance needs of the road network.
3.    Provision of technical assistance for: (i) operation of
the YRFB to manage the funds generated by Road User Surcharges
to be deposited in the Road Maintenance Fund; and (ii)
establishment of a cost accounting system for the YRFB and
improvement of GCRB's cost accounting systems.
4.    Strengthening the institutional capacity of the YRFB to
manage the Borrower's road network through: (i) provision of
technical assistance to establish an appropriate planning
system for maintenance of the road network; (ii) supply of
survey and test equipment, computer systems and computer
software to plan a road maintenance program; and (iii)
provision of training for use of such equipment.
Part B:     Civil Aviation Sector
1.    Reconstruction of Aden International Airport Terminal.
2.    Replacement of the air traffic control tower and technical
building at Aden International Airport; provision of
communications and navaids equipment and repair facilities and
training in use of such equipment; and provision of fire
fighting equipment.
3.    Carrying out a strategy and policy study for the civil
aviation sector.
                                   * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  11
Part A:     General
      Goods and Works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Association
in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions
of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
      (a)   Prequalification
      Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
      (b)   Grouping of contracts
      To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent
or more each.
      (c)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods and
            domestic contractors
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be
carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    International Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$200,000 per contract and $1,000,000 equivalent or less in the
aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of international shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement
plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for works and each contract
for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Page  12
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.        Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Association in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-
based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by
the Association, with such modifications thereto as shall have
been agreed by the Association.  Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Association, other
standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior
Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                             Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means with respect to
Part A of the Project Categories (1) (a), (2) (a), and (3) (a)
and with respect to Part B of the Project Categories (1) (b),
(2) (b) and (3) (b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means with respect
to the special account to be established under Part A of the
Project an amount equivalent to $500,000 and with respect to
the special account to be established under Part B of the
Project, an amount equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from
the Credit Account and deposited in such Special Accounts
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided,
however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocations shall be limited to an amount equivalent
to $250,000 each until the aggregate amount of withdrawals
under the respective categories for each Part of the Credit
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000 for
such Part of the Project.
2.    Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
Page  13
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory
to it that each Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the respective Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Accounts shall
be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in such
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special
                   Accounts at such intervals as the Association
                   shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
                   the payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
                   each such request, the Association shall, on
                   behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the
                   Credit Account and deposit into the Special
                   Accounts such amount as the Borrower shall
                   have requested and as shall have been shown by
                   said documents and other evidence to have been
                   paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                   expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Accounts:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
Page  14
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Accounts (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Accounts
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Accounts will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Accounts.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
