                                  Documentof
                               TheWorldBank




                                                    ReportNo.: 30396




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                                    YEMEN

               MULTI-MODE TRANSPORT (CREDIT 2177-YEM)

            TRANSPORT REHABILITATION(CREDIT 2819-YEM)


               PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT (CREDIT 3298-YEM)


                    PUBLIC WORKS I1(CREDIT 3168-YEM)


                                October27,2004




Sector, Thematicand Global Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit=Yemeni Rial (YR)

1994             U S $ l.oo               YR 103
1995             U S $ l.oo               YR 115
1996                                      YR 135
                 U S $ l.oo
                 US$l.oo
1997                                      YR 135
1998             U S $ l.oo               YR 135
1999                                      YR 147
                 U S $ l.oo
                 US$l.oo
2000                                      YR 152
2001             U S $ l.oo               YR 165
2002                                      YR 176
                 U S $ l.oo
                 US$l.oo
2003                                      YR 178
2004             U S $ l.oo               YR 184

Abbreviations andAcronyms

AADT             Annual Average Daily Traffic
AIA              Aden InternationalAirport
C A M A          Civil Aviation and Meteorological Authority
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
ERR              Economic Rate o fReturn
ESAF             Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GCMA             General Corporation for MarineAffairs
GCYP             General Corporation for Yemen Ports
GLTC             General LandTransport Corporation
GOY              Government o fYemen
ICR              ImplementationCompletionReport
ICAO             International Civil Aviation Organization
IDA              InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
IMF              InternationalMonetary Fund
MAA              MaritimeAffairs Authority
OED              Operations EvaluationDepartment
PMS              Pavement Management System
PMU              ProjectManagement Unit
PPAR             ProjectPerfonnance Assessment Report
SDR              Special DrawingRights
TPO              Technical PrivatizationOffice
YBRMF            Yemeni Boardfor the Management o f the RoadMaintenance Fund

Fiscal Year
Government:               January 1-December 31


Director-General, Operations Evaluation               : Mr.Gregory K.Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Department            : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector, Thematic & Global Evaluation Group   : Mr.AlainBarbu
T a & Manager                                         : Mr.PeterFreeman

                                                             i


  OED Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellence and independence inevaluation.


About this Report
     The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programsand activities of the World Bankfor two
purposes: first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocessand to verifythat the Bank's work is
producingthe expected results,and second,to help developimproveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough
the disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom experience.As partof this work, OED annuallyassesses about 25 percentof
the Bank's lendingoperations. Inselecting operationsfor assessment, preferenceis given to thosethat are
innovative, large, or complex;thosethat are relevantto upcomingstudies or countryevaluations; those for which
ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhave requestedassessments;and those that are likelyto generate
importantlessons. The projects,topics, and analytical approachesselected for assessmentsupport largerevaluation
studies.
     A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is basedon a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussionswith project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
     Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary.The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors.After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the OED RatingSystem
     The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale usedfor each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevanceof Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy:The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency:The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possibleratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sustainability:The resilienceto risk of net benefits flows over time. Possibleratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnstitutionalDevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. InstitutionalDevelopment Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possibleratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      BankPerformance:The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementationthrough appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possibleratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
      BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparationand implementation,and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                    ...
                                                                    111



Contents

PrincipalRatings        ................................................................................................................           v

Key StaffResponsible             ......................................................................................................           vi

Preface ..............................................................................................................................             ..
                                                                                                                                                 VI:

Summary    ...........................................................................................................................            ix

1 Background
 .                     ..................................................................................................................          1

2 Overview andObjectives
 .                                           .............................................................................................         2

3 Multi-ModeTransport Project(Credit 2177)
 .                                                                                 ...........................................................      6

4. TransportRehabilitation(Credit 2819)                                 ...................................................................       12

5. PrivatizationSupport Project (Credit3298)                                    ...........................................................       17

6 PublicWorks I1(Credit3168)
 .                                                     ..................................................................................         20

7 ConclusionsandLessons
 .                                           ...........................................................................................          25

Annex A BasicDataSheet
          .                               ..............................................................................................          28

Annex B Borrower Comments
          .                                       .......................................................................................         35

Map ofYemen          ..................................................................................................................           37

Boxes

Box 1:Multi-Mode Transport Objectives and Components                                    ......................................................      2
Box 2: Transport Rehabilitation Objectives and Components                                 .................................................... 4
Box 3: Privatization Support Objectives and Components                                ........................................................      5
Box 4: Public Works I1Objectives and Components                              ................................................................       6



Table 1.RepublicofYemen: Air Transport Statistics. 2002.2003
Tables                                                                                                      ..................................     15
Table 2.Distribution ofPublic Works I1Subprojectsby Sectors
Table 3 .NumberandCost of                                                                                 .....................................
                                            Public Works Subprojects. Oct 2001 -Dec 2003                                              .............22
                                                                                                                                                  22




This reportwas preparedby PeterFreeman. who assessedthe projectinApril 2004 The report was edited
byWilliam Hurlbut. andRomaynePereiraprovidedadministrativesupport                                       .            .


                                                         V



 PrincipalRatings
 Multi-modeTransportProject(Credit 2177-YEM)
                                        ICR*                      ICR Review*                          PPAR
 Outcome                           Satisfactory             ModeratelySatisfactory          ModeratelySatisfactory
 Sustainability                       Unlikely                       Unlikely                          Likely
 InstitutionalDevelopment           Substantial                    Substantial                     Substantial
 Impact
 Bank Performance                  Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                    Satisfactory
 Borrower Performance              Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                    Satisfactory

 TransportRehabilitationProject(Credit2819-YEM)
                                        ICR*                      ICR Review*                          PPAR
 Outcome                           Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory             ModeratelySatisfactory
 Sustainability                        Likely                    Non Evaluable                         Likely
 InstitutionalDevelopment             Modest                          Modest                           Modest
 Impact
 Bank Performance                   Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    Satisfactory
 Borrower Performance               Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                    Satisfactory


_ _ ~
 PrivatizationSumortProiect(Credit3298-YEM)
                                        ICR*                      ICR Review*                          PPAR
 Outcome                          NotApplicable                  NotApplicable                    NotApplicable
 Sustainability                   NotApplicable                  NotApplicable                    NotApplicable
 InstitutionalDevelopment         NotApplicable                  Not Applicable                   Not Applicable
 Impact
 Bank Performance                   Not Rated                      Satisfactory                    Satisfactory
 Borrower Performance               Not Rated                     Unsatisfactory                  Unsatisfactory

 PublicWorks I1Projects(Credit 3168-YEM)
                                        ICR*                    . ICR Review*                          PPAR
 Outcome                        Highly Satisfactory            HighlySatisfactory              HighlySatisfactory
 Sustainability                         Likely                         Likely                           Likely
 InstitutionalDevelopment           Substantial                    Substantial                       Substantial
 Impact
 Bank Performance                   Satisfactory               HighlySatisfactory              Highly Satisfactory
 BorrowerPerformance             HighlySatisfactory            Highly Satisfactory             Highly Satisfactory

 * The ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the Bank.
 The ICR Reviewis an intermediate Operations Evaluation Department (OED) product that seeks to independentlyverify
 the findings of the ICR.

                                        vi


Key Staff Responsible

Multi-modeTransport Project(Credit2 1 7 7 - y E R / I )
Project               Task Manager/Leader     Division Chief/     Country Director
                                              Sector Director
Appraisal                Luis Revuelta        Michel Pommier        Everardus
                                                                    Stoutjesdijk
Completion               Terje Wolden         Sonia Hammam        MahmoodAyub




Project               Task Manager/Leader     Division Chief/     Country Director
                                              Sector Director
Appraisal                Terje Wolden        Alastair Mckechnie     lnder Sud
Completion             Andreas Schliessler      Hedi Larbi        MahmoodAyub



PrivatizationSupportProject(Credit3298-YEM)
Project               Task Manager/Leader     Division Chief/     Country Director
                                              Sector Director
Appraisal                DeaneJordan            Wafik Grais          lnder Sud
Completion               DeaneJordan         EmmanuelForestier    MahmoodAyub



PublicWorks I1Projects(Credit3168-YEM)
Project               Task ManagedLeader      Division Chief/     Country Director
                                              Sector Director
Appraisal               A. Amir AI-Khafaji   Jean-ClaudeVilliard     lnder Sud
Completion                 Ali Khamis            Hedi Larbi       MahmoodAyub

                                             vii


Preface

        This ProjectPerformance Assessment Report (PPAR) covers four recently
completedprojects for the Republic of Yemen. The first two are from the transport
sector, namely, Multi-mode Transport (Credit 2177-YEM) and Transport Rehabilitation
(Credit 2819-YEM). These projects were selected becausethey both encountered
problems inimplementationandpresented interestinglearningopportunities about
projectsbeing carried out duringtimes o fpolitical instability; it was also necessary to
verify the ratings giveninthe ImplementationCompletionReport (ICR) andthe ICR
Review as insome instances there was a clear disconnect. The thirdproject, Privatization
Support (Credit 3298-YEM), didnot become effective as it was never ratifiedbythe
Yemeni Parliament. Nevertheless, some important lessonscan be derived from the
preparation, andthe initiative for large enterprises such as the General LandTransport
Corporationand airport passenger andcargo ground handlingactivities may well resume
inthenear future.Lastly, PublicWorks I1(Credit 3168-YEM) is assessed.Thisproject
was a key component o f the country's social safety net intended to mitigate the adverse
impacts o fthe Economic, FinancialandAdministrative ReformProgram.

        An IDAcredit of SDR22.7 million(US$30 millionequivalent), for Multi-mode
Transport, was approved on September 11,1990 and became effective inMarch 1991.
The project took four years longer to complete than planned, due to a poor security
situation, the civil war o f 1994 and also some unforeseentechnicalproblems. A
supplemental credit o fUS$5.8 millionwas signed on June 3, 1998, to assist with these
technicalmatters andto cover repairs to abridge damaged inan exceptional flood. The
project was finally closed four years late inJune 2001. The IDA credit for Transport
Rehabilitationo f SDR 24.7 million (US$37 million equivalent) became effective in
November 1996. At the mid-term review inJune 1999, SDR 5 millionwas shifiedfrom
the roadto the airport component with the consent o fbothparties, becauseo f the
dangerous condition o f the airport runway (not originally included inthe airport
component o fthe project). The project closed as planned inJune 2002 andUS$5.5
million equivalent was cancelled.

        The IDA credit for the Privatization Support Projectwas approved onNovember
30, 1999, inthe amount o f SDR 8.1 million (US$10.9 millionequivalent). The Credit
Agreement was signed on February 7,2000, andthere were several extensions o f the
effectiveness date. Eventually the Government o fYemen advised that it didnot expect to
beable to muster sufficient votes for the Yemeni Parliament to ratify the agreement,
which was then cancelled on April 30,2001. There were no disbursements. Finally, the
IDAcredit for Public Works I1for SDR 35.6 million (US$50 millionequivalent) became
effective inMarch 1999. It closed on schedule inJune 2003, after US46.5 millionhad
been disbursed. Bythis time the project was so successful that an additional US$ 50
millionhad also been secured from the intemational donor community as parallel
financing and of this US$33.8 millionhadbeen disbursedby June, 2003.

        OEDprepared this report basedon an examinationo fthe relevant StaffAppraisal
Reports, ImplementationCompletion Reports, legal agreements, project files, documents
presentedto the Board, as well as other relevant reports, memoranda, andworking

                                             ...
                                           V l l l



papers. Discussions were also heldwith a number o fBank staff. An OED missionvisited
Yemen inApril 2004, conducted site visits anddiscussedtheprojectwith government
officials and stakeholders. Their kindassistancei s gratefully acknowledged.

        Following standard OED procedures, copies o f the draft PPAR were sent to
government officials and agencies for their review and comments. Comments have been
taken into account and are attached as Annex B.

                                              i x


Summary
         The largely mountainous geography o fthe Republic o fYemen isolates much of
the ruralpopulationfrom good access to the market economy andpublic services. There
i s therefore an enormous demand for infrastructure development, especially for the
delivery o f social services inremote areas. Inthe 2002 Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) the platform for progress andpoverty reductioni s described as improving
govemance, creating an attractive investmentclimate, strengthening human capital, and
ensuringenvironmental sustainability- all o fwhich have some relevanceto theprojects in
this assessment. The CAS also gave highpriority to the importance of appropriate
infrastructure spending at national and community level and to expanding basic education
and encouraging private sector development.

         This PPARcovers four recently completed projects for the Republic o f Yemen.
The first two are from the transport sector, namely, Multi-modeTransportand
TransportRehabilitation.Inthe former apriority secondary roadwas upgradedand
technical assistancewas made available for the road, maritime and aviation sub-sectors,
while the latter focused onthe rehabilitation of aroadto improveport access andrestored
the functionality o f AdenIntemationalAirport, damaged inthe civil war o f 1994. The
project also continuedthe technical assistancebeguninthe first project. The thirdproject,
PrivatizationSupport,didnot become effective as itwas neverratifiedbythe Yemeni
Parliament. Nevertheless, some important lessons canbe derived from its preparation and
the initiative for large enterprises may well resume inthe near future. Lastly, Public
Works I1is assessed. This project was akeycomponent ofthe country's social safety net
intendedto mitigate the adverse impacts o f the Economic, Financial andAdministrative
ReformProgram. All four projects were prepared and implemented inthe context o f a
country recoveringfrom conflict andthe unification o f two very differentlymanaged
countries into one state.

          The outcome o fthe transport projects is ratedmoderately satisfactory, since in
each case despite some positive results, there were also shortcomings. Institutional
development i s rated as substantial and bothBank andBorrower performance as
satisfactory. Sustainabilityi s found to be likely inthe light o f some recent positive
developments inmaintenance management and organizationaldevelopment. The
privatization support project didnot become effectivebecausethe Borrower decided not
to take up the credit; Borrower performance inpreparationi s rated as unsatisfactory.
However, the initiative did encourage some positive developments and there i s still a
strong possibility that the privatizationprocess will re-gather momentum. The outcome o f
thepublic works project is highlysatisfactory andit is avery goodcasestudy of
empowering local communities. Its sustainabilityi s rated likely, institutional
development substantial andbothBank andBorrower performancehighly satisfactory.

         The experience o f these projects shows that either some o fthe key success factors
were not always understood byproject staff, or that their implementationprovedmore
intractable thananticipated. Typically, these factors include adequate understandingby
the Borrower o fthe Bank's procurement procedures, the benefits o f genuineparticipatory
involvement o f local communities, the importance o f good indicators for monitoring and
evaluation, the needto review objectives when there are calls to amend the project

                                             X



description, andthe needto ensure that adequate provisioni s made for necessary
recurrent expenditure such as maintenance. Itproved easier to attend to such issues inthe
community-based project (Public Works 11)thaninthe large infrastructureprojects       -
where the government was seen as the "owner" andwhere capacity and resources were
more severely constrained.

        Lack o f coordinationand unclear boundaries between ministries and agencies was
one reason why some projects were less successful thanothers. The success o fPublic
Works I1i s explained at least inpart by the very effective management o frelationships at
all levels andthe clearly defined roles o fthe participants. Thus inter-ministry and even
inter-project coordinationwere successfully achieved. The roadprojects demonstrated a
disjuncture between the investment andmaintenance programs and government policies.
For example, oil tankers are given a waiver exemptingthem from axle weight
regulations, while the roads are being damaged by grossly overloaded roadtankers. This
suggests that the Bank should take more time to assist the borrower to devise strategies to
improve coordination.

        Theprimary lessons learned from these projects are:
     >  That ina post conflict, country unification situation such as Yemen's, to avoid
        fruitless expenditure and wasted resources, additional risk analysis is appropriate
        to ensure that the Government isfully committed to the reforms proposed and the
        timetable for the reform agenda.
     >  Project objectives should be framed realistically, taking into account the
        borrower's ability to achieve stakeholder support for proposed changes.

     9 Genuinecommunity "ownership andparticipationcanenhancethelikelihoodof
                                          "
        project success as evidenced by Yemen's Public Works program.

     9 TheseYemeniprojects show that inter-ministerial,agencyandstakeholder
        coordination are crucial to project sustainability and that the Bank couldbe more
        proactive inhelpingto improve the general level o f coordination.




                                                              GregoryK Ingram
                                                              Director-General
                                                              Operations Evaluation

                                              1


1.       Background

1.1      The Yemeni people have experienced difficult and sometimes turbulent times
since 1990when the Yemen Arab Republic inthe north andthe People's Democratic
Republic o fYemen inthe south were unifiedto establish the Republic o fYemen. At least
800,000 overseas workers were repatriated duringthe GulfWar in 1991andthe loss o f
worker remittances and foreign assistance duringthis periodhad a serious impact on the
economy. This was followed in 1994 by a civil war, which, thoughbrief, resulted in
infrastructuredamage inthe south and a further shock to the public finance. By 1995 the
Yemeni economywas close to collapse.

1.2      The Government o fYemen (GOY)thenlaunched a series o fmajor national
economic and administrative reforms to stabilize the economy and stimulate sustainable
growth which, together with a windfall inhigher oil prices, ledto an improved
macroeconomic situation. This stabilizationprogramhas yielded good results with core
inflation declining from 65 percent to around 10.5 percent in2003. Significant structural
reforms have includedthe lowering o f tariffs and other barriers to trade, reducing
regulations, licensing requirements and other barriers to entry for new firms, and
gradually cutting subsidies to public enterprises. The country, however, remains
vulnerable to swings inforeign exchange earnings reflecting fluctuations inoil prices.

1.3      Yementoday is undoubtedlybetteroffthanitwas in 1995, but, with a gross
nationalproduct o fUS$460per capita, the Yemeni people remainon average amongthe
poorest inthe region. The country's 18.3 millionpopulation i s predominantlyrural with
74 percent livinginscattered settlements o funder 5,000 inhabitants. About 42 percent o f
all households live below the poverty line andthe unemploymentrate i s 25 percent. Basic
health indicators, such as an infantmortality rate o f 76 per 1,000, anunder five mortality
rate o f 94 per 1,000, and a life expectancy o f 56 years, are much improved since 1995,
butremainbelow theregionalaverage (infantmortality 40 per 1,000, under five mortality
52 per 1,000 and a life expectancy o f 68). The overall quality o f education remains poor
andindicators are wellbelow the regional average; for example, only 48 percent o f
Yemeni adults are literate, andinruralareasless thana quarter o fthe girls ofpiimary
school age attend schools.

1.4      Yemen's very meager water resources leave 90 percent o fthe populationwith less
thanminimumstandardsofdomestic water supply.Girlsandwomen inrural areasmust
often walk for hours each day to collect water for their households. Electricity reaches
only about 45 percent o f the population and generation capacity i s falling behind demand.
Telecommunicationpenetration, although increasing rapidly, i s still low at 19 lines per
 100people. The largely mountainous geography isolates much o fthe ruralpopulation
from good access to the market economy andpublic services. Less than 15 percent o f the
roadnetwork i s paved. There i s an enormous requirement for infrastructure development
leadingto the delivery o f social services, especially inthe remote areas.

 1.5     Against this backgroundthe Bankhas beensupporting a number o f inter-linked
programs under the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Yemen. Inthe 2002 CAS
report the platform for progress andpoverty reductioni s described as improving
governance, creating an attractive investmentclimate, strengtheninghumancapital, and

                                                           2

  ensuring environmentalsustainability - all o fwhich have some relevance to the projects
  inthis assessment. The CAS also gavehighpriorityto the importance ofappropriate
  infrastructure spendingat national and community level and i s expanding basic education
  andencouraging private sector development. Inthis ProjectPerformance Assessment
  Report (PPAR) a spectrum o f completed projects inbothtransport andpublic works i s
  evaluated inthe context o fthese CAS goals. A privatization support project that didnot
  become effective is also assessed.



  2.          Overview and Objectives

  Multi-ModeTransport

  2.1        The Bankassistedthe YemenArab Republic to establishitsbasic primaryroad
  networkthroughthe 1970sand '80s; the previous transport PPARmission, FY96 evaluated
  the fourth and fifthhighwayprojects andratedthe outcome as satisfactory andthe
  sustainability as likely.' Withthe unificationo fthe north and south, a new set o fpriorities
  has emerged, however. Since the primaryroadnetwork was nearingcompletion, attention
  hastumedto the improvement o fthe more important secondary roads andto a greater
  emphasisonpublic works programs.

  2.2         The highestpriority secondaryroad connected the small northem towns o fHarud
  andHuth.At project launchthe roadwas a 157kilometerrudimentarytrack andto traverse
  itrequired aminimumeighthourjourney ina four-wheel-drive vehicle. Itruns throughthe
  northem Govemorates o fHajjahandAmran, which cover an area o f 5,000 square


/Boxti-Mode               TransportObjectives and Components
 Objectives
   0   To improve accessto important agricultural areas;
   0   To address the institutional, financial and strategic development needs and improve the management o f
       the Civil Aviation and Meteorological Authority (CAMA), the General Corporation o f Yemen Ports
       (GCYP) and the General Corporationfor Maritime Affairs (GCMA); and
   0   To support transport sector training.
 Components
   0   Civil works construction o f 157 kmo fthe Harad-Huth road, including a bridge over the Wadi M a w and
       technical assistance for construction supervision. (US$44.74 million o f which InternationalDevelopment
       Association (IDA) component US$30.94 million);
   0   Institutional development o f the General Corporation for Roads and Bridges (GCRB); strengthening o f
       financial operations; staff training. (US$l.15 million-IDA US$1.15 million);
   0   Technical assistance to CAMA; study to improve cost accounting, user cost recovery and improve
       airport efficiency; procurement o f urgently needed safety and meteorological equipment; staff training,
       (US$1.96 million-IDA US$1.86 million); and
   0   Technical assistance to GCYPIGCMA; study to improve port maintenance operations and policies and
       cost accounting system and to review linkages between port and road traffic; staff training; procurement
       o f urgently needed tools, spare parts and equipment for maintenance. (US$1.95 million - IDA US$1.85
       million).


   1. Performance Audit Report 15752, June 12*, 1996.

                                               3


kilometers and are inhabitedby some 500,000 people inscatteredcommunities. The project
was selected for upgradingbecauseo fthe opportunityto improve access to these remote
northem agricultural areas o fYemen to unlock their economic potential. Not only would
the road significantly reduce the distance to the port o fHodeidah, but it would also link to
theprimaryroute from Sana'a, the capital, to the border with Saudi Arabia.

2.3     With the unification o fnorthandsouthYemen, it was also appropriate to begina
process o f addressing the civil aviation andmaritime needs o f the country andto identify
areas o f duplicationas well as investment and training needs. Urgentlyneeded equipment
was to be procuredunder the credit for the major ports and airports and essential training
or advisory services were to beprovidedfor each o fthe transport authorities. The project
thus financed ahighpriorityroadproject for the GOY andofferedtimely support to
address institutional shortcomings inthe transport sector highlightedduringthe
unification process. Throughout the implementationperiodthe Harud-Huthroadwas
constructed against a background o ftribal disturbances andunrest, which ledto a
cessation o fwork for a time duringthe civil war o f 1994. At the end o fthe conflict a new
government was formed and a degree o f stability retumed, but sporadic unrest still
continueduntilproject closure inJune 2001.

2.4     There were two amendments to the credit agreement for the Multi-Mode
Transport Project. The first involved a change inconstructionmethods to increase the
labor content inorder to accommodate Yemeni expatriates retuming to Yemen as a result
o fthe GulfWar. The second was for a supplemental credit o fUS$5.8 millionto finance
cost overruns due to unexpected technicalproblems with weathered and fractured rock
formations on the A1Abbaisah escarpment and to repair damage to a bridge over the
Wadi Mawr causedby an exceptional flash flood.

2.5     The beneficiaries o fthe maritime technical assistancewere the General
Corporation for Yemen Ports (GCYP) and the General Corporation for MarineAffairs
(GCMA). Port operations are now decentralized to the individual port authorities, while
GCMA i s now known as the MaritimeAffairs Authority (MAA) with responsibilityfor
coastal protectionandpollution preventionand clean-up. MAAi s based inSana'a, but
has branch offices inAden andHodeidah.

TransportRehabilitation

2.6     The Transport Rehabilitationproject complemented the Multi-modeproject. It
comprised the upgrading o f 65 kilometers o f road from Hodeidahto the new grainport at
A1 Salif and oil terminal at Ras Essa as well as the upgrading and improvement o f Aden
IntemationalAirport, which had sustained serious damage inthe civil war. There was
also a significant technical assistancecomponent to address various maintenance,
planning, equipment, andtraining needs, as well as selected design andsupervisioncosts.

2.7     This project supportedthree major CAS objectives, namely, to restore key
economic infrastructure, to support stabilization through structural reforms andto improve
portfolio implementationand sustainability. The latter two objectives would be addressed
bysupportingroadmaintenance andmanagement institutions that would promotemore
efficient use o f scarce public resources. The achievement o findependently financed road

                                                         4


 maintenance operations through user chargeswouldpromote macro-economic stabilization
 byreducingthe government's budget devoted to financing roadmaintenance.

 2.8       While the fundamental objectives o f the Transport RehabilitationProjectwere not
 changed, the project was restructured at the mid-termreview, by shiftingresources from
 the Am Ayn-Naqabahroadproject to cover urgent additionalrequirements at Aden
 InternationalAirport. It was agreed that the affected roadwould ratherbe funded under
 the RuralAccess Program.
1Box 2: TransportRehabilitationObjectives and Components
 Objectives
  0 To rehabilitate critical components o fthe country's road and civil aviation infrastructure; and
  0 To improve institutional capacity inthe roads and civil aviation sectors for planning and maintenance o f
    existing infrastructure assets.
 Components
 Roads
  0 Rehabilitationo f two key roads: a) Hodeidah-Salif(65 km), connecting the new ports o f Salif and Ras
     Essa to the mainroad network at Hodeidah and b) AmAyn- Naqabah (100 km), the mainlinkbetween
     Aden and Mukalla and carrying all traffic between the eastem region and the rest o f the country.
     (US$22.70 million- IDAUS$l5.00 million);
  0  Equipment, software and training, directed at the Yemeni Board for the Management o f the Road
     Maintenance Fund(YBRMF) to operationalize a system for roadmaintenance management. (US$l.OO
     million-IDA U S $ l.OO million);
  0  Technical assistance involving three activities; a) a study for planning and prioritizingmaintenance
     needs, including condition assessment o f some 2,000 kmo f the mainroadnetwork, and the development
     o f detailed designs for the worst 800 km, b) technical assistance to the YBRMF inimplementing its
     maintenanceprogram; and c) construction supervision, and implementation supervision o f the above
     components. (US$4.70 million-IDA US$4.50 million).
 CivilAviation
  0  Emergency rehabilitation o fthe Aden International Airport (AIA), inresponse to serious damage
     incurred during the civil war (May-June, 1994), including a) terminal reconstruction; and b) a new
     control tower and technical building.(US$15.30 million-IDAUS$11.OO million);
  0  Equipment including a) communications and navigationalaids (withexpected co-financing from France)
     andb) a fire fighting vehicle with accessories and spare parts. (US$6.00 million -IDA US$l.OO
     million);
  0  Technical assistance consisting o f a) a civil aviation strategy and policy study which would review
     institutional problems arising from the merging o f civil aviation institutions from the north and south o f
     Yemen as well as the financial difficulties facing CAMA; and b) technical assistance for the design and
     supervision o f works at AIA. (US$2.10 million-IDA US$2.00 million).

 Privatization Support

 2.9       The GOY drew up a policy framework paper in 1997which stated its intention to
 pursuestabilization, structural reforms (including privatization), andother improvements
 inpublic sectormanagement. This was supportedbyanIMF-sponsoredEnhanced
 Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF). The IDAproject was intended to help the
 government to achieve privatizationtargets andto help buildthe institutional capacity to
 manage and carry out the program. Itwas recognizedthat the excessive presence o f
 government insome areas had ledto inefficient public enterprise monopolies and over-
 regulationthat this was constrainingprivate investment and employment.

                                                      5


2.10      The projectwas inlinewith the CAS objectiveto create a modempublic
administration that would encourage and attract private sector development to help the
country grow out o fpoverty and dependenceon oil (83 percent o f goods and service
exports in2001). Privatizationwould also helpthe government to divert increased
financial andmanagerial resources away from commercial activities andtoward sectors
where the private sector was oftenreluctant to enter, butwhere social benefits maybe
high, such as education, health, andsocial services.

Box 3: PrivatizationSupport Objectives andComponents

Objectives
  0To achieve effective and transparent management o fthe Government's Privatization Program, 1999-
   2002; and
  0T o achieve effective and transparent management o f completed privatizations o fpublic enterprises and
   assets.
Components
  0Institutional support for programand project management. (US$3.40 million- IDA US$2.30 million);
  0Transactions support for the privatization o f large enterprises. The enterprises targeted for privatization
   under the project comprised: AdenRefinery Company, Airport passenger and cargo ground handling
   services (at six airports), General Land Transport Corporation(GLTC), Yemen Cement Company and
   Yemen Drug Company (US$6.60 million - IDA US$4.70 million);
  0Transactions support for the privatization o f about 50 small and mediumenterprises. (US$3.50 million -
   IDAUS$2.30 million); and
  0Pre-privatization strategy work on large enterprises. These were the Port o fNashtoun, the Public
   Telecommunications Company and Yemenia Airlines. (US$l.30 million-IDAUS$0.70 million).
  0InadditionUS$1.20millionwas set aside for contingencies -IDAUS$O.90 million.

2.11 The credit for the PrivatizationSupport Project was approved onNovember 30,
1999. The credit agreementwas signedon February7,2000. All conditions precedent to
credit effectiveness were completed, except for ratificationbythe Yemeni Parliament.
After several extensions ofthe effectiveness date, andfollowing parliamentaryelections in
early 2001, the Government o fYemen informedIDAthat it didnot expect to be able to
mustersufficientvotes inParliamentto ratifythe project, which was thenallowedto lapse
at the thenterminal date for effectiveness o fApril 30,2001. There were no disbursements.

PublicWorks I1

2.12      The Public Works Projectis one o fthe maincomponents o fthe social safety net
that i s intended to mitigate the adverse impacts o f the Economic, Financial and
Administrative ReformProgramtaken up by the GOY. OnJuly 17, 1996, the GOY and
the Bank endorsed an agreement for establishing a Public Works Programthat aims to:

    0     Createjob opportunities for both skilled andunskilled labor;
    0     Providemuchneededbasic infrastructure services for the poor communities;
    0     Improve the economic and environmentalconditions o fthe poor;
    0     Develop local contracting and consulting firms; and,
    0     Enhance the level o f community participation inthe development process.

                                                      6

IBox 4: PublicWorksI1Objectives and Components                                                                I
 Objectives
  0 To assist the Borrower to carry out poverty alleviation measures targeted at the country's poor
    communities;
  0 To createjobs; and
  0 To provide neededinfrastructure to improve services and environmental conditions affecting women and
    children inparticular.
 Components
  0  Community infrastructure including: water supply, sewerage, storm drainage, flood protection, roads,
     sidewalks, schools and healthcenters. (US$53.00 million-IDA US$43.00million);
  0 Technical assistance to local communities and governments, feasibility studies, engineering designs,
     construction supervision, benefit assessment surveys, audits, training/workshops for consulting firms and
     contractors and environmental assessments.(UStS4.00 million-IDA US$4.00 million); and
  0 Project management, including office equipment and vehicles to implement the project. (US$3.00
    million-IDA US$3.00million).

 2.13     The first phasewas carried out between 1996 and2000 through IDA credit 2878
 with an amount o fUS$25 million, plus additional contributions from the GOY, the
 Netherlandsgovernment andthe communitiesthemselves, bringingthe project value to
 US$32.4 million. Completion o f 435 sub-projects exceededthe number plannedby 85
 andbenefited at least 2.5 million inhabitants. Because o fthese positive achievements it
 was decided to continue with a second phase between2000 and2004, which is addressed
 inthisreport. Thesecondphasecommencedwith anamount ofUS$60million, which
 included a credit o fUS$50 million from IDA.

 2.14     For Public Works 11, neither the objectives nor the components were revised.
 However, the project was designed to facilitate the government insecuring additional
 funding from the donor community andother financing agencies. This strategy provedto
 behighlysuccessful and attracted about US$52millionto bedisbursedfor works o f a
 similarnature as parallelfinancing.



 3.       Multi-ModeTransportProject(Credit 2177)

 PreparationandImplementation

 3.1      Theproject was preparedbeforethe Bankintroduced formal performanceratings
 for quality at entry. However, iftoday's standards for quality at entry are applied, there is
 little doubt that the project was not ready for implementation. Fromthe ICR it i s clear
 that while a strategy for implementing the project was inplace, additional preparatory
 andanalyticalwork was needed. This i s reflected inprocurement problemsthat occurred
 duringthe first year o fimplementation. Inaddition, performance indicatorswere not
 developed untilthe project was inimplementationand more work could have been done
 up front interms of developingmechanisms for buildinglocalsupport andmaintaining
 dialogue with the local peopleregardingthe roadproject.

 3.2      Security inthe area o fthe Harud-Huthroadwas an ongoingproblem and was one
 o fthe main reasons for the extraordinarily long period for implementationo f a road

                                                    7


project o fthis nature (nearly ten years). Shortly after construction commenced, hostile
actionby the local tribes against the contractors took place andthe GOY responded by
providing militaryprotection (3,000 soldiers) for workers on site. This permittedwork to
proceed, but at a slower rate than anticipated. The local inhabitants were not only
suspicious o f the government, but also o f each other; there was a long history o f
intertribal conflict, usually over landor access to water andthe established practice was
to oppose and bargainwhenever a new development was proposed. The problemwas
compounded bythe repatriationo fmany unemployedYemenis from the Gulf andby the
civil war. The influx o fYemeni repatriates put stress on the government because o f the
loss o fremittance income andincreasedpressure on available government resources.
Consequently, the GOY requested, andthe Bank agreed on a "by exception" basis, to
permita degree o f labor-intensive construction by force account usingthe General
Corporation for Roads and Bridges (GCRB). Some 2,000 returnees were employed inthis
manner, especially on erosion protectionworks.

3.3      A further formalized change to theproject was the approvalonJune 3, 1998, ofa
supplemental credit o fUS$5.8 millionto finance cost overruns due to unexpected
technical problems with very weathered rock formations on an eleven kilometer section
o froad andto repair scouring and settlement damage to the Wadi Mawr bridge, caused
by an exceptional (50 year) flash flood onMarch 8, 1998. The floods completely washed
away the floor slab designedto provide protection against scour. The superstructure
shiftedlaterallyand one o fthepiers tilted.2Temporaryrepair measureswere taken while
a morepermanent solutionwas sought. Duringthe implementationo fthe supplemental
work, the local tribes continuedto harass the contractor and consultants, demanding
unjustified favors for their personal benefit.

3.4      The stabilizationwork was delayed by a year while a dispute was resolved
betweenanItaliancontractor andlocal sub-contractors, The section o f failing roadwas
characterized by intensiveweathering at some locations, beingthe basic contributory
cause for slope instability. The remedialwork includedrock fall protectionnetting, rock
fall barriers, rock bolting, box gabion walls and shotcreting/gunitingwith wire mesh
reinforcement.

3.5      Three small sections of roadtotaling four kilometersremainedunpavedat project
closure but have since beencompleted by GCRB. The adjacent localtribes thought that
completion o fthese sections would facilitate raids from adversarial neighboring
communities; the repairs to the Wadi Mawr bridge were also affected as no qualified
contractor was prepared to bid for work inthis danger zone. It was initially proposedthat
the work bedeferred and hndedunder theRuralAccess ProgramCredit, but it was
instead taken up inthe Transport Rehabilitationproject, which included the cost o f
rehabilitation design of the bridge andthe design and implementationo f slope stability
androck protectionworks on the Harud-Huthroad.




2. Ministryof Public Works and UrbanDevelopment, Republic ofYemen. Harud-Huthroadproject: Slope
stabilityandrock-fill protectionmeasures andrehabilitation ofWadiMawrbridge. Project completion report
byconsultants Louis Berger Intemational, USA,andConsulting Engineering Services, India. July, 2001.

                                               8


3.6     The beneficiaries o fthe institutionaldevelopment component were the GCRB as
well as the maritimeand aviation authorities. The assistance consisted o f equipment
procurement, stafftraining, and short studies to identify technical assistance needs for the
future. These needs were partly due to the duplication o f functions following the merging
o fnorth and south Yemen andpartly due to the ongoingmodernizationo f the country's
transport sector. Inthe case o f GCRB, the technical assistancewas also usedto identify
and appoint a private sector accountant to strengthenits financial activities. Engineers
were, inaddition, recruitedto manage the constructiono f the roadproject.

Ratings

Relevance

3.7     The relevance o f the project i s ratedsubstantialbased on its close alignment with
the country's development priorities, especially the improvement of accessto a remote,
butpopulous areawith good agriculturalpotential. Although this i s a secondary road, the
connectionfrom Harudto Huthi s strategically important, connecting Hodeidahinthe
west andthe mainhighway from Sana'a to Saudi Arabia inthe east. The institutional
support component i s clearly also inline with the requirement to unify and strengthen the
transport institutions inboth the north and south o f Yemen, following unification.


Efficacy

3.8     The efficacy o fthe project is ratedsubstantial.Although a longtime was takento
construct the roadcomponent indifficult circumstances, and despite the fact that four
kilometers remained unfinishedat the time o f project closure, the road itselfhas now
been completed. A site visit by the PPARmissionrevealed evidence o f many new
buildings,additions to existing dwellings, andmarketactivities at all settlements visited
along the road. Freshproduce was also observed by the missionbeingconveyed along
the route, while (mainly) informal transport services were beingusedto meet passenger
transport needs. Roadusage now exceeds expectations due to a continuedmilitary
presence to ensure that stability returns to the area. The Wadi Mawr bridgehas been
temporarily repaired and i s considered safe, but a permanent solutionhas yet to be
implemented. However, evenifanother extreme flood were to destroy the structure, it
would still bepossible to quickly construct a causeway that wouldremainpassable on all
but a few days inthe year, becauseofthe intermittent flow o fthe river. A complete
bridgefailure would not therefore permanentlyclose the road. Insummary, the first
objective to improve access to an important agricultural areahas substantially beenmet,
while the institutional andtraining objectives havebeen achieved. Some 150staffmonths
o f technical assistance were providedto GCRB alone and substantive assistancewas also
rendered to the civil aviation andmaritime authorities. Equipmentas specified inthe staff
appraisal report was procured.

Efficiency

3.9     The efficiency o fthe project i s rated modest. At the time o fthe ICR, usingthe
traffic count figures for 2000, average annual daily traffic (AADT) was just 848 vehicles,

                                               9


which represented an annual growth rate o f only 1.6 percent, against three percent
anticipated at appraisal. This was at least partlydue to the poor security situation at the
time, when some roadusers were hijacked and a numberof foreigners were kidnappedin
order to secure concessions from the authorities. Since that time the GOY has tackled the
securityproblemwith a fair degree o f success, but only by establishing a renewedand
substantial militarypresenceinthe area. The latest AADT (2003) i s 1,166 vehicles,
reflecting a suddensurge indemand, which means that the expected growth rate canbe
expected to stabilize at three percent or higher.The appraisal document calculated an
economic rate ofretum(ERR) o f 32 percent and the ICR an ERR o f 21percent due to
savings intime costs andvehicle operating costs. Travel time hasbeen reduced from
eight hoursto about three hours for the full distance. The re-calculationtook into account
worse thanexpectedroadroughness and a five percent increase inproject costs. Although
a supplementarycredit o fUS$5.8 millionhadbecome necessary, the devaluation o fthe
YemeniRiyalreduced the GOY contributioninU.S. dollar terms andcompensated for
the additional credit to some extent.

3-10    There are, however, a numbero freasonswhy this recalculationmay be on the
highside. First,theprojecttook four years longer to complete thanplanned, which means
that the indirect benefits inthe form o f increased earnings from agricultural produce were
forgone. Second, the cost o fthe militarypresence i s a hiddenprice paid for stability in
the area; the militarytraffic i s also includedinthe benefit stream. Third, the costs o fthe
final solutionto Wadi Mawr bridge are excluded and, finally, there i s reason to believe
that the costs o fmaintainingthe road are higherthannormal, because even with the
stabilizationmeasures inplace, the PPARmission observed that considerable debris still
has to be cleared from the road after each rainfall. It i s difficult to quantify these factors,
butthey create sufficient doubt as to whether a "substantial" ratingcanreallybejustified.

3.11 With regard to the technical assistance (five percent o fthe project) no economic
evaluation was carried out becausethe impact was not easily quantifiable. Efficiency o f
the authorities concemed was undoubtedly improvedby the equipment purchases,
althoughit appearsthat the equipment for the port o f Adenwas destroyed inthe civil
war. Spot-checks on some ofthe other equipment items showedthat they are largelystill
inservice. Thetraining also appearsto havebeenbeneficial, butthe consultants hiredto
supervise road construction performedpoorly accordingto the ICR.


Outcome

3.12    Based on the above assessment, andtaking certain shortcomings into account, the
outcome o fthe project i s rated moderately satisfactory. The maindeficiencies are the
continuedabsenceo f a permanent solution for the Wadi Mawr bridge andthe
questionable efficiency o f a project that took four years longer to complete thanplanned,
incurringhigher than expected capital and maintenance costs and on which future traffic
projections and the ability to maintainthe facility effectively depend on a continued
militarypresenceinthe area. Onthe positive side, traffic usageisnow muchhigherthan
it was at the time o f the ICR andthere is evidence that the roadhas stimulated
development along the route.

                                              10


Institutional Development Impact

3-13     The institutional development impact is rated substantial.Inthe roads sector the
project assisted inbuildingthe capacity o f GCRB staffto design, plan, and construct
roads through training, on-site instruction, and formal seminars. The ICR comments that
this improvedthe capability ofGCRB to execute far more complex works thanhad
previouslybeenthe case. A qualified accountant was also recruited andthis ledto an
improvement infinancial management.

3.14     Short strategic development studies for boththe civil aviation andport sub-sectors
were also undertaken to see besthow to rationalizeexistinginstitutional arrangements. In
addition, port and airport efficiency were improvedas a result o f equipment procured
under the project and staffwere trained onhow to use it. Navigational equipment was
replaced or upgraded at three airports andbackup power supply units improved safety.
Port equipment included cargo handlingequipment and emergency response vehicles.
Recommendations concerning further investmentinequipment andtraining to continue
to strengthen institutional capacity were made; many o fthese proposals were
subsequently adopted by the GOY. According to GCYP, the capacity to process imports
and exports inthe mainharbors improved as a result o fthe technical assistance. Civil
Aviation and MeteorologicalAuthority (CAMA) staff attended a course inJordan on
airport management andboth GCMA and GCYP benefitedfrom aport study tour. Short-
andmedium-termexpatriate appointments were expressly designedto give on-the-job
training to incumbents inall the authorities. While the absence o f indicators makes it
difficult to measure the impact, there i s considerable anecdotal and circumstantial
evidence to suggest that the result was for the most part very positive andthis was amply
confirmedindiscussions by the PPARmission and employees o f the relevant authorities.

Sustainability

3.15     While the technical assistanceprojects brought solid and, as evidenced by
subsequent developments, lastingbenefits to the transport sector authorities, which
subsequently have beenused as a platform for further improvement, there was
considerable doubt at project closure, and the time o fthe ICR, about the sustainability o f
the roadproject. The adverse security situationwas the mainreason for these misgivings.
The roaditselfhadnot been finishedbecausecontractors were not prepared to work
along certain sections amounting to four kilometers intotal. The future safety and a final
solution for the Wadi Mawr bridge hadnot beenworked out andtraffic was much lower
thanhadbeenexpected. Hijackingswerenotuncommon.

3.16     The PPAR missioncannow report, however, that sustainability shouldberated as
likely. Not only has the roadbeen completed, but traffic has risen substantially. The
GOY has taken the security situation seriously. Ithas established a militarycamp inthe
area, introducedroad checkpoints to facilitate the safepassage o f foreigners andthe
PresidentofYemen has personally traveledthe areabybus to persuade local
communities o f the positive links between improved security and development. The
tangibleimpact o fthe roadi s now improvingthe lives o fthe localpopulation as they
experience the greater accessibility and see the new constructionprojects springingup
along the roadside.

                                             11


3.17    IntheTransport Rehabilitationproject, detaileddesignfor afinalsolutionforthe
Wadi Mawr bridge has beencompleted. However, because the bridgei s still passable and
due to the highcost o fapermanentsolution, there has not beena sense o furgencyto
secure fundingto complete the repairs. This matter i s still beingpursuedby the Bankin
discussions with the GOY onthe transport portfolio.

Bank Performance

3.18    Bankperformance is ratedsatisfactory;there were some shortcomings, butsome
positive factors too. As mentioned earlier, the project preparation would not have met the
standards requiredtoday for quality at entry andthis ledto administrative problems
duringthe first year o fimplementation. Muchmore attentionshouldalso have beengiven
to interactions with the local communities and the development o f useful performance
indicators. The preparation and appraisal phase may also have been affected by frequent
changes to the composition o fthe Bankteam andtwo changes intask manager.

3.19    This said, the supervision team provedto bevery adaptable, giventhe difficulties
with which they were confronted. They were flexible inaccommodating the GOY'S
request for a more labor-intensive approach to employ returnees displaced by the Gulf
War, they gave sound advice and guidance onthe repairs to the unstable escarpment road
sections, andthey spent considerable time assisting the GOY to adapt to the unrest
situationthat prevailed, which not only affected scheduling, but also hadtechnical
implications. Bank staff assistedinlocatingquality advisors for the technical assistance
component and secured additional fbnding for the project from six different trust funds,
totaling nearly US$94,000. This assistance has continued insubsequentprojects to ensure
that the unfinisheditems are addressedover time.

Borrower Performance

3.20    Overallborrower performance was satisfactory, although it could have been
more proactive insupporting GCRB's efforts to finishpaving the final four kilometers o f
project road andrepairs to the Wadi Mawr bridge. The borrower was also lax in
accounting for all project-related expenditures. While reasonable records were
maintainedfor purchases and acquisitions madeusingproceeds from the Bank credit,
informationregarding related expenditures from donor partners and grain swaps
involving the United States Agency for Intemational Development were not available.
Annual audits were conducted, but audit reports were rarely submittedon time.

3.21    The Project Management Unitplayed an important and constructive role
throughout the project andwas a significant factor inensuringthe project was eventually
built.The borrower providedthe contractor with enough securityto enable the project to
proceed and also saw that the conditions o fthe credit agreement and subsequent
amendments were substantially complied with.

                                                12


4.       Transport Rehabilitation(Credit2819)

PreparationandImplementation

4.1      Project designtook into account past experience, notably the need for simplicity
o f design and uncomplicatedprocurement procedures, while the institution-strengthening
components attempted to set a new direction for sector management. Quality at entry was
considered satisfactory.

4.2      The upgradingo fthe road from Hoedeidahto Salif commenced at thejunction
withthe Hodeidah-Jizan highway andprovided accessto anexisting power station, the
newly completed oil terminal at Ras Essa, and grain port at Salif, as well as the localrock
salt works and fishingcommunity. Constructionwas straightforward; the roadwas
completed with only a very minor delay o ftwo months andwithin budget. The design
accommodated areas o f salt marsh and shifting sand dunes, where berms kept the sand
away from the roads3

4.3      Technical assistance for the road sub-sector consisted o f support for the
improvement o froadmaintenance management, detailed design o fpriority improvements,
andareview oftheroadsector. The stimulusfor the component was the intentto create a
RoadMaintenance Fund. Most o fthe terms o freference for the sub-sector were met except
for the procurement o fweigh-pads to help control vehicle overloading.

4.4      The civil aviationcomponent was the rehabilitationandupgrading o fAden
International Airport, which hadbeenbombedinthe civil war andsustained serious
damage. The works initially comprised reconstruction o fthe terminal, a new controltower,
andatechnical building.A firefightingvehicle withaccessoriesandsparepartswas also
included, while communications equipment andnavigational aids were to be co-financed
byFrenchdevelopment aid. However, becausethe conditionofthe airport runwayhad
deteriorated to such an extent that it couldjeopardize the safety o f flights (withpotentially
serious economic consequences), the Bank agreedto includeit inthe project on an
emergency basis, butthis meant that another project component, the AmAyn-Naqabah
road, hadto be deferred to a subsequentprojectwith the consent o f all parties.

4.5      Unfortunately at this point, despite the urgency, some problems arose. First,the
expected Frenchbilateral assistancedidnot materialize and the GOY hadto step infor
the shortfall o fUS$4.34 million. Second, there was a delay o f over a year becausethe
borrower didnot follow the Bankprocurement regulations as agreed inthe credit
agreement. Although C A M A followed procedures to the letter, the government "High
Tender Board" took a different view on the lowest evaluated bidder andthis ledto
protracted discussions before the matter was resolved inaccordance with IDApolicy.
Implementationthenproceeded smoothly and only minor snags were reported at the time




3. Ministryo f Public Works and UrbanDevelopment. Republic o f Yemen. Hodeidah-Salif roadproject.
Final Acceptance Reportby consultants Louis Berger International, USA, and Consulting Engineering
 Services, India. May,2002.

                                                 13


o fpreliminaryhand-over; these were attended to duringthe one-year maintenance
contract provided for inthe construction c~ntract.~

Ratings

Relevance

4.6      Relevance i s rated substantial.The project was inline with the CAS and stated
government policy as outlined intwo separate letters for aviation androads. This gave
priority to restoring and sustaining key economic infrastructure and supporting
stabilizationthrough structural reforms. Inthis context the importanceo froad
maintenance systems was crucial as they couldreduce the government's budget devoted
to such maintenance and this would enable scarce resources to be redeployedelsewhere.
Bothrehabilitationcomponents were highpriorities. The road enabled the new ports
handlinggrain and oil to be serviced efficiently andthe airport ensured that south Yemen
remained well-connected to the rest o f the country.

Efficacy

4.7       The efficacy o f the project i s rated substantial. The physical rehabilitation
objectives for the Hodeidah-Salifroad andAden International Airport were achieved
withinthe credit's timeframeandthe quality ofworks was excellent. Constructionofthe
roadto Naqabah hadto be deferreddue to the expanded scope o f the airport component.
Eventually, funds for this roadwere securedthrough the follow-on Rural Access Roads
program (partly financed by IDA) and it i s now due for completion during 2004. The
technical assistance component, andthus the achievement o f the institutional
strengtheningobjective, was significantly less successful byproject closure, although
some o f the initiatives started by the project have subsequentlymade progress.

4.8       The Yemeni Boardfor the Management ofthe RoadMaintenance Fund(YE3RMF)
was successfully established in 1995 inaccordancewith a law authorizingit to collect road
user charges andtruck overloading penalties andto use the funds to finance road
maintenance expenditures.Under the project, a consultant was appointed to reviewthe
implementation o fthe new structure andto develop a sustainable roadmanagement fund. A
sound functional pavement management system was set up and a roadsector review was
completed, albeit with certain shortcomings. Unfortunately, YBRMF didnot achieve
autonomous statusto beindependently funded throughuser fees, as envisaged, becausethe
country was ina financial crisis andthe GOYneededto keep a strict control o f all income
andexpenditures.The detailed design ofpriority roadimprovements basedoninternational
standardswas successfully undertaken, but theplannedallocationo f 800 kilometers was
reducedto 595 kilometers, becausethe initial cost estimateswere too low. Rehabilitation
design for the Wadi Mawr bridge andmeasuresto control escarpment slope stabilitywere
also successfully accomplished under addendato the original contract.



4.Yemen Civil Aviation and Meteorological Authority assessment report o f the Aden InternationalAirport
project financed by credit 2819,2001.

                                                 14


4.9     With regard to the aviationsub-sector, it mustberecorded that the CAMA civil
aviation strategy andpolicy study didnot get off the ground as plannedwithin the credit
timeframe and, inconsequence, little attention was paidto improving user cost recovery.                    k




Efficiency

4.10    Overall, the efficiency o f the project i s rated modest.The ERR for the Hodeidah-
Salif roadwas estimated inthe appraisal document at 38 percent, based on anAADT o f
659 vehicles. Measurements based on two growth scenarios inthe ICRpainteda less
optimistic forecast with a return o fbetween8 and 11percent. But these lower figures
were before the port developments had come fully on-stream, while it i s believed that the
appraisal document forecast included construction traffic andmay have beenartificially
high.Latest available figures (2003) indicateanAADT of755 vehicles, which indicates
that the appraisal estimate was of the right order o fmagnitude, even though considerable
constructiontraffic i s still evident inthe composition. Onbalance, it is likely that the
ERRwould not be less than 25 percent, which is a good investment.

4.11    The Aden InternationalAirport project on the other handwas not subjected to
evaluation. Inthe appraisal document it was arguedthat the project was anunavoidable
expenditure because o f the war damage andthat the scope o f works was largely dictated
by safety requirements. However, the runwaywas also laterreplaced after theprojectwas
restructured and indicators were introduced. One such indicator was that normal
operations would be restored bythe endo f the project, the other was that cost recovery in
civil aviationwould increase from 35 to 100percent by the end o fthe project. The ICR
comment on this matter i s that "normal operations were restored." Butwhat i s normal?
Following the 9/11 terrorist attack, there was a clear decline inpassenger demand for
flights worldwide and especially inthe MiddleEast. InYemen the situationwas
exacerbated bythe bombing o f the USS Cole. International flights andpassengersto and
from Yemen fell by around five percent according to CAMA5(see table 1below) andthis
also adversely affected income at a time when costs were escalating. The impact on Aden
may, however, was less severe. While cargo andmail tonnages handledthere was an
increase inpassengers. Little evidence o fprogress towards full user cost recovery,
except for increases for over-flight fees, could be obtainedby the PPAR mission, either at
local or national level. Indeed, it i s possible that any movement has beenbackwards
rather than forwards. The actual level o f cost recoverywas opaque andpossiblynot even
known. This issue was to have beenaddressedinthe proposed Civil Aviation Strategy
and Policy Study, but it didnot take place. There was an initiative to introduce an airport
tax, but this was reversed at political level after only three days.




5. Republic of Yemen, Civil Aviation and Meteorology Authority, Air Transport Economics and Statistics,
2002 and 2003.

                                                    15


Table 1.RepublicofYemen: Air TransportStatistics,2002-2003.
     Year        Mail (tons)    Cargo (tons)        Passengers Aircraft Movements
 All Airports
     2003            279             1,687          1,262,968        19,494
     2002            289             1,867          1,309,625        20,339
    Aden
     2003             30             1,046           1,83,455         3,301
     2002             32             1,063           180,794          3,127
Source: CAMA Air TransportEconomics and Statistics.

4.12     Taking this into account, together with the failure to create a truly autonomous
roadfund, the poor cost estimates for the detailed designwork, the failure to resolve the
axle load weigh-pad problem and the inadequacy o fthe Road Sector Review, a higher
rating for efficiency than "modest" cannot be supported.

Outcome

4.13     Thephysicalachievements o ftheprojectwere impressive,butthe institutional
activities less so. Adenhas a well-functioning internationalairport andthe new ports o f
Salif andRas Essanow have a good connection to the Yemen mainroadnetwork, but the
results o f the institutional strengtheningcomponent are to some extent disappointing. On
balance, the outcome o fthe project i s rated moderatelysatisfactory.

Institutional Development Impact

4.14     The institutionaldevelopment impact is rated modest.For the road sector, the
project did establish abasic capability to carry out roadnetwork management at the
YBRMF. However, this capability is diminishedbecausethe GOYdidnot give the fund
the autonomy originally proposed. Nevertheless, the basic tools for roadnetwork
maintenance andmanagement were put inplace, including a functional Pavement
Management System (PMS). The project also provided computer equipment and formal
training for GCRB andYBRMF staff. Detaileddesign for roadimprovementswere also
conducted satisfactorily. The Road Sector Review, onthe other hand, was poorly written
anddidnot clearly specify or address the underlyingproblemsinthe sector. Although
there was aparticipatory approach to roadprioritization, it was not ideal and tended to be
dominated by government, which resulted inan outcome where there was a "wish list"
which didnot have real consensus and support from all stakeholders.

4.15     Withregardto aviation, the CivilAviation Strategy andPolicy Study was
deferred first on the grounds that because o fthe tender award dispute, the aviation
component might be canceled and later, following a change inthe Chairman o f CAMA,
the terms ofreference were reviewed and itwas concluded that with the additional
runwaynow included, there were insufficient funds to cover the study cost. Since the
issue o f cost recoverywas integral to the study, this also providedan excuse for lack o f
progress inthis area. Although the request for proposals was sent out to short-listed
consultants, the tender was never awarded. The procrastinationsurroundingthis study
suggests there was neither commitment to, nor enthusiasm for it. At the time o f the PPAR
mission, the studywas still under discussion, but it was indicatedthat it might now be
fundedunderthe KuwaitFund(Sana'a Airport) Credit.

                                                16


Sustainability

4.16    The overall assessmento fthe sustainability ofthe project i s now likely. When
both the ICR team visited the Hodeidah-SalifroadinSeptember 2002 and the PPAR
mission inApril 2004, they were impressedby the good quality and condition o fthe
road. Over the next few years it should requirelittle routinemaintenance except for the
occasional removal o fwind-blown sand. The YBRMF i s functioning efficiently under a
new chairman, havingstrengthened its capacity andhavingclarified its relationshipwith
GCRB. A Routine Maintenance Management System and a computerizedPMS are in
operation and a National Highway and RuralAccessibility Master Plani s being drawn
up.This will introduce anew roadclassification systemand arationalmethodology for
planning, prioritizing, andbudgeting. Two concerns still exist, but are being addressed.

4.17    The first issue i s that although there hasbeen a recent increase inthe allocation for
roadmaintenance, the GOY does not yet dedicatethe roaduser fees collected, in
accordancewith legislationvoted in2001. Itremains sensitive about the political impact o f
increasing the fuel price, buthas agreedto undertake a numbero funpopular butnecessary
measuresunder the IMF-sponsored structural adjustment arrangements. Providingthis i s
followed through, there should not bea maintenance problem, but evenifit is not carried
out, the revenuewould still be sufficient to maintainthe more importantroads.

4.18    The second issue concerns the practice o f overloading trucks, which can cause
considerable damage to roadpavements. InMarch 2004, for example, the Hodeidah-Salif
weigh station found that o f 6,375 trucks weighed, 32.6 percent were overloaded. This
matter i s beingactively pursued under the RuralAccess Roadcredit. Six old
weighbridges have beenmodernizedand six new onespurchased as well as several
mobile weighing stations. A remainingmatter i s to resolve the issue o f overloaded oil
tankers, for which the existing regulations are waived.

4.19    Sustainabilityinthe civil aviation sector i s assured through compliance with the
requirementso fthe International CivilAviation Organization(ICAO). Interms oftheir
oversight policy, ICAO undertook a safety audit inJanuary 2003 for Yemen's
internationalairports, including Aden. This was followed up inApril 2004 with a follow-
upmissionto ensurecompliance with previous recommendations. Infuture, ICAO is to
extendits oversight activities to include airport maintenance. With specific reference to
Aden, the PPARmissionnotedthat AdenInternationalAirport has a goodreputationas a
well-managed operation andhas investedintraining key staff. Under the credit from the
Kuwait Fundfor Sana'a International Airport safeguards are inplace to ensure safety i s
givena highpriority. The mainarea requiring further attentionis animprovement incost
recovery and airport usage.

Bank Performance

4.20    The Bank's performance duringproject preparationwas satisfactory. While the
institutionalcomponent respondedto a needarticulated by the GOY, it became clear later
that not all members of the government shared this vision, which made progress insome
areas difficult. Nevertheless, it was a steppingstone to further progress achieved inthe
subsequentRuralAccess Project. Duringthe supervisory stage the Bank staff showed

                                              17


flexibility andunderstandinginrespondingto evolvingneeds, throughreallocationof
funds and adaptation to evolving institutionalarrangements inthe transport sector. More
attention could have been givento improving performance indicators.

Borrower Perform ance

4.21    Borrower performance i s rated satisfactory, but marginally so. The concerned
implementing agenciesparticipated fully inproject preparation andwere diligent in
satisfying the pre-conditions for Boardpresentation, negotiations and credit effectiveness.
Duringimplementationtherehabilitationworks werewellmanaged, althoughthere was a
delay inthe airport tender due to a lack o funderstanding o f Bank guidelines and
procedures. There was also an erosion o f commitment to some o fthe institutional
reforms, but this has to be seen against politicalpressures within the Government that
called for a slower pace to reform ingeneral.



5.      PrivatizationSupportProject(Credit 3298)

Preparation

5.1     A critical issue for the Government ofYemenwas to accelerate economic growth
following aperiod o f conflict andthe merging o fnorth and south Yemen into one
country. One o f the legacies o fthis periodwas an over-centralized public enterprise
sector. The excessive presence o f government insome areas had ledto inefficient public
enterprise monopolies and overregulation that constrained potentialprivate sector
investment and employment. The project was intendedto help the GOY achieve the
privatization targets under the first phase o f its privatization programinaccordance with
the government's policy framework paper o f 1997.

5.2     By 1999, the Government hadembarkedon a comprehensive economic reform
program to develop a more free and open economy inwhich private sector initiative and
competitive market forces were to be the mainengines o f growth. It was expected that the
project would help buildthe institutional capacity to manage and carry out the program,
and to help provide the substantial external and local expertise and financial services
necessary for implementingthe transactions. This was clearly o fmajor relevance to the
CAS (see section 2.10). OnNovember 2, 1999, the primeminister o f the Republic o f
Yemenwrote to the president ofthe WorldBankreaffirminghisgovernment's
commitment to the project and stating that privatizationwas seenby the Government as
integralto its growth strategy to attract greater investment, increase the efficiency o f
enterprises, and improve the management and utilization o f the government's limited
budgetaryandfiscal resources.

 5.3     To strengthenthe environment for privatization, the Parliamenthadpassed a
PrivatizationLaw earlier inthat year which drew heavily on both local and international
experience with privatization. The law provided for a Cabinet-levelHighCommittee for
Privatizationunder the chairmanship o f the primeminister to oversee the privatization

                                               18


programs and approve transactions. A Technical PrivatizationOffice (TPO) was also to
be established within the office o fthe prime minister to co-ordinate the implementation
o f the program and act as a secretariat to the HighCommittee. The sector ministries
wouldplay a hands-onrole inthe implementationo f the transactions and assume
responsibilityfor the results. Clear rules and guidelines andprocesseswere to be drawn
upto ensuretransparency inalltransactions. The projectwas fblly consistent withthe
CAS objectives, especially concerning the creation o f a modem administrationthat would
encourage and attract private sector development to grow out o fpoverty and dependence
on oil. The GOY beganprivatizing small enterprises as early as 1995. These included
tourism andtransport enterprises mainly through leasing and agricultural enterprises
primarilythrough restitutionto their original owners.

5.4      A numberof sector issueswere addressedinthe appraisal document andmeasures
were built into the project to help overcome potential difficulties:

     a) Transparency. The PrivatizationLaw mandated an institutional structure with a
         highlevelofoversight with checks andbalancesbetweenthe centralministries
         andthe implementingministries.The TPOwas to ensure atransparent manualo f
         guidelines andprocedures, the recruitment o f international advisors, andthe
         creation o f a section inthe TPO responsible for transparency, includingpublic
         disclosure o fplans and transaction terms.
     b) Institutional Framework. A major focus oftheprojectwas to be on institutional
         strengthening.After muchdebatewithin government, and as a reflectiono f
         Yemeni societal customs, the government considered that the support o fthe sector
         ministries would be essential for ensuringclient ownership andparticipation,
         particularlywith respect to large transactions. Thus, the large enterprises included
         inthe projectwere selected bytherelevant ministriesthemselves.
     c) Labor Restructuring. Some o fthe large enterprise transactions, including the
         Aden Refinery andthe Yemen DrugCompany were expected to require labor
         restructuring. Estimates for the potentialnumbero fredundancies ranged from
         20,000 to 30,000 workers. The precise labor restructuringneeds andthe size o f
         the associated severanceprogramfor these transactions would beworked out
         duringproject implementation. The project didnot include a severancepackage
         program since this would have been premature, but provisionwas made to seek
         donor fundingthrough a future IDA operation. For any immediate needs the Civil
         Service Fundwould fund salaries untila severanceprogramwas inplace.
     d) Property Claims. Legaltitle for some properties was uncertainfollowing cases o f
         past nationalizations andthe GOY was encouraged to develop procedures to
         ensure clear titles and registration could beprovided for investors.
     e) Local StockMarket. The development o f a local stock market was not regarded as
         critical, since most enterprises targeted were expected to beprivatizedthrough
         direct sales. However, the project included funding for technical assistanceto
         work on stock market development under the privatization transactions for the
         YemenCement Company andYemen DrugCompany.

5.5      The issuanceo fa Presidential Decree legally establishing the TPO was a
condition of credit effectiveness, since this wouldbe the implementing agency. The TPO
was indeed set up and duly confirmed that a chief operating officer, a privatization

                                              19


program manager, and an accounting and finance manager hadbeen appointed. In
addition, most o f the sector ministries had already established project steering committees
to be chairedbythe responsible sector minister.The selection o f consultants to help
preparethe AdenRefineryCompany for privatizationwas underway andexpressions o f
interest hadbeeninvitedfrom consultants for privatizationwork on the four other large
enterprise transactions.

5.6     All this lookedvery positiveandgoodprogress hadbeenachieved inreadyingthe
project for implementation. The Credit was approved onNovember 19, 1999, andthe
Agreement signedon February7,2000. However, it still neededto be ratified by
Parliament. The first signs o f a change incommitment beganinnegotiation, whenit
became clear that there were perceptions by some officials ingovernment that such an
amount for technical assistance was too high.The total project cost was estimated at
US$16.0 million, while the IDA Credit was US$10.9 million, or 68 percent o f the total
cost. Credit effectiveness dates were extendeduntilover a year had elapsed. Inearly
2001, following a nationalelection, the GOY informedIDAthat it didnot expect to be
able to muster sufficient votes inparliament to ratify the project giventhe rising
contentiousness over privatization inthe existingsocio-economic environment. The
Yemeni economy hadweakened in2001dueto lower oil prices andinadequaterainfall.
Energycosts and inflationhadat the same time risen sharply.

5.7     IDAthen informed the Government that theprojectwouldbe allowed to lapseon
the terminal date for effectiveness, which was April 30,2001, but advisedthat itwould
bepleasedto assist the government inseekingfunding for privatizationfrom other
donors should it so wish. Since the project didnot become effective, the only ratings are
for Bank andBorrower performance inpreparation.

Bank Performance

5.8     The Bankrespondedto a direct request from the Borrower to provide assistance
to help the government launchand implement its privatization program. Staff
performance is rated satisfactoryinterms o f the efforts, resources, anddue diligence
applied duringpreparationand negotiation. Several preparatory missions were carried out
and advice was given onmany aspectsregardinginternational experience o fprivatization
andthe best o fseveral ways forward for Yemen. The former prime minister was very
supportive o fthe whole initiative. There was a risk assessmentprepared andrisk
minimizationmeasures were proposed. However, these risks were more relatedto
implementation-it was assumedthat the credit would become effective. Clearly, the
extent o fpolitical dissension after the credit was approved was unforeseen, although it
was recognized inthe appraisal document that there was potential for political opposition
arisingfrom vested interests insome sector ministries andthe loss o fjobs insome
constituencies. While it is understandable that the Bankwould have proceeded as long as
there was continuedsupport from the keycentralministries, the team obviously
underestimated the potential opposition from the sector ministries.

                                               20


Borrower Performance

5.9     Bankassistancewas requestedagainst abackgroundofhighexpectations andit
deployed considerable resources on the project. On this basis, the borrower ratingis
unsatisfactory,becausethe credit was made available butnever utilized. Theborrower
also expended considerable resources o f its own andwas undoubtedlyvery committed as
far as the central ministries are concerned, but it would appear that some line ministries
that had appeared supportive were infact against the initiative, at least inthe short term.
Inmitigation, events canchangerapidlyinpolitics andthe government was not goingto
follow a course that was clearly no longer supportable by Parliament. The enabling
legislation and TPO are still inplace for when the time i s right for a renewed
commitment to privatizelarge enterprises.

RecentDevelopments

5.10    Following the resistance to privatization the Government could have closed down
the TPO, but it didnot, andit i s still operating. Similarly, the PrivatizationLaw remains
on the statute books. Since the cancellation o fthe project, the Government has continued
to maintainthe new institutions and to hndsalaries and other runningcosts. A number o f
small andmedium enterprises have since beenprivatized and some progress i s being
madewith proposals concerning the General LandTransport Corporation and airport and
passenger ground handling.The move toward privatization i s regarded by some officials
interviewed as inevitable, but they believe the initiative pre-2001 was too ambitious and
premature, giventhe state o f the economy. The year 2002 was made the "Year o f civil
service reform" andheralded the commencement o f a program o f departmental
restructuringand downsizing. This initiative will certainly help toward creating the right
climate for privatization. Bank support canbe directedtoward assisting this difficult
transition through the Civil Service Modernization Project, while fbrther opportunities to
encourage privatization are anticipated through the Yemen Port Cities Development
Program. The Directors o fthe IMFhave also commended the Government for restarting
the privatizationprogram for small andmedium-sized enterprises and encouraged them
to move aheadwith the privatization o f larger public enterprises.6



6.      PublicWorks I1(Credit 3168)

PreparationandImplementation

6.1     The support for Public Works I,     completed on June 30,2000, showed a
demonstrable need for this type o fproject aimed at poverty alleviation, and a natural
consequencewas the continuation o f the initiative inPublic Works 11.However, the
second project hadthe advantage that it couldbe designed to overcome any shortcomings
inthe earlier project, andto capitalize onthe success, experience, andmomentumgained.


6. IMFPublic InformationNotice, August 12, 2002. "IMF Concludes2002 Article IV Consultationwith
the Republic of Yemen".

                                             21


6.2     The lessons learned inthe first project that were built-into the second were:

    0   Any projects proposed should have the support of all relevant stakeholders,
        including the relevantministry.Inthe first project there was a problemregarding
        16healthunits where inadequateprovisionfor operation andmaintenance was
        made on the relevant budgets.
    0   Awarding contracts to non-performing contractors and consulting
        firms/individuals would be avoided byintroducingqualifying criteria duringthe
        biddingprocess.
    0   Neglect o f environmental aspectswould be addressedbyhiring an environmental
        specialist to implement relevant procedures where necessary.

Incomparison to themajortransport infrastructure projects, however, itisclear that the
political environment for community-based public works projects was currently much
more favorable, since the public hadreal ownership.

6.3     Although the quality at entry o f Public Works I1was not reviewedby the Quality
Assurance Group, it may be regarded as highgiventhe successful utilization o f
experience already gained from the first project: Similarly, performance indicators
established inthe appraisal document were based on actual data collectedunder the first
project and, as such, were more realistic and capable o fbeingmonitored, compared with
those usedpreviously. Finally, implementation o f small-scale infrastructureprojects was
customized to optimize localneeds andconditions. Inaccordance with an agreement
between the Bank and the GOY, work contracts were kept under US$200,000. This
minimized interventions from special interest groups andprovided greater opportunities
for the nascent construction industryto develop and generate employment for local
unskilledworkers. Implementationimpetuswas disruptedwhen a number of contractors
were affected by a steep increase inthe price o f reinforcement steel inearly 2001.
However, the ProjectManagement Unit (PMU) skillfbllyhandledthe problem and
disruptionwas minimized.

Ratings

Relevance

6.4     Therelevance o fthe project is ratedhigh.The objectivewas consistent with the
CAS andthe GOY FirstFive Year Plan, botho fwhich focused on social development by
supporting social protectionmeasures. It helpedcushionthe impact o f the ESAF
measuresto stabilize the economy andput it on a growth course. The project was also
well alignedwith the mainpillars o f the Poverty ReductionStrategy, namely, developing
humanresources, improvinginfrastructure, achievingeconomic growth, andgranting
social protection. Moreover, it complemented the Social Fundprojects, which aimed to
support effective delivery o f social services usingparticipative approaches. Public Works
I1was thus extremelyresponsive to borrower circumstances andneeds.

                                                    22


Efficacy

6.5     The efficacy of the project i s rated high;the target was to deliver cost-effective
small infrastructureto between800 and 900 subprojects. Despite adverse exchange rate
movements leaving fewer dollars available, 827 subprojects were still deliveredat an
average cost of US$60,822 compared with US$60,000 at appraisal. At appraisal, 95,000
person months of employment were anticipated; 94,883 were actually generated. Of
these, the appraisal document indicated a target of 54 percent o f employment
opportunities for unskilled(poorer) workers; the actual figure was 60 percent. The cost
per squaremeter o f schools builtunderthe project was US$139 comparedwithUS$250
and above for a similar facility builtby the Ministryo f Education. The number o f small-
scale contracting firms to be developed set at appraisal was 100.Under the project, 478
contractors were usedand 370 self-employed individual consultants. At the time o f
preparation, the requiredlevel o f community contribution was set at 5 percent o fproject
cost. The communities, however, were so supportive that 9.6 percent was contributed.
Overall, the distribution o fthe projects by sectors met the wishes expressed bythe
community as shown inTable 2 below:

 Table 2. Distributionof PublicWorks I1Subprojectsby Sectors
Sector                 1999       2000        2001     2002        2003  Total  US$m    %
Education               151        103        200       61          9    524    26.14  57.3
Health                    9         10         22        7          0     48    2.24     4.9
Water                    18          8         60       13          3    132    6.51   14.3
Sanitation                9          5          5        0          0     19    1.90     4.2
Roads/Paving              4         11          9        8          2     34    3.60     8.0
Agriculture               1          4         11        5          0     21    1.55     3.4
GeneraVEnvironment        2          2          4        0         16     24    1.22     2.7
Social                   10          3          9        3          0     25    2.48     5.4
Total                   204        176        320       97         30    827    45.64  100.0
Source: ICR PublicWorks II, Report27440,World Bank, Dec 24,2003.

An analysis of 980 public works projects completed betweenOctober, 2001 and
December, 2003 i s giveninTable 3. It shows the predominance o f education andwater
projects andtherefore the preferences o f the communities.

Table 3. Number andCost of PublicWorks Subprojects,Oct 2001-Dec2003
Sector           Number      % Total      Cost (US$)     % Total
Health           84          8.6         4,562,783       6.9
Education        621         63.4         39,156,064     59.4
Water            137         14.0         7,197,089      10.9
Sanitation       19          1.9          3,477,901      5.3
Roads            32          3.3          3,854,571      5.8
Agriculture      59          6.0          5,206,599      7.9
Public           14          1.4          715,528        1.2
Buildings
Social           14          1.4          1,696,562      2.6
Total            980         100          65,867,098     100
Source:'The PublicWorks Project",Deptof PublicWorks, Yemen, Feb, 2004.

                                                23


Efficiency

6.6     The efficiency o fthe project i s ratedhigh; inthe appraisal document it was
argued that most o fthe project benefits (except for water) could not be quantified inthe
conventional way andwere better suitedto cost effectiveness analysis. However, the ICR
usedabetter approach through a surveythat hadbeencompleted for 123 o fthe
subprojects andwhich measured impact by means o f indicators. The water projects
generally were expected to have an ERRo f at least 20 percent, which i s very positive.
Keyperformance indicators for all subproject types before and after completionwithout
exception showed that targets set hadbeenexceeded. For example, the target set for
enrollments inbasic and secondary education was 10,900 against 26,3 17 achieved; the
target set for increasedreservoir capacity was 2,193 cu m against 18,636 achieved. Ifany
criticism i s due, it should be that the targets were undulyconservative giventhe success
o f Public Works I.    The Socioeconomic Impact Assessment Study' covered 15 percent o f
the total number o f subprojects, covered 10 governorates, yielding the following results:

Improvedpoverty indicators, especiallyfor women and children.
     0   Enrollment rates for childrenincreased by 141percent (for bothbasic and
         secondary education);
     0   Vaccination against six diseases increasedby 113 percent;
     0   Immunizationagainst hepatitis increased by 20 percent; and
     0   Childbirth under medicalcare increased bymore than30 percent.
Improved access to basic infrastructure services.
     0   Pedestrians usingnewlybuilt pavedroads increased by more than 80 percent;
     0   Vehicles usingnewly built pavedroads increased by more than 75 percent;
     0   Numberoftrainees insocial centers increasedby 115percent;
     0   About 50 percent o f households connected to the water supply network; and
     0   About 370 households connected to the sewage network (inthe study area).

6.7      Close to 5,000 communities corresponding to more than3.1 millionpeople are
benefiting today from the basic infrastructureservices deliveredby the project. Improved
accesshas reduced the time and effort (such as carrying water over longdistances) o f
particularly the women and children. The project management cost as a percentage o f
overall cost was close to 2.8 percent, which i s on the low side compared to international
standards.

Outcome

6.8      The outcome o fthe project is ratedhighly satisfactory. This findingtakes into
account the relevance, efficacy, and efficiency o f the project, plus the fact that the
project's success has ledto the attractiono fUS$52 millionto be disbursed as parallel
financing; the impact of the project has beenoutstanding. The assessmentmission




7. Socio-economic Impact Assessment -A Study for Assessing Project Impact onPoverty Reduction; Dr
Ali KasimIsmailAI Baseir, National Economic Consultants, Yemen.

                                                  24


conducted random spot checks on 10public works projects8and interviewed a numbero f
stakeholders; all evidence corroborates the conclusions o f the ICR.

Institutional Development Impact

6.9      The institutionaldevelopment impact is rated substantial; the continued
development andtraining o f small local contracting and consulting firms and individuals
provedto bebeneficial and appropriate, andresultedincontinuedquality improvements.
About 90 percent o fthe study sample confirmedthat they have gained considerable
experience from working with the project. The PMU's capacity has improvedremarkably
as it was able to manage the significant increase from US$30 millionunder the first
project to over US$lOO million under the second project (including the financing made
available by other donors). To cope with the expanded workload andmeet completion
dates, the PMTJhadto increase its disbursement capacity from an average o fUS$1.2
millionper monthto US$3.2 millionwithout any increase instaffing. This was achieved
through the use o f long-term consultants (trained under Public Works I)           andthe
upgrading o f the Management Information System.

6.10     The entire systemdeveloped for community participationinthe project i s pivotal
to its success. Local communities were involved insubproject selection, preparation, and
implementation. Upfiont communityparticipationfacilitated the accommodationo f local
needs, reducedthe number o f issuesrequiring attention, andpromoted strong
commitment o f ownership. For subprojects inisolated areas, such strong commitment
was crucial and served to reduce the overall costs o fpreparation and implementation.

6.11 A fbrther very significant institutional development impact was the muchbetter
co-ordinationwith the line ministries to ensure adequate budgetaryprovisionswere
made. This coordination extended to regular meetings and ensured that there was also
coordinationwith the Social Fundprojects. To avoid overloading a community the
implementationo fboth a public works and a social fundproject at the same time was
generally avoided. The criteriawith which to select appropriate projects were also
refined, so that, for example, water projectswere not pursuedwhere the water supply
would not be assuredor where environmentalharmwould result.

6.12     The financialmanagement and computerized accounting system o fthe projecthas
now beenrefined and i s highly satisfactory. It enables the generation o f financial
management reports designed for a report-based disbursement system with internal
controls inplace. The capacity o f the staff i s strong; they have the knowledge, experience
andproper training on the use o f the system. Unqualified audit reports indicate well
maintainedaccounting records and files. Earlier problems with cumbersome time-
consuming payment and reimbursement procedures experienced under Public Works I
have beenresolved.



8. Rehabilitationo fAlsamawi School, Sana'a; Family Product Center, Amran; Training Center for Deaf
and Dumb, Sana'a; Women's Training Center, Sana'a; Water Supply, Daair-Bani Matar; Stone Paving o f
streets, Nukum; Alqoods School Extension, Sana'a; Street Paving, Athula City; Health Clinic, Beit Amer,
Eyaal Sareeh; Pedestrian footpath Paving, Alsaadi.

                                                25


Sustainability

6.13      Sustainabilityi s ratedas likely. The institutional framework, now proven, is the
mainbasis for this sustainability. Subprojects are not put forward unless there i s adequate
provision for fbture maintenance. The deep involvement o f the communities i s also very
significant, as i s the highlevel o f skill and commitment from the staff o f the PMUandits
supportingconsultants. Perhapsbecauseo fthe highprofile o fthe project that has
developed, monitoring i s unusually good andmanagement informationhas evolved
continuously. However, the highestratinghasnot been givenbecausethe employment
generated i s largely unsustainable andwas intended to provide short-term reliefto
mitigate the adverse impacts of economic adjustment.

Bank Performance

6.14     Bankperformance, onthe other hand, hasbeenupgraded to highly satisfactory,
supporting the rating giveninthe ICRReview. This decisionwas based on the skillful
way inwhich the lessons from the previous projectwere used as a platform for the
excellent performance inthis project. The project design capitalizedon the outstanding
encouragement o f strong ownership andcommitment, ensuring meaningfblbeneficiary
participation. The highquality at entry, reasonable preparationcosts benchmarked against
similarprojectsinthe region, together withthe attention givento monitoring and
evaluation, including impact evaluation assessments, merits the rating given.


Borrower Performance

6.15      Borrower performance is also rated highly satisfactory. This project canbe
regardedas a casestudyinhow to implement public works projects successfully. The fact
that the project attracted so muchintemational interest anddonor finding (especially from
the UnitedStates, the Netherlands,Italy, France, andthe Organization o fPetroleum
ExportingCountries) is testimony to the success that hasbeen evident. Most ofthis success
i s attributable to the leadership anddrive o fthe key members o f the ministry and especially
the dedication o fthe managers inthe PMU.Demandfor the projects i s overwhelming.
Although 827 projects were selected, over 8,000 proposals were put forward.



7.        Conclusions and Lessons

7.1       Linkages.The two projects involving major infrastructure upgradinghavebeen
rated as moderately satisfactory. Generally, the prospects for sustainability have improved
with incremental improvements bythe Government, supportedbythe Bank.They have to
beevaluated inthe context o fthe unificationo fnorthandsouth Yemen, the subsequent
civil war, ongoingtribal conflict insome areas andthe significant challenges in
transforming the economy. Progress with institutionalmatters has generally beenat a
slower pacethanprogress with physical construction. This reflects the relatively
conservative approach to change inYemeni society andthe needto buildgenuine
consensusbefore moving forward. The purpose o fincluding the privatizationsupport

                                              26


project was to show inmore detail the complexities o f achieving transformation ina post
conflict environment andillustrates why the softer issues addressedinthe transport projects
encountered such difficulties. Public Works I1onthe other handwas a success story and
shows what canbe achievedwith aparticipative approach at community levelevenwhen
there may be disagreement about macro policy directions andthe pace o f structural
adjustment. Inthis project the PPARmissionconfirmed the highlysatisfactory outcome
andrecommends that itwould makeasuitable case study for replicationelsewhere.

7.2     Pace of Reform. Yemenhasbeen through some difficult times and i s emerging
from a period of tribal conflict, exogenous shocks to its economy, and a damaging civil
war. This backdrop does not make for an easy transition to modemdemocracy. Change i s
regarded with suspicion andvestedinterests ensure that the pace o f reform is slowed. It i s
easy to become impatientwith the sometimes slow rate o f change and Bank staff clearly
often have expectations that are unrealistic or over-ambitious within the timeframe
agreed. The implications of this situation are that whenframing objectivesfor new
projects, the goals set should be achievable and measured incrementally against logical
milestones and measurable indicators. InYemen's case there i s steady, but slow progress
at macroeconomic level inline with the IMF-supported economic adjustment strategy,
andthe CAS objectives are graduallybeingmet, though somewhat unevenly. More
success is evident at community level where the Government's decentralization efforts
are beginningto have impact andthe power o f community ownership i s exemplified in
the public works program.

7.3     Repeating the Same Mistakes. Afeature of this assessment is that it shows that
some of the more common lessons or shortcomings have not always been heeded by
project staffor that their resolution is more intractable than anticipated. Some o f the
issues that arise are not new. They include inadequate understanding bythe borrower of
the Bank's procurement procedures, the needfor excellent participatoryinvolvement o f
local communities, the importance of good indicators for monitoring and evaluation, the
need to review objectives when there are calls to amend the project description andthe
need to ensure adequate provisioni s made for necessary recurrent expenditure such as
maintenance. Iti s easier to attend to these issues for community projects (as inPublic
Works 11)than for large infrastructureprojects where the government i s seen as the
"owner" andwhere capacity andresources may be severely constrained.

7.4      TheNeedfor Coordination. Lack of coordination and unclear boundaries
between ministries and agencies is one reason why someprojects are less successful than
others. The success o fPublic Works I1is at least inpart becauseo fthe very effective
management o f relationships at all levels andthe clearly definedroles o fthe participants.
Thus, inter-ministryand even inter-project coordinationhave been successhlly achieved.
The roadprojects showed a disjuncture betweenthe investment andmaintenance
programs and government policies. Thus, oil tankers are given a waiver exempting them
from axle weight regulations, while the roads are being damagedby overloaded road
tankers. Road safety i s an area that needs a concerted inter-ministerial effort, but due to a
lack o f anyone seizing the initiative, the road safety record for Yemen continues to be
among the world's worst. This suggests that the Bank shouldtake more time to assist the
borrower to devise strategies to improve coordination.

                                      27


7.5 The primarylessonslearned from these projects are:
    > That ina post conflict, country unification situation such as Yemen's, to avoid
      fruitless expenditure andwasted resources, additionalrisk analysis i s
      appropriate to ensure that the Government i sfully committed to the reforms
      proposed andthe timetable for the reform agenda.
    > Project objectives should be framed realistically, taking into account the
      borrower's ability to achieve stakeholder support for proposed changes.
    > Genuine community "ownership" andparticipationcan enhance the likelihood
      o fproject success as evidenced byYemen's Public Works program.
    > These Yemeni projects show that inter-ministerial, agency and stakeholder
      coordination are crucial to project sustainability and that the Bank couldbe
      moreproactive inhelpingto improve the general level o f coordination.

                                                   28


Annex A. BasicData Sheet

SECONDPUBLICWORKS PROJECT(CR. 3168-YEM)

K e y Project Data (amounts in US$million)
                                                       Appraisal                       Actual or
                                                        estimate                    current estimate
Total projectcosts                                         60.0                          112.2
Loan amount                                                50.0                           46.5
Date physicalcomponentscompleted                       12/3112002                      12/31/2002




Project Dates
                                                        Original                         Actual
Departureof Appraisal Mission                                                          10-24/1998
Boardapproval                                                                          01/28/1999
Signing                                                                                0211211999
Effectiveness                                          03/03/1999                      03/03/1999
Closingdate                                            06/30/2003                      06/30/2003




Staff Inputs
                                             Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                                 us$us$('ooo~
AppraisaVNegotiation                                                   133.0
Supervision                                                           257.0
ICR                                                                    25.0
Total                                                                 415.0
Note: (a) The total excludes US$8,000made availablethrough TF duringprojectpreparation;
(b) The amount indicatedas ofnegotiations,includesamounts spent duringIdentificatioflreparation.

                                               29


Mission Data
                          Date     No. of    Specializations          Performancerating
                      (month/year) persons     represented        ImplementationDevelopment
                                                                      Prowess Objective
AppraisallNegotiation 10/24/1998
                      11/05/1998
Supervision          06/02/1999       3   OperationsOfficer (1);     S               S
                                          Fin.Mgmt. Spec. (1);
                                          ProjectsOfficer (1)
                      11/20/1999      3   TTL(1); Operations         S               S
                                          Officer (1); Financial
                                          Analyst (1)
                     0611012000       3   TTL(1); Projects           S               S
                                          Officer (1); Fin.Mgmt.
                                          Spec. (1)
                      12/10/2000      3   Fin. Mgmt. Spec (1);       S               S
                                          ProjectsOfficer (1);
                                          TTL (1)
                     05/07/2001       3   ImplementationSpec.        S               S
                                          (1); Fin. Mgmt. Spec.
                                          (11: TTL (11
                      0211912002      5   Fin. Mgmt. Spec. (1);     HS               HS
                                          TTL (1) Implem.Spec
                                          (1); Economist(1);
                                          EnvironmentalSpec.
                                          (1)
                      11/04/2002      3   TTL(1); Fin.Mgmt          HS               HS
                                          Spec. (1);
                                          ImplementationSpec.
                                          (1)
                      05/28/2003      3   TTL(1); Fin. Mgmt.        HS               HS
                                          Spec. (1);
                                          ImplementationSpec.
                                          (1)
ICR                   0911612003      3   TTL(1) Sr. Financial      HS
                                          Analyst (1) Sr.
                                          Economist(1)

                                                 30


PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT (CR. 3298-YEM)
K e y Project Data (amounts in US$million)
                                                       Appraisal                  Actual or
                                                       Estimate               current estimate
Total project cost                                        16.0
Loan amount                                               10.9
Date physical components completed                     12/31/2003                04/30/2001



Project Dates
                                                      Original                     Actual
Departure of Appraisal Mission                                                   0311211999
Board approval                                       08/03/1999                  11/30/1999
Signing                                                                          02/07/2000
Effectiveness                                    04/30/2001 (revised)
Closing date                                         12/31/2003                  04/30/2001


Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
                                                       ActualILatest Estimate
                                   M' Staff weeks                                 us$us$(ooo)
Preappraisal                                  N/A                               N/A
Appraisal                                     N/A                               N/A
Negotiations                                  N/A                               N/A
Supervision                                   N/A                               N/A
Other                                         N/A                               N/A
Total


Mission Data
                   Date       No. of    Staff    Specializations Performance  Rating      Types of
                (monthlyear) persons   days in    represented        rating   trend      problems
                                        field
Identification/     N/A        N/A       N/A          N/A             N/A      N/A
Preparation                                                                                N/A

Appraisal
Supervision
Comoletion

                                                31


TRANSPORTREHABILITATIONPROJECT(CR. 2819-YEM)

Key ProjectData(amounts in US$million)
                                                  Appraisal                  Actual or
                                                   estimate               current estimate
Total project costs                                 51.8                       40.0
Total amount                                        37.0                       30.0
Date physical components completed                                          06/30/2002



ProjectDates
                                                   Oriainal                    Actual
Departure of Appraisal Mission                                               03/22/1995
Board approval                                                               02/20/1996
Signing                                                                      03/06/1996
Effectiveness                                                                09111/1996
Closing date                                                                 03/30/2002


StaffInputs(staffweeks)
                                                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    N" Staff weeks                       us$us$(looo)
IdentificationlPreparation                   2.5                            16.9
AppraisallNegotiation                       31.1                            85.4
Supervision                                139.1                            48.3
ICR                                          5.0                            20.0
Total                                      177.7                           170.6

                                              32


MissionData
                               Date   No. of    Specializations           Performance rating
                           (montwyear persons     represented         Implementation Development
                                 1                                        Progress Objective
                                                                             -
Identification/ preparation I111995      1   TransportEngineer
                                             (11
AppraisallNegotiation      0311996       2   Sr. Transport
                                             Economist(1),
                                             TransportEngineer
                                             (11
                           0711996       1   TransportEngineer
                                             (11
Supervision                 1211996      3   TM-Transport                S                 S
                                             Economist(I),
                                             Highway Engineer(1);
                                             MunicipalEngineer
                                             (1)
                            0311997      1   Highway Specialist(1)       S                 S
                            1111997      2   EngineerlProcuremen         S                 S
                                             t(1); Soils & Mat.
                                             Engineer(1)
                            0311998      2   EngineerlProcuremen         S                 S
                                             t (1); Sr. Implement.
                                             Specialist(1)
                            0711998      1   Highway Specialist(1)        S                S
                            1011998      2   Transport Engineer           S                S
                                             (1); Consultant(1)
                            0311999      3   Transport Engineer           S                S
                                             (1); Transport
                                             Economist(1);
                                             OperationsOfficer (1)
                            0212000      3   Transport Engieer (1);       S                S
                                              FinancialAnalyst (1);
                                              ProjectOfficer (1)
                            1012000      3    Highway Engineer            S                S
                                              (1);FinancialAnalyst
                                              (1); ProjectOfficer (1)
                            0712001      4   Transport                    S                 S
                                              Engineer(?);Financial
                                              Analyst(1);
                                              Implementation
                                              Specialist(1);
                                              FinancialMgt.(l)
                             0712001     4    Transport Engineer          S
                                              (1);
                                              FinancialAnalyst(1);
                                              lmplem Specialist(1);
                                              FinancialMgt.(l)
                             1112001      3   Sr. Highway                 S
                                              Engineer/lTL(1),
                                              Implemem.Spec.(l);
                                              Financial
                                              Mgt.Spec.(l)
                             03/2002      3   Sr.TransportEcon.(l);       S                 S
                                              Sr. TransportPlanner
                                              (1); Sr. Transport
                                              Spec. (1)
 ICR                         0812002      1   Sr. Transport &
                                              InstitutionalSpecialist

                                             33


MULTI-MODE              TRANSPORT PROJECT (CR. 2177-YEM)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$million)
                                                Appraisal                 Actual or
                                                 estimate              current estimate
Total projectcosts                                 43                       40.92
Loanamount                                         30                       36.14
Date physicalcomponentscompleted                06/30/1997               06/30/2001



Project Dates
                                                Original                    Actual
Departureof Appraisal Mission                                             01/17/1990
Boardapproval                                                             09/11/1990
Signing                                                                   09/12/1990
Effectiveness                                                             01/14/1991
Closingdate                                                               06/30/2001


Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
                                                 ActuaVLatest Estimate
                                  N" Staff weeks                       ussuss~ooo)
ldentification/Preparation                N/A                            272.6
AppraisaVNegotiation                      N/A
Supervision                               N/A                            526.0
ICR                                       N/A
Total                                     N/A                            798.6

                                                34


Mission Data
-
                                Date      No. of Specializations represented   Performance rating
                            (month/year) persons                               lmplentDevelop.
                                                                               Progress Objective
Identification/ Preparation
                            June 1998       2    Transport Engineer,Port
                                                 Advisor
                            Sept. 1998      2    TransportEngineers(2)
                            March 1989      2    Transport Engineers(2)
                            June 1989       2    FinancialAnalyst, Consultant
AppraisallNegotiation
                            Febr. 1990      2    Transport Engineer,Economist
                            July 1990       6    Transport Engineer,
                                                 Economist,CountryOfficer,
                                                 Lawyer, DisbursementOfficer,
                                                 FinancialAnalyst
Supervision
                            Dec. 1990       1    Transport Engineer             S            5
                            Nov. 1991       1    Transport Engineer             S            5
                            June 1993       2    Transport Engineers(2)         S            5
                            Sept. 1993      6    Transport Engineer,Transport   S            5
                                                 Planner,Bridge Specialist,
                                                 Hydrologist,Consultants(2)
                            Jan. 1994       2    Transport Engineer,Consultant   S           5
                            Nov. 1994       1    Transport engineer              S           5
                            April 1995      3    Transport Engineer,Transport    S           5
                                                 Planner,Consultant
                            Nov. 1995       3    Transport Engineer,             S           5
                                                 Consultants(2)
                            March 1996      2    Transport Engineer,Transport    S           5
                                                 Planner
                            July 1996       1    Transport Engineer              S           5
                            Sept. 1996      2    Transport Engineer,Transport    S           5
                                                 Planner
                            March 1997      1    Transport Engineer              5           5
                            June 1997       1    TransportEngineer               5           5
                            Nov. 1997       2    Transport Engineer,Consultant   S           5
                            March 1998      2    Transport Engineer,             5           5
                                                 ProcurementSpecialist
                            July 1998       1    TransportEngineer               5           5
                            October         1    Transport Engineer              5           5
                            1998
                            March 1999      3    Transport Engineer,Transport    5           5
                                                 Planner, OperationsOfficer
                            June 1999       1    TransportEngineer               5           5
                            September       2    Transport Engineer,Operations   S           5
                            1999                 Officer
                            March 2000      2    TransportEngineer,Operations    S            5
                                                 Officer
                            Sept. 2000      1    TransportEngineer               5            5
                            Dec. 2000       2    TransportEngineer,Operations    S            5
                                                 Officer
ICR                         June 2001       3    TransportEngineer,Operations    S            5
                                                 Officer, FinancialAnalyst

                                                        35


          Annex B.Borrower Comments        &&pq@>                              0&!!ua
Republic of Yemen                                 .c r 0




PublicWorks Project                                                       b'l          J&irl tjJA
Project ManagementUnit                                                        U J a l b    :JlAj  3
         Sana'a                                                                      6-




         For Mr.Main Rmbu
         Managcr.OEDSC
         Pmx001-202-522-3123
                                                                Date: October 13,2004

                          Sub:DraftProiect PerformanceAssessment Ret"
                                 PublicWorksProiect I1Cr. 3168 YEM


         Dear Sir,

          Thank you for the draft PPAR.W e havereviewed the report and noted a minor
          discrepancy on Annex A, BasicRata S h e q KeyProject dak reporled is for P W - 1 Cr.
          28781TM. For PWP-IlCr. 3168YEMKeyProject Data is follows:

          (Amounts InUSS "ion)              AppraisalEstimate                   Actual
          Total projectcosts                60.0                                112.2
          Loan Amount                       50.0                                46.5
          Date Physical Components          1213112002                           1213112002
          Completed

          We would highly appreciare correctingthe annex.


MAP SECTION


