Page  1
October 20, 1997
H.E. Dr. Abdul Kader Ba-Ja'amal 
Minister of Planning and Development 
Sana'a, Republic of Yemen
Re:
YEMEN: Credit No. 2819
Transport Rehabilitation Project
Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement 
Your Excellency,
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Yemen (the 
Borrower) and the International Development Association (the Association) dated March 
6, 1996 (the Development Credit Agreement).  We also refer to your request contained 
in the telex dated August 24, 1997 from Dr. Jaffar Hamed.
We are pleased to inform you that the Association, after due consideration, has 
acceded to the above request.  Accordingly, the Development Credit Agreement is hereby 
amended to replace the special account that was supposed to be used by the Ministry of 
Construction, Housing and Urban Planing with two special accounts to be managed by the 
General Corporation for Roads and Bridges (GCRB and add a special account for use by 
the Yemen Road Fund Board (“YFRB”) as follows:
1.
Section 2.02(b) is amended to read as follows:
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
United 
States Dollars three separate special deposit accounts (the GCRB 
Special Account for 
Parts A (1) and A (2), the YRFB Special Account for 
Parts A (3) and A (4), and the 
CAMA Special Account for Part B of the 
Project) in the Central Bank of Yemen.  
Deposits into, and payments out 
of, each respective Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
2.
Section 3.01 is amended to read as follows:
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as  set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Parts A 
(1) and A (2) of the Project through GCRB, Parts A (3) and A 
(4) of the Project 
through the YRFB, and Part B of the Project through 
CAMA; all with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate aviation, engineering, financial 
and administrative 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
3.
The first line of Section 5.01 is amended to read as follows:  “The Borrower 
shall cause CAMA, GCRB, and the YRFB:”
4.
Section 5.04 is amended to read as follows:
The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1996: (i) cause GCRB to appoint the 
Consultants to carry out the study for planning and prioritizing road 
maintenance 
needs under Part A (2) of the Project, and (ii) cause the 
YRFB to appoint the 
Consultants to assist the YRFB and the Road 
Maintenance Fund under Part A (3) 
of the Project, all in accordance with 
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
5.
Section 6.01 (c) is amended to read as follows:
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken  any 
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CAMA, GCRB, or the 
YRFB or for 
the suspension of their respective operations;
6.
The table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is modified to read as follows:
Page  2
  Amount of the 
Credit Allocated               % of
 (Expressed in 
 Expenditures
Category
 SDR Equivalent) 
to be Financed
(1)
(a) Civil Works 
Under Part A (1) of 
the Project
10,000,000
70%
(b) Civil Works 
 2,000,000
80%
Under Part B of the 
Project
(2)
(a) Consultants’ Services
 2,000,000
100% of foreign
Under Part A (2) of the 
expenditures and
Project
95% of local
expenditures
(b) Consultants’ Services   1,000,000
100% of foreign
Under Parts A (3) and A (4)
expenditures and
of the Project
95% of local
expenditures
(c) Consultants’ Services   1,300,000
100% of foreign
Under Part B of the
expenditures and
Project
95% of local
expenditures
(3)
(a) Equipment Under Part A   350,000
100% of foreign
(1) of the Project
expenditures
(b) Equipment Under Part A   350,000
100% of foreign
(4) of the Project
expenditures
(c) Equipment Under Part B   700,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures
(4)    Unallocated
 2,000,000
__________
TOTAL
       24,700,000
==========
7.
Schedule 5 is amended to read as follows:
“SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means, in the case of the GCRB Special 
Account Categories 1(a), 2(a), and 3(a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; in the case of the YRFB Special Account Categories 2(b) 
and 3(b) set forth in the said table; and in the case of the CAMA Special Account 
Categories 1(b), 2(c) and 3(c).  
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means with respect to the GCRB Special 
Account, an amount equivalent to $500,000; with respect to the YRFB Special Account, 
an amount equivalent to $100,000; and with respect to the CAMA Special Account, an 
amount equivalent to $500,000; to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited 
into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
Page  3
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for 
deposits into the respective Special Account at such 
intervals as 
the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the 
payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the 
respective Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
respective Special Account for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents 
and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: (a)
if, at 
any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Parts of the Project related to 
that Special Account, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation for that Special Account. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories  
for that Special Account shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify 
Page  4
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.”
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendments, by signing and 
dating the confirmation on the enclosed copy of this Letter and returning it to us.
This amendment shall enter into effect on the thirtieth (30th) day of the month 
in which it has been countersigned and returned to us.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Inder K. Sud
Director
Middle East Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By: /s/ Abdulkader Bajamal
    Authorized Representative
Date: 11-11-1997
