Document of
The World Banr
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY                                 DVE   $ U,
Repr No. P-2537-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
May 9, 1979
This dwument hbas a restricted distibudon *d may be mud by recIpIetb  mly In the perfemane of
their oeffial duties. Its contents my not otherwise be discied without Word Dank mhodrbtion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
$1                   -      YR1s 4.50
YR18         1                    $0.22
YR1s     1,000                  $222.00
Yrls 1,000,000              $222,222.00
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
CPO                   -             Central Planning Organization
ICB                   -             International Competitive Bidding
HMI                   -             Health Manpower Institute
MOE                   -             Ministry of Education
NIPA                  -             National Institute for Public Administration
PIU                   -             Project Implementation Unit
UNDP                  -             United Nations Development Program
UNESCO                -             United Nations Education Scientific
and Cultural Organization
USAID                               United States Agency for International
Development
WHO                                 World Health Organization
-/ No par value for the Yemeni rial has yet been declared to the IMF.
All exchange transactions are effected at the Central Bank rate
which has been pegged to the US dollar since February 1973.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Yemen Arab Republic
Amount:         $10.00 million equivalent
Terms:          Standard
Project
Description:   The project is designed to assist in:  (i) the diversification
of secondary schooling through the provision of agricultural
and livestock training in response to specific manpower demands;
(ii) extension of public administration training to regional
centers; (iii) pre-investment sociological, feasibility and
design studies for regional basic health-care and associated
training; (iv) identification of the optimal development of
post-secondary education; and (v) improvement of administrative
capability of the MOE and of its School Building Unit.
The project consists of the construction of an agricultural
school and a livestock secondary school, including dormitories
for all students and two regional branches of the National
Institute of Public Administration (NIPA) one each at Taiz
and Hodeidah, and the procurement of furniture and equipment.
Technical assistance is also included for project implementa-
tion, preparation of pre-investment studies for regional
health care and associated training, development of a post-
secondary education system suited to meet manpower needs, and
for strengthening the Ministry of Education. Of the total 73
man-years of experts services, 52 man-years would be financed
from the proceeds of the credit and the balance of 21 man-years
is expected to be provided by USAID to staff the Surdud agri-
cultural secondary school. Fellowships of about 90 man-years
are also included in the project to train Yemeni staff. Aver-
age costs per man-month of technical assistance and fellowships
are estimated at about $5,000 and $1,000 respectively. The
project will lead to an incremental annual output of about 55
middle-level agricultural technicians, 55 animal health assis-
tants, 20 extension agents, and 650 intermediate level public
sector employees, and officials of local development associa-
tions and agricultural cooperatives, trained in various aspects
of public administration. The risk of untimely availability of
qualified expatriate and Yemeni staff for the project institu-
tions has been mitigated by the recent appointment of a high-
level recruitment committee, chaired by a Deputy-Minister of
Education and including the manager of the UNDP-UNESCO insti-
tutional support team, to recruit senior staff and to coordinate
provision of technical assistance.
F This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Costs:                                       Costs
($ million)               % of
Local        Foreign        Total    Total
Agricultural Secondary School           1.8           1.2           3.0       21
Livestock Secondary School              1.4           1.0           2.4        17
2 regional branches of the
National Institute of Public
Administration (NIPA)                  1.8           1.4           3.2       23
Technical assistance,
fellowships and studies               0.8           4.7           5.5        39
Total base cost                         5.8           8.3          14.1      100
Physical Contingencies                  0.5           0.6           1.1
Price Contingencies                     4.1           2.1           6.2
Sub-total                               4.6           2.7           7.3
Total Project Cost                     10.4          11.0          21.4
Financing Plan:                              $ million          %
IDA Credit                                   10.0           46.8
Other External Financing                      1.0            4.7
Government Contribution                      10.4           48.5
Total                                     21.4          100.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                                             $ million
FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85
Annual                                      2.0   4.5   1.8   0.8   0.6    0.3
Cumulative                                  2.0   6.5   8.3   9.1   9.7   10.0
Rate of
Return:          Not applicable.
Staff
Appraisal
Report:          No. 2246-YAR of April 27, 1979.



THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of $10 million equivalent, on standard IDA terms, to the
Yemen Arab Republic (YAR), to help finance a third education project. USAID
is expected to provide cofinancing of about $1.0 million equivalent in the
form of technical assistance.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A basic economic report entitled "Yemen Arab Republic:  Development
of a Traditional Economy," (No. 2057a-YAR), dated December 14, 1978, was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on January 3, 1979. Country data are
attached in Annex I.
Introduction
3.        Over the last few years YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in
its socioeconomic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. Follow-
ing the 1962 Revolution which ended the feudal rule of the Imam and opened the
country to the outside world, and after a protracted civil war that lasted
till mid-1970, the new republican government succeeded in establishing within
a surprisingly short period of time the foundations of a modern state. Tech-
nical ministries were strengthened, essential government institutions were
created such as the Central Bank and the Central Planning Organization, modern
budgetary and banking practices were introduced, and a reasonable level of
working effectiveness was achieved by the public administration. Tribal frag-
mentation, a major obstacle to political stability in the past, is gradually
being overcome. Central government control has been spreading throughout the
country and continues to do so.
4.        Political integration and the growing influence of central authori-
ties have provided the basis for a rapid development of the public and private
sectors.  In 1973, the government with the help of a Planning Assistance
Team in CPO financed by the Bank and the Kuwait Fund, launched a Three-Year
Development Program (1973/74-1975/76) which susbsequently was implemented
1/   Substantially the same as Part 1 of the President's Report for the Third
Tihama Project (P-2469-YAR, February 21, 1979).



- 2 -
with the help of foreign technical and capital assistance. In its wake, the
physical infrastructure was expanded and communication links were built; first
attempts were made at lifting agriculture, the mainstay of the economy, out of
its medieval setting; industrialization was started, albeit on a small-scale;
education was spread at all levels; health services were improved; projects
were initiated to build urban water supply and sewage facilities; and rural
development was promoted through local development associations.
5.        More recently, especially since the quadrupling of international oil
prices at the beginning of 1974, there has been an unprecedented increase in
personal cash incomes based mainly on remittances by Yemenis who went to work
in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. It is estimated that workers' remit-
tances rose from some $40 million in 1969/70 to over $1 billion in 1977/78.
Largely as a result of these cash inflows, YAR's per capita GNP has more than
doubled in real terms since 1969/70, reaching a level of about $390 in 1976/77.
While these developments, together with fast-growing government expenditures
for both investment projects and public services, have greatly alleviated
Yemen's traditional problems of poverty, famine and rural underemployment,
they have created new ones which require urgent attention in the future.
Major Development Issues
6.        Foremost among these is the problem of manpower shortage which has
become the overriding constraint to YAR's development. This shortage has been
created by large-scale labor migration to neighboring oil countries which now
absorb an estimated 30 percent of YAR's male labor force. At the same time,
labor demand has increased sharply within the country as a result of develop-
ment programs initiated by the government, and a rapid expansion of private
business activity. Labor scarcities of both skilled and unskilled categories
are pervasive throughout the economy; but they are particularly pronounced in
the public sector, largely because salaries of civil servants are lagging
behind those offered in the private sector. This obviously places limitations
on the absorptive capacity of the public administration.
7.        Another major issue the government faces is to assure the rational
allocation of its rapidly growing investment resources. During the past, when
funds were more limited and modern facilities were sorely lacking, the authori-
ties found it relatively easy to select high-priority projects such as estab-
lishing the basic physical infrastructure, introducing modern education,
building irrigation works, power stations or a few factories.  With the rapid
growth in development spending, however, the range of choices is increasing
very substantially and the long-term costs and benefits of individual projects
will not always be as obvious as in the past.
8.        A third issue concerns the proper maintenance of existing and new
capital stock. So far this question has not received sufficient attention by
the authorities, perhaps understandably so because of the newness of most
capital structures. However, as the stock of fixed capital increases--and
there is visible evidence of fast-growing numbers of public buildings, roads,
urban facilities, factories, power stations and irrigation schemes--the need



for adequate maintenance of these facilities becomes more and more pressing.
Introducing adequate maintenance programs and establishing repair facilities
for machinery and equipment are therefore urgently required if past and future
investments are not to be wasted.
9.        These new problems of affluence as well as recent achievements in
development, remarkable as they are, should not detract from the fact that
YAR continues to face many of the problems of an underdeveloped country. Pro-
ductivity levels are still very low, especially in agriculture which employs
about three-fourths of the resident labor force, reflecting the limited
investment in physical capital made so far, as well as the predominance of
traditional production techniques. Nine out of ten adults are illiterate
and only one out of every four children in the age group 6-11 is enrolled in
primary school. Over 90 percent of the population resides in rural areas,
a large part in remote villages without access to modern transportation,
schools, electricity or health services. Moreover, there are serious physical
constraints to development in YAR. The country's known natural resources are
limited and a rugged topography poses severe obstacles for road transport.
Agricultural land and water are scarce and few mineral deposits have been
discovered so far.
Government Objectives
10.       The government is addressing these issues, as reflected in its
development objectives outlined in the first Five-Year Development Plan for
the years 1976/77-1980/81. Building on the achievements of the Three-Year
Program (para. 4), the new Plan endeavors to further develop the country's
human and natural resources; to strengthen the physical infrastructure; to
raise the productivity of the commodity-producing sectors; and to improve the
standards of living of the people, giving priority to their basic needs for
food, health services, education, water supply and other community services.
To achieve its objectives, the government has launched an impressive invest-
ment and manpower training program, in close cooperation with foreign donors
of capital and technical assistance.
11.       The Plan identifies investment opportunities in all major sectors,
especially in transport, agriculture, industry, housing, education and public
health. The overall investment targets are very ambitious. They envisage an
increase in gross fixed capital formation from $170 million in 1975/76 to
$1,230 million in 1980/81, implying an annual growth rate of almost 50 percent.
The overall investment volume during the five years of the Plan is to be $3.5
billion. Although not excessive for a country of YAR's size and population
(it represents an annual amount of about $150 per capita), because of the steep
increase in investment proposed by the Plan it is important that the technical
feasibility and economic viability of projects be studied before they are
undertaken.
12.       Some progress is already being made in reaching the government's
objectives. One example is the port development project, in which IDA and
the Kuwait Fund are participating, which is easing congestion in Hodeidah
and will improve facilities in Mocha. The project is designed to meet YAR's
requirements for port capacity up to 1985. Encouraging results are also being



- 4 -
achieved in education and manpower training. Enrollment in primary and
secondary schools is growing rapidly and programs in technical and vocational
training have been started. The University of Sana'a, established in 1970,
now has some 3,000 students, many enrolled in technical disciplines. A large
number of Yemeni students (about 2,300) also receive training abroad.
13.       Other issues still have to be addressed by the authorities.  They
include measures designed to strengthen the absorptive capacity of the public
sector; to broaden the tax base, thus providing financial resources for the
necessary increase in government salaries and essential public services; to
ascertain the economic viability of future investments so as to avoid sub-
optimal utilization of domestic and foreign resources; and to introduce effec-
tive maintenance programs for existing and new capital stock.
Economic Growth and Structural Change
14.       Since the end of the civil war in mid-1970, economic activity in YAR
has expanded vigorously. GDP at constant market prices is estimated to have
grown at an average rate of 9 percent a year between 1969/70 and 1975/76, and
about 12 percent in 1976/77. Not surprisingly, economic growth was strongest
in the modern sectors, reflecting the rapid expansion of foreign and domestic
trade, of government services, of transportation and finance. There was also
a rapid increase of modern cash crops as farmers took a growing interest in
raising vegetables, fruits and chickens. Subsistence agriculture, still the
most important economic sector in YAR, grew at a much slower pace.
15.       The expansion of the modern sectors was the result of a variety of
factors. Fast growing cash incomes from workers' remittances opened new
markets for local merchants and farmers, and provided funds for private in-
vestment in housing, transport equipment, agriculture and industry. This
coincided with a vigorous expansion of public development expenditures. Ini-
tially through various ad hoc projects, but later in a more coordinated form
through its Three-Year Program and the Five-Year Plan, the government increased
its development spending from YRls 57 million ($13 million) in 1972/73 to
YRls 870 million ($193 million) in 1977/78.
16.       Although the period since 1970 is relatively short, it has witnessed
perceptible changes in the structure of YAR's economy. The shares of modern
agriculture, trade, transport and government services in GDP have all in-
creased during the 1970s while that of subsistence agriculture declined from
over 40 percent in 1969/70 to less than one third in 1976/77. Even so, YAR's
economy is still very much underdeveloped. The contribution of cash farming
and industry (including construction) to GDP is still less than that of
subsistence farming.
Domestic and External Finance
17.       The rapid growth in money incomes which YAR experienced in recent
years has led to a spectacular increase in overall savings far exceeding the
fast-growing investment level. In 1976/77, gross national savings reached
the equivalent of 25 percent of GNP compared with only 7 percent in 1970/71.



-5-
While this is, indeed, a very impressive achievement for a country of YAR's
low per capita income, it must be borne in mind that the high savings rate
was perhaps as much the result of fortuitous circumstances as of deliberate
policies. Delayed consumer response to a massive growth of money incomes,
together with large capital transfers made by Yemeni businessmen returning
from Saudi Arabia, have swelled the pool of national savings to an extent
which may not be perpetuated in future years.
18.       Most of Yemen's national savings are being generated by the private
sector. The national accounts suggest that in 1976/77 total private savings
were on the order of YRls 2.3 billion ($520 million) or the equivalent of 21
percent of GNP. It can be assumed that a large part of these savings origi-
nated from workers' remittances, which are a major source of money incomes in
YAR. Recipients of those remittances often hesitate to spend them on consump-
tion items, partly as an insurance against future income fluctuations, partly
to save up for investments in housing, agricultural equipment, etc., and
partly because of physical constraints in the delivery of consumer goods to
rural areas. Savings are thus generated throughout the country, and their
ownership is widely distributed among different population groups. Financial
assets in one form or another can be found in the remotest village, although
there is probably some concentration in urban centers, such as Sana'a, Taiz
and Hodeida. Large amounts of savings are also being generated in the trading
sector (most of which is in private hands), in some areas of agriculture
(e.g., fruits and vegetables), in real estate and, to a lesser extent, in the
new manufacturing sector.
19.       Public sector savings were negative until 1975/76, reflecting a
rather narrow tax base (8 percent of GNP in that year). However,, in 1976/77
tax revenue more than doubled--due largely to a surge in imports and corres-
ponding increases in the collection of import duties. As a result, the cur-
rent budget yielded its first surplus (YRls 452 million or $100 million) and
for 1977/78 this surplus is estimated to have reached YRls 690 million ($153
million).
20.       However, current government expenditures are likely to grow rapidly
in future years to cover the needs of expanded education and health services
as well as for more effective maintenance programs. It will also be necessary
to improve the remuneration of civil servants to retain qualified staff in the
public administration and to provide adequate incentives for new recruitment.
21.       The expected growth in current government spending calls for con-
tinued efforts in mobilizing additional revenues. In the short run, emphasis
will have to be given to improving the collection of existing taxes, espe-
cially import duties which are yielding rapidly growing receipts as the import
volume expands further. A thorough review of the present structure of import
tariffs would be desirable in order to maximize the revenue impact of such
duties. Other promising sources of additional revenue would be excise duties,
sales and turnover taxes. There is also much scope for direct taxation of
business incomes. However, the administrative and political obstacles against



- 6 -
broadening the tax base are formidable, and it will take time before a signif-
icantly higher tax ratio can be achieved.
22.       The external financial position of the Yemen Arab Republic has also
changed dramatically in recent years. While at the beginning of the current
decade foreign exchange was in short supply and a heavy debt burden forced
the government to request the rescheduling of major parts of its outstanding
commitments, the country has now entered a phase of comfortable balance of
payments surpluses and rapidly growing exchange reserves. The principal
reason for this change must be seen in the large and growing amounts of
workers' remittances and in the substantial aid flows, especially from Saudi
Arabia and other Arab oil-exporting nations.
23.       Yemen's commodity exports are still very low, reflecting the coun-
try's limited resource endowment and the underdeveloped state of its economy.
During 1973/74-1977/78 these exports averaged $13 million a year, or the
equivalent of less than 1 percent of GDP. Most exports are of agricultural
origin, with cotton, coffee and hides being the three major commodities.
Imports, on the other hand, have risen sharply from $194 million in 1973/74
to $834 million in 1977/78. This upsurge in import demand reflects the
rapidly rising cash incomes, the full convertibility of the Yemen rial, and
the absence of import restrictions.
24.       With exports lagging behind the rapid growth of imports, YAR's
trade deficit reached $827 million in 1977/78, four and a half times as large
as in 1973/74. However, YAR's import capacity is only marginally based on its
export potential and depends increasingly on its strong surplus position in
the service sectors, especially workers' remittances. In recent years net
earnings from services have grown even faster than the trade deficit. As
a result, the balance on current account, which was in deficit until 1974/75,
changed to a surplus which reached $241 million in 1977/78.
Capital Flows and External Debt
25.       Since independence, YAR has received substantial amounts of foreign
assistance. Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifica-
tion as a "least-developed country," most of the aid was provided in the form
of grants and concessionary loans. Although a complete overview of all assis-
tance received by YAR is not possible because of information gaps, it can be
estimated that cumulative aid disbursements came close to $750 million by the
end of FY1976/77, of which more than half was disbursed in the last 3 years.
The principal donors were Saudi Arabia, the Gulf States, IDA, the USSR, China,
Germany and the USA.
26.       More than half of the total assistance given so far was provided as
grants, mostly for food aid, technical assistance and more recently, budget
support. Food aid has been provided through the World Food Program and a
number of bilateral donors. A large part of official grants has been made
available in the form of technical assistance. Given the extreme shortage of



skilled manpower in YAR, this type of aid has high priority and will be needed
by the country for many years to come. Besides the grants, YAR received
sizeable amounts of official loans and credits (see paragraph 28). Drawings
on these loans have increased in recent years, reaching $70 million in 1977/78.
More than three quarters of all official loans and credits have been committed
for the financing of specific projects with the main emphasis on roads; agri-
culture, including irrigation; and utilities. The remaining funds were given
for commodity assistance or as cash loans.
27.        The terms on which YAR has obtained official loan assistance have
been very favorable. Loans from the USSR and the People's Republic of China
are, for the most part, free of interest. Western European countries have
generally charged between 3/4 percent and 2-1/2 percent. Interest rates
charged by Arab countries have varied from 0 percent to 4 percent. Loan
maturities range from 5-50 years with a median of 20-30 years.
28.       Yemen's external public debt outstanding on June 30, 1978 was
estimated at $693 million, of which $363 million was disbursed. The major
creditors were IDA, the Arab Fund, USSR, China, Germany and the Kuwait Fund.
IDA credits accounted for $111 million or about 16 percent of the total debt
reported. Because of the very favorable terms of borrowing, the debt service
payments are estimated at only about $8 million for 1977/78, equivalent to
less than one percent of gross foreign exchange earnings (including workers'
remittances). Although service payments are expected to rise in the next few
years, the burden of such payments should continue to remain small in relation
to YAR's exchange earnings.
29.        In recent years YAR has accumulated large foreign reserves.  At the
end of 1978 they reached $1,460 million or the equivalent of more than one
year's imports. This reflects rapidly rising exchange earnings, a relatively
high level of foreign aid, and last but not least the country's limited
absorptive capacity. Yemen's imports are still at a low level (about $150 per
capita in 1977/78) and are likely to grow rapidly in future years. It should
be pointed out in this context that YAR's official reserves are not assets
earned by the State--as in the case of most oil-exporting countries--but
represent largely the counterpart of unspent private incomes which could be
drawn down as import levels rise. Workers' remittances and aid inflows, on
the other hand, are of more volatile nature and their volume could change
substantially within a relatively short time. Yemen's present comfortable
reserve position may therefore be a passing phenomenon and could be eroded
quickly if recent trends in foreign exchange flows are not sustained. The
reserve position also has to be viewed in the context of the country's
dependence on agriculture and its vulnerability to the vagaries of weather.
A repetition of the severe drought which gripped YAR from 1966-72 would
necessitate the import of foodstuffs in even higher than the present volume,
adding substantially to the country's foreign exchange requirements.



-8-
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS 1/
30.       The proposed credit would be the twentieth 2/ to YAR, bringing
total IDA commitments to $173.8 million. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of IDA credits and Bank grants, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects, as of March 31, 1979. The World Bank strategy in YAR has
been threefold: to concentrate on developing the basic institutions, skills
and physical infrastructure which are prerequisites for development, to
develop production and income in the dominant productive sector, agriculture,
and to support the government in its desire to meet basic needs in rural and
urban areas. To develop infrastructure, IDA has extended three credits for
highways totalling $28.2 million, a $6 million credit for a port development
project, three credits for water supply and sewerage totalling $24.2 million,
and a $10.0 million credit for power distribution. To assist in the develop-
ment of education, IDA has extended two credits for a total of $19 million,
in support of primary and secondary teacher training, and secondary and
vocational education. To develop rural infrastructure and to support produc-
tion and distribution in agriculture and agro-industry, IDA has made six
credits for a total of $56.6 million. To develop industry, IDA extended a
$2.3 million credit in 1974 for an industrial estate project, designed to
stimulate investment for small-scale industry as well as to provide a model
for future industrial development, and a $7.0 million credit (approved in June
1978) for a textile rehabilitation project; in FY1978 an investment of $2.4
million by the International Finance Corporation (IFC's first activity in YAR)
was approved to help finance a dairy and juice project.
31.       The main constraint to YAR's social and economic development has
been, and will remain for some time, the critical shortage of manpower,
especially skilled, and the newness and weakness of its institutions. World
Bank strategy in YAR has placed emphasis on helping to strengthen Yemeni insti-
tutions and manpower capabilities, through increased training of local staff
and continued technical assistance, as well as through direct financing for
education. Thus all IDA projects in YAR contain substantial components for
technical assistance towards institution building. Two particularly important
examples of the World Bank's support for institution building have been in
the Central Planning Organization (CPO) and the Ministry of Agriculture. In
CPO, the World Bank (through three grants totalling $520,000) and the Kuwait
Fund have financed a team of planning and economic advisers so as to create a
planning machinery. In the Ministry of Agriculture, the Bank supplies the ser-
vices of seven advisors initially financed by UNDP with the Bank as executing
agency, and now financed jointly by IDA (under the second Tihama project) and
UNDP. The Agricultural Research Station at Taiz, which carries out agricul-
tural research for the country as a whole, is also financed as part of this
1/   Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report for the Third
Tihama Project (P-2469-YAR, February 21, 1979).
2/   Including the $10.3 million supplementary credit for the first Tihama
project, No. 376-1 YAR of April 9, 1976.



- 9 -
institutional support. Finally, the Bank has recently assisted the government
in establishing a Project Monitoring System to ensure effective project
implementation and to measure progress made against set targets; the system is
now under implementation.
32.       Future World Bank operations will concentrate on reinforcing the
institutional progress made in infrastructure, agriculture, and rural devel-
opment, and will seek to spread the benefits of development more wide'ly
throughout Yemen. Particular attention will be given to YAR's ability to
implement projects, by ensuring the availability of key staff and technical
assistance needed for successful implementation. Projects already in the
pipeline include a water supply and sewerage project for the cities of Ibb and
Dhamar, and a fourth Tihama agricultural project, which will provide irriga-
tion structures for Wadi Rima, both of which have been appraised. A second
rural development project in the Southern Uplands, a fisheries project, and a
development finance project are in the preparation stage. Possible future
projects include regional electrification, industry, port development and
further rural development activities.
33.       YAR has contributed an increasing portion of local currency financ-
ing and is expected to continue to finance a rising portion of its development
expenditures in the future. Nevertheless, it remains among the least-developed
countries and requires special assistance through financing of a large part
of project costs, including local expenditures when necessary. As in the
past, the costs of future projects are expected to be substantially higher
than the amounts that IDA can provide, and we shall continue to cooperate
closely with other donors so as to maximize IDA's catalytic role in stimulat-
ing co-financing. IDA-supported projects, for which credits amounting to a
total of $163.8 million were made, have led to about $186 million equivalent
of co-financing from other aid donors.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Background
34.       Because YAR lacks favorable endowments of physical resources, its
major resource for development must be its 5.5 million people. IDA lending
in the country only began six years ago. A modern educational system was
started only about eight years ago, and, as such, there has been insufficient
time for the nation to train adequate numbers to cope with the current demands
of economic and social development which has proceeded at an unexpectedly
rapid pace. Adult literacy remains very low, at about 13 percent, even though
it has more than quadrupled since 1960. Consequently, a severe shortage of
trained manpower at all levels exists and is a critical constraint to develop-
ment. Four-fifths of the resident labor force in 1975 was illiterate; only 18



- 10 -
percent had completed some primary schooling, while 1.2 percent had some
secondary or higher education. On average, two-thirds of employees in the
private and public sectors who hold positions requiring a vocational, techni-
cal, or science-based education lack the necessary background. According to
the Five-Year Plan (1976/77-80/81), almost 6,000 jobs requiring university-
level education will need to be filled between 1977 and 1981, of which no more
than two-thirds will be taken up by Yemenis. The shortfall of middle-level
manpower is estimated at 9,000 workers, and the deficit of skilled labor may
reach 26,000 by 1981. About 200,000 workers who can at most read and write
will enter the labor force without any other training during the period. The
combined annual output of the vocational and technical training institutions
that will be operative during the Plan period will satisfy only 8 percent of
the average yearly demand for skilled manpower as projected by the Plan.
35.       Although Yemenis have traditionally migrated to obtain the employ-
ment lacking at home, the sharply increasing demand for labor in the neigh-
boring oil states now absorbs one-third to one-half of Yemen's male work
force. The resulting inflation of local wages places a particular strain on
labor-intensive sectors such as agriculture and construction, leading to some
"replacement migration" of unskilled South Asian workers into the YAR. The
undeveloped state of Yemen's educational and training system forces the
country to import skilled personnel required for the rapidly expanding devel-
opment efforts at home.
36.       This condition is likely to persist within the near future because
trainee candidates with an adequate educational background to benefit from
skill training do not yet exist in sufficient numbers, despite the govern-
ment's best efforts to expand the educational system rapidly.  In the period
1971-76, enrollments in primary (grades 1-6), preparatory (grades 7-9), and
secondary schools (grades 10-12) increased at a high average annual rate of 22
percent, 30 percent, and 38 percent, respectively. Despite these impressive
growth rates, enrollment ratios in 1976/77 were inevitably still low at about
26 percent, 5 percent, and 4 percent, respectively, in primary, preparatory,
and secondary schools.
Long-Term Education Objectives
37.       The government's long-term objectives for the development of the
education sector are: (a) to provide primary education to all children and
non-formal education, particularly literacy training, to the unschooled; (b)
to improve the supply of qualified Yemeni teachers and of locally-oriented
teaching materials in the schools; (c) to develop an adequate pool of trained
and educated manpower through a diversification of the secondary education
to serve the needs of all sectors, especially agriculture; (d) to plan for
the construction of needed school buildings; (e) to raise the educational
and administrative efficiency of the university and to expand the output of
graduates in science and technology. With each objective, the government
hopes to improve the educational opportunities for females and for the popu-
lation in disadvantaged regions. Provided the government can continue to
attract increasing levels of foreign assistance and to mobilize the flow



- 11 -
of remittances for public investment and recurrent expenditure, financial
resources will be less a constraint on achieving these objectives than the
lack of qualified trainees and teachers and the difficulties of educational
management.
Meeting Specific Manpower Deficiencies
38.       Over 90 percent of YAR's population is rural, and agriculture is
still the most important production sector, accounting for over 40 percent of
the GDP.  The priority which the government has placed on modernizing the
agricultural sector requires development of the extension services, agricul-
tural credit and research, and an intensified program of training agricultural
manpower. At present there is only one professional (with post-secondary
training) for every 20,000 rural households and one extension worker for every
6,000 rural households. Government livestock services are also inadequate
with 9 expatriate and local veterinarians/livestock officers and 23 assistants
for a livestock population of 12 million head. For the projects identified
and to be implemented under the Five-Year Plan, only one-third of the Plan
demand will be met from overseas training and from the outputs of the agricul-
tural secondary school at Ibb, and the veterinary assistants' and agricultural
extension agents' training centers in YAR. An agricultural and a livestock
secondary school are to be established under the proposed credit (para. 48).
Although these schools will not alleviate the shortages during the current
Plan period, they could, combined with the output of the agricultural
secondary school being provided under the first education project, meet
the projected annual demand for the respective categories of middle-level
agricultural technicians and animal health assistants by 1985.
39.       The supply and quality of manpower in the health sector are extremely
inadequate, particularly in the rural areas. Partly as a result, health condi-
tions continue to be extremely poor, medical facilities are overly concen-
trated in urban districts, and polluted water sources and unhygienic sewage
disposal pose serious environmental and health hazards. The Five-Year Plan,
therefore, emphasizes the provision of preventive health care, and improved
distribution of basic health facilities in rural areas to cover 20 percent of
the population by 1980/81 and health manpower training to make this expansion
possible. A special committee in the Ministry of Health, with the assistance
of the WHO advisory team, formulated the basic health services/primary health
care program. A proposed expansion of the Health Manpower Institute (HMI) is
expected to provide the required medical assistants/nurse level personnel for
the basic health care program. The regional health care centers, however,
will increasingly have to assist in the training of about 1,050 primary health
field workers within the Plan period. The Association proposes to initiate
its assistance to YAR in the health sector by providing under the proposed
credit for the services of two health specialist educators to support the
proposed expansion of the HMI training program and to finance studies for the
eventual establishment of regional health centers and associated training in
five regions currently not receiving adequate services (para. 57).



- 12 -
40.       The shortage of personnel in the public and semi-public sectors who
are trained in planning and administration inhibits effective execution of
the development program. In recognition of this criticaL need, the National
Institute of Public Administration (NIPA) has been assigned an expanded
training role. It now has two branches operating in rented premises at Taiz
and Hodeidah that are insufficient and inadequately equipped to accommodate
current enrollments. For the Plan period, NIPA's expanded programs include
the provision of 186 courses for a total of nearly 5,000 public employees.
The achievement of these targets will depend on whether adequate training
specialists and material support are made available (at Sana'a, the physical
facilities can support an output of 850 trainees annually) in particular for
the Taiz and Hodeidah branches that have a special role in training middle-
level personnel in the regions for the central government, governorates and
the Local Development Associations.
Education Finance
41.        In 1975/76, the government committed about 8 percent of both its
recurrent and capital expenditures to the education sector. Foreign aid
accounted for 42 percent of the educational recurrent budget in the same year
and four-fifths of the sector's investment. In addition, an unknown amount
of government aid goes directly to Local Development Associations for educa-
tion purposes. The government's development plan for education required an
increase in capital investment of YRls 683.3 ($141.8) million and a corres-
ponding increase of YRls 585.7 ($130.2) million in recurrent expenses over the
period 1976/77-80/81. Of the planned capital investment, primary education is
expected to absorb 40 percent, technical and vocational training 16 percent,
and teacher training about 24 percent.  The government intends to continue to
bear 60 percent of recurrent education expenses and to seek foreign assistance
to meet the remaining costs. The planned expenditures would only raise
education's share of total public expenditure to about 11 percent by 1980/81.
By comparison with other developing countries, the Government of YAR spends a
low proportion of its resources on education. A greater commitment of funds
by the public treasury to this sector appears feasible and would give greater
control over education planning and assurance of implementation than does
continued reliance on variable foreign assistance.
Ministry of Education Support
42.       The Ministry of Education is supported by a team of advisers fi-
nanced initially by UNDP and subsequently from trust funds, with UNESCO
as executing agency. The team has been working to build up the structure
and educational policies of the Ministry, to foster teacher training and to
develop curricula. Its effectiveness was hampered by the UNDP financial
crisis in 1976 (which led to the team being reduced in size) and by a con-
tinuing shortage of Yemeni counterparts. UNDP expects to sign a further
agreement for continuation of institutional support in the near future. The
head of the team acts as senior educational adviser to the Minister in the
formulation of comprehensive education and training plans, and other educa-
tional affairs. UNDP would also finance one vocational and one agricultural



- 13 -
education advisors, together with other short-term assistance. Within the
Ministry, a School Building Unit is responsible for construction of educa-
tional facilities, assisted by a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established
under the first educational project supported by IDA.
IDA Strategy and Earlier Projects
43.       IDA's sector strategy has been to identify YAR's educational priority
needs, and to help the government (aided by the UNDP/UNESCO team) to plan
action to meet these needs.  The whole education sector needed to be built up:
curricula and institutions developed, staff recruited and trained, buildings
designed, constructed and equipped, and an administration established.
The first priority was to strengthen the formal education system, as an
essential base for other training programs. The first two IDA-supported
education projects therefore included construction, equipping and staffing of
five primary teacher training institutes, a secondary school teacher training
college, and three upper secondary schools, as well as equipping and staffing
seven primary teacher training institutes and six secondary schools and
provision of substantial technical assistance. The other priorites included
(i) vocational, technical and agricultural training to meet the urgent needs
for skilled workers and middle-level technicians, (ii) a basic training scheme
giving opportunities in rural areas for adults and children to acquire a basic
education and rudimentary skills, and (iii) the production of educational
materials. The basic training scheme includes district training centers
(non-formal basic education centers), and a fund for village training activi-
ties. Other donors are also supporting individual institutions, and providing
substantial technical assistance.
44.       IDA strategy for future projects will be to support training to
meet identified manpower needs (such as in agriculture, technical and voca-
tional skills, health workers, and in public administation), to continue to
support primary and basic education, and to continue to help build up YAR's
educational administration.
45.       Although physical implementation of the first two projects has been
satisfactory, progress in obtaining technical assistance to staff the project
institutions has been slow. The government is now seeking bilateral assis-
tance: the Federal Republic of Germany is providing experts for the Sana'a
vocational training center; USAID is formulating proposals to assist the Ibb
agricultural training center, the primary teacher training colleges, the
district training centers, the educational materials production center and the
college of education, and the UK Ministry of Overseas Development (ODM) will
probably provide experts to the technical school complex at Taiz. Other
specialist staff are being recruited directly from other Arab countries, with
the assistance of their governments. Evidence that arrangements have been
made for the appointment of specialist staff required, for such of the institu-
tions constructed under the first two credits as will be physically complete
in autumn 1979, will a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit
(Section 5.01, Development Credit Agreement). This evidence will comprise (a)
letters to the government of YAR from bilateral aid agencies indicating their



- 14 -
commitment to provide staff to selected project institutions, and (b) a letter
from the government that it has appointed qualified expatriate or Yemeni staff
for the remaining project institutions.
46.       The Minister of Education has appointed a high level recruitment
committee, chaired by his Deputy, and including the heads of the UNDP-UNESCO
institutional support team (para. 42) and the PIU, to take responsibility
for staff recruitment.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
47.       The investments foreseen under the proposed project would complement
IDA's previous credits in the education sector by providing continued tech-
nical assistance to the Ministry of Education, and training to meet identified
manpower needs. The project was identified and prepared by the government,
assisted by an IDA preparation assistance mission in January 1978, and was
appraised in April/May 1978. Negotiations were held in Washington in January
1979. The government delegation was headed by the Minister of Education, HE
Mohamed Al Khadem Al Wajieh. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Third
Education Project, Yemen Arab Republic" (No. 2246-YAR) dated April 27, 1979,
is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. A Credit and
Project Summary is provided at the beginning of this report; a Supplementary
Project Data Sheet (Annex III), and a map showing the location of project
institutions are also attached.
Objectives and Description
48.       The project is designed to assist in:  (i) the diversification of
secondary schooling through the provision of agricultural and livestock
training in response to specific manpower demands; (ii) extension of public
administration training to regional centers; (iii) pre-investment sociological,
feasibility and design studies for regional basic health-care and associated
training; (iv) identification of the optimal development of post-secondary
education; and (v) improvement of administrative capability of the MOE and of
its School Building Unit.  The credit would finance the foreign exchange
cost of: (a) architectural design, construction, furniture, and equipment for
(i) an agricultural and a livestock secondary school; and (ii) two regional
branches of the National Institute of Public Administration (NIPA); (b)
technical assistance to provide key staff for the project institutions; (c)
fellowships to train Yemeni staff to replace expatriate staff; (d) technical
assistance to prepare pre-investment studies on the development of (i) basic
health care centers and related training units in about five regions, and (ii)
post-secondary education in YAR; and (e) technical assistance to MOE.
Training of Technicians in Agriculture and Livestock
49.       To help build up the necessary cadres of Yemeni agricultural tech-
nicians in the tropical Tihama lowlands, where several irrigated crop and



- 15 -
horticulture projects are being executed, the proposed agricultural second-
ary school at Surdud will admit annually (a) sixty students to secondary
schooling, grades 10-12, and (b) twenty trainees to a one-year extension agent
training course. In addition, short courses will be offered annually for
about 80 local farmers. The curricula that will be developed for the lbb
agricultural training center, for which USAID is expected to provide technical
assistance (para. 45), will be adapted for the Surdud school. The school will
be on the land of the Surdud research and seed production farm, development of
which is included in the third Tihama project and which is partly financed by
IDA and the International Fund for Agricultural Development.
50.       The proposed livestock secondary school, which will contribute to
the training of animal health assistants needed by the Ministry of Agricul-
ture, and the private sector, to staff the livestock services, will admit
annually 60 students to grades 10-12. The school will provide vocational
secondary education with an emphasis on animal science and general agricul-
tural subjects: syllabi will be developed under the project's technical
assistance component. The school will be close to and complement the vet-
erinary assistant training and laboratory complex established under the
livestock project with assistance from IDA, ODM and the Kuwait Fund.
51.       Students to these two schools will be selected from a wide geogra-
phical area; therefore, provision has been made for residential boarding.
Adequate stipends and free boarding will be offered to the students to
stimulate a sufficient number of applicants for admission to these schools.
The Ministry of Education will consult with the Ministry of Agriculture and
with local interest groups to ensure that the curricula remain relevant to
economic needs.
52.       The Ministry of Agriculture has begun to recruit staff at a level
corresponding to that of the graduates of the project schools, and intends
to recruit sizeable numbers in the future, as extension workers and for rural
development projects. Nevertheless, the career opportunities available,
which at present have attractive salaries, are not well known. The govern-
ment has agreed to draw up a detailed staffing program for agricultural and
livestock development, together with career opportunities available in these
services, by December 31, 1980, and that information thereon will be properly
disseminated through the school system (Section 3.05, Development Credit
Agreement). A system to trace the employment of the graduates of these
schools will be established by September 31, 1981 in the Agricultural Edu-
cation Division of MOE, so as to be effective for the graduation of the
first class from the Ibb Agricultural Training Center, and subsequently for
the schools under the proposed credit (Section 3.07, Development Credit
Agreement).
Training in Public Administration at Regional Branches
53.       The proposed project would include construction of training facil-
ities for 250 trainee places in permanent premises at each of the National
Institute of Public Administration's (NIPA's) regional branches at Taiz and



- 16 -
Hodeidah, and concentrate on training the intermediate cadres of employees in
the public sector. The regular in-service training courses would be of (a)
3-6 months duration in public accounting and personnel management, (b) 6
months duration in secretarial practices, (c) 2 years duration in languages,
and (d) training sessions in public administration of 3-6 months and 3-6 weekh
in duration. All in-service trainees will be released to attend courses for
ten periods in a week. In addition, two month summer courses in accounting
and administration will be provided for officials of local development asso-
ciations and agricultural cooperatives. The estimated annual output of 650
public sector employees, trained through regular courses by 1982, will include
about 90 women.
Teachers for the Project Schools
54.       The 13 Yemeni teachers of specialized subjects for the project
agricultural and livestock schools are expected to be recruited from among
the trainees currently abroad under various fellowship programs of the
Ministries of Agriculture and Education. At present about 50 Yemeni agri-
cultural trainees are studying in Egypt: suitable trainees will be identi-
fied from those studying abroad and will be appointed to the staff of the
above schools (Section 3.03, Development Credit Agreement). They will take
a specialized training program, provided under the project.
Technical Assistance - Staffing and Fellowships
55.        The project includes technical assistance of 29 man-years of expa-
triate staff to ensure adequate and qualified staffing for the two agricul-
tural schools and the NIPA branches, and to enable them to begin operations
while Yemenis who would eventually replace them complete their training
abroad. For this latter purpose, a program of 63 man-years of fellowships
would be provided under the project. A further 14 man-years of expatriate
staff for the Surdud agricultural secondary school will be met through bila-
teral assistance, probably from USAID.
56.        To help develop the institutional capability of MOE, the project
would provide short-term consultants in evaluation and monitoring, educational
statistics and school mapping. A total of 7 man-years would be provided. The
project would also provide technical assistance in continued support of the
PIU (paragraph 42) and to develop a Yemeni capability to implement future
education projects without expatriate assistance. For these purposes, the
proposed credit would finance about 14 man-years for (a) expatriate experts
to continue to work in the PIU and (b) short-term consultancies to improve the
MOE School Building Unit's capabilities in designing, supervising, establish-
ing norms and standards, and in programming management. In addition, 22.5
man-years of fellowships would be included to train the counterpart Yemeni
staff of MOE in educational management and school construction. The School
Building Unit would initially be assisted by counterpart expatriates for
varying periods, and would be supported by advisory services for the PIU.
On completion of the training financed under the project, responsibility for
implementation of future MOE education projects should be transferred com-
pletely to Yemeni nationals by mid-1982. The government will appoint a
qualified Yemeni engineer/architect to head the School Building Unit by
September 30, 1979 (Section 3.12, Development Credit Agreement).



- 17 -
Technical Assistance - Studies
57.       The credit would finance pre-investment studies for:  (a) the
Ministry of Health's program of extending basic primary health-care services,
and related training, to rural regions; and (b) the development of a post-
secondary education system suited to meet manpower needs. (a) The assistance
to the Ministry of Health (5.5 man years of expatriate assistance) would be to
carry out sociological studies in five different regions of YAR, which has
considerable tribal, sociological and ethnic variety and where health services
in rural areas are as yet almost completely absent. The studies will provide
a basis for the design of health services adapted to the needs of, and likely
to be used by, the people they are intended to serve. They will be followed
by feasibility studies for regional health care centers and associated train-
ing units, for which preliminary architectural designs will also be made. The
project will also provide two health specialist educators and overseas train-
ing in health administration. The studies will be carried out by experts
acceptable to IDA, on terms of reference which have been drawn up with IDA
assistance, and the government will exchange views with IDA, after their
completion, to carry out agreed recommendations (Section 3.10, Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). It is hoped that these studies will be a basis
for further operational assistance by IDA to the Yemeni health sector. (b)
For the post-secondary education system study, funds would be provided for
(i) a study visit by a Yemeni observation team and a feasibility study by an
institutional team of consultants; and (ii) 3 man-years of experts and about
4 man-years of fellowships, including fellowships for training university
staff in the planning and administration of higher education. Detailed terms
of reference for the study together with the composition of the study group
would be sent to IDA for concurrence, and the findings for IDA's information.
Project Implementation
58.        Implementation is expected to take about six years.  The physical
aspects are expected to be completed by December 1981, but the major part of
the technical assistance would continue through December, 1983, while the
experts for the agricultural and livestock schools would be needed until July
1985.
59.        Each agency would be responsible for implementation of its respec-
tive project components, under the overall responsibility of the Minister of
Education. The PIU would be responsible for the scheduling, monitoring, and
supervision of the physical aspects of all project components, in liaison
with the agencies. The head of the UNDP-UNESCO support team will coordinate
technical assistance for the project institutions. One of the two Deputy
Ministers of Education will be the project coordinator for the agricultural
and livestock secondary schools. The Vice-Dean of NIPA would be the coor-
dinator for the two NIPA branches. The Director of Basic Health Services in
the Ministry of Health would coordinate the pre-investment studies for estab-
lishing regional health-care centers and training units, while the Vice-Rector
of the University of Sana'a would be the coordinator for the pre-investment
studies for the development of the post-secondary education system.



- 18 -
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
60.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $21.4 million, of
which about $8.6 million is for investment in the four project institutions
(the agricultural and livestock secondary schools and the two NIPA branches),
$5.5 million for technical assistance, and about $7.3 million for physical and
price contingencies. Physical contingencies are calculated at 10 percent of
the estimated cost of civil works, furniture and equipment, and five percent
of the estimated cost of technical assistance and fellowships. Price contin-
gencies are based on current and projected price escalation rates over the
period of project implementation, estimated at 43.8 percent of the baseline
cost. The relatively high cost of new school construction is due to the
country's acute and persistent labor shortages, elevating wages far above
those typical in developing countries. Of the total 73 man-years of experts'
services included in the project, 59 man-years would be financed from the
proceeds of the credit, for which the average cost per man-month is estimated
at $5,000. The proposed IDA credit of $10.0 million, representing 46.8
percent of the total project costs, would finance 91 percent of the total
foreign exchange cost. The balance of the foreign exchange cost ($1.0 mil-
lion) is the estimated cost of experts for the Surdud agricultural secondary
school and is expected to be met by USAID. The balance amounting to about
$10.4 million or 48.5 percent of project costs would be financed by the
government. As is the practice for development projects in YAR, project
expenditures will be exempt of duties and taxes.
Procurement and Disbursements
61.       Civil works contracts (estimated at $11.6 million including contin-
gencies) would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding.
Due to the dispersion of the project institutions within the country and the
improving capability of the domestic construction industry, which is now
importing foreign workers to relieve some of its labor shortages, all civil
works contracts (of average size $3 million) are likely to be awarded to local
firms. If foreign bids are received, qualified local civil works contractors
would be allowed a preferential margin of 7-1/2 percent over bid prices of
competing foreign contractors. Equipment and furniture ($2.1 million includ-
ing contingencies) would be grouped, to the extent possible, in large packages
to permit bulk procurement. Contracts for furniture and equipment in excess
of $50,000 would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
(ICB). Small items or groups of items estimated to cost less than $50,000 or
items of specialized nature for which ICB would not be practical, would be
procured under normal government procedures acceptable to IDA and would
include, to the extent feasible, quotations from at least three manufacturers
or suppliers; these items would not exceed an aggregate total of $0.4 million
(about 20 percent of the estimated furniture and equipment cost including
contingency allowances). For the purpose of comparing foreign and local bids
for furniture and equipment under ICB, local manufacturers of furniture and
equipment will be allowed a margin of preference equal to the existing rate of
customs duties applicable to competing imports or 15 percent of c.i.f. price,
whichever is lower. Almost all equipment and furniture is expected to be
imported.



- 19 -
62.       The proposed credit would be disbursed against 24 percent of total
expenditures for civil works. For furniture and equipment, 100 percent of
foreign expenditures and local expenditures ex-factory, and 85 percent of
local expenditures of items procured locally, would be disbursed. Disburse-
ments for technical assistance would be 100 percent of expenditures.
Benefits and Risks
63.       The project would make a modest but significant contribution to
YAR's manpower needs formulated within the objectives of the Five-Year
Development Plan. The major benefits are expected to be: (a) improved
administrative capability of the MOE and the School Building Unit staffed with
qualified Yemenis by mid-1982; (b) identification of the direction, scope and
phasing of the effective development of post-secondary education; (c) a
subsequent accelerated expansion of basic health services and primary health
care to cover a larger proportion of the rural population based on the
project's pre-investment studies; (d) an annual output of some 55 middle-level
agricultural technicians and 55 animal health assistants to assist in meeting
40 percent and 100 percent respectively of the projected average annual demand
by 1985 for these personnel in agriculture and livestock production, and (e)
expansion of public administration in-service training, upgrading annually
some 650 public sector personnel in the regional governorates through the two
NIPA branches, which would also train officials of local development associa-
tions and agricultural coperatives.  The 90 women trained annually by NIPA
will significantly increase the total number of trained Yemeni women who have
received formal training of any kind.
64.       In addition to the difficulties inherent in ensuring administrative
coordination of the various ministries and agencies, there are two major
risks. The first, experienced with the earlier YAR education projects, is
that of ensuring the timely availability of qualified expatriate and Yemeni
staff for the project institutions. This risk will be reduced by the recent
appointment of a high-level recruitment committee (paragraph 46) to oversee
recruitment of senior staff. The UNDP-UNESCO institutional support team will
also be closely involved coordinating technical assistance requirements for
this and the earlier projects. The second risk, based on experience of
agricultural secondary schools in developing countries, concerns the recruit-
ment of trainees and subsequent employment of graduates of these schools. The
total enrollments in the agricultural and livestock secondary schools could
fall short of targets, if the career prospects in the Ministry of Agriculture
services are neither well known nor attractive in competition with others.
To reduce this risk, the government has provided assurances, described in
paragraph 52, concerning the development of a staffing program with well
defined career paths.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab
Republic and the Association, and the recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately.



- 20 -
66.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest are
referred to in Section III of Annex III. A special condition of credit
effectiveness is receipt by IDA of evidence that the appointment of required
experts and other key staff will be assured for the commencement of the
operations of the institutions under the first two IDA education projects
(paragraph 45; Section 5.01, Development Credit Agreement).
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments                              by
May 9 , 1979
Washington, D.C.                         I. P. M. Cargill



- 21 -                                                           ANNEX I
Page 1   of  5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF                                        la
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL              195.0                                                       SAME          SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL        15.2                                   MOST RECENT       GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE lb         REGION Le   GROUP td    GROUP Le
CNP PER CAPITA (US5)                        ..           ..      390.0 (1977)1438.5            182.9        432.3
ENERGY CJNSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          7.0          17.0       49.0            816.7         88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAI. POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                            4.6         4.8        5.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)   ..               ..        7.0              45.8        15.0         24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                            ..         28.0        34.0             23.2         46.8         42.7
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND          ..        362.0      441.0             112.4        254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            43.3          44.1       46.8             46.0         43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                            54.0         53.2       49.7              50.6         53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      2.7           2.7        3.5               3.3         2.9          3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCERT)
TOTAL                                   ..         ..         2.0                2.9         2.4          2.7
URBAN                                   ..           ..        8.0               5.0         4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           ..         50.5       47.3              45.0        44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           ..         24.1       28.7              13.7        19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   ..          3.5        3.5               3.4         2.9          3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..            ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..               ..         ..              14.7        14.6         14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)               156.2        100.0       156.1            107.1         96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                      82.0         71.0         . *             99.2        92.3          99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             65.0         62.0                         63.4         50.0         56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            ..         15.8 If                      16.4         13.9         17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE           ..           ..         ..                ..          ..          7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)          ..           ..       37.0              53.7        45.8         53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)  ..               ..      159.0              71.7       102.7         82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..         4.0         9.4             59.1         26.4         31.1
URBAN                                  ..         45.0        51.7 IR           85.9        63.5         68.5
RURAL                                   ..          2.0        6.7              38.0        14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..           ..         ..             64.3         16.1         37.5
URBAN                                   ..           ..         ..             94.5         65.9         69.5
RURAL                                   ..           ..         ..             27.7          3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           143500.0       31340.0   23260.0            4271.6    13432.7         9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             ..           ..   16830.0             2077.4      6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TUTAL                              3300.0            ..    2060.0             580.2       1157.6        786.5
URBAN                                  ..            ..         ..            310.0        183.3        278.4
RURAL                                   ..           ..         ..                ..      1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..           ..         ..              22.0        19.5          19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   ..           ..        5.9               5.4         5.2
URBAN                                  ..            ..        4.2 /R*                       4.8
RURAL                                   ..           ..        6.0                ..         5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OP PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                   ..           ..        3.0
URBAN                                   ..           ..        1.8 /R            1.8         1.3           2.3
RURAL                                   ..           ..        3.1                ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..           ..         ..              40.3        25.9         28.3
URBAN                                  ..                     56.5 /$.
RURAL                                   * -                                     12.2                     10.3



- 22 -                                            ANNEX I
i.,rrT f 5
TABLE 3A
YETEN . ARAB REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJMSTED AVERAGES
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF                                      La
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb        REGION Le   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                   8.0         10.0      25.7              80.8         62.9        75.8
FEMALE                 0.4          2.0        7. 1            61.8         45.9        67.9
Upper SECONDARY:   TOTAL                      0.2          1.0        4.4             23.6         14.4        17.7
FEMALE                  ..          0.1        1.3             18.2          8.8        12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)   ..            2.0        2.0              6.7          6.6         7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             45.0         51.0       40.0             31.5         38.5        34.3
SECONDARY                           17.0         24.0      21.0              22.3         19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           3.0          ..       13.0             50.1          36.7       63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..         ..             14.5          3.1         7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..       13.0            125.8         31.1        71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..         ..             34.5          2.8        14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      ..        10.0         ..             17.4          6.0        16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..         ..               1.6          1.4         1.6
EPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)            ..          ..    1140.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     3.8          4.2        4.3              9.3         24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               83.2         79.2       73.0             42.0         60.7        54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   6.9          9.0
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.0         29.1       28.3             26.9         39.8         37.8
MALE                                  57.0         55.1       53.6              46.6         53.3        50.3
FEMALE                                 2.3          2.4        2.5              5.3         19.6        20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  ..          ..        2.2               1.9          1.3         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..         ..                ..        20.3
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..         ..                ..        45.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..         ..               ..          5.7
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..         ..               ..         16.8
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                ..         88.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..                       142.0         71.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       79.0            236.1        100.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..       40.0            144.7         42.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       15.0             21.5         46.0
RURAL                                  ..          ..       60.0             37.4         48.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    North Africa & Middle East;   /d   Low Income ($280 or less per capita, 1976);   /e  Lower Middle Income
($281-550 per capita, 1976);   If  Av. 1964-66;  /   Only in the major cities of Samoa, Taig and Hodaidah.
September, 1978



-23                                              ~~~~~~ANNEX I
DWXIUUX      V  IOCIA  IDLICATOILS                                                       W. I o          s
tLioie The adjusted group sarapse few seek inAicator ara population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicat.r and the most
populated country in each groupl. CoVerag &I esustite among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform. Du. to lack of d.,c.,
group avrsarea f or Capital Surplus Oil Exporters end indicators of accsse to w"aer a"d 4ecrete disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty art
simple population-weighted geometric smue without the exciusion of extrsm values.
LA,sND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                               Population per hospital bed - total, urban, end rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising lend  re aNW inland watsO.                            urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital baed
Aeicturel - Moet recant estimAite of agricultural sr"e used temporarily                   available In public and private general and specialized hospital andr-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market mand kitchen gardens or to                      habilitation centers.  Hospitals aer  esteblishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow,                                                                                at least one physician.   Establialmots providing principally cutodial
care are not included. Rural hoepitels. hoswever, include health snd -di-
GNP Pit CAITA_(US_) - GNP per capita estimates at currsnt market prices,                      cal center. not Permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical an-
calculated by asem  conversion method as World Benk Atlas (1975-77 basis);                 sistent. nurse, midwife, aet.) whIch offer in-patient accoemodation and
1960. 1971. and 1977 data.                                                                 pro-ids a limited range of medical facilities.
Admiasiosa oar hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or dIscharges
ENEtRGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of coomarcial energy                       f roe hospitals divided by the number of bed..
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gee and hydro-, nuclear end gen-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                      HOUSING
Aver alsos of household (persona, por household) - total, urban,..adrua 
POPULIATION ANDl VITAL STATISTICS                                                              A housshold consists of a group of individuals who share Iliving quarters
Total ppulation. mid-yea  (millions) - An of July 1; if not available.                       and their maim meals.  A boarder or lodger may o-  ay not he included In
averge  f tw  en-yaa  eaimaas  1960. 1970. and 1977 data,                          the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical defInitions of house-
trban population (peccant of total) -Ratio of urban to total popula-                         hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                      Averaea  numer of personns per room - total. urban. and rural - Average  ue
of data smong countries,                                                                   her of parsons Per room in all, urban, and rural occupied con ventional
Population density                                                                           dwellings, repectively.  Owellina exclude no-permanen.t structures  od
Per  en. km. - Kid-year population par square kilometer (100 hectares)                      unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                           Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                      Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as perc..ntag.
only.                                                                                      of total, urban, and rural dwsllings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                 EDUCATION
Year population.                                                                       Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population arovth rats (percent) - total. and urban - Compound annual                      Primary school - total. and female - Total and female  n,ro11met of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60.                          at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary sch-ol-ag
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                      populations; normally includes children aged h-li years but adjusted Por
Crude birth rarej(per ~thousad) - Annual live births per thousand of                         different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal cdv-
mid-year Population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                       cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent ninre some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for mast recenit estimate,                       shove the official school age.
Crude death rate (par thousand) - Annual deaths per thousend of mid-                       Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as abovo, socondary edoco-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                      tion requires at least four years of appr-ovd primary  instruction, pr-
and five-year average ending in 197) for moat recent estimate.                             vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                      usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are gene.rally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                          excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960.                    Vocational enrollment (Percent of secondary) - Vo..stiono1 iseLtluti0na 10-
1970, ond 197).                                                                            clods technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning   acceptors, anual (th-ouands) - Annual number of                            or as departments of se ondary isatitutions.
acceptors of birth-control deyices under auspices of national family                   Pupil-teacher ratio - primary. and secondary - Total students enrolled ia
planning program.                                                                          primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the cor re-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage, of                          sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                 Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to rood and writo) 
devic-  to ali married women in sane age group.                                            a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AlNt NUTRITION                                                                       CONSUMPTION
loden of food production per capita (197.0.'100) - Index number of per                    Peasse.gor cars (per thousand population) - Fas..enger cars coprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food coemodities.                                        seating ltss than eight persons; excludes ambulancen, hearses and military
For capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                    vehicles.
energy equivslent of net food supplies available, in country per capita                Radio rece.ivers (par thousand population) - All typos of receivers icr radio
por day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                 broadcasts to general Psblic per thoussnd nf population; ...cIudes .ni cen.od
exports, and changes in stock,  list supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,               receivers in countries and in years whon registrstioft of radio  sets .as in
quantitirs used in food proces.sing, and loases in diatribution.  Re-                    affect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
qulrements were estimated by PAO based as physiological needs fsr nor-                   abolished licensing.
mel activity and health considering environeental temperature, body                    TV receivers (per thousand onOulation) - TV' receivers for broadcast cc gecr&
weights, ags and so. distributions of Population , and allowing 10 per-                    public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV recoivors incon
cet for waste at household level,                                                          trie.sand in years when registration of TV sets was ir effect.
FPr capita supply of Protein (grams par day) - Protein content of per                    Newuspaper circulation (per thou.sa,d population) - Sh.ws tho averag   iro
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                       tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical p,bli-
above.  Requirements for all cou ntries established by USDA Provide for                    cation devoted primarily to recording geealows.  It Is coniderd to
a minimum, allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 gr-am                     be "daily" if it appears at least fsur times a week.
of animal and Pulse protein, of which ii gram~s should be animal protein.              Cinema annual attendance Par capita per year - Based on the cuebr of tzckcts
These standards are lower then those of 75 gram  of total protein  -an                     sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in c_ne_a  aod coheir
2) grams of animal protein as an avora.go for the world, proposed by                       units.
FAO is the Third World Food Survey.
For capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food                 1gPLO'fMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                      Total labor force (thous.ands) - Erononical1y active per--o, cocl.d-g  -.nd
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                    forces and unemployed but exc luding housewives, students. or.  DePi'ri-
and in age group i-i years, tn children in this age group.                                 tirns in various  -ontrics are not comparable-
female (percent) - female1 labor force as pr-otago cf  ct011 lobor icrcr
MEtotlO                                                                                    Agriculture (per-et) - Labor force In faroing, forestry.  hunting and f-shi.g
life  spcory at_birth_ (years)_ - Average number of years of life                            as percentage of total labor forc..
remaining or birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970.                   Industry (persent) - Labor force in miniog, constructico, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                  electricit y, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Iofaot mortality rate (per thousa.nd) - Annual1 deaths of infants under                   Participation rate (percent) - total, male. and female - Tonal, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                  resale labor foc  as ~.  pe-cetagen of their re.spetive poPulaticos.
Access to safe water (Percent of population) - total, urban. and rural -                     These are Tll's adjosted participation rates reflec-ingae-o
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable acrss to                        stroctore of the populution. v-d long time trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                    ftrnomic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 1) and 65 and over to
u-contaminated water such as that from protected borehole., springs,                       the labor force io age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populatirns.
lv an urban area a public fountain or eteedpost located not mare                      INiCOMEt DISTRIBOUTION
thor 200 meters from a house may be considered so being within rca-                     Percentage of private income (both in rash and kind) received by richest 5
socahble access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                     percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 4i perc-nt
isply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                        of households.
spend o disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
wooer needn.                                                                           POVERTY TARGET IROUPS
Acces  to exoroca diupona1 (percent of population) - total, urban, and                    Estimated absolute p-cesty income level(15prcpi,-rbncccr-
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural ) servyed by encreta                       Absolute poverty incoor level is that income level below a.ich  a mioisel
disposal aspercentages of their respective populatioas.   E-ret.                           nutritionally adequate diec plus essential non-food req-rceeneni   Is not
dispoa  ca. y irclude the collection and disposal , with or without                        affordable.
troacest, of Iua   csr.ta and ..aste-.ater by water-borno systems                       Enti-tced Veaiepvrt   noelell .t                   _naapt)      rb._anacd cr,i_  -
or tie use of pic privies and similar itlain.Relative poverty                                                          1-n ls1 is that income, level less tha  one-..third
Fcpuortc pe  phsicin -Populatien div,ided by number of practicing                     per capita personal  income of the country.
yhysicia-  qualified from s medical school at university level.                         taiar   eualnblwovryincome level (p.r.e.tj~uhnc    ua 
FPopultion per .srs lop person - Population divided by number of                              Per-ot of population (urban and rural) who are either "abselute poor" or
practiring sale and female graduate  uss  practical nurses,. an d                          "rolotive poo" whinbe...  is greater.
E-osoic and S.,    Theta livesics
Econoic Analysis, urd irulje. ticrs. DcPsex-nt



ANNEX I
- 24 -                               Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976/77                                             ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(%, Constant Prices)
US$ Mln.              %                  1969/70-1975/76    1976/77
GNP at Market Prices               2,450                100                       15              20
GDP at Market Prices               1,560                 64                        9              12
Gross Domestic Investment            445                 18                      21               24
Gross National Saving                620                 25                      ..               22
Current Account Balance              175                  7
Exports of Goods, NFS                 65                  3                       ..              19
Imports of Goods, NFS                780                 32                      ..               60
OUTPUT, LABOR FOL.CE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975/76
Value Added                     Labor Force               V. A. Per Worker
(US$ Mmn.)                        Thous.          %           US $           %
Agriculture            512            45                800           73            64C         61
Industry               117            10                90             8         1,30C         123
Services               522            45               200            19         2,610         247
TOTAL/AVERAGE      1,151           100             1,090          100          1,056         100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
'         ~%o of GNP
1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78.21   1976/77
----------------- YRls Million-------------------
Current Revenue                        277        381        605       1,293      1,925        12
Current Expenditure                    323        472        617         841      1,235         8
Current Deficit/Surplus                -46        -91        -12       +452       +690          4
Development Expenditure                 139       185        322         463        870         4
External Assistance (net)              239        536        635         606       682          6
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
 _______________------- June 30 -----------------------
1973      1974       1975       1976       1977       1978
------- Y ~SMillion Outstanding End Period)------
Money Supply                                 489        640       964      2,028      3,642      5,248
Bank Credit to Govt. Sector                  102         77      -150       -407       -939    -1,006
Bank Credit to Non-Govt. Sector              169       238        394        566      1,474      1,571
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money Supply as % of GNP!/                    14         15         15        20         26
Consumer Price Indexi/                        ..        154       203        237        293        348
(1972 = 100)
Annual percentage increasel/ in:
Money Supply                                36         31         51       104         80         44
Consumer Price Index                        ..        ..         32         17         24         19
1/  During fiscal year ending June 30.
2/ Preliminary estimates
.. Not available



ANNEX I
- 25 -                              Peg6 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78
---------------------Million US$-------------------
Exports of Goods, fob                    14          13          12          19           7
Imports of Goods, cif                   194        259         382         730         834
Trade Balance                          -180       -246        -370        -711        -827
Non Factor Services, net                 14          18          22          -3        -21
Factor Income, net                      117         203        479         889       1,089
Workers' Remittances, net            (112)       (191)       (457)       (842)    (1,019)
Investment Income, net                 (5)       (12)        (22)        (47)        (70)
Balance on Current Account             -49         -25          131         175        241
M & LT Capital, net                      62         126         153        146         165
Official Grants                       33          93         114         104         101
Official Loans, net                   29          33          39          42          64
Disbursements                      (32)        (37)        (42)        (46)        (70)
Repayments                         (-3)        (-4)        (-3)        (-4)        (-6)
Other Capital, net!/                     15         -3          +4         126         -24
Increase in Reserves (-)               -28         -98        -286        -447        -382
Gross Reserves (end fiscal year)!'    89            187        473         920       1,302
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT, JUNE 30, 1978                 (AVERAGE 1975/76-1976/77)
US$ Mln.                                            X
Total outstanding                693             Cotton and Cotton Products        51
of which disbursed               363             Coffee                            18
Hides & Skins                    14
All other commodities            17
TOTAL                       100
3/
DEBT SERVICE RATIO-  FOR 1977/78                         RATE OF EXCHANGE
%                        Since February 1973
Total outstanding and                                    US$ 1.00 = YRls  4.50
disbursed                    1                         YRl 1.00 - US$ 0.22
1/ Includes errors and omissions.
2/ Central Bank holdings of convertible reserves.
3/ Includes workers' remittances.
February 2, 1979



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
-26 -
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A.   Statement of IDA Credits
(As of March 31, 1979 - $ Million)
Amount
Credit                                                           (less cancellations)
Number   Year          Borrower         Purpose                  IDA      Undisbursed
Credit 315-YAR fully disbursed                                   7.7           -
376     1973   Yemen Arab Republic  Tihama Agriculture          21.2 /1       0.90
421     1973   Yemen Arab Republic  Education                   11.0          0.52
464     1974   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply                 6.3          0.92
465     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Industrial Estate            2.3          1.04
545     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Rural Development           10.0          6.23
558     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Highways                     9.0          0.30
559     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply
and Sewerage           8.1          3.96
611     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Education                    8.0         4.35
636     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Grain Storage and
Processing             5.2           3.13
662     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Livestock Credit
and Processing         5.0          3.20
670     1977   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply and
Sewerage              10.0          9.51
714     1977   Yemen Arab Republic  Port Development            6.0           5.81
794     1978   Yemen Arab Republic  Highways                    11.5         11.50
805     1978   Yemen Arab Republic  Tihama Agriculture          10.5         10.50
832     1978   Yemen Arab Republic  Textile Rehabili-
tation /2                 7.0          7.00
837     1978   Yemen Arab Republic  Power Distri-
bution /3                10.0         10.00
880     1979   Yemen Arab Republic  Tihama Agri-
culture /4               15.0         15.00
Total                                                 163.8         93.87
Of which has been repaid                                -
Total now held by IDA                                 163.8
Total undisbursed                                                   93.87
/1   Including supplementary credit of $10.3 million of April 9, 1976.
/2   Approved June 20, 1978; Credit not yet effective.
/3   Approved July 6, 1978; Credit not yet effective.
/4   Approved March 6, 1979; Credit not yet effective.



-27 -                         ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(As of March 31, 1979)
(Amount in Us$ millions)
Year           Obligor            Type of Business    Loan        Equity      Total
1978   Yemen Dairy and Juice       Dairy Products        2.4         -         2.4
Industries Co. Ltd.
Total Gross Commitments                           2.4                   2.4
less cancellations,
terminations,
repayments, sales                             -                     -
Total commitments now
held by IFC                                     2.4                  2.4
Fully disbursed
C.   Other Bank Group Activities
Three Bank grants of $200,000, $200,000 and $120,000, were approved
in July 1971, September 1973 and January 1976, respectively, to help finance,
jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of planning
and economic advisors and later of a management/administrative expert. The
Kuwait Fund provided grants of about $200,000, $300,000 and $425,000. The
Bank grants will be fully disbursed in 1979.
D.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 376-YAR - Tihama Agriculture; $10.9 million Credit of May 2, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: September 4, 1973; and $10.3 million Supplementary
Credit of April 9, 1976; Effectiveness Date: June 18, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Civil works have been substantially completed and other components
are proceeding very satisfactorily. The project is expected to be completed
by mid-1979.
Cr. No. 421-YAR - Education Project; $11 million Credit of July 19, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: April 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Following initial delays in recruiting staff for the Project Unit,
project implementation is now about 24 months behind appraisal estimates.
However, all institutions are now scheduled to be operational with the school
year beginning October 1979. The most critical aspects of the project are the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
difficulty of recruiting expatriate and trained Yemeni staff for project
institutions, and of obtaining technical assistance to draw up curricula and
to make the institutions operational. The UNDP/UNESCO Institutional Support
Team in the Ministry of Education, whose period was due to expire in December
1978, is being extended with further financing from UNDP. With assistance
from the institutional support team, the government is pursuing discussions
with bilateral agencies to meet the technical assistance and some staffing
needs for the project institutions, and is working hard to recruit staff from
other Arab countries.
Cr. No. 464-YAR - Sana'a Water Supply Project; $6.25 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: July 15, 1974; Closing Date: September 28, 1979.
Water supply headworks were inaugurated in September 1978 and the main
transmission line into the city is operational. Pipelaying for the distribu-
tion network has been completed and house connections are being installed.
Cr. No. 465-YAR - Industrial Estate Project; $2.3 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: November 27, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Construction work started in February 1976; construction of the
developed plots is almost finished and most plots have been rented. The
Industrial Estates Authority now wishes to establish additional estates in
Hodeidah and Taiz, and is seeking further assistance from the World Bank.
Cr. No. 545-YAR - Southern Uplands Rural Development Project; $10.0 million
Credit of May 13, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
After a slow start in project implementation, the project encoun-
tered management, staffing and organizational problems. Since 1976 progress
has been encouraging. Project management has improved and agricultural
extension, veterinary and credit activities are progressing very satisfac-
torily. Problems of cost escalation have been met by reducing the number
of loans that can be made to farmers and the extent of the feeder road com-
ponent. Well drilling and the village water supply component is underway.
Cr. 558-YAR - Second Highway Project; $9.0 million Credit of June 20, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1976; Closing Date: June 29, 1979.
The construction of the Taiz-Km 64 road was completed in November
1976, and the 2-1/2 years technical assistance consultancy to the Highway
Authority is being continued under the Third Highway Project. The closing
date was postponed in December 1978 to enable final payments to be made, and
the project is near completion.
Cr. No. 559-YAR - Hodeidah Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $8.1 million
Credit of June 20, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 29, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Contracts for the combined civil and electrical/mechanical works for
water supply and sewerage have been awarded and mobilization is underway.



- 29 -                       ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Transfer of the existing water system assets from the Port Authority is
expected shortly. Negotiations with consultants to carry out the tariff study
are underway.
Cr. No. 611-YAR - Second Education Project; $8.0 million Credit of February 13,
1976; Effectiveness Date: May 10, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Physical implementation of this project is proceeding on schedule
and all project institutions are expected to be operational by October 1979.
Bids for furniture and equipment for the eight project institutions have been
received and evaluation is underway. Following the establishment of the
National Basic Training Board, an initial deposit of $50,000 has been made to
the Basic Training Fund, and some district training centers opened. Severe
constraints have been placed on achieving the educational objectives of the
project by lack of progress in financing and recruiting expatriate and
Yemeni staff for the project institutions. The government is seeking help
from bilateral agencies to meet the technical assistance and some staffing
needs for the project institutions, and is working hard to recruit other
staff from other Arab countries.
Cr. No. 636-YAR - Grain Storage and Processing Project; $5.2 million Credit
of June 7, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 26, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
YGGC was established in October 1976 and is implementing the project
satisfactorily. Six local staff are currently undergoing training in the US
and UK in fields of cereal sciences and bakery management. Contracts for the
silo, government bakeries and warehouses have been awarded and construction
has commenced and is expected to be complete by end 1979. The Grain Storage
Survey is underway and the report is expected to be completed by May 1979.
The National Nutrition Status Survey is currently being organized and is
expected to start in July 1979. It will be carried out in cooperation with
the US Government's Center for Disease Control and USAID. Cost overruns on
construction and delays in implementation of the nutrition component and Grain
Storage Survey are problems, but satisfactory efforts are being made to remedy
the situation.
Cr. No. 662-YAR - Livestock Credit and Processing Project; $5.0 million Credit
of November 15, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 22. 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Escalation in the costs of this project during 1977 was resolved,
following a meeting of the government and co-financiers in London in October
1977, by the reduction and/or reorientation of some of the components, without
changing the project concept. One dairy farm is nearing completion; the
establishment of the livestock fattening farm is progressing well and the farm
has started operations on a small scale. The other physical works, although
progressing reasonably well at present, are about one year behind schedule,
and there have been changes in the economic situation in YAR which cast doubt



-30 -                         ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
on some components of the revised project. There are administrative and tech-
nical problems with most components; the project manager has recently resigned,
and the government and co-financiers are discussing how best to pursue the
project objectives. Nonetheless, supervision mission findings show that the
slaughterhouse and animal health components in particular are achieving their
aims, and that the livestock fattening, dairy production and village develop-
ment components will provide valuable research information and development
experience for the livestock sector in YAR.
Cr. No. 670-YAR - Sana'a Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $10.0
million Credit of January 14, 1977; Effectiveness Date: May 16, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The contract for bulk supply of materials for sewerage is expected
to be arranged shortly. Bids for civil works and electrical/mechanical works
for sewerage have been evaluated and contracts are expected to be awarded
shortly. All other tender documents are being finalized. A consultancy
contract for the supervision of construction is expected to be signed shortly.
Terms of reference for final designs of the Ibb and Dhamar water supply and
sewerage projects have been prepared and selection of consultants is underway.
Cr. No. 714-YAR - Port Development Project; $6.0 million Credit of June 8,
1977; Effectiveness Date: March 17, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Project implementation is about five months behind schedule because
of the delay in the appointment of the engineering consultants. However,
tenders for Berth No. 6, as well as other civil works, have been received and
are being evaluated. Construction is expected to start within three months.
The port engineer and electrical engineer have been appointed. Other tech-
nical staff provided for under the Credit are still to be appointed and PMAC
has assured IDA that these appointments will be made in the near future in
order to strengthen the technical services department.
Cr. No. 794-YAR - Third Highway Project; $11.5 million Credit of May 31,
1978; Effectiveness Date: April 4, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project aims at continuing technical and financial assistance to
the Highway Authority in the operation of effective road maintenance practices.
Other objectives of the project include the implementation of vehicle loading
controls, planning future highway development and the inception of an overlay
program to strengthen existing paved roads. Project implementation is under-
way and the Chief Engineer has been appointed.
Cr. No. 805-YAR - Tihama Development II Project; $10.5 million Credit of
May 31, 1978; Effectiveness Date: March 5, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
Implementation of the project began in mid-1978 and is progressing
satisfactorily.



-31 -                         ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Cr. No. 832-YAR - Textiles Rehabilitation Project; $7.0 million Credit of
July 25, 1978; Effectiveness Date: (Not effective); Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Due to delays in arranging for consultancy services, start of
implementation is about twelve months behind schedule. This credit is not
yet effective.
Cr. No. 837-YAR - Power Distribution Project; $10.0 million Credit of July 25,
1978; Effectiveness Date: (Not effective); Closing Date: January 1, 1983.
Although this credit is not yet effective because of delay in
concluding an agreement with the co-financier, implementation has started.
Cr. No. 880-YAR - Tihama Development III Project; $15.0 million of March 6,
1979; Effectiveness Date: (Not effective); Closing Date: September 30, 1985.
Although this credit is not yet effective, implementation is
underway.



- 32 -                       ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare
project:                                  Six months (September 1977-
March 1978)
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project:   Ministry of Education (MOE),
National Institute of Public
Administration (NIPA), Ministry
of Health, University of Sana'a,
with assistance of IDA.
(c)  Initial discussion with IDA:               August 1977
(d)  IDA preparation assistance mission:        January 1978
(e)  Appraisal mission                          April/May 1978
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:    January 1979
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:             September 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
A.   Condition of Credit effectiveness:  Receipt by IDA of evidence that the
appointment of required experts and other key staff will be assured for
the commencement of the operations of the institutions under the first
two IDA education projects (para. 45).
B.   (i)  Suitable graduates will be identified from Yemeni trainees studying
abroad to be appointed to the staff of the project agricultural
schools (para. 54);
(ii) a staffing program for agricultural and livestock field services,
including well defined career opportunities, will be formulated and
publicized by December 31, 1980 (para. 52);
(iii)  a qualified Yemeni engineer/architect would be appointed to head
the School Building Unit by September 1979 (para. 56).



IBRD 13779
am        nonEt/!    i  50d   60Y;                     44                                                                             46-              September IS78
e)<, )<> I4Q >t IrAN 5/A6S A  U  D  I    A  R A  B  I A
Wj', \   4 .    t                      VDHAHRAN                                                                        YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
<8r<i uerils:aernr-oT NRAN                                                                                                 THIRD EDUCATION  PROJECT
-20' tg _ _t ./ > d~~~~~~~NAJRAN
one j\,   ,,, ' ', AS. St   t.. <./                                                              *      Nalional Institnute ot Public Admmmistration- Regional Branch
A     Livestock Secondary School
 nIvOSIA x_SOnoit   -                                                                                                        Agricultural Secondary School
-_ , .     . .  - -          <[ SAMARA                                                                               Pa,ed Praimory Roads
.-     --  Primary Roads Under Construction
-    a   ('   \    SAADAH    /                                Other Roads
< tX \ -. SAADAHC /                                                            II' Alrports
-VBANI                                                       0      Cit es,Toons and Villages
_UWAIR                                                      0      Notlonol Capitals
r \ \ [ _< \ / BERAT  |            Main Wadis
Provincial Boundaries
.   ~   5)  HARAD           \               ->n>                                  - . Internatioral Boundardies
M   m                               ~~~~~~~~SHIHARA  ) H    -         
0      20     d0      60      8o    toO
-   .   \   oAL   1   J   KHAMER  )         t                          KILOMETERS
....  .   -    E   ABSy        \                         D     MARMAHMABIRADAA                                       I 
.                                                     -../                       GUf    OF t  *  '   |   /    |         0           20          40          6
.... ..DJ VVA ; MARIBOUTL
- -   S    \              ~~~~~ZAIDIy  tMA              '             S           JAHN               J
r43HAJ<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HR C M                H                 
SO.~~~~~~.4
>~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~ 2BL                                                                   R                   
> /  _FRUS MISRAKH\t HIDd .RU   1 
X             -       \s               >-.-ZABIHIBABI C\H
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                      E ,0 P L/   E S;' N' S           
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AH D                                                                      E IAO  R A  T I          C  R E P,       U -   L I.-
i~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F   Y ''  -."                                                                  E N            ,.. 
j ( g ' ' 4t . , ' ' ' ' - ' ' g ' t ' _~~ID



