Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE COPY
Report No. 2246-YAR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
April 27, 1979
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit                      Yemen Rial (YR)
Official rate
1 Yemen Rial (YR 1)       =           US$      0.22
YR's 1,000                =           US$    222
YR's 1,000,000            =           US$222,222
YR's 4.5                  =           US$       1.00
MEASURES
1 m                       =           3.28 ft
1 m2                      =           10.76 square feet
1 km2                                 0.38 square miles
1 hectare                 =           2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
July 1    to    June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
I.   THE EDUCATION SECTOR ................................                       1
Socio-economic Background ...........................                      I
Development of the Education and Training System ....                      2
A.    Initial Expansion of the System ....           ............          2
B.   Development Under the Five-Year Plan (1976/77-
1980/81) .................     I    .....................            3
Issues in the Education Sector ......................                      3
A.   Migration and Manpower Requirements             ............          4
B.   Meeting Specific Manpower Deficiencies            .........           5
C.   Provision of Basic Education ....            ...............          8
D.   Administrative and Financial Capability of the
Government   .....................................                  .9
IDA Lending Strategy for Education and Training   .....                   12
II.   THE PROJECT .........................................                      13
Introduction ........................................                     13
Objectives and Scope ................................                     13
Project Components ..................................                     15
Agricultural Secondary School, Surdud ..........                    15
Livestock Secondary School, Sanaa ....           ..........         17
National Institute of Public Administration
(NIPA) Branches at Taiz and Hodeidah .........                   18
Pre-investment Studies - Basic Health Care
Services and Related Training ....           ............         19
Pre-investment Studies for the Development of
Post-secondary Education ...........     I   .........            19
Strengthening the Ministry of Education           ........          20
(a)  Management of education projects .....                   20
(b)  School building .....         .................          20
This document hu a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                               Page No.
III.   PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND
DISBURSEMENTS .....................................21
Cost of the Project .21
Project Financing .23
Implementation (Administration, Architectural
Services, Sites and Procurement) .24
Disbursements .27
IV.   BENEFITS, RISKS AND CRITICAL ACTIVITIES                             27
Benefits .27
Risks and Uncertainty .28
Critical Activities and Key Implementation Dates ....               28
.V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .30
ANNEXES
l.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   Structure of Education and Training Systems (Chart 1)
3.   YAR Education Pyramid 1976-77 (Chart 2)
4.   Organization Chart of the National Institute of Public
Administration (Chart 3)
5.   Public Expenditure on Education
6.   Enrollments, Outputs, Pupil/Teacher Ratios and Use Factors in
Project Institutions
7.   Details of Terms of Reference of Pre-investment Studies for
Development of Post-Secondary Education
8.   Unit Capital Costs and Area per Student - Project Institutions
9.   Technical Assistance Requirements
10.   Contingency Allowances
11.   Implementation Schedule - Civil Works and Procurement
12.   Implementation Schedule - Technical Assistance
13.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILES
A.   General Report and Studies Relating to Education
B.   Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
C.   Selected Working Papers
MAP



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Basic Data (1976-77)
Total Population (1975)                                      5,300,000
of which, Resident Abroad                              580,000(est.)
Current Rate of Population Growth (1970-76)                    2% p.a.
GNP per Capita (1976-77)                                        US$390
Estimated Illiteracy Rate                                           87%
Primary School Enrollment as a
Percentage of Age-Group 6-11                                    26%
Preparatory School Enrollment as a
Percentage of Age-Group 12-14                                  4.8%
Secondary School Enrollment as a
Percentage of Age-Group 15-17                                  3.7%
Higher Education Enrollment as a
Percentage of Age-Group 18-22                                  0.8%
Skill Distribution of Public Sector Employees (1975)
- Post-secondary Education                                     3.0%
- Preparatory/Secondary Schooling                              8.0%
- Read and Write/Primary Schooling                            72.6%
Health Services Ratios per Population
- Hospital Beds                                              1:2000
- Physicians                                               1:14,000
- Dentists                                                1:280,000
- Pharmacists                                             1:126,000
Government Expenditures on Education as a               8.1% recurrent
Percentage of Total Government                         6.9% capital
Expenditures                                             7.9% total
Government Expenditures on Education as a
Percentage of GDP                                              1.3%



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Glossary
BHS                 Basic Health Services
DTC                 District Training Center
HMI                 Health Manpower Institute
LDA                 Local Development Association
LSS                 Livestock Secondary School
MOA                 Ministry of Agriculture
MOE                 Ministry of Education
MOH                 Ministry of Health
NIPA                National Institute of Public Administration
PHC                 Primary Health Care
PHCU                Primary Health Care Unit
PIU                 Project Implementation Unit
PTTI                Primary Teacher Training Institute
RHCC                Regional Health Care Center
SBU                 School Building Unit
UKODM                United Kingdom Ministry of Overseas Development
UNDP                 United Nations  Development Program
UNESCO              United Nations Educational and Scientific Commission
USAID               United States Agency for International Development
VTC                 Vocational Training Center
WHO                 World Health Organization
YAR                  Yemen Arab Republic



I. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
SOCIO-ECONOMIC BACKGROUND
1.01      The Yemen Arab Republic has made significant strides towards devel-
opment since the 1962 Revolution, which overthrew the feudal regime that
had isolated the country from the modern world.  After a debilitatinr  cig il
war, a Constitution was adopted in 1971, laying the framework for a mXodern
central government and public administration.  The establishment of essential
government institutions, the rapid expansion of formal education, and the
preparation of two extensive national development plans are remarkable
achievements for the country in less than a decade. The ceritral government
has also managed to channel local energies and traditional tribal leadership
through Local Development Associations (LDA), the objective of which is to
foster local self-help as a substitute for initiatives of central government
in the provision of rural infrastructure and social service facilities. Onae
indication of the dynamism of the LDA program is that some 600 schools were
constructed between 1973 and 1976, financed by resources mobilized by the LDAs
and matched by the central government.
1.02      The economy of the YAR has also been expanding rapidly after the
long period of stagnation. Notwithstanding severe droughts in the early
1970s which curtailed growth in agriculture, the predominant sector of the
economy, the increasing flows of foreign assistance, particularly from the
oil-producing countries on the Arabian peninsula, have permitted the govern-
ment to finance fast-growing expenditures for public services and investment
projects. Real GDP grew at an average annual rate of about 8.5%. between 1970
and 1976. Moreover, in recent years, the YAR has enjoyed a phenomenal
increase in money incomes in the form of remittances from workers who emigrate
to neighboring OPEC countries. Largely as a reflection of this cash flow,
which is estimated at about US$800 million in 1976/77, the YAR's GNP per
capita nearly tripled between 1974 and 1977, from US$120 to US$390. Inflation
has intensified as domestic production and imports have not kept pace with the
growth in demand.
1.03      The persistent constraint on the country's social and economic
development has been, and will continue to be for some time, the shortage _f
manpower at all skill levels. Although Yemenis have traditionally migrated
to obtain the employment lacking at home, the sharply increasing demand for
labor in the neighboring oil states now absorbs one-third to one-half of
Yemen's male work force. The resulting inflation of local wages places a
particular strain on labor-intensive sectors such as agriculture and construc-
tion, leading to some "replacement migration" of unskilled South Asian workers
into the YAR.  The undeveloped state of Yemen's educational and training sys-
tem and the opportunity for potential trainees to obtain work abroad even
without special skills force the country to import skilled personnel to staff
the rapidly expanding development projects at home. Public employment has



- 2 -
also failed to attract or retain educated Yemenis because civil service
salaries and promotional opportunities do not compete with those of the
domestic private sector or employment abroad.
DEVELOPMENT OF THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
A.   Initial Expansion of the System
1.04      Although the system of public education (Annex 2) did not really get
underway until the civil war ended in 1969, primary school enrollments (grades
I to 6) grew annually at a high average rate of 22% between 1971 and 1976.
The proportion of primary school-age population in school increased to 26%
(including only 6% of the girls aged 6-11), and the number of primary schools
tripled.
1.05      The rapid increase in primary enrollment has been achieved at the
price of poor quality. Many of the schools are overcrowded and lack teaching
materials. In regions of dispersed population, most schools do not offer the
full six-grade sequence and more than a third of these remain periodically
closed for lack of teachers. Two thirds of the 6,300 primary school teachers
have less than a secondary education and no pedagogical training, and only 45%
of teachers with higher academic or professional qualifications were on perma-
nent status in 1977.
1.06      Enrollments in preparatory schools (grades 7-9) increased at an aver-
age annual rate of about 30% from 1973 to 1976 and the proportion of females
in total enrollment at this level expanded reasonably from a negligible figure
to 15%. Only about 5% of the 12-14 year olds were enrolled at this stage, how-
ever. Upper secondary education (grades 10-12) reached about 4% of the 15-17
age group in 1976, and girls comprised 14% of the enrollment. To permit this
level of enrollment, however, 95% of the teachers at the preparatory and sec-
ondary level have had to be recruited from abroad (mostly Egypt).
1.07      Non-formal education of illiterate adults and other persons not in
school has also been an important area for expansion. However, government
literacy classes, which offer an attenuated primary school curriculum, have
suffered high dropout rates and have had only marginal impact on the propor-
tion of adult illiteracy, estimated at about 87% in 1975. A basic training
scheme was initiated in 1973 with IDA assistance to coordinate the provision
of vocational and literacy instruction for unschooled adults. Basic training
centers are being set up in the regional locations and a basic training fund
has been established to provide resources for local self-help groups and help
meet their education and training needs.
1.08      Although vocational and agricultural extension training programs
(Annex 2) had been conducted on a very small scale in connection with various
public agencies and donor projects, construction of the first vocational and
agricultural training centers under the Ministry of Education was initiated
in 1973. Technician training, currently only available at one technical
secondary school operated by the People's Republic of China, is being expanded
and upgraded with assistance under the first two IDA education credits.



- 3 -
1.09      The University of Sana'a, founded in 1970, has grown rapidly with
generous financial assistance from neighboring Arab countries.  Some 3,000
students were enrolled at the university in 1976/77, of whom 8% were in the
science program and the remainder in arts, law, and commerce.
B.   Development Under the Five-Year Plan (1976-1980)
1.10      In the current Development Plan, the government has articulated the
following long-term objectives for the educational sector: (a) to provide
primary education to all children and non-formal education, particularly
literacy training, to the unschooled; (b) to improve the supply of qualified
Yemeni teachers and of locally-oriented teaching materials in the schools; (c)
to develop an adequate pool of trained and educated manpower to serve the
needs of all sectors, especially agriculture; (d) to plan for the construction
of needed school buildings; (e) to raise the educational and administrative
efficiency of the university and to expand the output of graduates in science
and technology. With each objective, the government hopes to improve the
educational opportunities for females and for the population in disadvantaged
regions. The enrollments and enrollment ratios in the different education
levels for 1976 are shown in Annex 3.
1.11      To meet the above objectives, the Plan specifies an ambitious expan-
sion of enrollment at all levels of the education and training system. The
government has encouraged the Local Development Associations to prepare
five-year plans for the construction of classrooms which will be needed to
accommodate the new primary school enrollment. The annual output of primary
school teachers is expected to increase nearly four-fold, but even this will
not be adequate to meet new school enrollments during the Plan period (see
para. 1.20). Basic education and training enrollments are projected to
achieve a six-fold increase.
1.12      Programs which the government has initiated to improve the quality
and effectiveness of education include: (i) strengthening school construction
capability; (ii) development of curricula, textbooks, audio-visual materials,
school furniture, and in-service teacher training through a new National Edu-
cation Center to permit a more coherent approach to planning educational
quality; and (iii) enlarging and upgrading the school inspectorate.
1.13      To improve planning and coordination of education programs, a
planning unit has been established in the Ministry of Education together with
a Directorate of Women's Education and a Directorate and National Board of
Technical and Vocational Education. The government is also planning to expand
and improve the National Institute of Public Administration, in order to raise
the quality of management in the public sector generally.
ISSUES IN THE EDUCATION SECTOR
1.14      In spite of the country's remarkable achievements in establishing
a network of public education and in formulating a five-year plan for its
development, several issues remain. Provided the government can continue to
attract increasing levels of foreign assistance and to mobilize the flow of



- 4 -
remittances for public investment and recurrent expenditure, financial re-
sources will be less a constraint on implementation of the educational plan
than the lack of qualified trainees and teachers, and the difficulties of
educational management.
1.15      The remaining issues can be grouped under four headings:  (a) migra-
tion and manpower requirements, (b) meeting specific manpower deficiencies,
(c) provision of basic education, and (d) the administrative and financial
capacity of the government.
A.   Migration and Manpower Requirements
1.16      Since the YAR lacks favorable endowments of physical resources,
its major resource for development must be its 5.5 million people. However,
four-fifths of the resident labor force in 1975 was illiterate; only 18%
had completed some primary schooling, while 1.2% had some secondary or higher
education. According to the Five-Year Plan, almost 6,000 jobs requiring
university-level education will need to be filled between 1977 and 1981,
of which no more than two-thirds will be taken up by Yemenis. The shortfall
of middle-level manpower is estimated at 9,000 workers, and the deficit of
skilled labor may reach 26,000. About 200,000 workers who can at most read
and write will enter the labor force without any other training during the
period.
1.17      The government of the YAR would find it difficult to control the
flow of migration for employment even if it were deemed desirable to do soe
Rather, a major issue facing the government at this time is whether to invest:
in training of persons who will seek employment abroad. Given that (a) migra-
tion in most cases is temporary, and (b) increasing the migrants' earnings
capability could produce higher remittances for the home country, with pos-
sibly a net gain in public financial resources, the government of YAR may do
well to train its labor force even when they are likely to migrate.  Traiaing
of migrants would improve their current employment prospects while ensuring a
more experienced and higher skilled labor force for the domestic economy in
the future.
1.18      Even if the modern sector grows more slowly than the Plan predict:s,
an urgent need will still exist for the training and education of high level
personnel to rectify the low educational status of the existing staff in
professional and subprofessional positions, and to permit Yemenization. How-
ever, the government has wisely expressed its intention to curtail the rate
of growth of the faculties of art, law, and commerce, in order to avoid
generating a surplus of arts graduates over the number who can be employed
by the end of the Plan period, and to increase the growth rates of the scienice
and education faculties. The costs of any educated unemployment which could
appear, given existing enrollment trends, would be mitigated as long as (a)
such graduates can migrate and (b) the oil-rich countries finance most of the
expenditures on Yemenis' higher education, as at present.  However, the sltua--
tion should be carefully monitored so that fungible resources are directed ,:o
production of the most-needed workers.



B.   Meeting Specific Manpower Deficiencies
1.19      The manpower deficiencies requiring specific attention in the train-
ing sector are in teacher training, and technical, vocational, agricultural
and health training.
1.20      Teachers and Trainers.  The lack of qualified instructors is the
greatest obstacle to the immediate expansion of the education and training
system. The deficit of primary school teachers will remain severe during the
Plan years. The demand for trained teachers would appear even greater, how-
ever, if the needs to replace the unqualified teaching force were taken into
account. Although the capacity of all primary teacher training institutes
(PTTI), including those being constructed under IDA Credits 421-YAR and 611-
YAR, is about 6,000 trainee places, their output during 1977-81 would be
only 1,900 graduates against the demand for additional 4,000 primary school
teachers. The currently inadequate enrollment is largely due to the prefer-
ence of many students to continue into general secondary education instead of
enrolling in the PTTI's, and the limited numbers of students graduating from
the preparatory schools. Some of the options available to the government are:
providing incentives to PTTI entrants similar to those given to trainees in
the College of Education; enforcing either compulsory national service in
primary school teaching or obligatory requirements of one-year teaching in
primary schools for all those seeking entrance into the university or proceed-
ing on overseas fellowships; introducing multilevel courses for training of
preparatory and secondary school teachers; and efficient use of technical
assistance. USAID is currently formulating a project of technical assistance
for a comprehensive program of training teacher trainers for the PTTI's.
1.21      As an interim solution to the teacher shortfall, the government
proposes to require secondary school graduates to serve as temporary primary
school teachers beginning in 1978. In any case, major challenges facing
the government during the present Plan will be to ensure that the training
colleges reach full capacity as scheduled, and to strengthen the system of
upgrading unqualified teachers in service.
1.22      The Faculty of Education at the University of Sana'a prepares
teachers for preparatory and upper-secondary school in a four-year program.
While the College of Education will graduate only 800 during 1977-81 based
on the admissions in the past three years, the College with completion of
new construction will soon be able to accommodate 1,800 teacher trainees for
the preparatory/secondary schools with an estimated annual output of 400. In
the meanwhile, the government may have to continue employing 1,200 existing
bilateral teachers in the preparatory and secondary schools in 1981 as in 1976
to meet planned targets. The severe deficit of preparatory school teachers
which is expected to continue beyond the present Plan indicates that an
abbreviated training period for preparatory level teachers (e.g. two years
post-secondary) may be advisable as a short-term measure.  The total output of
the Education Faculty will also have to expand beyond the numbers projected in
the Plan in order to meet the needs for school administrators, inspectors and
primary teacher trainers.



- 6 -
1.23      Technical and Vocational Manpower.  Although several vocational and
technical training institutions are scheduled to begin classes during the
planning period, their combined annual output will satisfy only 8% of the
average yearly demand for skilled manpower as projected by the Plan. Expan-
sion of secondary technical education will meet about 50% of the total demand
for technicians estimated during the Plan years. Since post-secondary train-
ing of industrial and other technicians will not be provided within the YAR
during the Plan period, the shortfall at this level will remain serious until
a post-secondary technical institute or a college of engineering is estab-
lished. The government has considered interim plans for the training of
higher technicians in evening classes at the technical secondary school under
construction, but no concrete steps towards implementation have been taken.
1.24       Manpower problems are particularly apparent in the private and pub-
lic construction sector, where the absence of qualified administrative and
financial personnel, as well as of skilled and semi-skilled labor, presents
an obstacle to the implementation of projects in all sectors. Provision of
in-service training to upgrade the skills of underqualified personnel now
holding technical positions is another area requiring efforts in the near
future. On the average, two-thirds of employees in the private and public
sectors who hold positions requiring a vocational, technical, or science-
based education lack the necessary background. Since these persons cannot
all be replaced by more qualified nationals in the near term, upgrading of
workers already employed can be a means of alleviating some of the existing
manpower inadequacies. Through the first and second IDA education credits,
one technical secondary school, 4 vocational training centers for skill
training and 7 district training centers where semi-skilled training will be
given, are in the process of being established.
1.25      Agricultural Training:  Over 90% of the people of the Yemen Arab
Republic (YAR) reside in rural areas, and agriculture is still the most
important production sector accounting for 48% of the GDP in 1975-76, albeit
in the process of change. The recent decline in rural male population, due
to large internal and external migrations, and the increasing remittances
from Yemenis working abroad are having an impact on social patterns. Farmers
are now faced, after centuries of subsistence farming, with labor shortages
and rising wages, competition from cheap food imports and changing consumer
tastes.
1.26       To satisfy the basic need for food, the Plan's strategies include:
(i) doubling agricultural output through improved productivity; (ii) shifting
cultivation from traditional subsistence crops to higher value crops in some
areas; and (iii) increasing livestock's contribution to the rural economy.
1.27       The priority which the government has placed in modernizing the
agricultural sector requires developing and enlarging extension sevices
(125 extension centers by 1980/81), agricultural credit and research, and
an intensified program of training agricultural manpower. At present there
is only one professional (with post-secondary training) for every 20,000
rural households and one extension worker for every 6,000 rural households;
wholly inadequate in numbers for the tasks. Government livestock services
are woefully inadequate with 9 expatriate and local veterinarians/livestock
officers and 23 assistants for a livestock population of 12 million head. For



the projects identified and to be implemented under the Five Year Plan, only
one-third of the Plan demand will be met from overseas training and from the
outputs of the agricultural secondary school at Ibb, and the veterinary
assistants' and agricultural extension agents' training centers in YAR.
1.28      The following table 1/ summarizes the annual requirements for agri-
cultural technicians up to the year 1990, with estimated annual output from
the system in 1977.
Projected Annual Demand & Supply for Selected Occupational Groups
1977-90
Average     Output    Additional Annual Output
Annual      From      Education         Proposed
Requirements  System    Projects        Education III
Category                      1977-90       1977        I - II      (1985 onwards)
Middle-level Technicians
Agricultural                140           -        85    -            55
Livestock/veterinary         55           -         0    -            55
Low-level Technicians
Agricultural                350          80        40    -            20 /a
/a   Initial output anticipated from afternoon programs using the available
facilities of the project school. The output will gradually be increased
over time to complement the proposed increased output of Ministry of
Agriculture's extension agent training centers.
The data in the above table confirm the need for the expansion of agricul-
tural technician education at secondary level. However, the outputs from
two of the project institutions described in this report--a second agricul-
tural secondary school and a livestock secondary school--will not begin to
meet the shortfall of middle level technician manpower until the late 80's.
1.29      Health Training.   The supply and quality of manpower in the health
sector are extremely inadequate, particularly in the rural areas. Partly, as
a result, health conditions in YAR continue to be poor with a high death rate
of 29 per 1,000 inhabitants, a low life expectancy at birth of 43 years and
high infant mortality of 159 per 1,000 live births. Medical facilities are
unevenly distributed; in urban districts there are 24 hospitals and 22 dis-
pensaries, but in rural areas there are only 16 regional health centers, 18
health subcenters and 113 rural health units most of which are poorly staffed.
Polluted water sources and unhygienic sewage disposal are serious environmental
hazards. With the paucity of modern health services the rural populace has to
rely on traditional health services, about which no reliable information has
been collated. Staff are needed to carry out a strategy of preventive health
1/   Based on results of Sinclair-Socknat Manpower Assessment Report (ILO,
1976), the Five-Year Plan manpower demand estimates and other relevant
available data.



- 8 -
care, to combat the prevalent infectious and parasitic diseases, the low
standard of nutrition (particularly among mothers and children) and the poor
environmental sanitation in the country. In 1976, Yemeni medical personnel
included only 120 physicians, 190 nurses, and 14 qualified midwives.
1.30      Under the Five-Year Plan, the government has emphasized the provi-
sion of preventive health care, an improved distribution of basic health
facilities in rural areas, and training of health manpower. To implement
these objectives, the government plans (i) to establish basic health services/
primary health care program (BHS/PHC), (ii) to strengthen health administra-
tion and hospitals, and (iii) to expand health manpower training. A special
committee in the Ministry of Health, with the assistance of the WHO advisory
team, formulated the BHS/PHC program, whereby 25 regional health care centers
would be established, each of which would provide limited medical services to
rural population of about 50,000, while the primary health care units, staffed
with local birth attendants and primary health care workers, would serve at
the village level. The BHS/PHC program is expected to cover 20% of the rural
population by 1980/81. Whilst the Ministry of Health's (MOH) proposals for an
expanded BHS/PHC program has had wide acceptance at the national and regional
levels because of the enormous health service needs in YAR, there have been
few sociological and feasibility studies for each region to serve as bases
for detailed implementation of that strategy, taking into consideration the
traditional health services practiced in the region and the private health
sector.
1.31       For the BHS/PHC program alone, the estimated staff requirements
are 60 medical professionals, 532 medical assistant/nurse level personnel,
and 1,050 primary health field workers. The requirements of medical pro-
fessionals can be met from qualified Yemenis expected to return after their
medical studies abroad on fellowship training (about 375 in 1976). With
the proposed expansion of the Health Manpower Institutes (HMI), the output by
1981 of about 850 technicians/auxiliary level personnel, including trainers
of primary health field workers, would meet nearly 60% of the national demand
for this category, including the BHS/PHC program. The regional health care
centers will, however, increasingly have to share the responsibility for
training primary health field workers.
C.   Provision of Basic Education
1.32       Primary Education:  Provision of primary education to girls and
to children in the more remote rural areas needs to be improved to fulfill
the government's objective of equality of educational opportunities. The rate
of increase in the annual intake of girls into primary school has slowed in
recent years, and the enrollment of girls varies considerably among regions.
In the outlying areas, the completion rate of primary school students in
primary school falls below the national average of 31%, in large part because
most of the schools offer less than six grades.
1.33       In the Five-Year Plan, the government has set targets for the enroll-
ment of girls and has placed a priority on school construction. This latter
point, which is critical to any improvement in the quantity or quality of
primary education, requires the Ministry of Education planning unit to develop
a capacity for school mapping and to coordinate school construction with the



- 9 -
Local Development Associations. The school construction targets during 1977-
81 have not been based on previous performance in school construction, on the
capacity or capability of MOE's school building unit or on the ability of the
private construction industry to handle this volume of work. Neither has a
detailed analysis been conducted of the prevailing situation of some 460 pri-
mary schools which were unoccupied in 1977 due to (i) the poor locations
selected by independent donors combined with poor school mapping capability
in the MOE and (ii) the lack of primary school teachers. A best guess is that
perhaps 60% of the construction targets will be attained if local boards can
implement the construction of their proposed classrooms through standardiza-
tion of designs. The capacity to construct schools efficiently and economic-
ally, while being a constraint, is not as major a determinant in the expansion
of the education system as is the availability of teachers (para. 1.20).
1.34      An improvement in regional enrollments and in the dropout rate in
primary schools will also require continued efforts by the Ministry of Educa-
tion to: (a) provide increased salaries, housing, and other amenities for
teachers in remote areas; (b) ensure that the teacher training colleges soon
to open will reach their full enrollment capacity; and (c) give professional
support for multi-grade teaching in areas which cannot support a six-grade
school.
1.35      Non-formal Education and Training:  Non-formal education and train-
ing in the YAR received a major stimulus with the institution of the basic
training scheme financed under IDA Credit 421-YAR, and the establishment of a
National Board for Non-formal Education and Basic Training. The Plan's target
of 28,000 persons enrolled in non-formal training and literacy classes by 1980
appears over-optimistic, however, particularly since the district training
centers (DTCs), which are expected to perform an outreach function in the
surrounding villages, are only beginning to become operational. Major ob-
stacles to the execution of the basic training scheme at this stage are the
difficulties of recruiting technical assistance for initial program develop-
ment and attracting technical school graduates to staff the DTCs. A basic
training fund, provided under IDA Credit 611-YAR, will finance basic training
activities at the village level. The determination of the training needs in
the rural areas, as a preliminary step to the financing of training facilities
through the basic training fund, has yet to be undertaken. Attention will
have to be given during the Plan to resolving the initial problems of the DTCs
and to improving the quality and relevance of the literacy courses. Since
almost 90% of the illiterate adult population will still lack access to non-
formal education after the first seven DTCs (financed under the first and
second education IDA credits) are constructed, further expansion of the non-
formal training network will be necessary if any significant reduction in
illiteracy is to be achieved in the foreseeable future.
D.   Administrative and Financial Capability of the Government
1.36      Public Administration.  The shortage of personnel in the public and
semi-public sectors who are trained in planning and administration inhibits
an effective execution of the development program. The 18 state economic



- 10 -
enterprises are somewhat better provided with management and technical skills
than the civil service, which is weakened with inefficient personnel manage-
ment practices. In recognition of this critical need, the National Institute
of Public Administration (NIPA) has been assigned an expanded training role.
NIPA was established by the government in Sanaa in 1974 with UNDP assistance
for its construction and development of training programs (Annex 4). It now
has two branches operating in rented premises at Taiz and Hodeidah that are
insufficient and inadequately equipped to accommodate current enrollments.
The combined faculties of NIPA total 40 staff, 19 of whom are full time,
assisted by 5 experts and 21 expatriate volunteers (language teaching). The
total trainees successfully completing their courses in 1977 was about 500.
1.37      For the Plan period, NIPA's proposed programs include the provision
of 186 courses for a total of nearly 5,000 public employees. For the period
1977-90, the mission estimated that an annual average of 1,500 public employees
would require in-service and upgrading training at all levels. NIPA at Sanaa,
with its existing physical facilities, has the potential output of 850 trainees
annually. Whether NIPA can achieve its targets will depend on whether adequate
training specialists and materials support are made available to it, in par-
ticular for the NIPA branches at Taiz and Hodeidah that have a special role in
training middle-level personnel in the regions for the central government, gov-
ernorates and Local Development Associations. The NIPA branches at Taiz and
Hodeidah are included within the proposed project and are described in more
detail in later sections of this report (paras. 2.16-2.20). With the attrac-
tion of higher salaries abroad and in the local private sector, NIPA in common
with other government agencies experiences difficulties in recruiting and
retaining Yemeni staff.
1.38      In the Ministry of Education (MOE), administration continues to
remain weak in educational planning and management.  A UNDP/Unesco Task Force
of education specialists was established in the MOE in 1974 (para 1.42). The
MOE in its reorganization has set up a Directorate of Planning. While this
planning unit will benefit from the increasing availability of trained Yemeni
staff as a result of training programs in NIPA, it will continue to need
technical assistance particularly in educational management.
1.39      Educational Finance.  The government's development plan for the
education sector will require an increase in capital investment of YR 638.3
million over the period 1976-1980 (including projects in progress), with a
corresponding increase of YR 585.7 million in recurrent expenses. Comparing
these figures with current government expenditure on education is difficult,
since the volume of spending by the provincial education offices is unknown,
as are the flows of Arab oil money which have financed much school construc-
tion. Roughly, the government committed about 8% of its recurrent expenditure
to the education sector in 1975, and about 8% of its total expenditure (Annex
5). Foreign aid accounted for 42% of the educational recurrent budget in the
same year, and four-fifths of investment in the sector.
1.40      Of the planned capital investments in education during the Plan
period, primary education is expected to absorb 40%, technical and vocational
training 16%, and teacher training (including the College of Education) about



- 11 -
24%. The proportion of recurrent expenditures over the Plan period is pro-
jected to decline from 86% to 81% for primary education, that for preparatory
and secondary to increase from 13.6% to 17.4% and for vocational and technical
to rise from a negligible 0.2% to 1.2%. The government intends to bear 60% of
the recurrent expenses arising from the Five-Year Educational Plan and to seek
bilateral and other development assistance to meet the remaining costs. The
government's planned contribution would only raise education's share of govern-
ment expenditure (capital plus recurrent) to about 10.8%. If GDP grows at the
annual rate foreseen in the Plan, the government's spending on education would
only amount to 1.8% of GNP in 1980/81 in comparison to 1.3% in 1976/77.
1.41      By comparison with other developing countries, the government of YAR
is not greatly extended in financing education but continues to rely on neigh-
boring Arab donor countries and to a lesser extent on local development asso-
ciations in meeting education expenditures. The recurrent costs of education
could pose a greater, though still manageable, burden during the Plan if the
government upgrades teachers' salaries, as appears necessary to enable the
educational objectives to be met. In any event, a greater commitment of funds
by the public treasury to this sector appears feasible and justified if the
MOE is to exercise more effective control over educational planning and to
ensure implementation.
Ministry of Education Support
1.42      The Ministry of Education is supported by a team of advisers financed
initially by UNDP and subsequently from trust funds, with UNESCO as executing
agency. The team has been working to build up the structure and educational
policies of the Ministry, to foster teacher training and to develop curricula.
Its effectiveness was somewhat hampered by the UNDP financial crisis in 1976
(which led to the team being reduced in size) and by a continuing shortage of
Yemeni counterparts. The head of the team acts as senior educational adviser
to the Minister in the formulation of comprehensive education and training
plans, and other educational affairs. UNDP expects to sign a further agree-
ment for continuation of institutional support in the near future. A School
Building Unit in the MOE is responsible for construction of educational facil-
ities and is being supported in this task by the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) established and financed under the IDA assisted education projects.
1.43      Until recently, there has been no focal point within the MOE for
concentrating efforts in obtaining technical assistance (teaching specialsts
and fellowships) and recruiting senior teaching staff for the operation of
the institutions under the first two IDA-assisted projects. The MOE has
recently established a recruitment committee, under the chairmanship of the
Deputy Minister of MOE, comprising of the UNDP/Unesco Team Project Manager,
the Project Director of PIU and a representative of the Central Planning
Organization. The responsibility for recruitment in the first instance is
being assigned to an experienced senior member of the recruitment committee;
this committee will be assisted by the Directorate of Secondment in the MOE,
which has as its functions that of recruiting non-Yemeni teachers for all
schools in YAR.



- 12 -
IDA LENDING STRATEGY FOR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
1.44       The educational lending strategy was aimed initially at improving
the quality of the formal education system. This has been an overriding need
because the formal education system is a very recent development in YAR.  At
the time of the first IDA Credit in July 1973, the system had really been in
operation for only about four years. The whole education sector needed to be
built up: curricula and institutions developed, staff recruited and trained,
buildings designed, constructed and equipped, and an administration estab-
lished. A number of school buildings had been constructed with Arab States
funding and enrollments had increased dramatically but a qualified teaching
force did not exist. Because the development of an academically sound primary
and secondary school system would be necessary before an adequate supply of
students with the desired educational backgrounds could be available for
employment or for further career oriented studies, the first two IDA Credits
provided financing for constructing and equipping five primary teacher train-
ing institutes, a secondary school teacher training college and three upper
secondary schools, and equipping seven additional primary teacher training
institutes and six secondary schools.
1.45      Within the limitations imposed by the amount of available financing
and the implementation capabilities of the concerned ministries and agencies,
the other priorities have been (i) the introduction of vocational training
and technical and agricultural education to produce some of the urgently
needed skilled workers and middle level technicians, and (ii) the development
of the basic training scheme giving opportunities in the rural areas for
adults to acquire a basic education and rudimentary skills. The basic train-
ing scheme includes district training centers (non-formal basic education
centers) and a fund for village training activities. The second project also
supported the local production of educational materials.
1.46       The need for extensive technical assistance was identified during
the appraisal of the first two IDA education projects; this included the
provision of 135 man-years of expert services and 168 man-years of overseas
fellowships to develop a cadre of qualified Yemeni educators and adminis-
trators. A major portion of this need was to be provided under a UNDP/Unesco
technical assistance program. Progress in obtaining technical assistance for
the project institutions has been slow, due initially and principally, to the
UNDP financial crisis of 1976 rescinding all funding to the above UNDP/Unesco
program and, subsequently, to the breakdown of bilateral arrangements to pro-
vide the necessary funds, as had been anticipated. The Government is, there-
fore, seeking bilateral assistance to fill this gap. It has already obtained
assistance from the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) which is providing
experts for the Sana'a Vocational Training Centers; USAID is formulating
proposals to assist the Ibb Agricultural Training Center, the primary teacher
training institutes, district training centers, college of education and the
educational materials production center; and the UK Overseas Development
Ministry (ODM) will probably provide the experts for the technical school/
vocational training center complex at Taiz. The Vocational Training Center at
Sana'a has already commenced operations with assistance from FRG, but for the
balance of the project institutions which are expected to be ready by the fall
of 1979, qualified teaching staff will have to be recruited on a timely basis



- 13 -
for their effective operation. A schedule of recruitment of experts and
non-Yemeni Arabic speaking teachers for IDA project schools was discussed
and agreed with MOE. The Government has assured that it would provide funds
either from its own resources or from outside sources, to finance the remain-
ing technical assistance requirements. A minimum of 79 specialist teachers
would be required for commencing operation of all schools, institutes and
centers under the first two education projects. The government has confirmed
that it has received sufficient applications from suitably qualified candi-
dates to fill the minimum number of specialists posts. The Government has
also agreed as a condition of effectiveness of the third education credit,
to make arrangements to the satisfaction of IDA for the appointment (or for
securing under technical assistance programs) before the commencement of the
academic year 1979-80 of all the minimum numbers of specialist teachers to the
project institutions as shall be physically ready for operation by the said
academic year. Confirmation of the arrangements will comprise (a) letters to
the Government of YAR from bilateral aid agencies indicating their commitment
to provide expatriate staff to selected project institutions and (b) letter
from the Government that it has appointed qualified specialists to the key
posts for the remaining project institutions.
1.47      Because the country's education and manpower development needs are
so extensive and are equalled only by the need for external advice on how best
to develop suitable means to meet these needs, IDA's strategy is to expand the
scope of its educationial lending while utilizing previous financing as a basis
for providing continued advice and guidance on the sub-sectors already financed
by IDA. For the time being IDA involvement in the area of primary education
would not be justified in view of the large number of unoccupied primary
schools (para. 1.33) and until some progress is made in school mapping, for
which financing is proposed under the technical assistance component.  Con-
sequently, except for the renewed financing of agricultural training, the
proposed project would break new ground by financing (i) measures to improve
the MOE's management capability and to strengthen its school building unit,
(ii) public administration training, and (iii) studies that are expected to
lead to IDA financing in post-secondary education and public health training.
II. THE PROJECT
Introduction
2.01      The proposed project was prepared by the YAR Government following
an IDA preparation/assistance mission in January, 1978. The project (esti-
mated to cost US$21.4 million for which an IDA credit of US$10.0 million is
proposed) was appraised in April/May, 1978, by a mission comprising Messrs.
V. Desa, technical educator and mission leader, B. Masters, general educator
and H. Go, architect. The mission was also assisted by Mr. E. Hall, livestock
training officer of the UKODM veterinary team stationed in Sanaa.
Objectives and Scope
2.02      The project would support the implementation of key programs con-
sistent with the government's educational and training strategies in its Five
Year Plan. The project is designed to assist in: (i) the diversification of



- 14 -
secondary schooling through provision of agriculture and livestock training
in response to specific manpower demands (paras 1.27 and 1.28); (ii) the pre-
investment sociological, feasibility and design studies for regional basic
health-care and associated training (paras. 1.30 and 1.31); (iii) the exten-
sion of public administration training to regional centers (para. 1.37);
(iv) the identification of optimal integrated development of post-secondary
education (paras. 1.18 and 1.47); and (v) the improvement of administrative
capability of the MOE and a School Building Unit (paras. 1.33, 1.38 and 1.46).
The project would comprise:
(a) architectural design, construction, furniture and equipment for:
Estimated Estimated
New     Total       Annual
Institutions                Grades       Places  Enrollment   Output
Agricultural education
1.  Agricultural Secondary  10-12  )                 180         55
School, Surdud           10      )    200         20         20
ungraded)                20          80
2. Livestock Secondary
School, Sanaa            10-12        180       180          55
Public administration
training
NIPA regional
branches-Taiz             ungraded      250        450        325
Hodeidah         ungraded      250       450         325
(b)  technical assistance related to above agricultural education
(33 man-years of experts and 39 man-years of fellowships) and
public administration training (10 man-years of experts and
24 man-years of fellowships);
(c) technical assistance for:
(i) pre-investment studies for establishing regional
basic health care centers and related training units
in about 5 regions (5-1/2 man-years of experts and
1-2/3 man-years of fellowships);
(ii) pre-investment studies for the development of post-
secondary education based on an observation study
visit, and programming feasibility study (3 man-years
of experts and professional services and 3-2/3 man-years
of fellowships);
(iii) strengthening the Ministry of Education in educational
aspects of project management (7 man-years of experts
and 12-1/2 man-years of fellowships); and



- 15 -
(iv) physical implementation - continuation of IDA Project
Implementation Unit and assistance to School Building
Unit (14-1/3 man-years of experts and 10 man-years of
fellowships).
Project Components
Agricultural Secondary School, Surdud
2.03      The proposed agricultural secondary school will assist in building
up the necessary cadres of Yemeni agricultural technicians in the tropical
Tihama lowlands, where many irrigated crop and horticulture projects are being
executed. The school will be located on the Surdud state research, seed
development, demonstration and production farm, financed by the International
Fund for Agricultural Development and IDA under the Third Tihama Project
(Credit 880-YAR). The school will have a total enrollment of 220 students,
and will increase the annual output of middle level agricultural technicians
from 85 in 1982 to 140 by 1985 (contributing to nearly 40% of projected annual
demand), and, in addition, train a further 20 extension agents annually by 1983.
2.04      The curricula that have been developed for the agricultural training
center at Ibb in the uplands region, being set up with assistance under the
IDA first credit, will be adopted for this school with appropriate adaptation
to lowlands agricultural practices. The school will admit annually (a) 60
students to secondary schooling, grades 10-12, and (b) 20 trainees to one-year
extension agent training course. Short upgrading evening courses for about 80
farmers in the rural neighborhood of the school will also be offered annually.
Nearly 40% of the 47 school class periods per week in the secondary school
curricula will be devoted to agricultural science and laboratory subjects;
furthermore, some 10 periods per week will be assigned to foster farm practice
and rural development extension work. Extension agent trainees, who have com-
pleted successfully one-year training in the MOA centers and also preparatory
schooling, will be allowed admission to the upper grade of the agricultural
secondary schools, with due credit given for the courses completed.
2.05      A total of 11 teachers will be needed for this institution, of whom
7 will be teachers of agricultural related subjects. At present, some 49
Yemeni agricultural trainees from the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) are study-
ing in Egypt; the first graduates are expected to return in September 1979.
A provision of 9 fellowships of 36 man-years is included in the project for the
further training of Yemeni staff. The government has provided assurance that
(a) an adequate number of suitable graduates will be identified from Yemeni
students currently studying abroad on fellowships, for appointment upon
graduation by MOE to the staff of the project school and as counterparts for
the teaching experts and (b) that such counterparts holding positions in MOA
shall be released for appointment at MOE at the scheduled commencement of
fellowship program of their specialized pedagogical training to be financed
under the proposed IDA Credit.
2.06      As there are no qualified Yemeni teachers with the necessary expe-
rience to start the project school, a technical assistance program of 6
experts of 21 man-years has been provided to enable the school to begin
operations in September 1981, with expatriate staff for the first three years



- 16 -
while Yemeni staff would complete their training abroad to replace them. USAID
has indicated its interest in furnishing the major part of the technical assis-
tance requirements of expert services (four experts of 14 man-years) as an
extension of a USAID technical assistance program currently being developed
for the Ibb Agricultural Training Center (para 1.46). Provision has been made
in the Credit for financing the remaining requirements of seven man-years of
teaching specialist services.
2.07       To facilitate recruitment of students from farming families and from
a wide geographical area for this institute and also for the livestock school
at Sanaa, provision has been made for the construction of 100% residential
boarding for the two schools. The government has provided assurance that
adequate stipends and free boarding will be offered to the students to
stimulate sufficient numbers of applicants for admission to this school.
2.08       The MOA has begun to recruit staff at a level corresponding to that
of the graduates of the project school, and intends to recruit sizeable numbers
in the future. The salaries currently offered to agricultural extension agents
(preparatory school graduate with one year's training) are higher than that to
general school graduates.  Nevertheless, the career opportunities that are
available in the MOA field and extension services at these salaries are not
well known among the school youths, principally because the MOA has not dis-
seminated this information on a wide scale and due in part perhaps to the fact
that the MOA has not yet drawn up a detailed staffing program for an expanded
agricultural and livestock development in provincial, district and sub-district
levels, together with career paths that would retain efficient staff. Due to
the government's commitment to the development of the agricultural sector, it
is highly unlikely that the graduates of the project institutions would expe-
rience difficulty in finding employment in the MOA services, even if it were
allowed to develop in an unplanned fashion. But the competition for admission
would be increased (thereby raising the quality of the student body) if the
staffing program referred to above were developed and information concerning
careers, based on the program, were widely disseminated. The government has
provided an assurance that MOA shall formulate by December 31, 1980 a program
for the staffing needs of the agricultural and livestock services at the
provincial, district and sub-district levels and the career opportunities
available for job holders in these services and that this information thereon
will be properly disseminated through the education system.
2.09       The National Board of Agricultural Education, established under MOE
ministerial decree and with membership from MOE and MOA, oversees coordination
in agricultural education and training programs between the ministries.  In
addition, MOE will maintain adequate consultation with local and appropriate
interest groups (MOA, development agencies and local commercial interests)
to ensure continued relevance of the curricula of the Surdud agricultural
secondary school to the economic needs and to advise the school on the job
opportunities for its graduates.
2.10      A system to trace the employment of the graduates of the project
institutions could furnish valuable information, particularly as the transi-
tion between formal schooling and work will be determined by the attitudes of



- 17 -
the students towards future work and the relevance of their schooling to it.
Also, data on the proportion of school leavers who find remunerative employ-
ment within a limited time and those who proceed to higher education are
important for economical educational planning. The governmznt has provided
assurance that a tracer system will be established under the auspices of the
Agricultural Education Division of the MOE and will be fully operational by
September 30, 1981, so as to be effective for the graduation of the first
class from the Ibb Agricultural Training Center being established under IDA
Credit 421-YAR and, subsequently, for the project schools in the proposed
Credit. The results of tracer studies will be communicated annually to IDA
for the first three graduating classes of the project schools.
Livestock Secondary School, Sanaa
2.11      The proposed livestock secondary school (LSS), the first of its kind
in YAR, will contribute to the training of Yemeni technicians (animal health
assistants) needed for the MOA and the private sector to staff the livestock
services.
2.12      This institution, whose establishment has been endorsed by the MOA,
will have a total enrollment of 180 in its secondary schooling grades 10-12.
Students will be selected largely from livestock farming families and with the
widest geographical area. The school's annual output of 55 animal health
assistants will contribute to nearly 100% of projected annual demand. No
facilities will be provided at the LSS for training veterinary assistants, as
the MOA operates a one-year course in the Veterinary Assistant Training Center
at Sanaa with UKODM technical assistance to meet the demand for this category
of skilled personnel. The location of the LSS at Sanaa has the advantage of
proximity to the MOA veterinary assistant training center and the Veterinary
Laboratory Complex.
2.13      The curriculum outline, developed with the assistance of a UKODM
livestock training officer at Sanaa, includes basic and applied animal and
agricultural science subjects, the applied subjects commencing from the second
year of studies. Approximately 50% of all the subjects are related to the
animal science programs. The syllabi will be developed in detail by experts
being provided in the technical assistance component for this project item.
2.14      Of the 13 Yemeni teaching staff, six will be college graduates in
animal sciences. The government has provided an assurance that these special-
ist teachers have been identified from those Yemenis studying abroad under
fellowship programs of the MOA/MOE and that they will later be appointed to
this institution as counterparts to the experts. As there are no experienced
Yemeni teachers to start the school and bring it to operational standards,
technical assistance is provided in the credit for financing the services of 3
experts for 4 years each and 5 fellowships for a combined total of 3 man-years
for the pedagogical training of the specialist Yemeni teachers.
2.15      All assurances described in paras 2.07 through 2.10 will also apply
for the Livestock Secondary School project item.



- 18 -
National Institute of Public Administration (NIPA) Branches at Taiz and
Hodeidah
2.16       The proposed project would construct training facilities for 250
trainee places in permanent premises for each of NIPA's regional branches at
Taiz and Hodeidah. The in-service training activities would emphasize func-
tions that have arisen out of (i) the government's traditional regulatory
duties and increased involvement with development projects, and (ii) the need
to upgrade the public sector administrative personnel. At present, of the
total number of public sector employees, 3.8% and 23% are in top and middle
management, and 73% are in the remaining lower echelons. Only 3% of the total
number in the public sector has post-secondary education, 8% has preparatory/
secondary schooling and a large 73% has primary schooling or ability to read
and write. Consequently, the branches of NIPA will concentrate principally
on training the intermediate cadre of employees.
2.17       The regular training courses would be of (a) 3-6 months duration
in public accounting and personnel management, (b) 6 months duration in
secretarial practices, (c) 2 years duration in languages, and (d) long (3-6
months) courses and short (3-6 weeks) training sessions in public administra-
tion. All in-service trainees selected for the training courses are released
by their departments to attend morning/evening sessions limited to ten class
periods per week. In addition, during the summer, courses of two-months
duration will be provided for officials of Local Development Associations and
agricultural cooperatives. Civil service regulations provide for additional
increments in salary to all those satisfactorily completing courses of six-
months duration or more. The estimated annual output of 650 public sector
employees trained through regular courses by 1982 is expected to make a
significant contribution to overall improvement in operations and management
in the regional governorates; some ninety Yemeni women will receive training
annually in office management and public administration.
2.18       Teaching staff required for each NIPA branch, in addition to the
director, is estimated to be 11 full-time staff and 8-12 part-time staff
(expatriate volunteers are available for language training). As at each
branch there is presently only 4 full-time local teaching staff, recruitment
of the additional full-time qualified staff may be difficult with the compe-
tition offered by the public and private sector establishments. The govern-
ment has furnished an assurance that NIPA will provide all incentives,
including housing facilities or allowances and competitive salaries, required
to recruit and maintain adequate teaching staff for NIPA's branches at Taiz
and Hodeidah. Since courses in public administration will be conducted by
staff from NIPA, Sanaa, residential accommodation to house four visiting
lecturers will be provided at each branch.
2.19       Technical assistance proposed for each branch comprises services
of 2 experts for a combined total of 5 man-years and 6 fellowships of 2
man-years each in areas of office, financial and personnel management.
2.20       As the development of NIPA, Sanaa, will have its effects on its
branches, the UNDP evaluation team's report expected shortly on the scope of
future UNDP technical assistance will be forwarded to IDA for its comments in



- 19 -
so far as it relates to the branches at Taiz and Hodeidah.  IDA will be kept
informed when the draft law (now in process of examination by the Civil
Service Commission), governing promotions in the civil service on the basis of
NIPA's training course certificate awards, has been enacted.
Pre-investment Studies - Basic Health Care Services and Related Training
2.21       In support of the energetic efforts of the Ministry of Health (MOH)
to expand its basic health services and primary health care system to rural
areas, three studies are included in the proposed Credit: (i) a regional
sociological survey over a period of 6 months by a joint local and expatriate
team (one man-year of financing) with a view to establish criteria for the
development and management of health services/primary health care that are
both accessible and acceptable to the population of 5 regions not currently
served adequately; (ii) based on the foregoing sociological survey, a feasi-
bility study by an institutional team of consultants (7 man-months) for
establishing and managing the 5 regional health care centers (RHCC) and the
associated training units and primary health care units; and (iii) preliminary
architectural design of these centers and units with assistance of a consul-
tant familiar with designing rural medical facilities. To support a new
program being introduced at the Health Manpower Institute (HMI) at Sanaa for
training the trainers for all RHCC's, the services of 2 health specialist
educators (one in area of primary health care services and another in mother
and child health care) for 2 years each and for 2 ten-months fellowships are
included in the project; the specialist educators will commence work when the
facilities being constructed as part of the third phase of HMI's proposed
expansion become available to them. The project would contribute to training
of about 60 RHCC's women trainers, and later based on the study's findings to
the training of female primary health field workers.
2.22      The government has provided assurance that MOH will provide IDA
with the qualifications, experience and terms of conditions of employment
of experts, and employ these experts acceptable to MOH and IDA to permit
commencement of the sociological study by September 30, 1979 and of the
feasibility study by September 30, 1980. MOH will also provide IDA with a
copy of the report of each study promptly upon their completion and exchange
views with IDA for the purpose of formulating a plan for carrying out the
recommendations emanating from these studies as agreed between MOH and IDA.
Pre-investment Studies for the Development of Post-Secondary Education
2.23       To assist the government in its objective of evolving a post-
secondary education system suited to meet manpower needs and sustain the
development policy in YAR, pre-investment studies would be financed under this
project (details in Annex 7) to be executed in 2 stages: (i) 2-month study
visit by a Yemeni observation team to selected institutions abroad, and (ii)
programming study by a team of 15 specialists focussing on post-secondary
education academic programs and structures, university organization, research,
consultancy, extension and out-reach functions and staff development. Two 10-
month fellowships are also included for training university staff in planning
and administration of higher education.



- 20 -
2.24      Assurances were provided by government that it will forward in a
timely manner to IDA for its concurrence the detailed terms of reference of
the preinvestment studies and composition of each group and, for information,
the findings at each stage.
Strengthening the Ministry of Education
(a) Management of education projects
2.25      Under an UNDP institutional support project being prepared, the
Government proposes to assign, to one of the experts being appointed by UNDP,
upon his arrival the responsibility for continuing the recruitment functions
of the first two education projects (para 1.43) and the third project, arrang-
ing technical assistance for the livestock secondary school, assisting in the
initiation and preparation of the pre-investment studies and for developing
in-service training programs of MOE staff. To this end, provision has been
made in this project for short-term consultancies in the areas of evaluation
and monitoring, educational statistics and school mapping. Ten fellowships of
15 months each for advanced specialized training abroad of MOE staff in fore-
going areas and educational management would also be financed.
(b) School building
2.26      The School Building Unit (SBU) of the MOE, though created in 1971,
began operations in 1975 with the functions of designing government schools
of all levels, supervising their construction and maintenance, and preparing
norms and standards. SBU has currently a small professional staff of 9 that
is insufficient to cope with the construction program. Moreover, many of the
Yemeni professional and technical staff are inadequately trained for the
tasks. To strengthen the operations of SBU, MOE decided in 1977 to associate
it with the Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
2.27      Under the proposed third education project, PIU will provide advi-
sory services to SBU and train Yemeni staff to improve their performance in
designing, supervision and procurement. The Credit would also finance 28
man-months of short-term consultancies to the SBU to (i) conduct training
programs in building maintenance/mechanical installation, (ii) establish a
section of norms and standards for education facilities, and (iii) improve
the SBU's planning and programming management. In order to facilitate hand
over of responsibility for physical implementation of future education proj-
ects to Yemeni nationals by mid 1982, 18 fellowships for a combined total of
10 man-years for specialized training will be financed under this Credit. The
government has provided assurance that in its efforts to strengthen the SBU
(a) a qualified Yemeni engineer/architect would be appointed to head SBU by
September 30, 1979, and (b) 15 technicians would be appointed by September 30,
1980.



- 21 -
III. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
Cost of the Project
3.01      Summary of Project Cost.  The total cost of the project is estimated
at YR 96.1 million or US$21.4 million equivalent. The estimated total cost
and foreign exchange components by main project items are summarized below:
% of
YR Millions             US$ Millions         Baseline
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total    Cost
Construction, furni-
ture and equipment
for:
I agricultural secon-
dary school              7.88    5.43   13.31   1.75    1.21    2.96    21.0
1 livestock secondary
school                   6.32    4.42   10.74   1.41    0.98    2.39    17.0
2 regional branches
of the National
Institute for Public
Administration           8.00    6.52   14.52   1.77    1.45    3.22    23.0
Technical assistance
for:
a. Project schools,
MOH, higher edu-
cation and MOE:
experts and
fellowships             3.23   18.32   21.55   0.72    4.07    4.79    34.0
b. Continuation of
the Project Imple-
mentation Unit          0.47    2.66    3.13   0.11    0.59    0.70          5.0
Baseline cost             25.90   37.35   63.25   5.76    8.30   14.06   100.0
Contingencies:
Physical unforeseen        2.40    2.69    5.09   0.53    0.60    1.13           8.1
Price increase            18.28    9.46   27.74   4.06    2.10    6.16    43.8
Subtotal                  20.68   12.15   32.83   4.59    2.70    7.29    51.9
Total project cost        46.58   49.50   96.08  10.35   11.00   21.35
3.02      A breakdown of estimated project cost into local and foreign cost
elements by categories of expenditure is summarized below:



- 22 -
% of
YR Millions             US$ Millions         Baseline
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total,   Cost
Construction:
Academic and communal
facilities               14.45     7.12   21.57   3.21    1.58    4.79    34.0
Staff housing              3.77    1.86    5.63   0.84    0.42    1.26           9.0
Site development           2.93    1.44    4.37   0.65    0.32    0.97           6.9
Subtotal                  21.15   10.42   31.57   4.70    2.32    7.02    49.9
Furniture:                 0.31     1.75    2.06   0.07    0.39    0.46          3.3
Equipment:                 0.74    4.20    4.94   0.16    0.93    1.09           7.7
Subtotal                   1.05    5.95    7.00   0.23    1.32    1.55    11.0
Technical assistance:
Fellowships                0.59    3.35    3.94   0.13    0.75    0.88           6.3
Experts                    2.64   14.97   17.61   0.59    3.32    3.91    27.8
Project Implemen-
tation Unit               0.47    2.66    3.13   0.11    0.59    0.70          5.0
Subtotal                   3.70   20.98   24.68   0.83    4.66    5.49    39.1
Baseline costs:           25.90   37.35   63.25   5.76    8.30   14.06   100.0
Contingencies:
Physical unforeseen        2.40    2.69    5.09   0.53    0.60    1.13
Price increase            18.28    9.46   27.74   4.06    2.10    6.16
Subtotal                  20.68   12.15   32.83   4.59    2.70    7.29    51.9
Total project cost        46.58   49.50   96.08  10.35   11.00   21.35
3.03       Basis of cost estimates.  Estimated civil work costs for the pro-
posed project are based on unit prices derived from current contracts and
detailed cost analysis of similar school buildings of the first and second
education projects, and on information on construction costs in general. The
relatively high cost for new school construction, averaging $550 per m2 gross
construction, is due to the country's acute and persistent labor shortages,
elevating labor wages to cost levels far above those typical in developing
countries. Furniture and equipments costs are based on current CIF unit
prices and adjusted upward to include local transportation and installation.
The government does not levy customs duties or other similar taxes on the
import of goods for development projects, and accordingly project costs do not
include any import duties or taxes. The costs per student place for academic
and communal areas (Annex 8) range between $6,100 and $6,900 and are slightly
above the median costs in the EMENA region principally due to the high con-
struction costs.  Cost of the technical assistance components (Annex 9) are
based on prevailing international remuneration of specialists and cost of
fellowships training abroad, estimated at $5,000 and $1,000 per man-month,
inclusive of local costs, respectively.



- 23 -
3.04      Contingency allowances.  The project cost includes a contingency
allowance for unforeseen additions equal to 10% of the estimated cost of
civil works, furniture and equipment, and 5% of the estimated cost of tech-
nical assistance and fellowships (Annex 10). The project cost also includes
price escalation contingencies calculated for the period beginning January
1979 and in accordance with an agreed schedule of implementation. In view
of differences in prevailing rates of price escalation for local costs and
international market prices, escalation contingencies were estimated sepa-
rately for local and foreign costs (Annex 10). Prices are expected to in-
crease during the project implementation period by a weighted total of 50.5%
for civil works, 25.1% for furniture and equipment, 33.7% for technical assis-
tance, and 23.7% for fellowships.  Accordingly, aggregated price increases
are estimated at about 43.8% of the baseline cost. Total contingencies are
estimated to be about 51.9% of the project cost without contingencies and
34.2% of project cost including contingencies.
3.05      Foreign exchange component.  The estimated foreign exchange com-
ponent is US$11.0 million equivalent or about 51.5% of the total project
cost. The calculations of the foreign exchange component are based on the
expectation that: (a) all of the civil works contracts will be awarded to
local firms, and (b) all furniture and equipment will be directly imported.
The resulting foreign exchange content of each category of expenditure is
as follows: (i) civil works, 33%; (ii) furniture and equipment, 85%; (iii)
technical assistance--experts and fellowships, 85%; (iv) professional ser-
vices for pre-investment designs, 85%; and (v) project implementation unit,
85%.
Project Financing
3.06      The proposed credit of US$10.0 million would finance 90.9% of the
total estimated foreign exchange cost of the project. The balance of the
foreign exchange cost (US$1.0 million) is the estimated cost of the necessary
experts for the Surdud agricultural secondary school which is expected to be
met by USAID. USAID is currently formulating proposals for assisting the Ibb
agricultural training center, being established under the first IDA credit,
and has indicated its interest in supporting also the Surdud school. The
balance of the proposed costs, amounting to US$10.35 million would be financed
by the Government. The proposed financial plan is summarized below:



- 24 -
Other External
Government            IDA          Financing
% of             % of              % of        Total
US$   Financ-   US$   Financ-   US$   Financ-   US$    % of
Million  ing    Million  ing    Million  ing    Million Total
Construction         4.70   67.0      2.32   33.0        -        -       7.02   32.9
Furniture            0.07   15.0      0.39   85.0        -        -       0.46    2.1
Equipment            0.16   15.0      0.93   85.0        -        -       1.09    5.1
Technical
assistance
Experts and
fellows            0.72   15.0       3.36   70.0       0.71   15.0       4.79   22.4
Project Implemen-
tation Unit        0.11   15.0       0.59   85.0        -        -       0.70    3.3
Baseline cost        5.76   41.0      7.59   54.0       0.71    5.0    14.06   65.8
Contingencies
Physical             0.53   47.0      0.56   50.0       0.04    3.0       1.13    5.3
Price increase       4.06   66.0      1.85   30.0       0.25    4.0       6.16   28.9
Subtotal            4.59   63.0       2.41   33.0       0.29    4.0       7.29   34.2
Total project
cost              10.35   48.5      10.00   46.8       1.00    4.7    21.35  100.0
3.07       Recurrent costs.  When fully operational, the annual recurrent cost
of the MOE and NIPA project institutions would be YR 3.2 million and YR 5.4
million respectively, which would be met without difficulty (i) as the MOE
costs amount to only 1.7% of the total recurrent budget for MOE, and (ii)
the government has assigned high priority to operation of NIPA project insti-
tutions.
Implementation
3.08       According to the agreed implementation schedule (Annex 11), the
physical aspects of all project items would be completed by December 1981.
Early initiation of pre-investment studies is included as government plans
investment in project elements to be identified in these studies. The major
part of the technical assistance program would continue through December 1983
(Annex 12); only the experts for the agricultural and livestock schools would
be needed until July 1985. The Closing Date would be July 31, 1986, which
would allow sufficient time for withdrawal applications for the last parts of
the technical assistance.



- 25 -
3.09      Administration.  The government has agreed that MOE, MOR, NIPA and
the Sanaa University would have overall responsibility for the implementation
of their respective project components and for collaboration with the con-
cerned agencies; the involvement of the agencies in this way would assist in
institution building in these agencies.  The responsibility for each project
component would be assigned to a Project Coordinator, under the general super-
vision of the Minister of Education, who would have specific responsibilities
for (i) timely recruitment of staff, nomination of counterparts and fellowship
training for the project schools or pre-investment studies, (ii) implementa-
tion of the technical assistance program, (iii) appropriate provisions of
investment and current budgets for the project component, (iv) liaison with
the PIU in the development of architectural designs and procurement of equip-
ment and furniture with the assistance of his staff, (v) ensuring provision of
office space, services and transport for the study teams, and (vi) financial
records, and with advice and assistance of the PIU accountant, the preparation
of withdrawal applications for disbursements of allocated IDA funds in respect
of technical assistance. The government has decided the following:
MOE. An official of rank no less than that of a Deputy Minister
would be the Project Coordinator for the agricultural and livestock
secondary schools, and for strengthening the MOE management and
School Building Unit.
NIPA. The Vice-Dean would be the Project Coordinator with over-
all responsibility for establishing the 2 NIPA branches. The
Vice-Dean would represent NIPA on the pre-investment study of
the development of post-secondary education.
MOH. The Director of Basic Health Services would be the Project
Coordinator for the regional sociological study, the feasibility
study for the establishment of regional health care centers and
training of their trainers at the Health Manpower Institute.
Sanaa University. The Vice Rector would be the Project Coor-
dinator for the pre-investment studies for the development of
post-secondary education.
PIU. The PIU established under IDA Education I and II, would,
under the proposed project, have responsibilities for schedul-
ing, monitoring, and supervision of only the physical aspects
of the items. These implementation activities will include
architectural design, follow-up of site acquisition, surveys,
preparation of cost estimates, and supervision of construction.
Because of its long experience with IDA lending procedures,
the PIU would be responsible, in consultation with respective
Project Coordinators, for tendering procedures, preparation of
bidding and contract documents, supervision of bidding and award
of contracts of civil works, furniture and equipment, and prepara-
tion and submission through MOE, of associated withdrawal applica-
tions for disbursements. The PIU accountant would train nominated
accountants in the respective implementing bodies on accounting
and withdrawal procedures to be followed.



- 26 -
3.10      Architectural services.  The PIU, as stated above, would have the
responsibility for the architectural services for all project components.
Assistance to the PIU, equivalent to about one man/month of consultancy
services from a consultant architect experienced in the planning of health
care facilities, would be required for the pre-investment design work for the
Ministry of Health's Basic Health Care Services. Construction and bid docu-
ments for the agricultural secondary school have already been prepared.
Preliminary architectural designs of the livestock secondary school and the
NIPA branches have been prepared and were reviewed by IDA.
3.11       Sites.  The 6.9 hectares site for the agricultural school, which has
already been acquired, is satisfactorily located in a large government state
farm at Surdud. A satisfactory 3.3 hectare site, located in the northern
outskirts of Sana'a has been selected and acquired by the government for the
livestock secondary school. Sites for the NIPA branches in Taiz and Hodeidah,
7,500 m2 and 11,000 m2 respectively, are satisfactory. Topographical surveys
of all required sites have been prepared.   The cost of land acquisition would
be borne by the government and is not included in the project cost.
3.12       Procurement.  Civil works contracts (amounting to US$11.6 million
including contingencies) would be awarded on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding. It is anticipated that due to the dispersion of the project
institutions within the country and the improving capability of the construc-
tion industry which is now importing foreign workers to relieve some of its
labor shortages, all civil works contracts (of typical size US$3 million)
would be awarded to local firms. If foreign bids are received, qualified
local civil works contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of 7-1/2%
over bid prices of competing foreign contractors. Detailed lists and specif-
ications of furniture and equipment would be presented to IDA for review and
approval prior to procurement. Equipment and furniture items (amounting to
US$2.1 million including contingencies) would be grouped, to the extent pos-
sible, in large packages to permit bulk procurement. Contracts for furniture
and equipment in excess of US$50,000 would be awarded on the basis of ICB.
Small items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the above figure
or items of specialized nature for which ICB would not be practical, would
be procured under normal government procedures acceptable to IDA and would
include, to the extent feasible, quotations from at least three manufacturers
or suppliers; these items would not exceed an aggregate total of US$0.4 mil-
lion, which would represent about 20% of the estimated furniture and equipment
cost including contingency allowances. Draft tender and contract documents
for furniture, equipment and civil works would be forwarded to IDA for review
and approval; IDA's approval of tender evaluation documents would be required
prior to the award of all contracts for furniture and equipment under ICB.
Bank reimbursements for all other contracts would be contingent upon IDA's
approval of tender evaluation documents subsequent to contract awards. For
purpose of comparing foreign and local bids under ICB, local manufacturers of
furniture and equipment would be allowed a margin of preference equal to the
existing rate of customs duties applicable to competing imports or 15% cif
price, whichever is lower.



- 27 -
Disbursements
3.13      Disbursements (Annex 13) would be on the basis of:
(i)  Civil works:  24% of total expenditure.
(ii) Furniture and Equipment: 100% of foreign expenditures, and
of local expenditures ex-factory; 85% of local expenditures
for imported items procured locally.
(iii) Technical Assistance: 100% of expenditures.
These percentages would be adjusted as required to assure continued financing
from the available credit funds of expenditures for each category for the
implementation period.
IV. BENEFITS, RISKS, AND CRITICAL ACTIVITIES
Benefits
4.01      The proposed third education project would make a modest but sig-
nificant contribution to YAR's Five-Year Manpower Development Plan by (i)
training public sector and MOE personnel in administration, project prepara-
tion, implementation and management, (ii) supplying skilled manpower required
for programs in food and health sectors for rural areas, and (iii) assisting
an in-depth study of post-secondary education to meet long term development
needs of Yemen. This project would introduce new areas of emphasis for
training than had been covered in earlier IDA education projects.
4.02      The major benefits of the project are expected to be:
(a)  improved administrative capability of the MOE and a School
Building Unit staffed with qualified Yemenis by mid-1982;
(b)  identification of the direction, scope and phasing of the
optimum development of post-secondary education;
(c)  a subsequent accelerated expansion of basic health services
and primary health care to cover a larger proportion of the
rural population, based upon the findings of the project's
pre-investment sociological, feasibility and design studies
of regional health-care centers and training units;
(d)  a significant increase in the numbers of trained Yemeni women
through courses to be provided in the project NIPA regional
branches;



- 28 -
(e) an annual output of some 55 middle-level agricultural tech-
nicians and 55 animal health assistants through the estab-
lishment of an agricultural school and a livestock school,
respectively, to assist in meeting 40% and 100% of the pro-
jected average annual demand by 1985 for trained personnel
in agriculture and livestock production; and
(f) extension of public administration in-service training,
upgrading annually some 650 public sector personnel in the
regional governorates through the construction of the two
branches of the National Institute of Public Administration,
which would also train officials of local development
associations and agricultural cooperatives charged with
executing a sizeable share of rural infrastructure projects.
Risks and Uncertainty
4.03       The major risk, experienced with the earlier education projects, is
that of ensuring the timely availability of qualified expatriate and Yemeni
staff for the project institutions. This has been mitigated by the establish-
ment of a recruitment committee in MOE with responsibility for the recruitment
of staff to a senior member of the committee; and the proposed assignment by
MOE of one of the experts being provided in UNDP institutional project support,
to assist MOE in monitoring and coordinating technical assistance and staffing
requirements of the earlier two projects as well as the third project. The
PIU, experienced in the supervision of the two ongoing IDA education projects,
will provide continuity of operation in physical implementation and train
counterparts in accounting and procurement procedures.
4.04       The experience of agricultural secondary schools in developing
countries has been very mixed in recruitment of the trainees and subsequent
employment of graduates. Accordingly the total enrollments in the agricul-
tural and livestock schools could fall short of targets, if the career pros-
pects in the MOA services are neither well known nor attractive in competition
with others. To remove this degree of uncertainty, government has provided
assurance that a staffing program for an expanded agricultural and livestock
development at provincial, district and sub-district levels, correlated with
career paths, will be formulated by the MOA by December 30, 1980 (paras 2.08
and 2.15) and widely disseminated in the school system.
Critical Activities and Key Implementation Dates
4.05       The critical activities in the implementation of the project and the
expected dates of completion indicated in the following table will serve as a
project implementation and monitoring tool.



- 29 -
I.   Project Schools
Agricultural         Livestock
Secondary School   Secondary School          NIPA
Surdud              Sanaa         Taiz & Hodeidah
Civil Works
Completion of design
development drawings
and bid documents                             October 1979         October 1979
Commencement of
construction             August 1979          March 1980           March 1980
Completion of
construction             August 1981          January 1982         July 1981
Furniture & Equipment
Completion of master-
lists                           --            August 1979
Completion of final
equipment list and
specifications            December 1979       December 1979        December 1979
Completion of install-
ation of major equip-
ment and furniture        August 1981         January 1982         July 1981
Teachers
Appointment of teachers   March 1981             September 1981      January 1981
Tracer System
For monitoring
employment                September 30, 1981 September 30, 1981
Technical Assistance
Submission of program
for IDA review           August 1979          August 1979          August 1979
Commencement of program:
Experts-appointment      March 1981           September 1981       January 1981
Fellowship training       September 1979      July 1980            September 1979
II. Technical Assistance: Ministry of Health
Commencement regional sociological study                             September 30, 1979
Commencement feasibility study of regional health
care centers                                                       September 30, 1980
Commencement Health Manpower Training
Experts-appointment                                                December 1979
Fellowship training                                                June 1980



- 30 -
III. Technical Assistance: Ministry of Education
Commencement of program
Appointment of:  Short-term consultants                            September 1979
Fellowship training                                                September 1979
Appointment of Yemeni Head of School Building Unit                   September 30, 1979
Appointment of 15 Yemeni technicans to SBU                           September 30, 1980
IV. Technical Assistance: Post-secondary Education
Yemeni observation team - study visit commencing                     August 1979
Post-secondary education programming study commencing                January 1980
Commencement fellowship training                                     January 1980
V.   Student Enrollment Incentive Plan (MOE-MOA)
(i)  to upgrade student stipends and provide          )
free board and lodging (MOE)                    )              December 31, 1980
(ii) program of staffing needs of the agriculture )
and livestock services and career opportunities
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following principal
points:
(i) adequate number of suitable graduates will be identified from
Yemeni students currently studying abroad on fellowships, for
appointment upon graduation by MOE to the teaching staff of
the project agricultural and livestock secondary schools (para
2.05);
(ii) MOA shall formulate by December 31, 1980 a program for staffing
needs of the agricultural and livestock services at the provin-
cial, district and sub-district levels and the career oppor-
tunities available and that this information thereon will be
properly disseminated through the education system (para 2.08);
(iii) a tracer system will be established under the auspices of the
Agricultural Education Division of MOE and will be fully opera-
tional by September 1981. The results of tracer studies will
be communicated annually to IDA for the first three graduating
classes (para 2.10 and 2.15);
(iv) NIPA will provide all incentives, including housing facilities
or allowances and competitive salaries, required to recruit and
maintain adequate teaching staff for the NIPA branches at Taiz
and Hodeidah (para 2.18); and



- 31 -
(v)  a qualified Yemeni engineer/architect will be appointed to
head the School Building Unit (SBU) by September 30, 1979
and also fifteen technicians will be appointed to SBU by
September 30, 1980 (para 2.27).
5.02      Condition of Effectiveness.  Satisfactory arrangements will be made
by the government for the appointment (or for securing under technical assis-
tance programs) before the commencement of the academic year 1979-80 of all
the agreed minimum number of specialist teachers to the project institutions
under the first two education projects, as shall be physically ready for
operation by the said academic year (para 1.46).
5.03      Subject to the above conditions, the project provides a suitable
basis for an IDA credit of US$10.0 million equivalent to the Yemen Arab
Republic.



- 32~-
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATCRS                                                ANNEX  I
....... .......                                  ~Page  1  of  2
APRIL 4, 1979
GNP/   % GNP   :  TOTAL:%  OF PUBLIC                 :                     RI. :AV.PRI.                          :SEC
:CAPITA: DEVOTED:PUBLIC    EDUCATION    :LITER-    PRI. :COMPLE-  S5TU- 7SCH.TEACH-IPROGRESS-: SEC. :STU-  :HIGHER:
AT   : TO EDU.:  EXP.  RECURRENT    :ACY             :ENROLL:TION       :DENTS:SALARY IN:ION RATE  :ENROLL:DENTS:ENPOLL:
:MARKET: (PUBLIC:DEVOTEO:EXP ALLOCATED:  RATE :RATIO :RATE FOR:PER   :RELATION :FROM PRI. RATIO  :PER    RATIO
POP. :PRICES: EXP.           TO           TO:       :(% OF   : NET   :PRI.SCH.:TEACH: TO GNP/ :TO SEC.             NET   :TEACH- GROSS:
YR:MILLS.: (US$): ONLY)           EOU. :PRI. SEC. HI.:ADULTS): 1%    :CYCLE(%):ER               CAPrTA      I1%)        (44)  :ER        %
.14):      (2):   ()       :(4)  :         (5)       :16)        (7)       (8)      19):   110)         (II)      :112)   :(13) :(14)
AOVANCED
AUSTRIA          7 4    7_5F 4.870F      5. 3Y   8ASEY  2AY  51Y  I5'Y   99           98        930       260       2.00      990       540      i90    16.854'
CANADA           75  22.9   7.135         7.3    16.7     30    37    26      98      99        97        19        2.0        99       90       18     16.00
GERMANY F. PEP .75  61.8  6,670           5.0    10.2      3iEY 64-- 26EY  99         90        99        23EY      . ..     9g'y       B4Y      22C    20.264'
JAPAN            75 111.6  4,450         4.2E   20_7E   40UY 37UY 44UY  99            990       99C       25        2.08      99C       9Sxy    20C    24.69Y
NETHERLANDS    75   13.7  9 ,4 25         9.4    22 .40    21   39    25      99      95        95        29        2.0        9T       80       20      12.00
NEW ZEALAND    73    3.IF 4, 280F         9.-2    ...      39   24    29      99      99        99        26        ...        89       67       19     24.00'
NORWAY           76    4.0  8.043         7.2    t4.4      64   24    IS5    99       99        99        16        1.5        99E      62       44      11.00
SWEDEN           76   8.2  6.450         6.6    14.0      23   29    1 2      99      99        99        16        ...       907       85C      13     30.DDC
U.K.             75  56.03  3.760         7.1    13.9      26   41   18       99      99        -..       24        2.0        ...      68       4 7    2.DOQX
U.S.A.           76 214.6   7.950         5.4    45.8    . ..   72'- 28       99E     99        99        22        . ..       99       93       49     24.00
EUROPE
GREECE           76    9.1  2.590         2.6    10.4      37   26    21      666     99        820       31      2.0          70E      80       27      45.00
IRELAND          74    3.IF 2,390F       5.4    12.90   43Y  4lT   l4Y    98         406EV      996       35      . ..        95A       65EV    19      45.47Y
PORTUGAL         75    9.6   1.570       4.4    17.8      52   27    13       70      98        55        21      3.0          70       29       14      7.60
ROMANIA          75  24.2   1.240         4.0     6.4     36    49    43    98         loix     . .       21       . ..       98        49       22      40.00
SPAIN            74  35. 3F 2,750F        2.46   15.2A    49Y?  22'?  i5V    94A    IISXV                 35A      . ..        . ..     7RXY    30      17.667
AFRICA
ALGERIA          77   16.9      9900      7.5    14. 3FY  42    ...  24       35      78X       45        39       4.0        55        26X      43      6.00
RENIN            74    3.IF    130F       7.2N  36.OY   470  230   400    440         44XY      706       53Y     26.06       436       IIX'?    396     0-74Y
ROTSWANA         76   0.7       410       4.0    49.2     53   20    14        3      72X       96        32        3.0       60        42       22      0.20
BUPUNDOI         74    3.7F    IIOF       2.5    49.90    47R  446   126    10        20X       307       38       40.0        1 4       2X      46       4.0
CAMEROON         76    7 .7     314       3.7    24.9      33   43    20      ..      60        45        52      4.0          2.0       90      24     0OSOCY
C.AR.            74    I.8F    220F       3.00   4700D   566   g 49.          ..      79XY      25        69V      . ..        i8        8XV    276'?    0.241Y
CHAD             75    4.0      420       3.0    40.0      78   22   ...      I5      29X6Y    30         656'Y    45.0         8        2XBY  30       0G0IRY
CONGO(R)         74    l.3F    51OF       6.0    49.3      40   32    21      507    133X       63        63        6.0        48       33X      22      3.40
EGYPT            76  38.2       310       5.9N    ...      30   32    25      44      76        80        31        . ..      79        45       20       42.00
E7HIoPrA         77  29.0       400      2. 4    12.5   44      31    44      40      26        . ..      50        . ..      63         8       38       ..
GABON            74    0.5F 2.540F        9.00  20.60    250   90   410    ...    lOOT          25C       46C       5.0        484      34V      24C     0.29Y
GAMBIA           76    0.5      470       3.3    44.5      46   25      6     40      27        90        33       .           92       43       25        ..
GHANA            74    9S9F    590F       . ..   19. 7V    43'?  22Y  20Y0   ...      6OXV      626       30'?     . ..        446      3SXY    46CY    4.097
GUINEA           76    4 .7     18OF      4.3N0  ...       30   31   30       ...     30X       64        45        12F        86        43X     26      4.00
IVORY COAST    76    7.0       640       6.8    23.4      33   46    43        96     50        86       43       7.0         47        47XY    26      I4.64 Y
V-J~~ A      76   43.8     240       5.9    26.0      67   23    40      40       807       607      34        6.0        30        46      77       1.0
V-ESOTHO         75    4.2      460      12.OP  23,0    49    48   20         40      85        50        52       7.064      84        40       26       4 .00~
LIPERIA          75    4.5      440       2.-4   13.2     27    4 5    20     73      58        ...       35       2.0         ...      42       26       4.404AY
MADAGASCAR       77    8.0      240       4.0    24.0      53   26    4 9     50      90        33        44       6.0         38        4 4     23       4.70
MALAWI           77    5.6      440       2.2     9.3      40    17   22      25      56E       24        6)        5.0         9        5X      24      0.47
MALI             75    5.7F      SOF      4.2M  33.OF   45F  37F   4SF    IOF         22XF      . ..      48F     9S5F        5OF        6X      24         -
MAURITANIA       71    1.3F    320F       4-4Y  20.OYV... ....                40A      17XY     ...       22A       ...        ...       3XT    24A
MAURITIUS        76    O.91L   660        4 .7    42.1    50    26      6     80C     94        99        24       4.5          90      45       32       4.50
MOROCCO          76   48.2      920       6.3    45.2     396  486   436    26        65X       33        40        . ..       33       17X      22      4.00
NIGERIA          74  75.OF    340F        4.IDY 24 .20T  23'?  46Y  42YT       .      49XY      . ..      340'?     ...        ...       lOX'?   20CY   0.48Y
RWANDA           73    4.IF    lOOF       3.2C  26.00........    23                   52        ...       51        ...        ...       2       4 3     0.22CY
SElIEGA L        77    5 .2     420      5.0    23.0      46   34    20       10      32        . ..      49       40.0       20        40       21       4.5
SIERRA LEONE   73    3.OF    200F        3.4    23.4      34    36    30      457     34X       45        32       4.OE       68        43X      24      0.53BY
SOMALIA          79    3.2      440      3.7Q   40.80    490   460  190   507         34X       86        35      40.0        60         3       4 5     0.40
SUDAN            75   15.9      290      4.5    49.9      48   36    196    20        34        74        33       3.8        23        14       24        4.24
SWAZILAND        75   0.5       470       3.8     ---     38   34    19       50      73        71        38       3.8        54        24       22       4.00
TANZANIA         76  15.4       480      6.6    17.4      42   24    1 2      60      93X       84        49       6.~6         6        4X      49      0.34
TUNISIA          73    5.R F    730F     6.3    23.4      37   43    4 8      55      72        64        41       6.0        31        4 4      24      3.00
UGANDA           75   44.6      220       3. 40T  15.7DY  34EY 40EY 22EY  254         53xV      . ..      34EY      ...        144A      6XCV   244      0.56T
UPPER VOLTA    77    5.6        4418      3.4    23.9      34    16   32       SC      13       23        51      24.0         19        2       25       4.0
ZAIRE            76  25.6       440      6.0   32.0       49   26    25       45      86X       44        42X      2.0        44        43X      27       l.OOX
ZAMBIA           76    9.1      440      6.8    15.9      54    22    22      39      97X       60        49       7.0        24        16       23       4.50
CENTRAL AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
BARBADOS         76    0.2   4.620        8.4    22.1     43   31   16    99         406X       99        24        3.0        89       94X8     47       ..
COSTA RICA       75    2.0      960       5.28  22 .78    576  256   426    896    IO9XT        656       296       3.06      -586      52XY   256    17.15Y
CUBA             78    9.5  9.500         6.0    44.0  .. ... ...             96      96        96        22        2 .7      96        65       45      45.00
DOMINICAN REP.72    4.7F    720F          3.0    43.9      42   24    22      54      80        17        54        3.00       63        43.5    24       7.00
EL SALVADOR    77    4.1    570          4 .4    27.~2    64      8   27      62      88X       32        39       2.2        41        23       21      7.00
GUATEMALA        73    6.3F   570F        4.9    46.0      55   23    4 4     47      64        26        35       3.0        69         8       25      4.09Y'
HAITI            76    4 .7     200       4.0     8.0    64   24    41    206         2SF       13   .56U           3.0       62         4       ...      0.7
HONDURAS         753   2.9      3900      4.2G   48.80   62G  15G   496   53          78        30        39        3.0        66       44       17      4.00
JAMAICA          76    2.1  1,070         9.9    16.2     37    33    22      86E     91        52        39       4.5        94        64       25      7.58
MEXICO           75  59.9   4.090         3.400  I2.000  54'?  26'?  42'?   76        112XY     31        46        31.0      63        35XY    234      8.97EY
NICARAGUA        74    2_3F    700F       2. 5    144.2   64    43   I43    57        65        24        37       2.0        93        17       24      7.00
TRINIDAD & T. 77    4.4   2.485          4.5    14.1      48    32    20      95      96        91        30       3.0        49        62       24        ..
SOUTH AMERICA
BOLIVIA          76    5.8      34SF      5.0    17 ,SF    ......              36      178      2740      24       SF          ..        46      480
BRAZIL           75 407.0   1.030         5.0    42.4     42E  20E    37E  644        860        . ..     27CY                          26G      ISCY    6.006
CFIILE           75   10.3      990       3 . RY  12 ,SRY  23Y  10'?  5OT    . ..   449EV       ---       35T                  . ..     48XY    . ..   16.55Y
COLOMBIA         74  23-6F    580F        3.30Y 21 20Y  44DY 270Y  lYT  73            IO9XV     20        33V       4.0       90        3697    14A      6.67Y
ECUADOR          75    7.1    590        3.70  277.7C  .1.         .    -     69     102,XY     ...       38C       ...        ...      38EV    14C
GUYANA           74   O.SF    SiOF        5.8N  144.70   47    35    4 4      83A     92X       39        33       6 0         49       62X      24       4. 00
PARAGUAY         74    2 .SF    580F      4.8    44.0     55    43   22       84      82        26        30        4.9       65        47       1 2     9.00
PERU             75   15.4      760       4 . 20   241.70Y  40'?  22'?  ISV    72    IIIX'?     38        39DY     3.0        70        4RXY    2309   14.41Y
URUGUAY          79    2.8   1,300        2.5    15 3    46   34    20        94      93E       ...        4        ---       513        ...     10       . 
VENEZUELA        73   12.OF 2.28OF       4 .6    49.9     300  280  350    77A        84I        .        33       2 .4        ...      7;3      .. .   i2.E3CY



-33-                                                           Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
GNP/   % GNP  :%TOTAL:"OF PUBLIC                                     :P!  :AV.PRI.                         :SEC
CAPITA: DEVOTEO:PUBLIC   EDUCATION    :LITER-   PRI. :COMPLE- :STU- .SCH.TEACH:PROGRESS-: SEC. :STU- 'HIGHER:
AT  : TO EDU_:  EXP.   RECURRENT    ACY           :ENROLL TION      .DENTS:SALARY IN:ION RATE :ENRDI.L:OENTS: ENROLL:
;MARKET: (PUBLIC.OEVOTED:EXP ALLOCATED:   RATE :RATIO  RATE FOB:PER  :RELATION :FROM PRI. :RATIO 'PER  .5A(10  
POP. 'PRICES: EXP .        TO           TO:      :(% OF      NET  :PRI.SCH.:TEACH: TO GNP/ :TO SEC.     NET   :TEACH- GROSS:
YR:MILLS.   (US$): ONLY)        EDU. :PRI. SEC. HI.:ADULTS):  M%   :CYCLE(%)ER            CAPITA       :% () ER                :   )
(1)     (2)    (3)         (4)  :      (5)         (6)   :(7)        (a)      (9)    (10)       (II)      :(t2)  :(13) ~(14)
ASIA ANO OCEANIA
AFGHANISTAN   77M 14.3    I6OG         i.a   11.6    47   19   Is    12           29X      69       37       3.OG       62        RX     17      I 00
BANGLADESH    73  78.6F    90F         1.2   20.2    44Y  22Y  21Y   230          56X      . ..     48D      .. .      . ..     23X0    28R        .
CHINA)TAIWAN) 73  I6BOF   930F    3.2   14.0           28   41   22    82         98C      94       40      14.0       84       Bic      26     20.OOC
INDIA           75 606.1      140      2.6VY  ...      ...... 295                65XY      ...     43A       ...       ...      29XY   20AY   2. 34EY
INDONESIA       76 130.2     240       3.0   11.0    26   32   is    ROB         79EX    43E       30E       2.0       52E      ISEX    14E      2.00
IRAN            73  33. 4F 1,660F      3.3    12.6    5OB   (RB  12B   50        77       74A      32        5.06      BOA      24      32       4.22CY
IPAQ            75  III1  1.250        6_7C   16.3DR........   26C               93XY      ...     22        ...       ...      3SXY   26C    B.47Y
JORDAN          73   2. 7F   4BOF      7.0    6.8    52   15   21    59          91X       76       38       6.0       84       sox      22      4.00
KOREA           76  35.9    698        3.0  1IB6O   65   13    B    92F    103X            97       50       2.B       60       84       39    i4.4
LEBANON         72   3.2F 1,070F       3.5   16.0    39   40   10    BR           86       65       16       2.0       R3       26U      25     23-00
MALAYSIA        76  12.6    660        6 .7   26.0    42   34   15    B0C         95       93       32       3.7       78       48       26      3.00
NEPAL           76  12.6F    IIOE      1.1   10.0    29   20   41         19      59       28       31       2.3       64        14      24      0.8
OMAN            72   OA8F 2,300F       1.7N   3.8    96       -   -      20       24X      99       27F      7.0       . ..     0.4X      9      ..
PAKISTAN        76  69.2      160      1.6   16.2    45   25   lB    21          47X       50       39       2.0       -. .      17X     iB      6.00
PAPUA N.G.      75   2.6    470        5.6   16.1    36   lB   24    32           57?      73P      31      11.0       90        12X7    24      0.907
PHILIPPINES   74  42. 2F   38OF    2.-5   14.9    73   IS   12    87             104X      . ..     34      15.0       - . .    46X      . . - 2i.00
SINGAPORE       74   2.3F 2. 450F    2.7Y   9. 2Y   39Y  39Y  17Y   75A    IO9XY    72A             31Y      . ..      99A      44XY   24        7,68Y
SYRIA           75   7.4    720        3.6   6.9       39   25   26    53        69        70       35       2.0       92       46       21     12.00
THAILAND        73  4 1. 9E    350F    4.ONF 20.7F   65    9   IS    82          87X       93C      32   ..3.0 U    91C         21X      24      2.00
TURKEY          73  40.2F   900F    5_BCY 20.6CY._8_Y_....85Y34Y                                             ..        . ..     24Y      270Y   5.B3Y
YEMEN           73   5S9F   200F    0.5    4.0    45P  21P  23P   10              Isx      18      36        6.0       75        2X      IS      0.O5BY
YEMEN P.D.R.  76    1.7    260         6.6             57   28    a    20        89X      48       30        9.0       94       21X    24        0.10
SUMMARY FOR DEVELOPING COUNTRIES:
NUMBER OIF COUNTRIES:                  94    90       66   BR   66    67        95        74      95          68      77       94      91        84
RANGE:                              (0.6-  (3.6-  (25- (6-  (2-   (3          (14-    (13-    (19-         (1.9-   (7-       (.4-    (9-       (.Ol-
12.0 ) 13.0)   96 ) 47)  41)   9B)         133X)   99)    69)    25.0 )   99)             60  )  39)   23.0)
OUARTILES:UPPER                      5 .1   21.2    54   32   22    73         94       76       46          7       63       36      25       7.0
MEDIAN:                  3.9   16.3    45   23   Is    50           78       55       36         4       63        17      23      2.3
LOWER :                  3.0   (2.4    38   18   12    20           63       30       32         3       43         9      20       .9
SYMBOLS: ... DATUM UNAVAILABLE                A=1970 OR BEFORE           M=CURRENT PRICES                        SOURCES:
-MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 5=1971                          N=GDP----
7  QUESTIONABLE                    C=1972                      P-INCLUDING FOREIGN AID                  COLUMNS:l AND 2 WORLD RANK ATLAS
INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS 0=1973                         O=CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                        OR IBRO MISSIONS
COMBINED WITH PRIMARY           E=1974                     R=MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY                 3 TO 14 IBRD MISSIONS
UNDER REVIEW                    F=H375                     S-MOE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                  AND/OR UNESCO
G=1976                     T=EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                   STATISTICAL
U=PUBLIC ONLY                                               YEARBOOK
V=INCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
X=INCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
Y-UNESCO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ABE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OIF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HDWEVER.DN THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA.CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CAUTION. DATA PPESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY THE BANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES; THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA PROM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDABDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHEcK rHE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS.SUCH DATA APE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA. THE FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
MIND:
( I) "EDUCATION" AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRZAINING. FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL:
(2)"PRIMARY EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONOARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL. TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) 
(3)'LITERACY RATES-(COL.B) ABE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF 'LITERATE' HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY:
(4P"PUBLIC EXPENDITURE IN EOUCATION"(COLS.3.4 AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION BY
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC AGENICIES:
(5)"ENROLLMENT PATIOS'(COLS 7. 12 AND 14) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA(I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIlGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN  SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED  BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



-   34   -                                                       Annex  2
Chart 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC III
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATIONAL AND TRAINING SYSTEMS
PRIMARY EDUCATION                            SECOND LEVEL EDUCATION                          HIGHER EDUCATION
LOWER I-PREPARATORY")    UPPER ("SECONDARY")
PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING
:32  3 H45 
NURSING IHMII           MEDICAL ASSISTANTS (HMII
1      2.t  21    3     4 15 _
MID-WIVES IHMII         TECHNICAL
1 I-I2                   4      5      6PROFESSIONAL
- I   *-                                                           SECOND LEVEL
VOCATIONAL IMOEI         COMMERCIAL                              TEACHER TRAINING
1  "..     L;..-.I  2   -?
VOCATIONAL (IN-SERVI     ACADEMIC 111             COLLEGE OF ARTS, SCIENCE AND EDUCATION
PUELIC WORKS 
I9f   ELECTR. CORP.   -
PREPARATORY              MULTILATERAL 2)1            FACULTY OF MODERN AND ISLAMIC LAW   S PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
1=     2      3-        4       5,                                                      _ 2  3  4  N.IP,A.
YOUNG FARMER             AGRICULTURAL                FACULTY OF BUSINESS AND COMMERCE
TRAINING            - 4 I      _;     ~        3
LIVESTOCK
4      5      6..+ .
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
(MOE -MOA)
VETERINARY ASSISTANTS
FINAL EXAMINATIONS                                                -MOAi
LABOR MARKET
I  I              I                                                 I      I      I             I      I      I      I
AGE6        7      3      9      10     11         12    12    14           1      16    17             16    15    20    21
H1 Grade 50and601r divided 1110 0111 01 tEDUCATIONAL                                i S VOCATIONAL    .... IDA 3RD PROJECT
121 Includes ons IcreOco. technical 0411C0110101 comm1ercial office prac-ice Illeams  D  SCHOOL  L2 TRAINING  INSTITUTIONS
INSTITUTIONS
World Boak -- 19258



ANNEX 3
- 35 -
CHART 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC III
Educational Pyramid, 1976/77ai
Grade
Female Enrollment
U niversty                                                                                                                       As %of            As96         as of Total
16                                                                           147                                            Edceucation        of Age         Enrollment
Enrollment         Group          Each Level
15                                                                   46       251
14                                                                   48        497 510.8                                                         0.8            11.4
14                                                                  64           497
13                                    Females                      111          925                Maies
Secondary
12                                                                 29ig E ,1875                                                 3.2              3.7            13.6
11                                                                358,           2196
10                                                               483              2881
Preparatory
9                                                              676                 4,200
8                                                            890                     5,256                                     7.6              4.8            15.3
7                                                         1,347                        6,606
Primary
6                                                         1,817 7                    H9.955
5                                                       2,176                                13,559
4  3,366 1                                 20,060                      88.4             25.7            13.6
3                                                    4,698                                               30,594
2                                                 6,669                                                        41,302
1                                               11,433                                                                               75,530
Source: Compiled by the mission from the Mlnistrv of Education. Annual Education Statistics. 1976/77.
Notes: -/ Including teacher training, commercial and industrial enrollments.
World Bank - 19111



- 36 -                                                          ANNEX 4
CHART 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC III
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
Board of Trustees
Dean                     Medium- Level
Consultative Assembly
[   Vice Dean
Department of                 Department of              Proposed Department                artment of Financ.       Taiz & Hodeida Branches
Training - Sana'a            Research & Consult.           of Graduate Training           & Administr. Affairs                Director
Finance &                     ztion                                                                                                    Proposed
Business Admin.              Methods                                                                                                   Training Sections
Office                  Personnel                                                                                        Secretarial               Personnel
Management                Management                                                                                         Practice                Management
| L*anguages    L  J       Public                                                                                          Languages               Accounting
Langae  Administration
Library &                                                                                                                   Public,
Documentation                                                                                                              Admpnistration
World Bank - 19256



37-                            Annex 5
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC III
Public Expenditures on Education
(YR Million)
Actual
1973-74  1974-75  1975-76  1976-77  1980-81
Public Expenditures on Education            19       31        59      96        188
Recurrent                           18        28       50       69        110/b
Capital                              1         3        9       27/a       78/b
Total Public Expenditures                  335      541       748     928      1,742
Recurrent                          322       472      617      678        993
Capital                             13        69      131      250        749
Gross National Product (GNP)            3,764    5,333    7,238   7,677    10,317
Public Expenditures on Education
as a Percentage of Total Public
Expenditures                           5.7%      5.7%      7.9%   10.3%      10.8%
Public Current Expenditures on
Education as a Percentage of
Public Current Expenditures            5.6%      5.9%      8.1%   10.2%      11.1%
Public Expenditures on Education
as a Percentage of GNP                 0.5%      0.6%     0.8%    1.3%        1.8%
Source: CPO: The First Five-Year Plan, 1976-77-1980-81 revised in the light
of data from the Ministry of Education, May 1978.
Notes:  a/ Actual Expenditure by government.
b/ IDA estimates
c/ In addition to the above public expenditures, an unknown amount of
aia goes directly to the local development associations from foreign
sources for educational purposes.



Y E M E N A.R A B R E P U B L I C
ENROLLMENTS, OUTPUTS, TRAINEE TEACHER RATIOS AND USE FACTORS IN PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
Institution  Location       Level            Courses         Length        Total     Estimated  Trainee/           Use Factors
&                               of         Annual       Annual    Teacher
Type                            Course      Enrollment   Output                Classrooma    Laboratory
Agricultural   Surdud   Upper sec.
Secondary               Grades 10-12   general, maths,       3 years        180          55        18:1         0.8          0.3-0.7
School                  Grade 10        agricultural sci-   1 year           20          20
ences, sociology,
nuttition, crops,
soils, horticulture,
plant protection,
food processing,
animal husbandry,
rural development, &
extension and farm
practice
Livestock
Secondary     Sanaa    Upper sec.                            3 years        180          55        14:1         0.75         0.6-0.8
School                  Grades 10-12   general, maths,
basic sciences,
animal sciences,
sociology and geo-
graphy, nutrition,
animal health, fodder
and pasture, animal
husbandry, animal
production, livestock
practice
NIPA branches  Taiz      in-service
Hodeidah  training       secretarial,                                               31U1         0.6          0.5-0.8
Hodeidah                 typing, filing,       6 months      450         325
accounting         3-6 months      (each       (each
personnel manage- 3-6 months       branch)    branch)
ment, languages      2 years
Public admini-    3-6 months
stration, Local      2 months
development associ-
ation



- 39 -                         ANNEX 7
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC III
Pre-Investment Studies for the Development of Post-Secondary Education
A.   Observation Team Study Visit
(a) Terms of Reference
1.   Study of curricular innovations/improvements suited
to real life situations and manpower development in
YAR, and of ctedit and semester systems.
2.   Examination of appropriateness of multiple-level
educational arrangements in all institutions of
post-secondary education, existing and envisaged,
in relation to a first level - sophmore diploma
level - for training middle-level manpower for
the public and private sectors and a second level
leading to professional qualifications.
3.   Study of extension services units or centers for
serving society - community services - continuing
education - health services - agricultural extension.
4.   Examination of research and consultancy centers
directed to solution of problems related to national
and rural development, including appropriate technology,
with emphasis on multi-disciplinary approaches.
5.   Study of university structure and organization, multi-
campus operation and university planning units.
6.   Examination of relationships between the national
institute of public administration and institutions
of higher education in the area of public policy
training programs.
7.   Suggest composition of programming study team of
experts and identify the sources or agencies for
these experts.
(b) Composition of Observation Team
The team will consist of 12 members representing the existing
faculties of the university, university administration, ministries
of agriculture, health and economy/public works and NIPA. The
duration of the visit will be 2 months, undertaken in groups
commencing August 1979.



- 40 -                          ANNEX 7
Page 2
(c) Report
The Team's report covering terms of reference will include
recommendations presented in the form of detailed terms of
reference for the post-secondary education development
programming study (B). Included in these recommendations
would be those of the workshop being convened in July/August
1978 to define objectives of future medical college in YAR -
that are to be community health oriented. The report will
be submitted by November 1979 to the University Council, NIPA,
CPO, and relevant ministries and finally to IDA for comment.
B.   Post-Secondary Education Development Programming Study
(a) Terms of reference: Based on the report of the observation
team's study visit, analysis of available documents and addi-
tional field work, the programming study should describe:
1.   objectives and functions of the planned development
of post-secondary education according to approved
policy of the government (main targets and constraints);
including different types of institutions and speciali-
sations including amongst the new disciplines of medi-
cine, agriculture and engineering;
2.   assist.in design of appropriate courses, submit models
of teaching programs in the different teaching units
taking into account also the particular economic,
social and cultural context and the natural resources
of YAR;
3.   work out the structure and organization of the
recommended post-secondary institutions and their
academic staff development;
4.   determine the locations of the recommended post-
secondary institutions, recommended characteristics,
and criteria of construction of necessary buildings;
5.   determine approximate costs of buildings, equipment
and financing of these institutions in YAR with pro-
posed phasing until 1990.
(b) Composition of Programming Study Team
The study team will comprise about 15 specialists representing
the principal disciplines, university planning and organiza-
tion, extension, public administration and management. The
names of acceptable institutional teams and job descrip-
tions of the specialists will be available to IDA by
November 1979. The duration of the study will be about 3
months commencing January 1980.



- 41 -                         ANNEX 7
Page 3
(c) Report
The Programming Study and the findings will be submitted by
May 1980 to the University Council, NIPA, CPO and rele-
vant ministries, and to IDA.



- 42 -                              Annex 9
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC III
Unit Capital Cost and Areas Per Student Placel/
Gross Area    Buildings &
Type of Facility         Per Student   Site Works    Furniture   Equipment    Total
m2        ------------------- US$ --------------
National Institute of
Public Administration,
Regional Branches
Academic & communal               7.1          4,600         400         1,100       6,100
Agricultural Secondary
School
Academic & communal               9.0          5,100         300         1,500       6,900
Boarding                          5.4         3,300          300           -         3,600
.2/
Staff housing-2                100.8         53,200           -            -       53,200
Livestock Secondary School
Academic & communal               8.1          4,700         400         1,400       6,500
Boarding      2/                  5.7         3,700          400           -         4,100
Staff housing-                 111.8         62,100           -            -        62,100
l/Excluding contingencies.
2!/Residence per staff member.



43 -                                 Annex 9
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC III
Technical Assistance requirements
Number and type of         Duration months      Total
Agency/institution               Technical Assistance            per man        man/months
Agricultural Secondary School   (6) experts                        42             252
SURDUD (M.O.E.)                   (9) fellows                      48             432
Livestock Secondary School        (3) experts                      48             144
SANA'A (M.O.E.)                  (3) fellows                       10              30
(2) fellows                       3               6
N.I.P.A.                         (2) experts                       30              60
TAIZ                              (6) fellows                      24             144
N.I.P.A.                         (2) experts                       30              60
HODEIDA                           (6) fellows                      24             144
Ministry of Health               - Regional sociological study;
Basic Health Care Services         experts                                         12
Preinvestment feasibility        - Study regional health care
study                           centers; experts                                 7
- Health manpower training:
(2) experts 1/              24              48
(2) fellows                 10              20
Ministry of Education
(a) Education Implementation          experts                      --             84
Management               (10) fellows                      15             150
(b) IDA Project Implementation
Unit and M.O.E. School  (12) experts 1/                                  172
Building Unit            (18) fellows                                    120
Higher Education                 - Observation team
Preinvestment studies                 (12) fellows                  2              24
- Academic Development
(15) experts                  2.5            37.5
- Fellowship program:
(2)  fellows                 10              20
1/ including short term consultants



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Contingencies Allowances
Site Develpm.       Building          Furniture         Equipment         Fellowships        Experts         Total Project Costs
Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign  TOTAL
Contingencies (as % of
project cost):
Unforeseen       11          10.0    10.0      10.0    10.0      10.0    10.0      10.0    10.0        5.0     5.0       5.0      5.0
Price escalation-            68.7    13.5      68.7    13.5      91.2    13.5      91.2    13.5       23.7    23.7      33.7    33.7
Project cost (without
contingencies):
Millions YR         2.93    1.44    18.22    8.98       0.31    1.75       0.74    4.20      0.66    3.76      3.04   17.22    25.90   37.35   63.25
Millions US$        0.65    0.32      4.05    1.99      0.07    0.39       0.16    0.93      0.15    0.84      0.68    3.83       5.76    8.30   14.06
% Foreign Exchange                     33.0               33.0              85.0              85.0              85.0               85.0              59.1
Contingencies (amounts):
Unforeseen
Millions YR         0.29    0.14      1.82    0.90       0.03    0.18      0.08    0.42      0.03    0.19      0.15    0.86       2.40    2.69    5.09
Millions US$        0.07    0.03      0.40    0.21      0.01    0.04       0.02    0.09         0    0.04      0.03    0.19       0.53    0.60    1.13
Price escalation
Millions YR         2.21    0.22    13.77    1.33        0.31    0.26      0.74    0.62      0.17    0.94       1.08    6.09    18.28    9.46   27.74
Millions US$        0.49    0.05      3.06    0.29       0.07    0.06      0.16    0.14      0.04    0.21      0.24    1.35       4.06    2.10    6.16
Subtotal
Millions YR         2.50    0.36    15.59    2.23       0.34    0.44       0.82    1.04      0.20    1.13       1.23    6.95    20.68   12.15   32.83            4-
Millions US$        0.56    0.08      3.46    0.50       0.08    0.10      0.18    0.23      0.04    0.25      0.27    1.54       4.59    2.70    7.29            1
% Foreign Exchange                      12.5              12.5              56.1              56.1               85.0              85.0              37.0
Total project cost (with
contingencies):
Millions YR         5.43    1.80    33.81   11.21        0.65    2.19      1.56    5.24      0.86    4.89      4.27   24.17    46.58   49.50   96.08
Millions US$        1.21    0.40      7.51    2.49       0.15    0.49      0.34    1.16      0.19    1.09      0.95    5.37    10.35   11.00   21.35
% Foreign Exchange                     24.9               24.9              77.1              77.1               85.0              85.0              51.5
Total contingencies: As % of total project cost, 34.2; as % of project cost without contingencies, 51.9
Rate of exchange: I US$ = 4.500 YR
-/Price escalation computed on basis of:  (a)  separate annual increase rates for local and foreign exchange costs;
(b) price escalation for local costs are based on recent trends in materials and labor costs
and on government estimates of future price increases as discussed with the appraisal mission;
(c) project completion 5.5 year from credit signing (including one year for completion of
technical assistance program); and
(d) estimated progress of work per year and corresponding price increase rate.
% Foreign        1979          1980          1981          1982
L          F   L        F   L         F   L         F
Civil works                   33%      37.6%   7.5%   26%    7%   26%        7%   26%      7%
Furniture & equipment         85%      40.0%   6.5%   30%    6%   30/        6%   30%      6%
Technical assistance          85%      10.0%Z  10.0%   10%   10%   10%    10%   10%    10%
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 4  -                                                                       Annex 11
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC III
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1978               1979               1980               1981               1982              1983               1984                1985
AgriuitrdiSecodar S~tOOi Sodue 1[2[3             ,1 2  3       4   1       1}3         1   2   3   4    1   2   3[d    1   2   3   4   1 2   3                          2   3 
Si- Acq-isio  nd Suroy 
3id Anno-nemen  E--luti- Ott
-ontiood Equip-mn P--c --en
C.iir-c A-tdt                                                                               i  
itnnCriqDelivey -dfl 
L oto  S-nodare SeoteSs.
e-gn eon Coo-r..i. I-
g. 0Hi.-    I~
Bid Doc--nts
Pue-i-uieve  Equip-men P--c -me
Fin-ii- Liens on  Eeiiud in
Pd, Aenounc-mnt, Eauto   n
Contrac Award'
Md-tasum- g, De~lhvi  era
I.,narr  Perio
Irnmidr Desig  *-
DeinDcei-m- t   sea*d
BI'd Documnort
-Rd   B   A ...cmtn -ositinot 
o     -n.re ..n E-ipet  Procuremen
Aor-t  Period
-Oca  iI 00  poiiOttn
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                        _   _  _7                                        m7
Prnoo 90 .douet
IDA R"-iw  -id App,-lO                                                                                                                                                   W,l 8-k -19260



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC III
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1918               1979                1980               1981                1982                1983               1984                1985
I   2   3    4   i   2   3   4    1    2   3    4   1   2    3   4   1   2    3   4   1   2   3    4                      2   3   4    1   2   3    4
A.icits<l  ecndarySito 
letiowlsr,ps                                                                                                       - _                                  _-s^_ _ _1f*_ _ r
Livestock Secon.dary Scdool
felxoships                                                                                   a   r r  - i _ _ _ __
Natioadl lostit te of Adilratio_
lello.sthips                    A                         1 .   .     ..   .                  t
Mivistif of Healt h-Bssic Health
Care Service   Preinvestmxnt                                                                                                     
F5easibility Study
Regio,,al Sociologicaf St.dy
Stwdy Regional i.tAlh C-are Centvrs
Hea-tt Manpower Trainhig
M.zivioy or EZducation._ _                                                                     _        ft*t*
tollO-ships                                           u                 mmii...                                m
Mi,     tEd-cati-nltpeuldir aagne: ___1__I ..I
19A Project  tmple-leltai- Urit ad
MOE Schoal B.il,lil9g U,itt:
fellowships                                                           1m      
7To ber  phnasied Preiresloew
(Deorvatou    Toani:d                                                                                                                                                               of  frk-95
feliosestip                                          U 
F,flisohip Pigivi
It T lbe Phasrof .a it- leo.
eco,k lcrad periods5                                                                                                                                                             WiVItd kla,l -19284



- 47 -                             Annex 13
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC III
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
in US $ Millions
Calendar     Fiscal Year/1                      Accumulated       Undisbursed
Year      and Semester -   Disbursement      Disbursements        Balance
Amount     %      Amount      %     Amount    %
-----------1979            ---------_---_ -___________________
1st
1/1 - 1979 -
2nd           0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0     10.0   100.0
-- 1980 --
1st           0.3      3.0      0.3       3.0      9.7    97.0
1/1 - 1980 -
2nd           1.7     17.0      2.0      20.0      8.0    80.0
___-1981
Lst           1.8     18.0      3.8      38.0       6.2    62.0
1/1/ - 1981 -
2nd           2.7     27.0      6.5      65.0       3.5    35.0
----1982----
1st           1.1     11.0      7.6      76.0       2.4    24.0
1/1 - 1982 -
2nd           0.7      7.0      8.3      83.0       1.7    17.0
----1983 ------______________
1st           0.4      4.0      8.7      87.0       1.3    13.0
1/1 - 1983 -
2nd           0.4      4.0      9.1      91.0      0.9      9.0
----1984
*                          1st           0.3      3.0      9.4       94.0      0.6     6.0
1/1 - 1984 -
2nd           0.3      3.0      9.7      97.0       0.3     3.0
-----1985---
1st           0.2      2.0      9.9      99.0       0.1     1.0
1/1 - 1985 -
2nd           0.1      1.0     10.0     100.0       0.0     0.0
-----1986  -- - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - -
1/ Beginning from the date of Credit Agreement.



- 48 -
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC III
RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   General Reports and Studies Relating to Education
1.   First Five-Year Plan (1976/77-80/71) YAR, Vols. I-VII.
Central Planning Organization. Sanaa, June 1977.
2.   Development of a Traditional Economy-YAR.  Vols. I & 2
(Report 2057-YAR), IBRD, May 1978.
3.   National Health Program (1976/77-80/81) YAR.  WHO/Ministry
of Health. August 1976.
4.   Education Development Plan (1976/77-80/81) YAR.  Ministry
of Education. February 1977.
5.   Education in Yemen Arab Republic - Problems and Perspectives,
Plans and Projects. UNESCO. Sanaa. June 1977.
6.   Education Plan Statistics 1976/77-80/81.  Ministry of Educa-
tion 1977.
7.   Statistical Yearbook.  YAR 1976-77.  Central Planning Orga-
nization. Sanaa, 1978.
8.   1975 Manpower Survey.  YAR.  Central Planning Organization.
May 1976.
9.   Manpower Assessment YAR.  (Socknat-Sinclair Report YEM/74/
015). ILO, Geneva, 1976.
10.   Estimate of YAR's Potential School Entrants and Work Force,
1965-85. Socknat-Sinclair. Sanaa, December 1975.
11.   Agricultural Technical Manpower Requirements in YAR, FAO
expert. Ministry of Education. April 1977.
12.   Extension Training Program 1978.  Central Agricultural
Research and Training Project.  Taiz, June 1977.
13.   Decree No. 136 of Revolution Council reorganizing the
Ministry of Education. 1976.
14.   Livestock Credit and Processing Project Report.  No. 1991a
YAR/IBRD September 1976.



- 49 -
B.   Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1.   Education Sector Memorandum YAR (Report 2107-YAR) IBRD,
June 1978.
2.   Summary of Educational Statistics 1976-77.  Ministry of
Education 1978.
3.   National Board of Agricultural Education YAR Statute
No. 68/77. Ministry of Education, 1977.
4.   Law 136/76 establishing Division of Agricultural Education,
Statute 3/78 giving it legal recognition and 119/78 defining
implementation of law. YAR. Ministry of Education, 1978.
5.   Planning Sanaa University in YAR (Benyon/Herman Report),
UNESCO, Paris, 1978.
6.   Sanaa University Phase I - The Master Plan.  Kuwaiti Engineers
Office. Kuwait.
7.   University of Sanaa Educational Statistics.  Sanaa, April 1978.
8.   Draft Proposal for National Program/Project for Basic Health
Services/Primary Health Care. YAR. Ministry of Health, Sanaa,
December 1977.
9.   Health Manpower Development - Phase III.  Project Proposal.
UNDP. Sanaa, 1978.
10.   Report of WHO Mission concerning proposed establishment of a
medical school in YAR. Regional Office, WHO. December 1977.
11.   Analysis and Escalation of Cost of Building Materials and
Labor in Yemen-YAR. PIU, Sanaa, January 1978.
12.   Construction Industry in YAR.  W. Cosgrove, IBRD Office
Memorandum. July 13, 1976.
13.   Presentations:
i.   NIPA Feasibility Studies for establishing branches
at Taiz and Hodeidah.  NIPA, Sanaa.  February/May 1978.
ii.   Working Paper - First Five-Year Plan of Agricultural
Education - YAR. Ministry of Education. April 1977.
iii.   Justification for the establishment of an agricultural
secondary school in the Tihamas. Ministry of Education.
December 1975.



- 50 -
iv.   Working Paper and Justification for the establishment
and additional support to the School Building Unit -
PIU/School Building Unit. 1978/78.
C.   Working Papers
1.   YAR - Third Education Project - Educational Working Papers.
2.   YAR - Third Education Project - Architectural Working Papers.
3.   Site Plan and Architectural Designs of Agricultural Secondary
School, Sordud.
4.   Report on the establishment of proposed livestock secondary
school, YAR. E. Hall, UKODM, Sanaa, May 1978.
5.   Syllabii of different streams - Agricultural Training Center
at Ibb and Sordud. Agricultural Education Division. MOE, 1977.
6.   Detailed equipment lists for the agricultural secondary school
and tentative master lists for NIPA branches and livestock
school.
7.   Detailed estimates of Project Costs.



Irsaes0t> ',   a. ,,-                                                                                                                                                                    PRO 30'
4r uWSApthe 1 978
tao                   ~~~~~~S A UD I  A R AB8  A
aMeS SAuD As^sA   ,~'                  ,DHAHRAN                                                                              YEMEN  ARAB REPUBLIC
-xH   LrN;;eArt^ssAR 7               g                _                                                     THIRD  EDUCATION  PROJECT
-am                  _;-'d7t .'                       v     (\ >                           ONAJRAN
SLOAN ,   EMeiRa3i,5516.e OEL'aM                 /           \        _j_ 
                                                                                           Noiol r0L iNste of PS bI d   Admiestraon - Reg oncl Branch
Livt'Iock Secondory School
S'fliOtiAXSoaauo  0                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AgouLt-ro Secordery School
am  ' em  am                                                                                                    -       Roves~~~~~~SAMRAP-  Primcry Roads
JIZANAAPrireory Roads JCter Construction
JIZAN                                                                               _________ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Othee Roads
5AADAH                                                                       2y'    Airports
W\OUAIR          .                                                       Nat oenl Cap tals
\BERAT                            -=   Mail Wodis
-. y        'Provincirl Bo-ndnie,
HARAD                                                                                                   Elovd.riRs
MAIDI                                 SHIHARA
HOJH.-                                    '        j
-'  ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~0                      40      60      85      100
HKHAMER                                                                          KILOMETERS
.MAL
I       ABS               MAHABISHA           |           -                                                                                                        '-
S     2            40           600
LUHAIYA   .vt Ri-.           .        ..         |        !                ' '                         |MILES
AZZOHRAN                   7MRAN                                      -A                                       ,... ..o....   . ............
AL KUSH           M          'AL TOOR  - .  .t ,,,g..n,,omp Kh].nt.A..A. .
. 0 MA\\/pRi > ~~~~~~~~MAHV3/EI,  OAB ARIB
SAL F{ t   ' SANA'Ai/ OAS
HARIB
ANS    OZUItAJAH
+;        A"   SI ISSOO NA                  DURAN        MABAR
HODEIDAH                                                                                       y
HODEI0AH       1     RAYM~~~~~AN      -ADINAT/                                                 '
MANSURIYAH
BEIT      AL HAYH  .            -            \ DAMAR               RADAA                            /
AWAVOI IAL FAQIH\/rf
ALJURUBAH                   .                           .                   \
A   ID     W,AD  ZABID CAMP                                 ARRADMAH                                                /
TOHAI~~~~~F B                                    0, ~~~~ DAMTH
''1.   AL                     NADRE-H                          /'\
1RADAEI       N          ,-'- _'         \BEIDA   .,,-                                         1'-
AL HOUKAH                                 T RAW IA
HKASRRAN      ELKAIDA                                             P  E 0  P  L  E' S
'  j ,.;6       MAKR>A    V  jt     j              D  E M  O  C  R A  T  I C             R  E  P  U B   L  I C
-I iGDA  T }%MAIZYA5                                             OF   Y E M E N
MOCHA /FUKH,s D ;
O TRBA   'MFAIS                       
BNI SHIBA  j\
\DUBAB       )               "                                      1            -
0          - -
/cr     J~YADEN
E TH IlOP!I A'F                                                    .
/'  IA
/   _                          ;                        ij4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~('                                                                 amf



