CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 915 YAR
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Education Project)
between
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 27, 1979
I                                                                                       1


﻿4Z~.                                                      4
CREDIT NUMBER 915 YAR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 27, 1979, between YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "MOE" means the Ministry of Education of the Borrower;
(b) "MOA" means the Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower;
(c) "MOH" means the Ministry of Health of the Borrower;
(d) "NIPA" means the National Institute of Public Adminis-
tration of the Borrower;
(e) "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit, established
under the Development Credit Agreement concluded between the
Borrower and the Association on July 19, 1973 for the First
Education Project;
(f) "SBU" means the School Building Unit, a division of
MOE; and
(g) "Previous Development Credit Agreements" means the two
Development Credit Agreements concluded between the Borrower and
the Association on July 19, 1973 and February 13, 1976, for the
previous two education projects.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Sec:ion 2.04. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 1986 or such
later date as the Association shall establish.   The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Nay 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1989, and ending November 15,
2028, each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 15, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿II
- 3-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through MOE, MOH, NIPA, PIU and Sana'a University with due
diligence and efficiency, substantially in accordance with an
implementation schedule acceptable to the Association, and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause each of MOE, MOH,
NIPA and Sana'a University: (i) to designate one of its senior
staff as the Project coordinator for Parts A and E, Part C, Part B
and Part D of the Project, respectively; and (ii) to assign to
such Project coordinator, under the general supervision of the
Minister of Education, the responsibility for (A) the recruit-
ment of staff and the nomination of fellowship candidates under
the Project, (B) the implementation of the technical assistance
programs under the Project, and the cooperation with PIU in the
preparation of architectural designs and procurement documents
under the Project, (C) the provision of all administrative assis-
tance required for the carrying out of the Project, and (D) the
preparation, with the assistance of PIU, of all documents required
for withdrawing the proceeds of the Credit in regard to the
technical assistance under the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause MOE to assign to PIU the
overall responsibility for: (i) the preparation of the plans,
specifications, contract documents and construction and procure-
ment schedules for Parts A and B of the Project and for the
evaluation of bids, award of contracts and supervision of all
construction works under said Parts of the Project, and for the
preparation of the architectural design under Part C (3) of the
Project; and (ii) the preparation and submission, through MOE, of
all documents required for withdrawing the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.03. The Borrower undertakes:
(a) to employ teaching experts and qualified teachers in
such numbers as shall be required for the initial 3 to 4 years of
operation of the agricultural and livestock secondary schools, to
be constructed under Part A of the Project;


﻿(b) to identify from among the Yemeni students, currently
studying abroad on fellowships from MOE and MOA, an adequate
number for appointment upon graduation by MOE at such schools
as counterparts for such teaching experts; and
(c) to ensure that such counterparts holding positions in
MOA shall be released for such appointment at MOE at the scheduled
commencement of fellowship program of their specialized pedago-
gical training.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall enable and cause MOE to
provide incentives, including free bo,Rrding facilities and
stipends, sufficient to att'act an adequate number of qualified
students for enrollment at The agricultural and livestock secon-
dary schools to be established under Part A of the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause MOA to formulate by
December 31, 1980 a program for the staffing needs of the agricul-
tural and livestock services at the provincial, district and
sub-district levels and the career opportunities available for job
holders in said services, and to disseminate the information
contained in said program through the education system.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that MOE will main-
tain adequate consultation with local and other appropriate
interest groups, including MOA, to ensure and continue the rele-
vance of the curricula of the agricultural and livestock secondary
schools, to be established under Part A of the Project, to
economic needs and to advise said schools on job opportunities for
their graduates.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause MOE: (a) to establish
and operate, not later than September 30, 1981, a tracer system
for the continuous monitoring of the employment of graduates of
the schools to be established under Part A of the Project and of
the Ibb Agricultural Training Center; and (b) to provide the
Association, during the three years following immediately the
first graduation of students from such schools and Center, with
annual reports on the operation of said tracer system.
Section 3.08. The Borr wer shall enable and cause NIPA to
provide all incentives, including housing facilities or allowances
and competitive salaries, required to recruit and to maintain
adequate teaching staff for NIPA's training facilities in Taiz and
Hodeidah, to be established under Part B of the Project.


﻿II
-5-
Section 3.09. In order to enable the Borrower and the Associ-
ation to exchange views on the future staffing needs and scope of
operation of the two NIPA's branches in Taiz and Hodeidah,
to be provided with training facilities under Part,B of the
Project, the Borrower shall keep the Association informed of the
projected technical assistance for NIPA, including that projected
by the United Nations Development Program, which will affect
directly the operation of said branches.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall cause MOH to advise the
Association of the qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment of the experts selected by MOH in order
to assist it in carrying out the studies referred to in Part C of
the Project, and to employ such experts as shall be acceptable to
the Borrower and the Association at such time as shall permit the
commencement of the sociological study, referred to in Part C (1)
of the Project, by September 30, 1979 (or such other date as may
be agreed between the Borrower and the Association), and the
commencement of the feasibility study, referred to in Part C (2)
of the Project, by September 30, 1980 (or such other date as may
be agreed between the Borrower and the Association).
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that MOH: (i) will provide the
Association with a copy of each of the studies referred to in the
preceding paragraph (a) promptly upon their completion; and (ii)
will exchange views with the Association for the purpose of
formulating a plan for carrying out such recommendations emanating
from said studies as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion: (i) for its review and comment, the detailed terms of
reference for the pre-investment studies to be carried out under
Part D (1) of the Project, including the qualifications of
specialists referred to in Part D (1) (b) of the Project; and (ii)
the reports containing the findings of said studies.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its
review and comments, the qualifications of candidates for training
under the Project.
Section 3.12. In order to strengthen the management of SBU,
the Borrower shall ensure that MOE will appoint: (a) not later
than September 30, 1979 (or such other date as the Association may
agree), a qualified Yemeni engineer/architect to head SBU; and (b)
L


﻿not later than September 30, 1980 (or such other date as the
Association may agree), fifteen technicians to assist such engi-
neer in the management and operation of SBU.
Section 3.13. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and sci-t-ces financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.14. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
1,4


﻿be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained separate Project accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have said Project accounts for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon!
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning said accounts and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all measures required to ensure the adequate operation, mainten-
ance, repair and renewals of buildings and equipment provided
under the Project in accordanc with appropriate engineering and
financial practices.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has made, to the satis-
faction of the Association, arrangements for the appointment (or
for securing under technical assistance programs) by the commence-
ment of the academic year 1979/1980 all specialists required for


﻿-8-
the operation of all such schools, institutes and centers estab-
lished under the previous Development Credit Agreements as shall
physically be ready for operation by said academic year.
Section 5.02. The date October '30, 1979 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The,Minister of Education of the Borrower
and such c-ther -person or persons as he shall designate in writing
are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the Geferal Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Education
Sana'a     -.
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Sana'a
For the Association:
InternationalZRevelopment Associat'ion
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, .D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
N,


﻿9  -
IN WýäNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By /s/ Yahya Al-Mutawakel
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Munir Benjenk
Regiona 1Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿111
- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works under            2,-660,000       24%
Parts A and B of
the Project
(2) Furniture and                1,520,000        100% of foreign
equipment under                              expenditures,
Parts A and B of                             100% of local
the Project                                  expenditures ex-
factory and 85%
of local expen-
ditures for im-
ported items
procured locally
(3) Technical assis-             5 ,260,00,       100%
tance and train-
ing
(4) Unallocated                    560,000
TOTAL       10,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
1A


﻿- 11 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Without limitation upon the provisions of the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower has undertaken not to levy customs duties
or other similar taxes on the import of goods required for the
implementation of the Project.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this,Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds


﻿기


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main ob ectives of the Project are: (a) to assist in the
diversification and development of the Borrower's agricultural
secondary education with a view to responding to specific manpower
demands; (b) to assist MOH in its pre-investment studies of the
regional health needs in terms of institutions, facilities and
training; (c) to expand and improve the public administration
training provided by NIPA in specific regional centers; (d) to
assist in developing a post-secondary education system suited to
meet future manpower needs; and (e) to improve project implemen-
tation, management and construction capabilities of MOE. The
Project consists of:
Part A:   A ricultural Education
(1) The design, construction, furnishing and equipping
of:
(a) an agricultural secondary school at Surdud with a
total enrollment capacity of about 200 students;
and
(b) a livestock secondary school in Sana'a with a
total enrollment capacity of about 180 students.
(2) Technical assistance comprising the employment of
teaching experts for the agricultural and livestock
schools provided under (1) above and-specialized pedago-
gical training of the Yemeni staff of those schools.
Part B:   Regional Training on Public Administration
(1) The design, construction, furnishing and equipping
Of training facilities sufficient to accommodate about
250 trainees at each of NIPA's regional branches in Taiz
and Hodeidah.
(2) The provision of technical assistance comprising employ-
ment of experts and training of the Yemeni staff of said
branche's.
Part C:   Health Care Services and Related Training
The carrying out of:


﻿- 14 -
(1) a sociological survey in about five regions with
a view to establishing criteria for the development and
management of primary health care;
(2) a feasibility study on establishing and managing a
regional health care center, together with its primary
health care and training units, in each of such regions;
(3) a preliminary architectural design of such centers and
their units; and
(4) Technical assistance program to the Health Manpower
Institute in Sana'a, comprising the employment of two
health specialist educators and the provision of two
training fellowships for Yemeni staff in related fields.
Part D:   Development of Post-Secondary Education
(1) Pre-investment studies consisting of:
(a) a two-month study visit by a Yemeni observation
team to selected institutions abroad; and
(b)  a programming study by a team of about 15 special-
ists, to assist in the planning and development of
post-secondary education. In the context of the
Government education policy, the study will, inter
alia: (i) recommend objectives and priorities for
different types of institutes and specialization in
post-secondary education, including medical,
agricultural and engineering institutes; (ii)
assist in defining appropriate courses and their
scopes, and propose model teaching programs appro-
priate for local conditions; (iii) propose organi-
zation structures for the recommended post-secon-
dary institutes and for the academic development of
their staff; (iv) propose locations and criteria
for establishing recommended institutes; and (v)
propose a program for post-secondary education up
to 1990, providing for an estimate of such pro-
gram's cost.
(2) Two fellowships for training university staff in plan-
ning and administration of higher education.


﻿- 15 -
Part E:   Strengthening MOE
(1) Technical assistance to MOE comprising the employment
of short-term consultants in order to assist MOE in
its activities related to monitoring and evaluation,
educational statistics and school mapping.
(2) Ten overseas fellowships for the training of staff
of MOE in, inter alia, planning, evaluation, implemen-
tation and management of education projects.
(3) Technical assistance to SBU, comprising:
(a) training by PIU of SBU's staff in designing,
procurement and supervision of construction works;
(b) implementing training programs in building mainten-
ance for SBU's staff, establishing within it a
section of norms and standards for education
facilities and improving its planning and program-
ming management, all with the assistance of short-
term consultants' services; and
(c) specialized training of a selected number of SBU's
staff through fellowships.
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 1985.


﻿161
- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿II
-17-
Yemen Arab Republic may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Yemen Arab Republic if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Association that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Yemen Arab Republic
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods. .
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Yemen Arab Republic.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered in
each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison only,
an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if


﻿-18-
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison
under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for D' mestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be pro-
cured in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of
this Schedule, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of
7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
1.   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part
of the data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by the Borrower
and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of
firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents
shall clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower,
responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
With respect to contracts for items of equipment and furni-
ture which: (i) cannot be grouped in bulk contracts costing
the equivalent of $50,000 or more; or (ii) are of such highly
specialized nature that international competitive bidding would
not be practicable, the Borrower may award such contracts in
accordance with its own procurement procedures. Prior to awarding


﻿-19-
such contracts, the Borrower shall to the extent feasible obtain
price quotations from not less than three manufacturers or sup-
pliers. The aggregate contract amount of contracts awarded pur-
suant to the provisions of this Part D shall not exceed $400,000
equivalent.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. If prequalification is required,
the Borrower shall, before qualification is invited, inform the
Association in detail of the procedure to be followed, and shall
introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders,
together with a statement of their qualifications and, where
applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference under
Part C above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant
for prequalification and for such eligibility shall be furnished
by the Borrower to the Association for its comments before the
applicants are notified of the Borrower's decision, and the
Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifi-
cations in, the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of more than $50,000:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalu-
ation and comparison of the bids received, and such other


﻿- 20 -
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution. and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 30% of the oviginal price, the Borrower shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


