Dooumax of
The World Baik
FMomcULuMoMN
Rutt N.i.P-5492-AR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM LOAN (PSRL)
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$325 MILLION
TO
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
JULY 5, 1991
This document has a restricted disbon and my be used by recipiens only ir the pefrmance of
bir offiil dties its conte_ may not odtrise be disbosed witout Wor  Su* auhodiation.



Cuzreuov Uhit - Austral 1A8)
The austral was fixed at A$10,000 - US$1.00 as of April 1, 1991.
FiJsual Y
January 1 - December 31
Princioal Abbreviations and Acronyms Used
BANADE    Banco Nacional de Desarrollo          National Development Bank
BCRA      Banco Central de la Rop6blica         Central Bank of Argentina
Argentina
BHN       Banco Hipotecario Nacional            National Housing Bank
BONEX     Bonos Externos                        External Bonds
CECRA     Comit6 Ejecutivo para Controlar       Executive Committee to Control
la Reforma Administrativa             the Administrative Reform
CGN       Contaduria General de la Naci6n       National Accounting Office
DGI       Direccion General Impositiva          General Tax Office
ENTel     Empresa Nacional de                   National Telephone
Telecomunicaciones                    Company'
PA        Perrocarriles Argentinos              Argentine Railways
GAO       Contraloria General de la Naci6n      General Auditing office of
Nation
PERAL     Pr6stamo de Ajuste para la            Public Enterprise Reform
Reforma de las Empresas PGblicas      Adjustment Loan
PERIL    Pr6stamo de Ejecuci6n para la          Public Enterprise Reform
Reforma de las Empresas PGblicas      Execution Loan
PSRTAL    Pr6stamo de Asistencia T6cnica        Public Sector Reform Technical
para la Reforma del Sector P6blico   Assistance Loan
SIGENAC   Sindicatura General de la Naci6n      Executive Controller of the
Nation
SIGEP     Sindicatura General de                General Auditing Office of
Empresas P8blicas                     Public Enterprises
TCN       Tribunal de Cuentas de la Naci6n      National Court of Accounts
VAT       Impuesto Sobre E1 Valor Agregado      Value Added Tax
yPp       Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales     State Petroleum Company



FOa oFnciAL US ONLY
Maine of Cotents
PaoeRo
Loan and Program Summary  . . . .. . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i-i.
I. THE L. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
A.  Dackground  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
B.  Stabilization Program of the Menem Goverment  . . . . . . .  2
The July 1989 Stabilization Attempt . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
The 1990 Program   .  .  . .   . . . .  . .  . . . .   . .  .  3
1991-92 Program and l  8tandby . .. . . . . . . .  . . ..  6
C.  Macroeconomic Outlook   . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..  7
D.  External Debt Management  ... .    . *  ...........   8
II.  MAIN PU,LIC SECTOR ISMUES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
A. Main Problems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
Revenues  .............. . . . . .            . . . . .. 10
Expenditures  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
FinancingW   . . . ....  .......  ...................  .............  13
B. Recent Public Sector Reforms Outside the Federal Government . 14
Public Enterprises  .......*   14
Provincial Finances . .. ..... .. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ...  1s
Financial System  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
Trade Regime  . . * . . . . . . .   .  . * . * .  . . . .   16
1II. THE PUBLIC SECTORfREFORNM PROGRA    ........          ....  . 17
A.  Revenuess More Efficient Mobilisation . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Tax Policy and Administration   ..............  17
Closing Loopholes through Industrial Promotion  . . . . . . 18
B. Expenditure Reductions: Focusing on Core Functions . . . . . 20
Administrative Reform. 999999999999999999  20
Budget Process  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . * * * . . .    22
C. Financings Reforming the Central Bank . . . ....          .  25
I. PRPSED LM    .. ... .. .. . . ... .......   26
A. objectives and 8cope of the Loan  .... ........  26
B. Rationale for the Loan  . .................                    .  26
C. Loan Conditions   * . .  . . .  . .  . . . . . . . . ....    . . . . 27
D. Macroeconomic Framework . . . . . . .     . . . . . . ..      29
This report was based upon an appraisal mission that took place
November 7-24, 1990 and a Post-Appraisal Mission (January 31 - February 8,
1991)   The core team of the missions consisted of Richard Newfarmer (Task
Xanager), Paul Beckerman (Central Bank), Roberto Manrique (Research
Assistance), Antonio Martin del Campo (Expenditures), and Jaime Vaisquez-Caro
(Revenues). Supervising managers: Suman K. Bery (Division Chief) and Pieter
Bottelier (Department Director). Peer reviewers: Miguel Kiguel (CRC1G) and
Barbara Nunberg (CECPS)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by trcipients only in the performnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriza -"



ZagaLiQ.
B. Cooperation with other Financial Institutions . . . . . . . . 29
International Monetary Sund . . . . . . . . *  . 0 * * . . . 29
Snttr-Amrcoan Developmnt Bank   . . . . ..  . . . . . . . 30
P. Program lmplementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .*. .  30
Dibursement and Prourment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Accouanting nd Auditing . . . .         . . . .. . . . . . . . 31
0. Impact, Benefits and Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
social Impact . . . . . . . . . . . ...                . . 31
Benefits  ., . . . . . . . . . . . . .............. 32
Risk   ......................................... 33
V. COUNTRY-1SSISThNCE = A=  AND         !MS  . . . . . . . . . . . 34
A.  Previouus Bank xprene .......                   .................... .  34
B.  Bank Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . *   *   *35
C.  Private Investment and ISC Lending Program . . . . . . . . . 35
VI. RiCOMNENDATIO    . . . . .   .  .  .   .  .    . . . . .  .  .  . . 36
ANNEX Is   Letter of Development Policy
ANNRX II:  Key Macroeconomic Indicators
ANNEX III: Selected Statistical Tables
ANNEX IV:  Policy Matrix
ANNEX Vs    Statement of Bank Loans
ANEoX VIS  Statement o  IFC Investments
ANNEX VIIs  Administrative and Civil Service Reform Program



PULI  BRCO  REO   lOA  EP5R
Loan *d -PoMasaM Bumat
Aoggwars 3     Argentine Republic
Amounts        US$325 million eqpivalent
Colinagina:   US$300 million equivalent by the IDB
Tormos         Repayable in 17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable rate.
QbieJtive. s   The objective of this program is to reduce the chronic
macroeconomic instability that has slowed economic growth,
utifled the private sector, impeded job creation, and worsened
absolute poverty during the last decade. The propoued Public
Sector Reform Loan (PSEL) will reduce the public sector
deficit and therefore the need for inflation financing. This
loan, part of a broader Bank program to help restructure and
reduce the size of Argentina's public sector, will support
fundamental reforms of the Federal Government and Nonetary
Authority. Specifically, the loan would support major changes
ins (i) revenue mobilization, (ii) expenditure rational-
ization and (iii) the Central Bank and its relation to the
Treasury.
Bonefita and
Risks*         In the absence of public sector reform and permanent deficit
reduction, there is virtually no hope that private investment
could recover or that income levels of the poor could rise;
the probability of renewed hyperinflation would be
substantially higher, with its enormously high human costs--
sudden rises in unemployment associated with the severe
recession accompanying a breakdown in the payments and prlce
system. The reforms supported in this program will help
reduce the structural deficit of the public sector by
approximately 1.5-3.2 percent of CDP on an annualized basis in
1991-93 and substantially more in future years. Since the
reforms necessarily involve a reduction in public employment,
a special transition program has been designed for displaced
workers. Bank financial assistance will allow the Government
to implement its macroeconomic program at noninflationary
levels of reserve accumulation and domestic credit creations
Bank technical assistance will increase the probability that
the Government will be able to implement a reform of this
magnitude.



- ii -
The main risks are that macroeconomic instability might
undermine the political strength of the Government to
implement reforms, entrenched political opposition might delay
or dilute reforms, and the lack of adequate staffing in senior
positions within the Government might undermine implmen-
tation. The Government's demonstrated willingness to work
closely with the IMP in its stabilization program, and its
commitment to continuing public sector reform--amply supported
by the public at large--mitigate these risks. The Bank and
the IDS have financed technical teams to help strengthen
public sector management; also, the Argentine private sector,
as an independent initiative, has formed a privat- foundation
to support the administrative reform with training and
management advice.
satimated
Diabureementt The loan would be disbursed against import receipts according
to prevailing guidelines in two tranches of US$162.5 million
each. The first tranche would be available for disbursement
at the time of loan effectiveness. The second tranche would
support specific actions in the reform program. A US$23 mil-
lion Public Sector Reform Technical Assistance Loan (PSRTAL)
was approved by the Board on June 25, 1991, and will accompany
the proposed loan to finance information systems for customs,
civil service and budget administration, and the Central Bank.
Retroati
Financines     Because of the many measures taken before Board presentation,
US$65 million, or 20 percent of the total loan amount, would
be made available for retroactive financing of expenditures
incurred after January 1, 1991.
Schedule of Disburements :8S millo
Bnk FY                                 Em  Ym
Annual                                 162.5  162.5
Cumulative                             162.5  325.0
Rate of Returns    Not applicable.
&apraLsal Reports Not applicable.



JPRORT ANDM 3 mN IOI OF mg PRWSIDN
or T   IWJrNAATIOIIL MmN  "a1 RUncONSTRcwOn mm  EVLPU
T    N NiNUVEp Ring=  03H A P
IN A  amO     EQuI       TO U5S325 MILLIO
TO  _3 AB_x_  _-3s  M    U4z=
1. *I submit the following report and recomendation on a proposed
loan to the Argentine Republic for the equivalent of US$325 million to support
a program of public sector reform. The loan would have a term of 17 years,
including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) would cofinance the operation with a
US$300 million loan. The Public Sector Reform Loan (PSRL) would be
accompanied by a Public Sector Reform Technical Assistance Loan (PSRTAL) for
the equivalent of US$23 million to finance the installation of control systems
in the budget office, custom and Central Bankg that loan was processed in
parallel with the PSRL, and was approved by the Board on June 25, 1991.
m. SC
2.          During the first decades of the 20th century, Argentina enjoyed a
standard of living on a par with Southern Europ. The primary engine of
Argentine growth was a large agricultural export sector. The Great Depression
triggered a reformulation of the country's policy framework, which
progressively stressed protection for domestic industry, transfers of
resources from agriculture to the urban Lndustrial and service sectors, and
wage poliey and lncome distribution. The public sector became increaLngly
involved in resource allocation. While the strategy was initially successful,
by the mid-19SOs terms of trade turned agaLast agrieulture, easy domestic
import-substitution possibllities became exhausted, and balance of payments
crises increased in frequncy; economic growth became more variable. At the
same time, increased government spendLng and an expanded role of the public
sector led to burgeoning public deficLits. The Government financed a high
portion of these defLcits through the domestic financlal system, which
together wlth rigld prlce, credit, and interest rate controls, repressed and
distorted its development. The foundations for sustained economic growth
gradually eroded.
3.          The state-led model began to exhaust ltself in the mid-1970s, and
the long-run growth path of the economy turned sharply downward. Argentina,
the most affluent LatLn American country in 1962, fell to fourth place by
1989. National income per capita is about 26 percent lower today than in
1974. Investment, tradLtionally 20-23 percent of CDP, began a sustalned fall
to an 11-13 percent level In the late 1980s. Prlvate investment has recovered
to only 50-60 percent of those earlier levels. The lnvestment rates of the
economy are now so low that they may not permit adequate replacement of
depreciating capital stock.



- 2 -
4.          The savings performance of the economy also reflects serious
structural problems. National savings rates have fallen from about 20 percent
of GDP in the early 1970a to under 10 percent. Public savings fell steadily
from 1970 to 1975, and then again from 1977 to 1982, with only a partial
recovery thereafter. Public savings before interest 2ayments had, by 1987,
recovered virtually to the same level as those of 1970-72, about 5 percent of
GDP, but these were still too low to cover the full interest bill of the
Government  this underscores both the difficulty imposed upon Argentina's
public sector because of the heavy weight of its external debt as well as its
lack of sustained progress in mobilizing resources efficiently and controlling
expenditures. Private sector savings have failed to recover, and are now
little more than half their early 1970w levels. Sconomic conditions have led
Argentines to save vast amounts abroad; aside from understating private
savings in national accounts, these resources abroad are unavailable for job-
creating investment in Argentina.
5.          The abrupt end to easy foreign commercial credit in the early
1980s and sudden rise in real international interest rates forced a reversal
in external transfers, and diverted domestic savings into foreign interest
payments; this required that the public sector extract more resources from the
private sector to make these payments. These internal transfer requirements
only exacerbated the existing structural deficit that plagued the economy in
the 1970e and during the first part of the 1980s. As foreign finance dried
up, an ever greater share of the combined public sector borrowing requirement
was financed through the domestic financial system and eventually money
creation. To avoid the resulting inflation tax, the private sector gradually
withdrew its resources from the financial system and reduced its holdings of
currency; this, together with the effects of inflation on real revenue
collection, made the macroeconomy progressively more usnetable and weakened the
instruments of monetary policy. Inflation, high and uA1predictable, became the
main impediment to the recovery of private savings ard investment. During the
1980w alone, the price level increased by a factor of 3.36 million, and the
decade ended with two episodes of hyperinflation in 1989.
S. Stabilisation Proarars of tMe MOMas government
The July 1989 Stabilizatio *nttsmDt
6.          Upon taking office in July 1989, the Menem administration
reanqnized that without macroeconomic stability the long economic slide could
not be reversed. It announced a program relying on the nominal anchor of a
fixed exchange rate. The stabilization program, supported by the  W4
beginning in November 1989, gave more weight to fiscal performance and to
structural reforms than the earlier stabilization attempts of tho Alfonsln
years, the Plan Austral (1985) and the Elan Primavera (1988). The new
Government was able to pass legislation authorizing the sale of public
enterprise assets, the suspension of most subsidies, and limitations on
Central Bank credit to the public sector. Later, it eucceeded in passing a
major tax reform which widened the base of the value added tax (VAT), first to
nearly all goods and then to services. Nonetheless, the near-term effects of



- 3 -
those measures were lnsufficient to earn the confidence of wary financial
mrkets that had experienced soveral failed programs and just sufferod a major
hyperinflatton. Even though the nonfinancial public sector accounts improved
*teadily through the fourth quarter of 1989, the primary surplus was
insufficient to transfer resources to the Central Bank to cover its laqge
nominal interest bill on domestic debt, much less its external debt service.
Eventually, the high interest rates required to support the fixed exchange
rate drove up the interest bill of the Central Bank; this created an
unsustainable financial cycle in which the Central Bank had to create money to
pay its own interest bill and then had to borrow back the australes to
sterilize the endogenous monetary expansion. A markets moved against the
austral in early December and interest rates skyrocketed, the program fLnally
exploded.
7.          On December 15, 1989 a new economic team floated the exchangi rate
and removed nearly all remaining prie, controls. The exchange rate
depreciated sharply as demand for austral-denominated assets plummeted further
in response to fears of inflation and rumors of dollarization. Over the New
Year weekend, to forestall imminent hyperinflation, the authorities announced
the forced conversion of virtually all domestic commercial bank time deposlts,
worth about US$3.5 billion, and the bulk of the Central Bank and Treasury's
outstanding debt that the deposits financed, into 10-year dollar-denominated
External Bonds (BONEX). Whlle this ponalized savers, the measure directly
halved the potential liquid stock of financial assets and stopped the
incipient hyperinflation. Moreover, it eliminated the destabilizing quasi-
fiscal deficit of the Central Bank by eliminating the Central Bank's
short-term debt and its interest burden.
S.          However, the Goverrment falled to complement these measures with
fiscal adjustments that would have reduced the public sector demand for
credit; the Central Bank also allowed monetary creation. At the beginning of
February 1990, unexpected price adjustments for public enterprises and
persistent rumors of dollarization triggered renewed fears of high inflation.
The ensuing collapse in money demand from its already low level immediately
spun the economy into hyperinflation in February.
MMe 1990 Prooras
9.          In early March 1990, the authorities responded with a new program
predicated upon structural and emergency fiscal initiatives (Decree 435). lts
main structural elements were an announced reduction in public sector
employment through early retirement, elimination of overtime, and a sharp
retrenchment in the operations of the National Housing Dank (BUN) and the
National Development Bank (BANADE). Other expenditure and revenue measures
included a 60-day suspension of payments due on public sector contracts and an
extension of the partial suspension of the regional industrial subsidy
program. The Central Bank was specifically prohibited from providing direct
or indirect financing of any kind to the public sector, including the public
enterprises. The IMF Board approved a resumption of the stand-by program on
May 25, 1990. The program sought to increase public sector primary surplus to
4.2 percent of GDP in 1990.



- 4 -
10.         Decree 435, coupled with tlghtened monetary policy throughout
February, rapldly improved pubilc confidence. High dometic lnterest rates,
together with the expectation of exchange rate stablifty, implied high returns
in dollar terms. Capltal flowed in to rebuild flnancial balances and the
austral began to revalue ln splte of Central Bank purchases of foreign
exchange. Monthly inflation rates fell from 70-80 percent in December-March
to a 10-15 percent range in aprll-September, and then to 4-6 percent in the
fourth quarter.
11.         The flical accounts improved substantially ln the second quarter
of 1990. Performance in the second half of 1990 sllpped, however, because
wages and pensions, at historically low lwvels in the second quarter, wore
raised; public utility pricse ln real terms were allowed to fall slightly; and
progress on revenue improvements was slow because of the recession and
continued weakness in tax adminsltration. social security pensiovn payments,
although well below the legal obligations of the Government, were also raised.
To improve the fiscal balance, the Government undertook ome fiscal measures
in the fourth quarter--price increases in the public enterprises, the
extension of the VAT to services, and an increase in the VAT to 15.6 pereent-
but these were insufficient to offset December fiscal performance. Neanwhile,
monetary performance weakened. Provinclal banks, which had borrowed
excessively from interfirm markets in the second and thlrd quarters to repay
past rediecounts to the Central Bank, but were unable to service these credits
in the fourth quarter as interest rates rose and deposits fell; the Central
Bank had no choice but to prov4de new liquidity rediscounts, and this had a
direct effect on money creation. In the final days of December, amidst news
of the weakening fourth quarter performance, policy disputes within the
economic team, and press reports of corruption, the exchange rate suddenly
devalued. The rate moved from A5S,S00 in late December to A$9,000-A$10,O00 in
mid-January, and inflation, having slowed to 2.3 percent monthly in December,
jumped up to 8.9 percent in January and 32.5 percent in February 1991.
12.         Although the 1990 program unravelled at the end of the year, the
economy did not spin into hyperinflation as it had done the year before--in
large measure bscause of greater fiscal effort and accelerating progress on
structural reforms.  The Government achieved a primary surplus of 2.2 percent
of GDP on a cash basis in 1990--an improvement of more than 3 percentage
points of GDP compared to the 1987-89 average (Figure 1). In addition,
progress on the structural elements of the program provided some confidence to
markets. The Government sold assets or concessions in telecommunications,
roads, airlines, hydrocarbon deposlts, and railways; the asset sales and
concessions produced about US$600 million in cash for the Government, and
reduced its external commercial debt by over US$7 billion. The Government
also extended the VAT to virtually all goods and services, reduced special
transfers to the provinces and public enterprises, deregulated the hydrocarbon
sector at year-end, and announced decrees to reduce the sLze and scope of the
federal government (see below). In trade, it reduced the maxlmum tariff to 24
percent (save for some specific duties), reduced the coverage of quotas, and
virtually eliminated the advance notice system for imports. In the financial
sector, it closed the retail activitLes of the Housing and Development Banks.
Reforms in 1990 thus paved the way for further reforms in 1991.



FIGR 1
NOWNiAMCIAL PUDIC SECTOR                            DEFICIT OF COMIWNIED PUBLIC SECTOR
P_o _t of G_OP_                                         Pmat of GOP
10 _
S.
Owu2 *tflolt                                     S
P/  - r. Su . 4p|us
0
-1                                                       0
-2              Pri    B,                                   1987   1968   1989   1090   1981   Pros.
-s~~~-
1987             1989    1990   1991 a/ Proo. a                 - anc /              C atmi Bak
Sa Let aueatart of Mt and progwm  aw I7IS/1-4) r pto*oftd
LEVEL OF EXTERNAL PROTECTION                              REVENUE FROM ASSET SALES
AND PRIVTLWTIONS
Pwe nt
US SLLION
Q"ntitatlvU  Ratrtloew a/                       0-
600
AMerg TsArffs bI
40-
s                                                      1.0
1087    1988    1980    1990       1981                  1988        198       1990      1991sft
at Pr.dotIo gammf   bi Webwd by d.mmtleo oeootte                     Latt .eata of 1*1 to 0etaleted



- 6-
1991-92 Propaa W.       §%padhtiAnd
13.         The President then changed the economic team, but reaffirmed the
direction of policy. The new team immediately announcod a now fiscal
packagel/ on February 3, 1991, designed to raise the marginally negative
primary fiscal balance of the firat quarter to a surplus of about
US$300 million per month by the third quarter. The Government also further
opened the economy by lowering the maximum tariff to 22 percent, creating a
three-tier tariff schedule, and converting the remaining specific duties to ad
alorm rates at 22 percent.  These measures calmed financial markets, and the
exchange rate stabilized in February between AS9,000 and A$10,000.
14.         In March, the Government then announced a Law of Convertibility--
which fixed the exchange rate at A$10,000 to the U8 dollar, formally deindexed
most contracts, and facilitated the use of the U8 dollar in transactions.
With ome US$4.8 billion in international reserves (including US$1.5 billion
in gold and about US$200 million in Government dollar-denominated bonds) and a
monetary base of the same size, the new law guaranteed full convertibility of
the austral at A$lO,000. The new law proscribed further money creation except
to purchase foreign excharge, implying that any increase in net domestic
assets would have to be offset by a primary surplus in the nonfinancial public
sector. Strictly interpreted and applied, the new Law would convert the
Central Bank into a currency board2/. It also required that a change in the
value of the austral would require Congressional action. Congress enacted the
Law in late March and it took effect April 1, 1991.
i5.         The economic program reduced inflation to 5.7 percent in March and
about 2 percent in June. Interest rates fell spectacularly--to reach 8
percent annualized rates on 7 day accounts by the end of April from rates of
over 100 percent at the beginning of the year. Although rates have since
risen to about 20 percent annually, the sudden availability of reasonably
priced domestic credit fueled a resurgence of consumer spending, and
consequently, a modest economic recovery.
16.         The sustainabi-ity of tbe recovery depends heavily on fiscal
performance and support of the international financial community. In June,
1/    These measures are elaborated in para. 51 below.
2/    The new law falls short of converting the Central Bank into an actual
currency board because it permits the monetary authority to count as
international reserves dollar-denominated obligations of the Government
at market value. While in theory this constitutes a potential loophole
to limits on domestic credit creation, the decision of the Government to
publish weekly reserve statistics provides an incentive to stick with
the rule, mince markets will know immediately if bonds are needed to
complete the currency backing. Other differences from a currency board
include the maintenance of lender of last resort functions via a via the
financial system.



the Government and IMF staff agreed on a new proposal for a Standby
arrangement for the year following July 1, 1991. The fiscal object is a
primary surplus target of US$4.9 billion (about 3.5 percent of GDP),
US$3.2 billion of which would come through fiscal effort and the remainder
through asset sales. Together with monetary policy limiting base expansion to
increases in not foreign assets, the program is debigned to bring inflation to
leos than 1 percent monthly for the second semester of 1991 and less in the
first semeter of 1992. On a quarterly basis, the fiscal effort would
increase progressively to reach a primary surplus of 4.1 percent of GDP in the
last quarter of 1991. A total primary surplus of VS$4.9 billion would allow
the Government to service its preferred creditors and meet its commitment to
pay foreign commercial banks US$720 million annually; it would also allow for
some reserve increase which could be used to facilitate debt reduction.
17.         IMF staff reviewed developments in June, concluding that the
Government had increased the primary surplus to nearly US$600 million in the
second quarter, an improvement over the inflation-decimated balances of the
first quarter (essentially zero), and had policies in place to achieve the
objectlve for the third quarter; the Government signed a Letter of Intent in
late June and expected to be considered by the IMF Board shortly thereafter.
The reforms supported by the proposed loan are key elements in the achievement
of a lasting improvement in public finances.
C. Macroacsonoic outlook
18.         Argentinas near-term macroeconomic situation remains fragile.
The still-precarious fiscal position, the small austral-denominated financial
base, the volatility of expectations, and the weakness of monetary instruments
imply that the price livel is still sunceptible to sudden shifts against the
austral and inflation. Fiecal policy during the transition to a sustained
primary surplus will have to be consistent and restrained to obviate a sudden
new devaluation and outburst of inflation. In the next few quarters, output
is likely to fluctuate until the private sector begins to undertake new
expenditures for investment. This will occur as the private sector becomes
fully convinced that the anti-inflation and structural adjustment programs are
working, and the fiscal accounts are sustainably in balance. Investment
expenditures in newly privatized activities--particularly energy and
telecosmunications--are expected to lead the recovery.
19.         A strong performance in public sector accounts, therefore, is
essential to the Government's strategy of orcheostrating a recovery through an
eventual turnaround in investment and demand for tradables. If such a
performance ls not forthcoming, then underlying inflation will persist and
appreciate the real exchange rate to unsustaLnable levels--at which point
marketo will again move against the austral and the Government will have no
che,.ce but to abandon free convertibilLty at the present rate.  The fiscal
problem is to convert the basis of the primary surplus from emergency measures
to sustainable, longer-term policies. These latter will requlre increasing
revenues by replacing inefficient taxes with efficient and sustainable
revenues, and reducing expenditures in accordance with a clearly defined focus
on core public sector responsibllities, including the elimination and divesti-



- 8 -
ture of nonessential activities. several structural reforms have been enacted
which will support this transitions the 1988 coparticipation law which
regularised revenue sharing between the federal and provincial levels, the
progressive broadening of the base of the VAT during 1990, improvements in tax
administration, the conversion of comercial banks* domestic claims into
dollar-denominated debt which effectlvely eliminated the quasi-fiscal deficit
of the Central Bank, the privatizations, and hydrocarbon deregulation.
20.         Deficit reduction predicated upon continued public sector
structural reform thus is central to any medium-term scenario of sustained
growth. The public sector reduced its deficit significantly in 1990 and must
virtually eliminate it in 1991-92. This involves raising the primary surplus
from 2.2 percent of GDP in 1990 to 3.5 percent of GDP in the year following
July 1, 1991. Given the vital importance of the public sector to Argentina's
stabilization and economic recovery, the Bank has concentrated much of its
efforts there (see Part V).
21.         A sustainable fiscal position and lower inflation would permit
some recuperation of domestic savings and, in turn, a recovery of investment
and growth. Gross national savings--led by the public sector during the
initial phase--would have to increase from the extremely low rate of 10.5 per-
cent of GDP in 1990 to nearly 14 percent in 1995. This would permit paymsnt
of some additional debt service to commercial banks, in addition to servicing
the debt to preferred creditors, as well as increases in investment sufficient
to fuel a recovery of output beginning in the second semester of 1991, with
growth at an annual rate of about 3 percent. The main sources of growth would
be domestic investment demand and exports--both agricultural and industrial--
as well as industrial production for efficient import-substitution. The
private sector would have to be a leading force during this period, since the
public sector posture would be far from expansionary.
22.         The current account deficit on the balance of payments would
increase as the economy recovered in late 1991 and 1992, and then gradually
drop to US$1.9 billion in 1995. This implies a net financing requirement of
US$1.5 billion annually, which would come from a combination of refinancing
interest with the commercial banks and/or debt reduction through
privatizations and cash buy-backs, perhaps with an eventual Brady operation.
In 1991 and beyond, the role of the international financial institutions in
providing balance of payments finance is paramount since they will be the main
sources of credit available to the Government in the foremseable future.
D. Xxternal Debt Kiaamamnt
23.         Aside from transfers (in particular to the provinces and social
security), the single largest category of public expenditure is interest
accrued on external debt, which amounts to more than one-fourth of
expenditures of the nonfinancial public sector. The total interest burden of
public external debt amounted to about 5.5 percent of GDP in 1990.
Argentina's external debt was approximately US$61 bllion after recent
privatizations, about 61 percent of GDP. Approximately US$35 billion is
medium-term commercial bank debt, including nearly US$7 billion of arrears.



Although the Government has continued to service its preferred creditors and
commercial trade lines, Argentlna suspended regular payment on term
obligations to commercial banks in April 1988.
24.         The Government'e medium-term objective is to regularize relations
with the commercial banks on the basis of voluntary, negotiated debt
reduction. Given the inability of Argentina to service its stock of debt
(much less the arrears) and the reluctance of the commercial banks to make up-
front concessions, formal regularization is possible only in steps. To this
end, authorlties resumed partial payment to the commercial banks in June 1990
(US$40 million of about US$250 million due per month) and have had several
subsequent meetings wlth commercial banks (mainly on debt conversions
associated with privatizations). In January 1991, the Government increased
its interest payment to US$60 million per month, or US$720 million annually.
The Government has also reduced its external debt burden by about US$7 billion
through debt-equity conversions associated with the privatization of ENTel and
the national airline in 1990; this represented more than 20 percent of
commercial term debt. As a result of these actions, the price of Argentine
debt in the secondary market has risen from its low of under 11 U.S. cents in
1989 to over 22 U.S. cents in Kay 1991.
25.         The process of debt reduction through conversion and buy-backs has
now become central to Argentina's normalizing relationships with its
commercial creditors and establishing a sustainable noninflationary fiscal
position. Although the banks have been unwilling to consider a debt reduction
operation without a track record of payments, they have exhibited a strong
disposition to swap paper for assets at a considerable implicit discount  the
Government could readlly reduce its debt burden further because it still has a
large pool of assets for disposal, particularly in energy, land owned by the
railways, and other enterprises the Government has made available to sell.
Therefore, the short-run strategy is to make payments at such levels as
stabilization permits, and continue to pursue aggressive debt reduction
through privatisations and cash buy-backs. By 1992, the level of debt may be
low enough and a track record sufficiently well established to consider a
Brady-type operation for a comprehensive workout.
U*mIm PUBLI   mim IsSI
A.  aina ProbuM
26.         Returning to sustainable growth requires that Argentina address
the deep-seated problems of its public sector. The nonfinancial public sector
in Argentina consists of the federal government, public enterprises and the
social security system, as well as provinces and municipalities. The federal
government--the central government, decentralized agencies and special
accounts--comprises about half of the nonfinancial public sector (excluding
provincial and municipal governments) measured by revenues and expenditures.
Overall deficits of the nonfinancial public sector averaged 14 percent of GDP
in 1980-84, and fell to 6.5 percent ln 1985-89. The prlmary balance (i.e.
excluding interest) was in deficit by an average of 9 percent of GDP in the



- 10 -
first half of the 1980., improving to a deficit of 2.8 percent of GDP in the
second half. The primary balance moved into surplus in 1990 for only the
second time in the last two decades. Endemic deficits had their origin in an
erosion of revenue capacity and an inability to contain expenditures.
ReveAZOO
27.         Although the Argentine tax system was fairly sophisticated in the
late 19709, increasing tax exemptions beginning in 1977 and the lack of
political resolve in enforcing tax laws progressively eroded tax
administration. The tax system effectively collapsed during the recent
hyperinflations. The tax burden as a share of GDP, which reached 19.5 percent
of GDP in 1980, fell to 16 percent in 1989. Moreover, the composition of
revenues shifted from efficient taxes (e.g., the VAT and income taxes) to
inefficient but easily collectable taxes. The VAT became riddled with
exemptions, primarily for industrial promotion. Revenues from the VAT, which
reached a peak of over 5 percent of GDP in 1981, had fallen to under 2 percent
in 1989; their contribution to total revenues fell from some 23 percent in
1980-84 to under 15 percent in 1989.  The income tax withered to less than one
percent of GDP because of the inappropriate definition of the inflation
adjustments for loss carryovers as well as tax exemptions for income from
interest and dividends. Improper indexing of other taxes has also lowered
real receipts in inflationary times, leading to a procyclical bias in revenue
shortfalls. This situation compelled the Government to rely increasingly on
easily attained revenues--so-called tax handles. These included export taxes,
taxes on bank checks, and excessive energy taxes. To complicate matters
further, special interest groups (in both the private and public sectors) have
sought to assure revenue flows by establishing earmarked taxes, and these have
reduced the flexibility of the Treasury to allocate resources.
28.         Part of the reason for increased reliance on tax handles and
earmarking was the deterioration in tax administration. The capacity to
administer efficient taxes eroded with inattention to management and systems
development early in the decade and the sharp deterioration in public sector
salaries after 1984. At present, the General Tax Office (DGI) has an
inadequate tax roll, a low rate of inspections and audits, a low level of
efficiency in processing returns and low rate of collection per audit. In
1989, an audit that cost the DOI on average US$800 produced US$35 in new reve-
nues (see Annex Table 3.2).  The customs administration has also become less
reliable and effective in the 1980s.
29.         The use of tax expenditures in support of industrial activity
beginning in the late 1970s was particularly pernicious. Fiscal incentives
for industrial promotion were built around Law 21608 of 1977 with the purposes
of promoting industrial investment and supporting the creation of industries
in less developed regions of the country. Further laws expanded the
incentives for investment and production in Tierra del Fuego and in four
provinces. The fiscal incentives for industrial promotion were awarded
through six different instrumentsa (i) exemption from import duties and VAT
purchases on capital goods; (Li) deferral of tax payments by investors up to a
certain percentage of the amount invested, (III) exemption from profit taxes,
(iv) exemption from capital taxes, (v) exemption from the VAT, and (vi)



- 11 -
exemption from the stamp duty. Inadequate control and inspection have led to
widespread abuses and tax evasion. The system has created major economic
distortions with minimal employment effects. The fiscal cost of the national
and regional promotion schems as well as the scheme for Tierra del Fuego is
estimated to have been over 1.5 percent of GODP in 1989.
30.         Total expenditures of the nonfinancial public sector as a percent
of GDP increased from a level of slightly lses than 30 percent in 1966-70 to a
peak of over 45 percent in 1980-85. (This includes expenditures of provinces
azd public enterprises on a gross basis). Since then, total expenditures have
fallen to less than 38 percent. Total expenditures of the federal government
(i.e., netting out provinces other than transfers) fell from a peak of about
35 percent of GDP in 1983 to less than 27 percent in 1990. Theose declines
have occurred not through any rational reduction in the scope and functions of
government, but through back-to-back austerity programs that have forced
reductions in wages, investment and other public expenditures.
31.         This form of adjustment has distorted the composition of
expenditures substantially over time: The aggregate wage bill and investment
have fallen as a share of the total to make room for a relative increase in
interest payments and transfers to nonfederal components of government--
namely, the provinces and public enterprises (primarily railways). At
present, wages alone account for nearly 70 percent of all federal
expenditures, other than interast and transfers. This pattern of adjustment
has oroded the capacity of the Government to perform its core functions as
well as exacerbated existing weaknesses in its budgetary capacity.
32.         Administrative Inaoacit to PerfK&om OgreFuntions   The erosion
of capaciry of the Government to perform its core functions stems from the
deterioration in the quality and organization of the civil service. During
the 1980s, the federal government increased the number of public employees at
a time when repeated austerity required compression of the wage bill.
Employment in the federal government increased by 22 percent in 1981-90 from
about 484,000 to about 592,000 workers (see Annex Table 3.3)lf, while the
wage bill in the federal government as a share of (a contracting) GDP fell
from 4.8 percent to 3.5 percent. By 1990, average real wages had fallen to
under 35 percent of their January 1984 levels, the peak for the decade. The
salary compression ratio--the ratio of the highest to lowest salary--had
fallon to lose than 3:1 by March 1990 compared with historical levels
of 10-12:1. At the same time, the capacity of the Government to supply its
workers with the materials necessary to perform their duties had fallen: the
J In addition, employment in the public enterprises is about 300,000, in the
official banks about 33,000, and employment in the provincial governments
is estimated at about 1 million (excluding nonconsolidated municipalities
and provincial corporations) (see Annex Table 3.3). Also, the military
has enlisted personnel of 86,000, paid through the budget.



- 12 -
balance betwoen non-wage operating costs and wages fell to about 1S percent,
down from previous levels of 35 percent. (Provincial public sector employment
exhibited the sam pattern with even greater distortion.)
33.         These numbers do not convey the depth of erosion in the
administrative capability of the federal government. By 1990, the Government
could not attract qualifiod managers and technicians, had limited staff
capacity to perform on-goLng programmatic functions (lot alone design and
implement broad reforms), and could not adeuately monitor polices, for
compliance and effect. More important, limited human resources were badly
deployed across an over-extended public sector still designed with a heavily
interventionist and market-regulating legal framework. Morale was low, and
the average civil servant worked only a few hours a day because of the need
for part-time work elsewhere and lack of supervisory control.
34.         Dteriortlion in Dudugt Caacltv and Control  The second basic
problem affecting expenditures was the inability to program and control
spending efficiently. Since the reestablishment of constitutional government
in 1983, Argentina has been attempting to reconstruct the budgetary process
that had been all but destroyed by the early 1980s. The bulk of public
expenditures occurred outside the direct control of the Executive (i.e., the
subsecretary of Finance), instead residing with the decentralized agencies,
special accounts, public enterprises, provinces and social security fundsl in
1988, for example, the Treasury had discretionary control over only about
20 percent of noninterest expenditures in the public sector. As the various
components of government reached the limits of their budgets, they customarily
arranged for Ad hgM, discretionary bailouts from the central government or
Central Bank--financed ultimately from the inflation tax.
35.         Unstable macroeconomic conditions aggravated these weaknesses in
the budget process slnce they forced the Treasury to manage short-term flows
on the basis of the immediate priorities of continually changing quarterly
fiscal targets rather than an agreed budget. As austerity programs began to
take hold in the late 1980., the fragmentation of spending authority naturally
forced a disproportionate compression on those elements securely in the
control of the Treasurr--wages, service quality, and investment of the Federal
Government   Moreover, the budget process itself weakened in these conditions.
For much of the decade the Executive branch has rarely submitted the budget to
Congress before the start of the fiscal year; Congress rarely acted on it
promptly and inflation usually rendered it irrelevant within weeks of its
preparation. (At one point in 1988, Congress was officially considering at
the same time the budgets for 1987, 1988 and 1989.)
36.         The budget strategy of the Alfonsin administration after 1987 was
to build barriers between the Treasury and the nonfederal public sector--
attempting to force each component of government to put itself in balance.
Thus, the public enterprises were to have been put in balance by requiring the
surplus companies to cross-subsidize the deficit companies, in exchange for
taking over the service burden on commercial bank debt; the provinces were
taken out of the consolidated public sector accounts with the passage of
revenue sharing legislation, and the social security system was to be made



- 13 -
financially lndep.nd.nt. This stratogy necessarily entailed distortions--
especially ln the cross-subsidies in the public enterprises and in the central
gov rnnt absorbing a disproportionate share of the initial expenditure
reductions. Although the strategy was ultimately unsuccessful as a tactic to
support stabilization--the decentralized components pressed claims to obtain
emergency financing from the budget, provincial banks, and even isouance of
quasi-money by ome provinces--it did begin a process to regularize accounts
and institutionalize fiscal responsibility.
37.         The existing institutional structure for fiscal control is
incomplete and antiquated. it is incomplete because the accounting function
(National Accounting OffLce-MOM) is not fully developed, and accounts are
inconsistent because there are no accounting norms for the public sector as a
whole; the internal control function--expenditure recording--in the Executive
is only effective for public enterprises (General Accounting Office for Public
Unterprises-SIGEP) and partially for procurement in the rest of the public
sector (National Court of Accounts-TCN)  and there is no external auditing
because there is inadequate internal control. The system is antiquated
because the control system emphasizes formal decisions on an g2-ante basis,
instead of following a modern approach which implies S-gnkt performance
control measured against an approved budget. It also does not separate the
three basic functions--accounting, internal registration/control and external
auditing--that have to be independent in a modern institutional structure for
control. Pinally, the TeN is charged with judicial responsibilities for
prosecution of public fraud cases that should be the sole responsibility of
the judicial branch.
38.         The budgetary process itself is plagued by several other problems.
These include (i) the omission from coverage of important sources of
expenditures (e.g., public enterprises); (ii) absence of budget programming
and therefore of a regular programmatic review of public expenditures,
oriented towards improved resource reallocation under severe resource
constraint*; ($$$) g&-anr and ineffectual control of budget execution; (iv)
inaccurate and inconsistent accounts, an absence of timely budget processing
and therefore weak senior-level monitoring, and unenforceable reporting
requirements; (v) the breakdown of the public investment planning process and
the absence of a link to the budget; and (vi) the lack of modern information
systems to support financial management.
ctMncLna
39.         The ultimate source of finance for the various components of
government--including the Central Bank's quasi-fiscal deficit--became the
inflation tax. In 1985, as part of the Austral Plan, the Government decreed
that the Central Bank would no longer provide direct credit to the Government.
Bowever, in fact, the Central Bank eventually began to finance the repayment
of government bonds, to permit rediscounts to public banks that effectively
financed fiscal expenditures (in the form of provincial expenditures or
subsidies to housing and industry), and, of lesser importance, to finance an
increasing float with the social security system. These uses of funds--
together with the financing of its own interest bill--eroded further the
capital position of the Central Bank, and led to the creation of an asset



- 14 -
portfolio built upon fixed interest, nonperforming loans and a liability
composition based upon obligatlons bearing market Lntorest rater. Hlgh real
Laterest rates and/or hlgh inflation wLdened the quasi-fiscal deficit, and the
interest bill of the Central Bank becam an ondogpnous and destabilisiLg
source of money creation. Thli mechanism eventually led to the collapse of
lts capacity to carry out monetary policy.
40.         The Central Dank today is unablo to carry out the genuine
functions of a monetary authority. It remains financially unsound, even after
the January 1990 conversion of domestLc debt eliminated virtually all it.
domestic losses. Central Dank dlrectors lack lndependenc  and the
institution's scope of operations remains Lnadequately regulated, allowing lt
to lend excessively to the public sector and the fLnancial system. Under tho
present deposit lnsurance, the Central Dank effectlvely guarantees the banking
system's deposits. Bank supervisLon L also Lneffeetual, the Central Bank's
organizatLon is cumbersom and its etaff is excessive and inadequately
trained.
3   Mecent Public Sector Reforms Outside the Fteoral Govetrnent
41.         Restructuring the publlc sector reVquires conslderable effort in
the nonfederal components of government. The strategy of the Alfoneln
administratlon, while ultimately unsuccessful at stabillzation, dld help force
fiscal discipline on the various sources of deficlt. The experlence also
showed that the Government can try to limit lts transfers to the provLnces and
publlc enterprises, but these efforts would be doomed without dLrect struc-
tural reforms in the nonfederal publlc sector. For this reason, the Bank
strategy, as outlined in Part V, is to focu its financial and technlcal
support on reform programs for the public enterprise sector--with the Public
Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan (FERAL) and an Execution Loan (PURL)
(approved by the Board on February 12, 1991), and for the provinces with a
Provincial Development Loan (approved on December 18, 1990), as well as for
the Federal Government. Recent reform efforts in these areas--together with
those in the financial sector and trade regime-provide an important and
mutually reinforcing context to the reforms in the federal government and
monetary authority. The following sections therefore review briefly efforts
in the public enterprise sector, provincial finances, the financial sector,
and trade policy.
Publlc nterprises
42.         The first phase of structural changes in the public sector
centered on an ambitious program of privatization of public enterprises. The
Government has accelerated the timetable for privatization or partial
divestiture, with the objective of reducing the budgetary burden of the
enterprises on the Treasury, making the firms more competitive, and increasing
the volume and efficiency of new investment. The July 1989 Law on the Reform
of the State made most major enterprises eligible for divestiture. The
Government has sold two television stations, ENTel (US$214 million plus
US$S billion in external debt paper) and Aerolineas Argentinas (US$260 million



- 1S -
plus US$2 billion in external obligations). It has also auctioned off the
marginal areas of YPF (realizing US$260 million). The Government recently
started a comprehensive restructuring of the railways including the
privatization of long distance cargo linee, and the lay-off, early retirement,
or transfer to the COI of some 10 percent of the railway's work force. In
addition, the Government also expanded the scope of the privatization effort
by announcing in July 1990 that the nation's largest distributor of
electricity, 8aGMS, would be privatized in coming months; it also announced
that ports, maritime transport, reinsurance and the entire power sector will
eventually be divested, as would productive enterprises currently under the
control of the Defense Ministry.
43.         Of particular importance to public finances is the reform of the
energy sector. The state monopoly and the pricing policies in the energy
sector have created distortions that have lowered productivity and investment
in what should be a leading sector in Argentina. To overcome these problems,
the Government has recently: (1) adjusted real prices for oil products of YPF
to reflect their international opportunity cost and (ii) adjusted taxes to
remove biases against or in favor of particular products and revamped energy-
related special funds to ensure that resources mobilized are expended effi-
ciently. In addition, the Government is changing the structure of the oil
industry through the conversion of the YPI service contract areas to oil
concessions or association type contracts, opening up areas formerly monopo-
lized by YPF to private investment under joint contracts, and selling certain
underexploited oil fields, as well as eliminating obstacles for a more rapid
approval of contracts for exploration and production.
£rmix kAsM
44.         Provinces have been a main ource of deficit throughout much of
the 19808. Beginning in 1987, the Government intensified its efforts to
regularise financial relations with the provinces, culminating in the
enactment of a revenue sharing law early in 1988, which defined legally for
the first time in a decade, the share of public revenues to accrue to the
province. from federal tax collections. In 1988, the Central Dank also closed
the overdraft window and ended routine rediscounts to the provincial banks.
Provinces now have fewer resources, and are adjusting accordingly, albeit
slowly. Thelr collectlve deficLt fell by about 2 percentage points of GDP
slnce 1987 to an estimated 1 percent in 1989-90. Nonetheless, each province
will have to put in place lts own adjustment program--with added efforts to
collect own-source revenues and cut expenditures, especially for personnel,
which were major sources of expansion in the 1980s. The Government, with Bank
support, i encouragLng such programs.
Financial System
45.        Argentine policymakers have been comitted to financial
liberalization since the late 19705. Whlle the Government freed interest
rates Ln 1987, it repeatedly resorted to forced deposits and high reserve
requirements to fLnance the Government and the interest bill on remunerated
reserves  The build-up of the Central Bank's debt and its rollover at ever-
increasing interest rates threw the Central Bank into distress, one of the



- 16 -
causes of the December 1989 relapse into hyperinflation. The drastic step of
forcibly converting commercial bank deposits--and hence the Central Bank's
obligations to the commercial banks--into long-term external bonds (BONEX) had
a high cost in that it undermined the confidence of savers in the financial
system, but it did eliminate the Central Bank's domestic debt problem.
46.         The publicly-owned houging and development banks, long subject to
political influence and dependent on government financial support, are
undergoing major restructuring. Most branches of the National Development
Bank (BANADE) and the National Housing Bank (BHN) have been closed since March
1990 and staff reduced by half. studies are under way to test the feasibility
of their conversion into "second-tier* banks with a large part of their opera-
tions going through retail institutions. Further, studies are under way to
determine the best means of restructuring the largest public commercial bank,
the Banco de la Naci6n. The authorities are also studying how best to deal
with the banks owned by provincial governments, many of which have debts to
the Central Bank and to the rest of the banking system, are owed large amounts
by their governments, and have problem-ridden portfolios of private credit.
Trade JUS
47.         Before 1987, Argentina exported mostly commodities and imported
almost totally non-competing intermediate and capital goods. The trade regime
reflected an extreme overall anti-export biast the domestic price ratio
between exportables and importables was about 50 percent below international
price ratios. There was also a strong product-by-product discrimination from
quantitative restrictions (QRs) (about 50 percent by domestic production
coverage), wide bands of import tariffs (0-11S percent) and export duties (0-
70 percent), as well as specific prohibitions or subsidies. The growth-
inhibiting effect of the regime was apparent by the early 1970., when the
long-term trend of total factor productivity growth in Argentina turned
negative. A first attempt at trade reform in the late 1970., however, fell
victim to the collapse of the 1979-81 stabilization program. Since mid-1987,
the Alfonsin and the Menem administrations have conducted an impressive trade
reform program, despite successive periods of runaway inflation.
48.         The reform was sequenced so as to allow an early export supply
response to counter possible adverse balance of payments implications. The
Government first extended free trade status to exporters, reducing the level
and coverage of export taxes and establishing general regimes of temporary
admission, duty drawbacks and indirect tax reimbursement, and phasing out
specific export subsidies. It introduced a one-stop-window process for export
authorization and removed QRo on a significant number of intermediates used in
the production of exportables. These measures played an important role In
1989 in raising industrial exports by more than 35 percent in constant
dollars. After October 1988, the Government began opening the economy to
import competition. QRa were reduced to seven percent by domestic production
coverage; the Ad valorem tariff band was narrowed to 0-24 percent, with an



- 17 -
average rate of about 18 percent;&/ and the production coverage of
lndustrial export taxes was reduced to 30 percent. In Pebruary 1991, the
tariff band was reduced further to 0-22 percent, it was announced that
specific duties would be converted to 4A VA12r  tariffs, and the number of
tariff rates was reduced to three (i.e., 0, 11, and 22 percent). No less
itportant, the Government recently signed an agrement with Brazil as a first
step to creating a free trade area in the Southern Cone by 1994--the so-called
Nercosur.
49.         These reforms in public enterprises, provincial governments,
financial system and trade regime--taken together-reinforce reform efforts at
the federal level, the second phase of restructuring the public sector.
III * mum  Ic SECTOR RiEY UD PROSRI
50.         The Public Sector Reform Loan (PSRL) focuses on the federal
government and monetary authority. On the revenue side, the operation focuses
on improving the efficiency of the tax system, improving tax and customs
administration, and reducing tax subsidies to industrial promotion. On the
expenditure side, the operation will support an administrative reform that
will downeize and focua federal activities through reductions in public
employment and activities as well as improve budgetary proceasse to increase
the efficiency of remaining expenditures. Pinally, with regard to financing,
the operation is designed to help disentangle the Central Bank from public
finances and to allow it to become a functioning monetary authority.
A. Revues: Ho_e Xfficient MobilisatIL@
Tax Policv and Administration
51.         The main objectives of the program are to restore buoyancy to the
tax system, efficiency in resource mobilization, and equity. In December 1989
the Menem administration enacted a major tax reform that improves efficiency
and provides additional potential revenues; the legislation broadened the VAT
to all goods at a 13 percent uniform rate. It was implemented on February 1,
1990. As part of the same package, income taxes on corporations were lowered
to 20 percent from 33 percent, with a minimum tax payment of 1 percent of
assets; income taxes on individuals were simplified to a new 10-30 percent
rate with 5 brackets, with a withholding tax for wage earners. These taxes
replaced the tax on capital gains and personal net wealth. Second, a
subsequent fiscal reform package in mid-February 1990 required VAT and income-
tax payments to be made within ten days, in order to reduce the collection
lag; the Government also instituted an indexation system, under which taxes
due would be adjusted on a daily basis for estimated current inflation.
Al There was some increase in the production coverage of specific tariffs (to
5.5 percent in late 1989), although even these levels have in general been
reduced to the equivalent of a 50 percent 4 valorem rate.



- 18 -
Third, the Government enacted a new law providing stringent new penalties for
tax evasion in early 1990. Fourth, the Government extended the VAT to
services and increased its rate to 15.6 percent in November 1990. Finally,
the February 1991 package included raising the asset tax from 1 to 2 percent,
widening the income tax base by suspending loss-carry forwards, raising the
VAT from 15.6 to 16 percent, and raising the gasoline tax to 33 percent. The
tax on bank checks was increased from 0.4 percent to 1.2 percent, half
deductible from both the income and VAT taxes. Public enterprise tariffs,
frozen since the large increases in September 1990, were raised 25-60 percent,
and energy prices were pegged to international prices.
52.         The legal reforms necessary for an efficient system are nearly
completo. The present loan supported the consolidation of the VAT reform
through its extension to services (passed in the first week of October 1990)
and maintenance of the VAT reform (the Executive would veto any new exemp-
tions).
53.         The real revenue and efficiency gains are to be found in
rebuilding a severely eroded tax administration. Building on past Bank
efforts at tax technical assistance, the loan would supports (i) rebuilding
the tax rolls to establish effective controls on the largest 30,000 taxpayers
in 1991, and then all taxpayers in 19921 (ii) improving the inspection and
audit system through programs to examine promoted firma, make more than
400,000 site inspections in 13 major cities, improve the automatic computer-
ized audit system, improve auditing of income taxes, and cross-checks with
provincial tax administrations and the social security system; (iii) improved
internal management of the DOI through revision of antiquated administrative
norms and budgetary procedures and new procurement and contracting regula-
tionsl (iv) improved incentives for tax inspectors through collection-based
commissions and an end to lifetime employment guaxantees unrelated to
performancel and (v) modernization of the legal system and procedures to
facilitate prosecution of tax evasion. Progress against this program would be
measured against agreed indicators, including a 15 percent increase in the
number of audits in 1991 relative to the previous year, a 20 percent increase
in assessments from inspections, and increased collections from assessments to
85 percent, and implemented the tax roll system for controlling all taxpayers.
Finally, the loan would  upport (vi) a reform of the custom  administration,
which would review norms regulating impors classification and would also
complete in early 1992 the first phase of installation of a now computerized
control system that will reduce the scope for error and corruption.
plasim  Loanholes throAk InAustrial Prm"otin
54.         The Government has agreed that it cannot afford to permit
loopholes in the tax system for subsidies to industry that amounted to
US$1.6 billion in 1989--more than 1.S percent of CDP (see Annex Table 3.5).
More important, because of exemptions already granted to future projects and
pending legislation to increase the program, the fiscal cost would more than
double to over USS3.6 bllion in 1994 if policies to curtail the program were
not adopted. Reducing the fiscal costs is not easy because past legally
binding contracts granted tax exemptions for up to 15 years. It is further
complicated by the widespread evasion and tax fraud inherent in this self-



- 19 -
molonitored program. The PSUL would support actions to reduce these to l-oc
than 30 percont of projected 1994 costs by second tranche.
55.         The Emergency Law of July 1989 deferrd 50 percent of industrial
promotion benefits for one year beginning in August 1989 in exchange for a
bond to be paid 24 months later (though none as yet has beon issued). In
consultation with the Bank, the Government has taken sovoral additional
actions since March 1990. The Subscretary of Public Revenue canceled the
boneflts for 43 firms. Decrees 435 of March 1990 and 612 of April 1990
transferred authority for industrial promotion from provincial administrazions
and Tierra del Fuego to the Subsecretary of Public Revenues, under the
Ministry of Boonomy; this changed the incentive system governing the granting
of these benefits since provincial authorlties had previously been able to in
effect give away federal revenue. In addition, the Government replaced the
provisions which allowed beneficiaries to deduct their full costs rather than
value added from taxes. The Government also initiated a mandatory census for
all promotion schemes other than Tierra del Fuego in November 1990 on penalty
of benefit cancellation; roughly one-quarter of beneficiaries did not respond,
and their cases are now being processed. This information will provide the
basis of the tax bond program (discussed below). Finally, the Government also
issued a decree canceling all extant contracts that had not yet been activated
and canceled rights to renew existing contracts.
56.         To close definitively the industrial promotion loophole, the
Government has decided to replace the self-monitored tax deductions with a tax
bond program. Bach beneficiary will be fully audited for compliance against
its original contract. Those passing the audit will receive nontransferable
fiscal bonds applicable against taxes in the year of the tax obligation; this
will allow the Government to end evasion and know the fiscal costs of the
subsidies. Those failing to reach the employment, investment or production
levels in their original contracts will receive a bond, sharply reduced in
value in proportion to the noncompliance; they will also be audited for back
taxes. Finally, all firms will be audited for tax payments due during the 50
percent suspension of the promotion laws in 1989-90, during which time evasion
is considered to have been especially high.
57.         Exemptions granted to producere in Tierra del Fuego also
constitute a source of fiscal loss--projected to be some US$375 million in
1992 if the regime were maintained. Phasing out tax expenditures to support
Tierra del Fuego is necessary for both fiscal and resource allocation reasons.
The electronics industry--now located primarily in Tierra del Fuego--must
shift to the mainland where costs are lower to be able to compete with Brazil
in the regional trade area, the Mercosur. The Government indicated its
commitment to phase out implicit tax subsidies by second tranche release. To
that end, the Government reduced the specific duttes from 100 percent ad
valorm equivalent to 50 percent in 1990, and th6a in March 1991 converted
these to Ad salgorm rates of 22 percent. These measures induced many
closings. Nonetheless, the policy provided for transition period by exempting
domstic producers from the internal tax on electronics products until
February of 19921 all protection for the industry in Tierra del Fuego is to be
eliminated at that time.



- 20 -
S8.         Regarding now LndustrLal promotLon, the Government has steadfastly
resisted demands to enact a new law providing for addLtLonal beneflts. No new
projects have been approved since 1988. Whlle lobbles ln Congress contlnue to
kep the pos-lbillty of new *ubidiss allve, the administration Le committed
to vetoing any new actlon. The lank estimates that thli program, together
wlth the end of the Tierra del Fuego regLme, will reduoe the fiscal costs of
industrial pramotLon to less than 30 percent of tax expendltures otherwise to
be expected by 1994.
B.              Reductima1a Vomusin  an Cona FUn 
*dAL g             g -
59.         Reducing the size of Government and focusing on its essentlal
functions le the only way to reverse the marked deterioration ln public
admlnistration and services of the recent past. The objective of the
Government's reform is to create a modern, effectlve administrative apparatus
at levels of employment about 20 percent less than December 1989 levels. This
is an extraordinarlly difficult task at a time of risLng unemployment, falling
real wages, anC a deteriorating social safety net. The Government took the
initial steps under Decree 435 of March 1990, Lncludings (i) a freeze ln
vacancies and promotions; (ll) a reductlon in the number of Secretaries and
SubsecretarLes of the Federal Government from 153 to 60, creatlng the legal
possibility of dismissal of subordinates in the suppress units; (ILL)
elimination of overtime; (Lv) early retlrement for those within two years of
normal retirement; and (v) enforcement of bans against double employment. In
early September 1990, the Governmint iesued Decree 1757 that, among other
thLngs, empowered a commission for expendlture ratlonalization--comprised of
the Minister of Economy, the Submecretary of the Budget, the Subsecretary for
AdminLitrative Coordination, and the Secretary of Public AdminLstration within
the Presidency--to undertake an auminlitrative reform; the docree also reduced
the cost of lndemnizatlon to displaced workers, and created the possibility of
revising federal employment statutes to eliminate permanent tenure boneflts.
60.         The Government, with Bank assistance, then prepared an
administrative reform deelgned to reorganize and downsize the entire Federal
Government and make a contribution to deflcit reduction. The program,
summarized ln Annex VII, was unveiled in late October 1990, and codifLed in
Decree 2476 of November 1990. This program, to be supported by the PSR$,
wills (i) reduce the size of the federal bureaucracy by about 120,000 workers
by May 1, 1992 accordlng to a strategic view of the Government's eseential
purposes, elimLnating functlons, agencies, and reducing the number of
divisions in the federal bureaucracy by one-thlrd (from 272 to 184);
(ii) improve the Lncentive system facing federal workers, through a program .
pay up to 1,500 senlor executives improved salaries as well as a phased
decompression of the ratio of the wages paid to highoot paid civll servant to
the lowest, eventually to reach 10sl by May 1, 1992; (LLL) aid displaced
workers through temporary income maintenance, a compensation sum, and
continued payment of social benefits for up to one year; and (iv) reduce
federal outlays for wages by as much as 25 percent by 1992. The program
foresees special programs for education and the armed servLces; the program
wlll decentralLze secondary educatlon to the provinces in the course of



- 21 -
1991-92, reduclng federal mployment by 54,000 posLtLons, flnanced through
lmproved revenues from the shLft ln the tax base toward greater co-
partLcipated revenues. Vot countLng reductlons in the secondary teachers, the
overnm 0nt intends to maintain a ceiling on tederal employment of no more than
480,000 workers.
61.         In November 1990, the Pres dent established the legal basis for
the reform wlth Decree 2476. It reduced the ratio of personnal in
administratLve unlts to service units from 1ll to 1:3, mandated the staff si*o
reductions, and indicated which decentralized agencies were to be dLssolved,
prlvatized, or recelve protracted subsLdLes. Since then, the MLnLstry of
8conomy through lts Executive Committee for the Control of the Admlnistratlv4o
Reform (CECRA) has received restructurLag proposals for the ministries, and
after inLtially rejectLng 2 of the proposals as outside the guidellnes of
Decree 2476, has since lmplemented the reorganization of 6 of 8 ministries.
The program Le on schedule, and has met the employment reduction targets of
60,000 in the first phase.
Arentine: Evoution of fedeal
Empoymot
Thougand.
Sbo-
400
_        |   Od~~~~mInIeratlwe Refr Proam
Oeaeahe 10A8 Muy 108  M*V 1981  May 100  May 1088a1
V Reduwtn bi 108   "elatd with tranaf  of saocnde'y eduatio  to thw prwins
62.        In addition, the program envisioned improving the efficiency of
federal public service through new incentLves and management controls.
Besides improved higher-level salaries, training courses are being set up for
career civil servants, and the option of entering a senior executive service
via competitive exam and panel review offers new opportunity for upward
mobliLty ln the civil service. At the same time, Decree 1757 of August 1990
allowed the Government to reopen labor agreements so as to change permanent
tenure rlghts of federal employees--so-called "stabllity" privileges--that for



- 22 -
years had prevented managers from replacing unproductive or even corrupt
amployees. The Government is now concluding agreements with several work
units, beginning with the DOI and the customs, that permits dismissal with
severance payments and higher salary payments to lndividuals which give up
stabllity privilegee. Also, Decree 2476 ended self-monitored flex-time by
mandating a uniform work day, requiring workere to be on the job between
specified hourel this will eventually be supplemented wlth time-clocks for
support personnel. (This measure helped enforce prohibitions on double
employment since many people had been collecting two salaries for overlapping
work days.) Finally, the Government has begun to develop a program to
computerize its salary payment system over the next year; the present manual,
cash payment system is setimated to cost more than 3 percent of the wage bill
to administer, and is open to the abuses of unauditable cash traneactions.
The new system will pay salaries in check or direct deposit, and check will be
issued against a list of actual employees. This will permit the Treasury to
control effectively its wage and pension expenditures--accounting for some 70
percent of all federal expenditures--for the first time in Argentina's
history.
63.         The Argentine private sector, recognizing the importance of the
administrative reform to its own development, formed a private foundation in
late 1990 with the purpose of providing arms-length resources to aid the
reform. The group, called the Foundation for the Modernization of the State,
now has more than 70 corporate sponsors. It has donated close to US$1 million
to the first phase of the reform, primarily in the form of payment to three
management consulting firms as well as donations of modern office equipment to
the reform staff. The consulting firms worked under the direction of the
reform team; they were integral to the ministry-by-ministry census of
departmental tasks and employment, helped design the new ministerial
structures, and began the pilot programs to identify the senior executive
service posts. In the next phase, they will help with the revision of
selected management systems. The foundation has also provided the reform
important political support.
64.         The program will generate only modest fiscal savings in 1991
because of the need to compensate workers. However, the program as presently
designed could eventually produce annual savings equal to about 25 percent of
the present federal wage bill, as much as US$1 billion. The program would
require on average a six-monthi period of income maintenance at 75 percent of
salary, followed by a severance payment averaging about US$3,000 (depending on
length of service) in six subsequent installments. The total cost of the
indemnization program is estimated to be US$300-425 million, depending on the
actual compensation package and age-seniority profile of the displaced
workers.
audaet Process
65.         Without a new legal and institutional framework, Argentina will
never be able to gain complete control over its public resources. The
Government, with Bank assistance, has therefore prepared a new law to be
presented in the second quarter of 1991 to Congress. The new Law of Financial
management and Performance Control will establish a comprehensive definition



- 23 -
of the public sector, define financial responsibilities, and set up a modern
control and auditing framework.
66.        SgOohgWs-. BIu4dgi.  The law will establish financial
manage_ent rules for the comprehensive public sector that would create an
Lntegrated budgetary process. The legal mechanism of comprehensive control is
for the Executive to propose as part of the budget annual limit. on changes in
the level of indebtedness for the decentralized sectors as well as the Federal
Government; this would include legal limitations on the uses of domestic and
external credit. The new framework would maintain necessary flexibility in
various administrative components, but provide for adequate spending control
and auditing.
67.         Delineation of 3ponsibiiteUsM.  The new law will invest full
financial and budgetary authority in the Subsecretary of Finance (Ministry of
Economy) to implement comprehensive financial management and an integrated
budget; in addition, the law would delineate budgetary responsibilities for
planning, execution, and evaluation units as well as reporting requirements
and accounting norms.
68.         Control and Auditin.  The law will establish modern institutions
for budget control bys (i) assigning full internal accounting
responsibilities to the National Accounting Office in the Treasury (CGO),
including the implementation of the new financial and accounting information
systems, accounting norms and the preparation of the national financial
accountsl (Li) creating a system for internal control by transforming the
existing SIGEP into Executive Controller of the Nation (SIGEMAC) reporting
directly to the President, and establishing a network of internal auditing
units reporting to the heads of the various government entities and operating
on the basis of auditing norme defined by SIGENAC and under its supervieLon;
and (iii) restructuring the TCN into the new agency for external control, the
General Auditing Office of the Nation (GAO) reporting to Congress; this is
analogous, for example, to the Government Accounting Office in the United
States. While the internal control function will support management through
monitorlng and audits, the external control function will essentially be
focused on gg-pgqt performance control based on the information produced by
the internal control structure.
69.         The Government submitted the new law in the extraordinary session
of Congress in April 1991. Implementation of the new law is a condition of
second tranche disbursement of the PSR. Since the law implies important
organizational changes in the ministries and decentralized agencies, including
the creation of administrative units to control expenditures, the
administrative reform offers the opportunity to implement these changes 2gzj
gSeES with the introduction of the new law.
70          The other legal pillar of budget reform is the revamping of
procurement practices. Procurement subsidies to preferred domestic producers
have been estimated to be as high as 1 percent of QDP annually. The
Government intends to submit a new Law of Procurement and Asset Management to
establish the basis for a long-term nondiscriminatory regime for the public



- 24 -
sector. This will allow the Bxecutive to make public purchasing more
competitive and more transparent, and to eliminate procurement subsidies, such
as those contained in the Buy-Argentina Law (Cowgry Bac2onal).
71.         The Government hao also undertaken an action program to modernise
its financial management and effectively reconstruct the budget process.
First, it has established a task force to design and implement the new basi
of budget programming, execution, monitoring and evaluation. The 1991 budget
(sent to the President in December 1990 and to Congress in February 1991)
incorporatess (i) an efficient procedure to cope wlth Lnflation by calculating
the initial budget in constant prices and introduclng an adjustment mechanism
to ensure that the real publlc sector defLcit wlll not increase (the specific
adjustment criterion is a linear combination of accumulated lnflation and
collectlons)l and (ii) a programmatic review of expenditures taking into
account the administrative reform program and the new policies defined for the
publlc sector. There are also ongoing efforts to improve existing information
systems in the Accounting Office, the Treasury and the Budget OffLesi these
efforts are to be continued to establish a complete new and comprehensive
basis for budget preparation, execution and control starting in 1992.
72.         The Government has also developed a program to reduce the number
of earmarked funds from over 150 in 1989 to about 75 in 1992. The Govermeant
began withholding half of all funds on an emergency basls in mid-l990; Lt also
reduced the number of funds by one-third by 1991. By mid-1992, it intends to
eliminate another 25 percent   This will be coordinated with the
adminietrative reform, since many of these provided automatic resources to
selected decentralized agencies.
73.         Finally, to improve transparency and institutionalize further
transactions with the nonfederal publlc sector (public enterprises and
provlnces), the Government Lntends to limit amounts transferred to these
agencies to the amounts approved in the 1991 budget. For the provLnces thli
would entail supportLng transfers only through the co-particlpation laws and
deslgnated special funds. For the publlc enterprises, it would entail
explicit but declining subsidies to the railways, and a specifled level of
transfers from the oil company, YPF. These budgetary commitments would
compl emnt reforms already underway and supported by the PBML. A second
tranche conditLon L that the Government limlt transfers to amounts budgeted
ln 1991.
74.         Taken as a whole, the Government's expendlture control program
offers a historic opportunlty to place public accounts on a modern, democratic
foundation. Replacing the past system of opaque, discretionary, and often Ad
b£ Treasury (or Central Bank) expenditures with a system of transparent,
congressionally mandated expenditures subject to normal audlt processes
markedly enhances the potentlal for public accountabllity in the spending
process. Undertaking the administrative reform simultaneously allows the
Government to install new admlnistrative units for expenditure control across
a reorganized public sector with a defined sense of purpose. These steps are
essential to the eventual elimlnatlon of the structural deficlt.



- 25 -
C- 'Pinancinos RfornLa me CetrAl Bak
75.         The Government has embarked upon several reforms necessary to
separate the Central Bank from the nonfinancial public sector and establish it
as an independent, effective monetary authority. The elimination of the
Central Bank's domestic short-term interest-bearing obligations by means of
their conversion into external Treasury bonds (BONUX) in January 1990 in
effect constituted a first step toward recapitalizing the Central Bank. The
April 1991 Law of Convertibility established a money-creation rule that would,
in its strictest application, impose monetary discipline eqpivalent to a
currency board on the Central Dank. Since early 1991, the Central Dank has
published financial statements that reveal its balance sheet; since April 1991
it has published its reserve position weekly to provide the public with
information to monitor implementation of the Law of Covertibility.
76.         The Government's program includess  (i) the reorganization of the
Superintendency, a first step toward enhancing its powers and separating it
from the Central Dank; (Ui) the elimination of the system of commercial bank
advances to the social security system, which counted as bank reserves; this
system complicated monetary control making it difficult for the authorities
even to know the current monetary base, (iii) removal of the trade financing
functions from the Central Dankl and (iv) a new draft charter.
77.         The Government intends to implement a new charter and eliminate
the Central Bank's role as a liquidator of failed financial institutions by
early 1992. The new charter, complementing the Law of Convertibllity, would
(among other things): (i) provide the Central Dank directors sufficient
ndependence to manage the institution with the objectives of preserving the
value of the currency; (1$) restrict Central Bank financing for the public
sector to open market purchases of government securities with specified legal
limites (iii) remove functions from the Central Bank not directly related to
its fundamental function of currency stability, including removal of the trade
credit and bank liquidation functions from the present Central Bank;
(iv) restrict Central Bank credit to commercial banks to _mrgency liquidity
rediscounts associated with its lender of last resort functions; (v) prohibit
the Central Dank from issuing interest-bearing liabilities; and (vi)
strengthen the Superintendency of Financial Entities. In addition, the
Central Dank intends to complete the process of removing functions ancillary
to the functions of a monetary authority by transferring legal authority on
failed institutions to the courts for their resolution.
78.         The Central Bank has been for decades the ultimate source of
revenue for the public sector and subsidies for the private sector. The
nation as a whole has long abused the power to create money and is only now
beginning to establish the formal and informal rules to discipline its
behavior. It will take time to weave a depoliticized Central Bank into the
fabric of Argentine society. However, these changes mark important first
steps in creating a modern institution of monetary management



- 26 -
tl. ye
A. QObevti1es and Scog  of tho U oa
79.         The proposed quick-disbursing loan would support fundamental
reforms of the federal government and monetary authority. Specifically, the
loan would support major changes ins (i) revenue mobilization through (a) tax
policy and administrative improvements to increase revenues (including
consolidating the value-added tax and a program to improve tax and customs
administration); and (b) closing tax loopholes by reducing tax subsidies for
industrial promotion by about 70 percent of projected fiscal costs in 1994.
The loan would also support (ii) expenditure rationalization through (a) an
administrative reform to reduce federal employment by about 20 percent by mid-
1992, eliminate functions and focus on core activities through ministerial
reorganization, reverse wage compression from 3sl to over 10:1, and strengthen
administrative capacities; and (b) improvements in the budget and control
process through a new Financial Management and Performance Control Law (that
will regularize reporting and control, provide for consistent accounting and
auditing, and comprehensive budgeting), a new Law of Public Procurement and
Asset Management (that will eliminate discriminatory subsidies to domestic
suppliers--Sm2re M_cional--and introduce competition to public procurement),
a regular budget sent to Congress beforo the beginning of each fiscal year,
reductions in the scope of earmarked funds, and strictly defined transfers to
nonfederal components of Government. Finally, the loan would help disentangle
the financing of the non-financial public sector through (iii) reform of the
Central Bank and its relation to the Treasury by means of (a) a new charter
that would limit the powers of the Central Bank to lend to the Government;
(b) removal of functions from the Central Bank inappropriate to a monetary
authority such as trade financing and financing the social security payment
system, as well as strengthening bank supervision. (8ee the policy matrix in
Annex IV.)
S. Rationale for th Loan
80.         Bank technical assistance and financing are essential to realizing
the objectives of the Government in a reform of this magnitude. Bank techni-
cal support has already been instrumental in the design of policy improvements
to date and contemplated reforms. While loan preparation formally began in
February 1990, the PSRL built on past discussions between the Bank and
Government on its macroeconomic policles, tax administration, industrial
policy, and Central Bank reform. In addition, the Bank has been able to tke
advantage of substantial work done in the Public Sector Managemnt Technical
Assistance Loan of 1986 (Ln. 2712-AR) and the Tax Administration Technical
Assistance Loan of 1989 (Ln. 3015-AR), which financed preliminary work on the
draft budget accounting law, computerization of the budget and processes, and
work on tax and customs administration.
81.         Since February 1990, the Bank has undertaken several missions for
the P8RL. These missionst (i) succeeded in placing administrative reform on
the agenda and were instrumental in helping to design a coherent program; (11)



- 27 -
helpd accelerate work on tax computerisationg (iLi) provided analyser of the
custom administration that later stimulated the major reform program; (iv)
defined a policy approach toward industrial promotloni (v) advisod the
Government to take action on the earmarked fundeg (vi) provided central ideas
for the proposed Law of Public FinancLal Management and Performance Control
and Law of Public Procurement and Asset Managwmenti and (vi) helped the
Government finalize its plans on the draft organic charter of the Central
Bank, and reorganization of the bank superintendency. The 10D participated ln
virtually all of these missions. These missions have helped the Government
Lategrate its approach to state reform.
82.         No lses  important than technical assistance, Bank financing is
necessary to permit the Government to achieve its objectives for the balance
of payments without recourse to inflationary domestic credit creation. As
noted above, net external financing requirements are projected to average
about US$1.5 billion annually to 1995. While the Government has no
alternative in the short-term but to finance gaps through additional interest
arrears with commercial banks, the Bank, by providing additional resources
through the PSRL, will be able to contribute to a reduction in this year's
financing gap in the context of an IMF-supported macroeconomic program; these
Bank resources, together with co-financing from the IDB, will allow the
Government to achieve balance of payments targets for reserve accumulation and
still make the minimum payments to commercial banks necessary to facilitate an
eventual debt work-out. (In 1991, Argentina intends to pay US$720 million,
roughly one-quarter of the amount due).
83.         In fiscal terms, resources from the PBRL will permit the
Government to replace domestic borrowing (on onerous terms) with foreign
loans. It intends to use the counterpart from the loans to pay indemnization
of workers as part of its administrative reform. Since the Government has
reduced federal employment by more than 60,000 workers, the timing of
disbursements coincides with the increased financing burden on the Treasury.
C. Loan Conditions
84.         The proposed PSRL would be conditioned on actions which reflect:
(i) satisfactory progress in strengthening the revenue and expenditure
framework of the Federal Government as well as implementing reforms in the
Central Bank; and (ii) satisfactory macroeconomlc performance. The basis for
assessing satisfactory macroeconomic performance is set out in the Letter of
Developsent Policy (see Annex 1) which includes the short-term fiscal target
of the Government's stabilization program, medium-term policy goals and objec-
tives in sectoro relevant to achieving stability and the objectives of the
public sector reform loan itself. As in the past, there will be close
cooperation with the IMF.
85.         The Government has already compiled an impressive list of
accomplishments in the policy areas of this loan, including havings
-   made progress in its program for the General Tax Office (DGI) including
the completion of the fiscal census including at least 400,000 site



- 28 -
inspections, increaed the number of VAT contributors on the tax rolls
by 200,000 (40 percent), and lmplemented computerized audit and control
system for the largest 1,000 contrlbutorat
made progress on custom adminLitration, lncludLng beginning revision of
the custom  nors and comploting the design of new organizational
structurel
taken measures to reduce the fiscal cost of industrial promotion to less
than 60 percent of 1989 levels for 1991; and enacted no new law on
industrial promotion entailing additional fiscal costs to the Federal
Treasury;
reduced employment levls in the public sector by sme 60,000 workers
according to the schedules set out in the October 26, 1990
Administrative Reform Programl
modified the salary structure so that the ratio of the highest paid
public servants in the federal government to the lowest paid is at least
6:1;
prepared and submitted to Congress a new law of Financial Management and
Performance Control satisfactory to the Bank;
formulated a program eliminating selected special funds and incorporated
resources into general budget;
completed preparation of revised draft Charter of the Central Bank ready
to be considered by Congress; and
implemented the reorganization of the 8uperintendency of Financial
Entities; and transferred out of the Central Bank trade credit
functions.
86.         As conditions of the release of the second tranche, the Government
will have:
-  permitted no additional exemptions for the VAT since October 1990;
-   made satisfactory progress in its program for the General Tax Office
(Dal) as evidenced by having increased number of audits in 1991 relative
to the previous year by 15 percent, increased assessments from
inspections by 20 percent, and increased collections from assessments to
85 percent, and implemented the tax roll system for controlling all
taxpayers; and made satisfactory progress in its program for the Custome
Administration as evidenced by the complete implementation of
computerized customs control system for 25 percent of import tax
receipts;
-   taken measures estimated to limit the fiscal cost of industrial
promotion to less than 30 percent of projected fiscal cost without
reform for 1994, as evidenced by: (i) having completed the tax bond
program; (Li) suspended benefits to ineligible firms; and (iii)
completed requisite decrees and resolutions to establish a legal basis
for control; terminated special protection for the electronics industry
in Tierra del Fuego; and enacted no new law on industrial promotion
entaillng additional fiscal costs to Federal Treasury;
-   reduced employment levels in the public sector according to the
schedules set out in Decree 2476 of November 26, 1990 and in the
October 26, 1990 Administrative Reform Program, and maintained
employment ceilings consistent with the Letter of Development Policy;



- 29 -
- modifLed the salary structure such that the ratio of the highost paid
public servants to the lowest paid will be at least 10sl# established
program for senior executivesl and Lnstalled now payments system wlth
iqproved budgetary control of wag* billl
-   implemented the new Law of Financial Managemnt and Performance Controll
prepared and presented to Congress its 1992 budget by November 1991;
-   elminaIted 25 percent of earmarked funds as dscribed in the LDP; and
limited transfers to public enterprlie  and provLnce  to amount budgeted
in 1991g
-   removed bank liquidation activities from the Central Bankt and raduced
employment ln the Central Bank of staff associated wlth liquidatLons of
closed banks;
- enacted the proposed Charter of the central lankg and
-   made  atisfactory progress ln implementLng its ahort-term macroeconomic
progra.
D.   WMnMMroc  rmumKh
87.         Providing fLnance to assist in the structural reform of
Argentina's public sector only ma-e  economic sense lf the Government has a
strong macroeconomic program in place. The framework for a program is set out
in the Letter of Development Policy (LDP--Annex I). In addition to a
presentation of the PSRL program, the LOP includess (i) a short-term target
for the public sector primary surplus consistent wlth an objective of reducLng
inflation toward international rates; (il) medium-term policy goals for reform
to complement and relnforce reforms supported by the present loan for the
federal government; and (iLi) medLum-term objectlves for those sectors having
direct bearLng on the recovery of Lnvestment and productivity as well as low-
income sectors hurt by the economic deterioration of the 1980s. The Letter of
Development Policy forms part of the legal documents discussed during
negotiatlons; the short-term fiscal targets are those of the IMP program for
1991-92, and the medLumrterm policy objectives are consistent with those
elaborated ln the PEDAL and Provincial Development Loan.
S. Cogeration with Othe2r Finacial Jnstitutiog
ItstroatLona d gonetrv FUDd
88.         As noted in Part I, the IMF is preparlng a new stand-by
arrangement for July 1991-92, the results of whlch are incorporated into the
Bank'*s targets for short-term macroeconomic monitorLng. The Bank contlnues to
work closely with the IMP in the formulation of lts adjustment program, and
the Fund has consulted the Bank on lts stabilization programs. IMP and Bank
staff consult contlnually about specific policies; the Fund has often adopted
the Bank's recommendations--on the administrative reform, tax and customs
admlnlitration, Lncome tax, industrLal promotLon, and Central Bank issues--in
thelr own discusesions with the Government. Since 1989, the Bank and the IMF
have had everal parallel missLons durLng which macroeconomlc and sectoral
polLeies were discussed, and Bank staff have also partLcipated in Fund



- 30 -
missions. More broadly, the Bank has worked closely with the IMF in the
8ank's other adjustment operations, ln formulating the lending strategy, and
in economio and sector work. staff of both institutions have made
considerable effort to comment on the other's work, to use common data, and to
ensure consistent conditionality in londing operations.
sZe r-Amsrican D-volooat Bank
89.         The 109 intends to cofinance the PSRL. This would be the first
adjustment operation for the lDB in Argentina and among the first for that
institution. Its representatives have participated in all Bank misesions, and
IDB staff have signed joint aide memoires from these missions. in addition,
the I0D has provided resources for consultants and other apects of loan
preparation. At the request of the Government, the Dank is working closely
with the IDB on several other operations as well. Extensive consultation
exists between the two institutions on devising lending strategies in the
social sectors, in particular, where new operations are planned, and in
support for the Government's adjustment effort   Given the magnitude of
Argentina's needs, cofinancing by these two institutions significantly
increases the scope for renewed investment in Argentina, especially since
commercial funds have all but disappeared. In addition, cofinancing from
Spain and Italy, and more recently Japan, is of increasing importance and
discussions are ongoing on various possible projects with these and other
potential sources of cofinancing.
P. fnsgu IAJlmntatioa
90.         The Borrower will be the Argentine Republic; the Ministry of
Sconomy will be the Executing Agency. The Subsecretariat for Economic
Coordination, with support from the Subsecretariats for Administration and
Technical Coordination, Public Revenues and Finance as well as the Presidency
of the Central Bank, would be responsible for the reform programs.
Disbursement End Pracurement
91.         The proceeds of the proposed PSRL would finance the CIt cost of
eligible imports, subject to documentary evidence that they have been paid for
and that the goods have entered into the country. Eligible imports would be
determined according to a negative list, i.e., the customary limitations
excluding the financing of military equipment, luxury consumer goods, and
hazardous materials would be applied. In addition, disbursement of each
tranche would be conditioned upon provision of evidence of progress in the
Government's program of staff reductions. A closing date of December 31, 1993
is proposed. Further, retroactive financing for expenditures incurred after
January 1, 1991 equivalent to US$6S million, or 20 percent of the PSRL Loan,
is proponed to allow for significant policy actions to be taken before Board
Presentation. Disbursements would be made on the basis of pro-audited
statement of expenditures, certifying the individual import expenditures, the
goods imported, payments made and the amounts involved, and demonstrating



- 31 -
their oligibility under the loan. For contracts above US$5.0 million, all
related payments would be fully documented.
92.         Procurement under the proposed operation should be carried out as
followas (i) contracts for public and private sector procurement of goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$5 million or more each, shall be
awarded through simplified international competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) public sector contracts below US$S million
shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder following procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank; and (iii) private sector contracts below US$5 million may
follow established coumercial practices, provided that they are awarded on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations from eligible suppliers from
at least two countries, except where direct contracting is permLssible under
normal Bank procurement procedures.
AccouSnS aid AdfiLtig
93.         The Ministry of Bconomy would be responsible for maintaining loan
accounts, for preparing and submitting withdrawal applications, and for
maintaining all records pertaining to the program's execution. Disbursements
from the proposed loan would be made on the basis of a suimary from the
Ministry of Economy detailing individual import transactions in each relevant
period, together with a certification of payments of the amounts involveS, and
of their elLgibility under the loan. Applications for withdrawals will be
consolidated and submitted in amounts not less than US$1 million.
94.         The Ministry of Economy will maintain separate accounts to record
and monitor loan disbursements and repayments. All records and accounts in
support of statsment of expenditures financed under the proposed Loan will
have been audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles by independent
auditors acceptable to IBRD, prior to disbursements.
0. Xmnact. 3enefita and Risks
goclal Kanact
95.         The Government's medium-term objective is to reestablish
conditions for growth with its direct and positive consequences for reducing
the number of absolute poor throughout the country. In the absence of public
sector reform, there is virtually no hope for sustainable conomic recovery in
the private sector, or that income levels and employment rates of the poor
could rise, or that social expenditures affecting their welfare could
increase. In the absence of reform, the Government would not be able to end
its reliance on the inflation tax, the most regressive of all taxes. Finally,
in the absence of reform, the probability of renewed hyperinflation would be
substantially higher, with its enormously high human costs--hyperinflation
breaks down the payments and price system, and the accompanying severe
recession suddenly increases unemployment.



- 32 -
96.         The program has been designed to assuage the unavoidable short
term social costs of its implementation. The most obvious problem is that
more than 120,000 public sector workers will have to find alternative
employment in the private sector--at a time when the prlvate bector is not
growing. Several factors mitigate this difficult transition: workers'
salaries are already so low that the great majority of dismissed workers
already have second jobs in the private sectorl also, many workers in the
first phase of the reform were close to retirement and found the severance
provisions acceptable. Equally important, the administrative reform is
designed so that salary payments will continue for an average of 6 months
(depending on length of service and salary)t in addition, workers will receive
a severance compensation amounting on average to an additional 6 months of
payment; finally, the Government will continue to pay for the soclal insurance
of dismissed workers for 12 months to increase the attraction to the private
sector to employ these workers.
97.         The program as a whole may also have adverse indirect effects of a
short-term nature. The stabilixation program necessarily requires adjustment
of public sector accounts, which in turn will exert contractionary effects on
aggregate demand in the next few months. The Bank is working with the
Government in the design of an effective social program that would focus on
maternal, infant and child health care and nutrition (see Part V). It will
also encourage the Government to allocate resouroes through its provincial and
municipal loans to labor-intensive sub-projects that can generate employment.
Finally, the housing loan is designed to encourage the Government to shift its
sectoral investment resources into low-income houses located in poor urban
areas; this would provide a substantial demand for less skilled construction
labor.
98.         Ultimately, however, only the reversal of long-term trends toward
stagnation and a sustained private-sector-led recovery--with its Lncrease in
the demand for low-income labor, enhanced resources for much needed social
expenditures, and eventually rising national income--will lift the poor to
higher living standards. This is the central objective of the PSRL.
99.         The Government's implementation of this program would be a major
contribution toward putting public finances in sustainable balance, without
which the deteriorating cycle of high inflation, low savings and investment
and slow or negative economic growth cannot be broken. Since reducing
macroeconomic instability in a sns gu nM for reestablishing the conditions
for investment and economic growth, the reform program is designed ultimately
to improve the standard of living of Argentines. Specifically, revenues could
increase in 1991 on an annualized basis by at least one percent of GDP and
more thereafter; this is independent of the lncreased tax buoyancy built into
the system and the corresponding increases in revenues associated with
declines in inflation and improved growth performance. Since the
institutional reform  will yield improveiants over time, it is not
unreasonable to expect that this one percent could reach as high as two
percent in years beyond 1992   On the expenditure side, the administrative
reform, together with the program reductions inherent in the reform, will



- 33 -
yield some 0.2 percent of GOP in 1991, rising to 0.9 percent by 19931
increased control of expenditures, including transfers to the provinces and
public enterprises, may produce as much as 0.3 percent of GOP 1991, and more
in 1992 and 1993. The total value of the program is thus 1.5-3.2 percent in
1991-93 and more in the years beyond.
100.        More important, the country will benefit from an improved quality
of public sector services and the increased growth in productivity associated
with the end of the inflation tax as a primary source of revenues for the
public sector. The public should perceive, therefore, that these drops in the
fiscal deficit are more permanent than many previous deficit-cutting measures.
Increased financial stability would contribute to a debt reduction deal that
could reinforce the permanence of fiscal balance. This in itself could
produce significant growth.
BLsks
101.        The objectives of the proposed loan are qulte ambitious and are
subject to three dlfferent types of risk. Fst, it is posslble that some of
the loan condltlons will not be implemented in a manner consistent with
agreement between the parties; for example, the Government may not be able to
withstand the polltlcal pressures of Laterest groups affected by the reforms,
it may not have the admLnLstrative capacity to lmplement instLtutional
reforms, or Congress may not accept the Hxecutive's legislation proposals.
Up-front progress over the last elght months, the relative Lrreversibility of
some key actLons, and the growing public awareness of the desirability of the
reforms mitlgates these LmplementatLon risk..  fecond, ln the short term,
there is a rLsk that weak short-term fiscal managment may cause a loss of
pubiLc confldence resultlng in a sudden movement agaLnst the austral, as it
dld in early 1991; thls would produce a new surge of high inflation, and could
erode the politLcal support necessary to support contlnued structural reforms.
However, polltical authoritLes are well aware of the mLstakes of end-1990, and
their relatlvely quLck reaction with a new fLical program (ln contrast to
January 1990) is testimony to thelr understanding of the relation between
flscal performance and lnflatLon expectatLons. Moreover, the structural
reforms supported by P8RL are as Lnfluential in shaping expectations as short-
term fSlcal adjustments because the prlvate sector looks at the sustainabLlity
of the fiscal position as well as monthly performance.  Third, it has to be
recognized that, even wlth good pollcies, prlvate expectations are informed by
the recent experlence    hyperLnflation, end could turn negative for
unforeseen reasons; be(.,-es of the narrowness of financLal markets, thls could
set off an adverse cycle of deterioration. A related medium term variant of
thli is that private lnvestment may not recover as prsedLeted. Thls soee less
likely because the ArgentLne private sector has shown itself in several
stabliLzatLon epLsodes to be hlghly responslve to the macroeconomic polLiy
framework; even Lf thle less likely scenarlo materLalizes, the rLsk of
reversal in the pollcy framework is low and eventually the adjustment effort
will take hold.



- 34 -
V.  MM=  ASBISAN   5R3G  AND g35X5
A. Preious Bank Xx rLiece
102.        Although Argentina joined the Bank in 1956, it was not a major
borrower until the 1980.. Of the US$4.4 billion aomUitted by the Bank to date
(net of cancellations), US$3.4 billion was committed in the 1980., mainly
after 1985. The pace of Bank lending to Argentina accelerated in 1985 at the
request of the Argentine Government, primarily in support of its programs of
economic adjustment and reform. A substantial program of economic and sector
work, intense policy dialogue, and significant lending for technical
assistance provided the intellectual foundations for this closer involvement.
103.        The underlying goals of the Bank's involvement have been to
contribute to better utilization of Argentina's considerable human and
physical resources. A predominant theme of Bank activity has been the
promotion of macroeconomic stability through deficit reduction, improvement
managemnt of public resources, and more coherent public sector polices toward
the private sector to increase overall economic productivity. At the
macroeconomic level, activities have focused on reforms of the federal
government, public enterprises, provincial governments and social security
systms. At the sectoral level, the Bank has focused on the financial and
foreign trade systeme, as well as improvements in the energy sector (both
electric power and hydrocarbons) and other public infrastructure (transport,
water eupply and sewerage, housing and municipal development). The Bank has
also provided resources to promote private sector development in agriculture
and industry.
104.        Notwithstanding the considerable continuity in the dialogue
btween Argentina and the Bank in recent years, the present loan is only the
second adjustment loan the Bank has made to Argentina since TY89, and would be
the fifth adjustment loan ever made to Argentina. In FY86 the Bank made a
US$350 million Agricultural Sector Loan, followed in FY87 by a US$496.4 mil-
lion Trade Policy and Export Diversification Loan. In October 1988 the Board
approved two further adjustment loans, a Second Trade Policy Loan (TPLIU)
(US$300 million) and a Banking Sector Loan (US$400 million). The first
tranche of the TPLII was released upon effectiveness on November 15, 1988 and
was fully disbursed by January 1989. The deterioration in the macroeconomic
environment delayed the disbursement of the second tranche until mid-1990. (An
oral report on these developments was provided to the Executive Directors on
March 2, 1989, and discussed more fully in a paper to the Board in July
1990.£/) The deteriorating macroeconomic situation also made it impossible
to attain the goals of the Banking Sector Loan, which was not signed and was
allowed to lapse. Virtually no Bank lending occurred in FY90, and
macroeconomic turbulence also affected the pace of disbureemants udler
investment loans. New lending was resumed in December 1990 when the Board
approved two investment loans for Provincial Development and Water Supply. In
Februavy 1991, the Board approved the US$300 million Public Enterprise Roform
1/ Argentina - Progress of the Second Trade Policy Loan. R90-153, July 31,
1990.



- 35 -
Adjustment Loan to support reform and privatisation* of public enterprises and
the companion $23 million technical asistance loan, Bank exposure in
Argentina has thus grown slowly in recent years, and stood at US$2.6 billion
at the end of 1990.
D. ank Strateav
105.        The Bank's medium-term country assistance objectlves are to
improve public finances so as to help eliminate the persistent structural
deficit that have caus"d economic instability, slow growth and increased
poverty over the last decade. This means rationalizing publie expenditure and
improving the revenue basea it also means focusing the Government's activities
on protecting the poor during adjustment and making much needed infrastructure
investment necessary to unleash the productive potential of the country. This
would help lay the basis for a privats sector-led investment recovery.
106.        The thrust of Bank strategy toward Argentina is public sector
reform. In addition to the proposed PSRL, the other three major linchpins of
this strategy support major reforms in public enterprises and the provinces.
The Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan (PEPAL) is supporting the major
structural changes in the public enterprise sectors, including divestitures,
enterprise rationalization, and new pricing regimes. The Provincial
Development Loan (US$200 million, approved in December 1990) will provide
resources to finance provincial public investments in proportion to the
success of individual provinces at increasLng their own savings and balancing
their budgets. It will also provide resources for technical assistance to
assure that budgets agreed with the federal government are adequately fol-
lowed. The Bank is also contemplating a social security adjustment loan to
correct the huge actuarial deficit of the present system. Taken together,
these reforms will support ambitious structural changes in the organization
and financing of the Argentine public sector.
107.        Additional investment loans in water supply and the social sectors
will help improve the efficiency of public investment and the quality of
services available to low-income groups, and in some measure cushion the
burden of adjustment. The Bank would lend essentially for projects in the
ocial sectors as well as for projects to rehabilitate the country's basic
infrastructure. The Bank is preparing various projects in infrastructure,
energy and agriculture. The Agricultural Services Loan of $33.5 million was
approved by the Board on February 28. In addition, the Bank is working on a
Maternal, Child Health and Nutrition Project, intended to alleviate the impact
of past recession and hyperinflation on vulnerable segments of society,
particularly mothers and young children.
C. Private Investment and XPC Lendina Prooram
108.        The new Minister of Economy, in his first speech to the nation in
February 1991, underscored the need for maintaining a stable policy framework
for private investment to promote growth, a theme reiterated in his Letter of
Development Policy (Annex I). Argentina has taken extensive measures to



- 36 -
liberalize its trade reglom, maintains an open capital market, and now
provides for full convertibilLty of the austral. While overall prlvate
investment has stagnated as a result of past economic Lnstablilty and domestic
demand contraction, some lines of activity have shown promiosing signs. A
growing number of private companies are increasLng their export orientation,
mainly in resource-based agroindustry, textiles, pulp and paper, and oil and
gas derivatives. Also, a few companies are going into service sctors such as
satellite telcosomunLcations, air transport, and gas distribution, to sub-
stitute for the public sector in these activities. As the privatisation
program is carried out, further investments by local and foreign comp*nies may
extend into the areas of local telecoswunications, railway transport,
petroleum, and petrochemlcals.
109.       IVC's investment strategy in Argentina is to support export-
oriented investments and privatization.  Most of IFC' clients have weathered
macroeconomic cycles. This is largely the result of a highly selective
companyfproject screening and a thorough appraisal process, including economic
analysis.  IFC would sek mechanisms to mitigate the country and payment risks
(e.g. outside guarantees, external escrow accounts). In addition to projects
with strong export orientation, IFC would support privatization or restructur-
ing projects through fee-based advisory services and foreign resource mobili-
zation.
VI. B  O
110.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and I recommend that the Executive
Director. approve it.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
July 5, 1991
Washington, D.C.



S.     Letter of Dovelopmrat Policy
II.     Key MacroeconomLc Indicators
SSS.      8-1ected Statistical Tables
IV.      Policy matrix
V.      Statement of Rank Loans
VI.      Status of IPC investments
VII.      Administrative Refoxm Program



- 37 -
mNNX I
Page 1 of 9
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
a Premram for Economic Growth
1.        Argentina has experienced inflation and sporadic recession for
15 years, culminating in hyperinflation in the few months before President
Menem took office. For years, successive administrations added new functions
to the Government, expanded the role of the state at the expense of the
private sector, and increased distortions in resource allocation for the
benefit of a relative few. Meanwhile, inefficient sectoral policies--in the
form of tax subsidies to special groups, high levels of protection, and other
measures--channelled private resources away from high-yield investments into
uneconomic activities and government spending.  Numerous subsequent anti-
inflation programs failed to address the structural causes of the fiscal
problem, and the economy stagnated.
2.        During the late 1970. and early 1980s, increases in public spending
were not matched by increases in revenues, and deficits frequently surpassed
12 percent of GDP. These were financed through foreign and domestic borrowing
and, increasingly, the inflation tax. This borrowing eventually gave rise to
a huge foreign debt, whose servicing implied an additional demand on public
resourcow. At the same time, the Government used the financial sector to
obtain financing for the public sector via compulsory reserve requirements and
bond issues, aggravating the quasi-fiscal losses of the Central Bank.
Deficits financed through money creation, coupled with a deterioration in
government credibility, produced chronic, increasingly volatile inflation and
drove Argentine savings abroad. As a result, savings and investment by 1989
had fallen to about half their mid-1970 levels as a share of GDP. The economy
grew by less than one percent growth annually throughout the 1980.. By the
tim. of the 1989 elections, average per capita consumption had fallen to below
the level of 1974.
3.        The Menem Government assumed office with the objective of reversing
this performance--and making the 1990s a decade of growth and job creation.
Accomplishing this objective required releasing the economy from the shackles
of deficit spending. This could only be achieved through permanent changes in
the organization of the state, its level of expenditure and the way it
mobilized revenues--in other words, a comprehensive program of structural
reforms of the public sector. The first phase of the program, debated and
launched by Congress with the Reform of the State and Economic Emergency Law
in August 1989, focused intensively on privatizations and restructuring of
public enterprises as well as beginning the reform of the provinces. The
second phase of the reform of the state will focus on the Federal Government
and Central Bank.



- 38 -
Page 2 of 9
4.        Common to both phases of the reform has been the formation of new
democratic institutions based upon transparency and nondiscretionality. This
entails, among other things, creating modern budget procedures that provide
for responsible allocation and husbandry of public resources, an efficient and
equitable tax system, nd eliminating subsidies to special interest groups
either through the tax system or the Central Bank.
5.        As a complement to the reforms of the state, the Government also
intends to foster growth of the private sector. It has already taken steps to
provide a stable policy framework so that economic agents perceive the legal
framework as more stable, predictable, and conducive to medium- and long-term
investment. The Government has relieved price distortions, and reduced
protection from foreign competition in trade and investment to reverse
declining trends in the productivity of labor and Lnvestment in the private
sector. It also intends to make labor relations more flexible. The objective
ia to promote capital formation in high return activities and job creation
throughout the country.
6.        Finally, the Government intends to place special emphasis on
protecting those most affected by the aftermath of hyperinflation and deep
recession--the poor, the unemployed, and low-income mothers and children. In
the past, inflation transferred resources from wage-earners, retired
individuals and other sectors with fixed incomes to sectors with indexed
incomes or otherwise able to protect themselves from price changes. The
Government is adopting special programs to deal with the present social
situation and improve its on-going dellvery of services to the most vulnerable
groups. This program, together with the modernization of the state and a
sound policy framework for the private sector, provides the foundation for a
decade of growth.
Short-Term Macroeconmc FraMMwork
7.       BEstablishing price stability is the most urgent task on the road
toward sustained growth and productivity. The Government made important
progress during 1990 in stabilizing the economy. After two hyperinflations,
monthly price increases dropped from over 70 percent at the begnning of 19S-
to less than 5 percent by December. While the program suffered a reversal in
early January-February 1991, the Government has since redoubled its efforts,
and these will continue and be strengthened for the remainder of the year and
beyond. The Government will design its monetary and fiscal policies with the
objective of reducing inflation durLng the last semester of 1991 and the first
sementer of 1992 to international levels. The Government intends to achieve a
primary fiscal surplus sufficLent to pay all interest obligations of preferred
creditors and the maximum portion of interest on term obligations to foreign
commercial banks consistent with stabillzation goal. This would mean a
primary surplus of at least US$4.9 billion (about 3.5 percent of GDP) in the
year following July 1, 1991 and somewhat higher for the remainder of 1992.



- 39 -
ANNEXx
Page 3 of 9
Medium-ter structural Chanaes: Federal Government
8.        Lasting price stablilty, however, can only be achieved through
structural reforms of the entire public sector--the reforms of the federal
government, the privatization of public enterprises, better management in the
provinces and new initiatives in social security. These measures must replace
temporary measures--emergency taxes and wage and investment compression--to
close permanently the fiscal accounts. The second phase of the structural
reform program has centered on the federal government.
9.        The countries whose economies have grown most rapidly in recent
decades have had strong, efficient governments. An internationally
competitive Argentine economy requires an efficient state. Two decades of
antiquated policies and often undemocratic politics have resulted in a weak
and bcareaucratic public sector; efforts to cut expenditures during the 1980.
only led to public sector inefficiency because wages and investment were
usually cut while the scope of public activity remained unchanged. While
noninterest expenditures of the Federal Government (after netting out
provinces) fell from a peak of 34 percent of GDP in 1983 to 27 percent in
1989, revenues remained too low to close the fiscal deficit and too
precariously balanced on emergency taxes to provide confidence to the private
sector that inflation financing was unnecessary. The present administration's
strategy is to reduce the Government's functions, improve public aector
efficiency, and eliminate unnecessary regulations in the economy.
Administrative Reform
10.        The Government has recently launched a major administrative reform
to strengthen the state through rationalizing its expenditures and scope. The
program is aimed at increasing the incentives to the public workers to
increase the efficiency of the Government as well as focusing government
activities and responsibilities.  The program includes:  (i) improvements in
the incentive system facing federal workers, through a program to create
senior executives with improved salaries; (ii) alleviating wage compression in
public pay scales; (iii) reducing the size of the federal bureaucracy by
roughly 120,000 workers by May 1, 1992 through a ministerial reform that
eliminates all but essential core functions of government, reduces
administrative regulations of markets, and establishes the number of positions
in each national board; (iv) temporary income maintenance, and continued
payment of social benefits for up to one year to aid displaced workers; (v)
strengthening key public services and functions (for example, tax collections,
customs administration, expenditure control functions, and agencies that
control quality of exports); and (vi) streamlining internal administration.
This program will contribute to permanent deficit reduction by reducing the
federal wage bill by as much as 25 percent by 1993. The program also foresees
special programs for health, education and the armed services; the program
would decentralize secondary education to the provinces, reducing federal
employment by up to 54,000 positions by end-1992. The Government intends to
reduce federal employment from nearly 600,000 to a ceiling of 480,000 by May
1, 1992, a maximum that will be even lower as progress is made in
decentralizing secondary school teachers and other public services.



- 40 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 9
11.       The administrative reform program also includes the revision of
labor statutes, placing special emphasis on productivity improvements and
adequate qualifications of civil service agents. The pay scale currently
under preparation will incorporate promotion criteria based on workers' skills
development and performance evaluation, limit job stability to quality of
performance, and generalize the application of permanent training mechanisms.
The ratio of the highest paid to lowest paid worker--compressed to under 2 at
the start of the program--has now been increased to 6:1; it will be increased
further to at least lOl by May 1, 1992. For workers who decide to leave the
civil service as a result of the rationalization process, compensation and
labor retraining programs as well as incentives for their incorporation to the
private sector have been devised.
suftsazv NMmuros
12.       The Government is also working to improve its expenditure controls
and budgetary processes. The Government has realized it needs to make both
legal and institutional changes to gain greater control over Argentina's
expendLtures. The Government recently submitted a modern law of Financial
Management and Performance Control to Congress for its consideration. The new
law will provides (L) comprehensive limits on indebtedness for the entire
nonfinancial public sector; (ii) adequate internal control systems; and (iii)
adequate w   st external auditing. At the same time, the Government intends
to introduce conaiderable changes in accounting systems, placing government
accounts on a more transparent basis, and under the direct control of the
Office of the Comptroller General of the Nation.
13.       To complement the Law of Financial Management and Performance
Control, the Government intends to rationalize procurement and asset
management of the public sector. The Government will soon submit to Congress
legislation that wills (i) simplify and unify existing norms; (Li) provide
adequate transparency for public transactions; (iii) emphasize competition in
procurement and service contracting; (iv) provide for adequate M Egst
auditLng and control of state purchases; and (v) eliminate discriminatory
preferences based on origin of goods or services.
14.       The Government has also undertaken a program of institutional
changes that will markedly affect expenditure management in three components
of Government--the Treasury, special accounts, and nonfederal levels of
government. These include: (i) constant currency budgeting in 1991;
(ii) a programmatic review to eliminate unnecessary or ineffective programs;
(Li) measures to strengthen public investment; (iv) promulgation of timely
guidelines for budget preparation; and (v) introduction of a consistent
accounting framework supplemented by computerLzed information systems for
budget preparation and control based on the now law. The 1991 budget,
currently under consideration by Congress, incorporates these prlnciples as
well as clearly defined limits on transfers to the provinces and public
enterprLses. As part of the 1991 budget, it has also prepared an lnvestment
program consistent with fiscal and macroeconomic objectives. In accordance
with the new Law of rinancial Management and Performance Control, the



- 41 -
ApW&L&
Page 5 of 9
Government anticipates presenting its budget for 1992 to Congress well before
November 1, 1991, and will also have completed its 1992 investment program by
that time. The 1992 budget will contain provisions to eliminate at least 25
percent of earmarked funds, comprising as much as 22-30 percent of all
earmarked expenditures, and a much higher proportion of funds unrelated to
direct user fees.
zmaalinv
15.       On the revenue side, the Government in December 1989 implemented a
major tax reform that improved efficiency and provided additional revenue from
the VAT; the legislation broadened the coverage of the VAT at a 13 percent
uniform rate. It was implemented on February 1, 1990; in October 1990
Congress passed legislation extending the VAT to servlces and the Government
later'raised'the tax to the legal maximum of 15.6 pe_eent, then to 16 percent
in February 1991. The Government also instituted an indexation system, under.
which taxes due would be adjusted ca a daily basis for estimated current
inflation.
16.       More recently, the Government has begun revising its income tax to
increase revenues and increase equity in the tax system. The Government
obtained the approval of a change in the tax on capital, making enterprise
income taxes deductible against the 2 percent firms' asset tax. To obtain
immediate revenues, the Government also increased the tax on bank checks, and
made half of this deductible against the income and VAT taxes. The income tax
will soon be amended tos (i) tax income from capital by imposing a tax on
distributed profits and interest; (ii) broaden the tax base to include income
received abroad by Argentine residents.
17.       Perhaps most important, the Government has systematically begun to
rebuild its capacity to administer taxes. The Government enacted a new law
providing stringent new penalties for tax evasion in early 1990. It has a
adopted a program to reconstitute its tax rolls, beginning with the largest
30,000 taxpayers and to be extended in a computerized system to the whole
taxpaying population. The Tax Administration Board (DGI) is currently
improving computerized cross-checks among collection systems, such as with the
social security system. The program has improved incentives for tax
inspectors and increased their numbers. The program will improve collection
of assessed liabilities after audits, collections which recently have rarely
surpassed 5 percent. Also, making the tax on bank checks deductible from the
VAT and income taxes will help increase collections and consolidate the tax
rolls; the Government also began publishing overdue tax liabilities of the
largest firms. The Government expects to increase the number of audits in
1991 by 15 percent relative to 1990, increase assessments per audit by
20 percent in real terms, and improve assessment collection to 85 percent.
Since these changes represent permanent improvements in tax administration,
our goal is to show steady and consistent progress throughout 1991 and into
1992 on each of these measures.
18.       The program will institute major changes in the customs
administration, including reorganizing the customs office, revamping norms and



- 42 -
ANNXX I
Page 6 of 9
installing modern systems of control, which would include checks on the price
base upon which Ad xalguem taxes are calculated for imports. The program wlll
alsoz (i) speed operationst (it) limit illegal trade activtties; and (iii)
increase border patrols and other personnel. To date, the Government has
developed a three year customs program, chosen the general design of the
control system, and initiated the review of the custome norms. Within 14
months, the Government intends to have a pilot program working at Ezeiza
Airport that covers the 600 largest import categories; this is estimated to
amount to 25 percent of total customs import revenue. To complete the reform
program, the Government will give priority to eradicating corruption in fiscal
agencies; several individuals have already been brought to justice.
Iadustrial Subxidies
19.       Subsidies to industrial promotion constitute a large loophole in
the tax system which Argentina can no longer afford--estimated to be in excess
of USS1.6 billion--over 1.0 percent of GDP. Reducing these fiscal costs is
not easy because legally binding contracts in the past granted tax exemptions
for up to 15 years. The Emergency Law of July 1989 deferred 50 percent of
industrial promotion benefits for one year beginning in August 1989 in
exchange for a bond. However, more permanent changes were needed. The
Government replaced the provisions which allowed beneficiaries to deduct their
full costs rather than value added from taxes, and also issued a decree
cancelling all extant contracts that had not yet been activated and canceled
all rights to renew existing contracts. The Government is committed to
refusing new promotion benefits and reducing the fiscal costs of existing
exemptions to minimum levels. The main mechanism will be to replace the self-
monitored declaration of beneficiaries at present with a new audit process
initiated in May 1991; its objective will be to suspend benefits for the many
firms and projects out of compliance with the terms of the original contracts
and behind in their tax liabilities; firms in full compliance will be issued
tax bonds applicable against taxes as they fall due. The Government will not
permit new industrial promotion to occur through granting federal tax
exemptions.
20.       Recently the Government has taken additional measures to reduce the
special protection afforded the Tierra del Fuego regime estimated to cost the
country as much as US$300 million annually. After a transition period, the
Government intends to phase out the regime by May 1, 1992. The World Bank
estimates that these programs toward industrial promotion and Tierra del Fuego
would reduce the projected fiscal costs of the program by as much as 70
percent by 1994.
Central Bank Refor
21.       In accordance with the July 1989 Economic Emergency Law, the
Government prepared a draft reform of the Central Bank's Charter that would
make preservation of the value of the currency the Central Bank's primary
objective. To enable the Central Bank to become a genuinely independent
institution, the Government intends to submit legislation to Congress that



- 43 -
Page 7 of 9
would: (i) provide the Central Bank directors sufficient independence to
manage monetary policy consistent with the objective of maintaining the value
of the currencyu (ii) contain limits on Central Bank financing to the public
sector; (III) remove functions from the Central Bank not directly related to
its fundamental function of currency stability, Lncluding trade credit,
deposit insurance, and bank liquidation functions, as well as eliminating the
system by which commercial banks effectively financed the social security
system by holding its obligations as part of their bank reserves; and (lv)
strengthen or create institutions that perform vital complementary functions,
including the Superintendency of Financlal Entities. By eliminating the
domestic quasi-fiscal deficit, the BONEX conversion of January 1990
effectively recapitalized the Central Bank, and set a basis for reconstitution
of Argentina's monetary authority.
22.  -    The recent full convertibility law eets strict limits on money
creation. Under the new law, a variation in the monetary base will occur only
if the level of international reserves changes.
23.       Regarding public banks, the Government has followed a policy of
reconversion and restructuring. This policy has been applied in particular at
the National Development Bank (BANADE) and the National Mortgage Bank (BHN)
which have closed all their retail activities, reduced personnel and number of
agencies. Reform and rationalization programs are under preparation for the
Banco de la Nacion, the Caja Nacional de Ahorro y Seguro and the Provincial
Bank of Buenos Aires. Provincial banks are also being restructured with the
cooperation of private auditing firms to enable them to carry out their
intended role of financing regional private economies and eliminating
arbitrary financing to provincial treasuries. The Central Bank has virtually
put an end to new rediscounts to public agencies at the national and
provincial levels. Repayment plans for outstanding rediscounts are also being
negotiated with banks and provinces. In regulatory matters, the public
monopoly on reinsurance has partially been eliminated, the National
Reinsurance Institute (INDER) is being restructured, and the Argentine
insurance system is currently undergoing a process of deregulation and
restructuring.
24.       The Government is also carrying out a program to strengthen the
superintendency of banks so that it can evaluate objectively banks'
portfolios, inspect banks as necessary, and generally conduct prudential
regulation of the banking system, with full power to enforce their findings.
In addition, the Government is exploring ways of establishing a system of
deposit Insurance that will limit the liability of the public sector in the
event of bank insolvency.
Protecting the Poor in the Transition to Growth
2S.       The 1980. thrust a disproportionate burden of adjustment on those
least able to shoulder it--the poor. As public deficits could no longer be
financed, the Government was compelled to rely on money creation, and those
least able to defend themselves paid the highest inflation tax. Economic



- 44 -
Page 8 of 9
stagnation has also slowed the rate of job creatlon. The recent recoseson has
Lncreased unemployment and poverty, and worsened the condLtlon of Argentina's
low income groups. At the same tlme, the budgetary situation )-s led to a
signLficant deterloration in public services, including educatLon, health, and
social welfare.
26.       During this period of adjustment, the Government will undertake new
efforts to enhance its program of protecting the poorest groups. An improved
flscal situation resulting from the measu-1s describod above will enable more
adequate financing of social expenditures and more efficlent spending across
programs will improve the productivity of limited resources. Precisely
because the Government's resources are so tightly constrained, lt will have to
improve the efficiency of delivery and target resources more effectively to
people unable to pay for them. In health, the Government intends to establish
a program of-basic health care and preventive medLcine, particularly critical
for relatively poorer people.  This implies adapting the wobras sociales*
system to improve resource mobilization and allocation of financing so that it
becomes feasible to finance unlversal minimum health care.
27.       In educatLon, the Government is now carrying out the transfer of
responsibility for secondary education to the provinces. In educatlon, the
Government has to centralize education in order to ensure the quality of
services. The Government intends to begin in the coming months the transfer
of secondary educatlon to the provinces, which will entail a review of
financing mechanisms and structural organization. The Government also intends
to establish user fee systems for the university subsector. The current system
subsidizes individuals with high-income earnings since this group has more
access to educatlon.
28.       Regarding the pension systems, the Government is currently
improving collections of the social security system and tying improvements in
revenues to better services in the form of new penslon increases. In
addition, it will examine the long-term viabilLty of the system.   However,
even improved revenue collections will not stabllize the finances of the
social security system for more than a few years. The inescapable reality is
that the benefit conditions are generous and retirement ages are low.
Increasing worker and employer quotas does not offer a solution; wage tax
quotas are already too high at 45 percent or more. In a third phase of its
adjustment of the public sector, the Government will move vigorously to put
the system on an actuarially viable basis, probably by increasing the
retirement age or limiting pensions, strengthenLng the minimum pension by
extending its protection to all low income groups, and facilitating the growth
of private pension programs.
Future Prosoects
29.       A more focused and stronger state, together with an improved
regulatory framework for the private sector, can unleash the productive forces
for growth in the Argentine economy in the 1990s and beyond. A modern state



- 45 -
ANNE& I
Page 9 of 9
and sound policy framework will create new opportunities for Argentina's
prlvate sector--in export industries (as it is already doing), internationally
competitive domestic industries; these include hydrocarbons, agriculture,
mineral production, and fishing. Growth rates could easily surpass 4 percent
annually. New economic growth in these industries will provide new jobs.
Even though this effort takes time, the country has already progressed far on
this agenda of structural reforms. Complete implementation of these
structural changes in the coming months can indeed make the 1990a a decade of
new growth.
World Dank Suoogrt
30.       In closing, the Government wishes to acknowledge the World Dank's
efforts in the development of the reform program. Your further financial and
technical assistance is critical to the successful implementation of these
reforms. In particular, it is the intention of the Government to use the
counterpart funds generated by the Public Sector Reform Loan (PSRL) as one of
the sources to finance the Government's staff reduction program, as well as
the funds in the accompanying Public Sector Reform Technical Assistance Loan
(PSRTAL) to develop the revenue mobilization and expenditure control systems
required for the success of the program.
Sincerely,
Domingo Cavallo
Minister of Economy
June 27, 1991



- 46 -                                                ANNMX 11
Page I of 3
0144-91   OM.5  00           Mpt$fm  . UV Kmeerao.t. ltoattore
(t Penmea ma... otboewla epfedad)
..................................-.       ..                . ....      .........     ........      .      
1ost     1990      199l     1993      1993      1994    1995    10t6      19?    1996    1999
. .................................    ..................       ........-                                  .       ...........
Sinai teal Ormth Pate.
up? (qoaatat mar,ket0 PT""5)              (4.4)    (1.1       3.0       3.$      3.8       3.4      5.0     S.0      3.3      32.     3*
uw Pat 46pIta Oocataut market ip11.)    O5.9        (2.4)     04        1.0      1.3       1.3      1.5     1.1      1.7      1.7     1.7
Private 0Cua.at1oo per dpt:a              (4.?)    (3.4)      3.0      (1.8)     0.0       0.6      1.0     1.0      1.2      143     1.3
wtiatlml Atcoomate ( of ouurre" 00?)
vowa lUceatmma                             9.0       6.9     11.5      134      14.3      14.4    15.3    13.6    16.0    16.4    16.4
Pttv.t.                                  4.6       5.9      8.2       9.?     10.1      18.3    110.?    10.9    11.J    1147    11.3
pobueb5                                  4.3       3.0      S.?       3.8      4.2       4.5      4.5     4.7      4.?     4.7      4.7
Sattosel Saving                            7.0      10.5      9.9      11.6     13.3      13.1    13.#    14.       34.9    13.5    15.6
Prlwt                                   11.4      13.1      6.3       9.3      9.0       6.9      9.6    10.0    10.4    10.6    10.9
public                                  (4.)    (1.6)       1.4       3.3      3.5       4.3      4.3     4.5      4.5      4.?     4.3
Vorel. 3w1na                               3.0     (1.6)      5.0       1.9      2.0       1.7      1.4     1.1      1.1     0.9      g.e
IC=3 (148666)                             (3.7)    (6.)       4.5      4.6       4.6       5.3     4.9      3.0      4.9     5.0      5.1
PublIc Sector (o.lteaut beet. e.g2 of current WoP)
Total Curenat teymmee                     18.1      19.6     a1.7    3U.        23.3      33.6    33.6    33.6    33.8    33.6    23.4
TOWa Curret Lupeudture. al                21.4      21.3     31.9      23.      22.3      33.0    32.)    31.9    31.9    317    21.?
if Uon-latiarest eavIgtg                   0.9       1.1      1.6       1.6      3.3       2.4     3.5      3.6      3.6     3.6      3.6
Publc Sawing                              (M.)    (1.6)       1.4       3.3      3.3       4.3      4.3     4.5      4.5     4.?      4.7
CapItal Zupeudlture                        4.S      3.0       3.7       3.8      4.2       4.5     4.5      4.7      4.7     4.?      4.?
Saulipublic Sector                  (7.1)    (4.1)    (1.1)    (0.1)    (0.3)        0.1     0.1      0.3      0.3     0.4      0.4
katP1.i uplna                       (3.)      0.0       0.3      0.1       0.1      0.1      0.1      0.2     0.3      0.3      0.3
Cwerall balnce rimaned b7.               (1.0.)    (4.1)    (0.9)       0.0     (0.3)      0.2     0.3      0.4      0.4     0.6      0.7
Estero" Dorroatu  (V.?)                  4.6     (0.3)      0.1       1.1      1.3       1.0     0.4      0.4      0.4     0.3      0.3
got Dameattc FnancIn                     6.3       4.3      0.8      (1.3)    (1.1)    (1.3)   (1.0)   (0.6)    (0.6)   (0.9)   (0.9)
Dalxnce of Payaeatea
Ingortt  =S7 (real growth rat.)            4.6     23.5    (13.3)       3.4      4.6       4.7     4.6      4.4      4.9     4.9      4.9
h8ttdulture                             (6.5)    53.0    (13.1)       3.1      3.7       2.7      3.1     2.7      3.7     2.7      3.?
Uuumfectrlag                             9.3      14.1    (21.6)      4.6      6.3       6.5     6.3      6.3      6.5     6.5      6.6
Depones of   SICtrar.t 091                14.6      14.3     10.6      11.3     13.0      13.0    13.1    13.3    13.6    13.4    13.0
tuPort  Ws? (real grawth Ca"e)           (13.9)    (3.3)    34.6       3.6       6.0       5.3     S.   .4 5.9 5.9  3A .I
Imports of fljflCurrn.t 091               10.3      6.?       3.8      4.4       S.9       9.0     9.2      9.4      9.7     9.9    10.0
Inordt Blaatlclt  (imncding Ws)            3.9      3.9      14.4      3.3       3.1       1.9     1.6      1.6      1.4     1.6      1.6
Seacurca Maiaoel0unrect at1                6.0      7.4       3.6      .8A       3.0       3.0     3.9      3.9      3.9     3.9      3.9
Currat Acco=n Uale,uc.Iur.n 0OP           (3.0)      1.6     (3.0)    (1.9)    (2.0)    (1.?)   (1.4)   (1.1)   (1.1)   (0.)   (0.8)
ftrsm of Trade luGes (1947 - 100)        104.6     99.5      95.5     OM.       ".S       99.5    99.6    99.6   100.1   100.4   100.7
Current Acooi% Salam4. (slut". 1006     (1.305)   1.641   (2.536)  (3373)  (2,475)  (2#273) (1.944)  (1.696)  (1.767) (1.644)  (1.303)
Debt l.dIcatofte
t""ota nO (.2111. 06)                   63.314   60.449   60,339   61,606   63.696   65.73    67.349  66.590  69,964   71.193   73,347
Total =olOOCremut G"                      96.6     57.6      48. 3    49.3      51.5      .49.    47.0    44.4    42.6    40.1.   57.4
Debt Serfice TotallCurrut OF?             16.6      11.I.     9.6      9.6       9.6      10.0     9.5      9.3      9.4     6.9      4.?
ZUt"eret Total (aLliSo  095              6.035    5,747    5.341    4,913    5,116    513?2  4.975   4.979   5,SOO   5.434   5.73
tluteret Totallcozeut cap                  9.4      5.5       4.3      3.9       4.3       5.9     5.5      .3-      3.2     3.1      3.0
Intfers.tital Debt sertwscIOrren  or? bI    3.5     3.4       3.5       3.4      3.0       3.3     3.0      1.6      3.0     1.7      1.7
Coven"g RstS. .1                          944      136.1     70.6      71.3     71.6      76.6    44.4    91.0    91.3    94.6    96.3
ltneset RetionancIn  3.tt. 41             -3.6     37.6      34.6      7.3.     43.0      43.7    39.6    37.3    43,3    36.3    39.7
price. 3c5ig* S*te. SWd Interest Pat"
DcaaetIc3nflattouIMASS (amaza1-)          3095      1455       79       40        U5       s0       t0       t0      t0       30       3o
seal Exchange Pat. index (19? - 100)     135.0     40.0      73.0      73.1     79.3      79.2    79.3    79.3    79.2    79.3    79.3
3330                                       8.7      4.9       7.       7.3       7.4       7.4     6.9      6.4      7.1     7.5      7.8
*01stagy Survey . BepUan   to Nony  bil1i4S 48)
inumt.zac.l lecetre                       (369)  10.13?    6.391    3,946    4,133    7.536   9.731   15,46    15.947  19.634  3393
Domeatlo Credit                          4.03    41.400   55.463   40,367   54,343   74,445  98.314  MAU06  1II,33   MAU63   143,369
Ptiwat Sector                        (75.36) (14.0407)  54,530   670519   "6,73    105,33   130I8 165.43   145,694  146,430 233,93
Public Sector,                        17.316  1844.40    30,943   (7,131) (14,433)  (30.43) (32.36?) (35.547) (30,366) (0,407) (949.69)
qreaii..snep                   3.0~~~2*90   37*23   53,690   53,103   44.330   67,530  47.633  116,994  111403  137,39   170.703
ml                                         701   12.574   17.697   17,36  4   *073   33U51    29.3I1  S499  37,013  45.933  36.901
NiICurrat Gap                                 3.0      3.3       4.5      4.9       3.1       3.3     6.0      6.4     6.4      6.4      6.4
an? (billIo  US)                             64.1    104.9    134.9    134.9    134.1    133.3   143.3   133.7   164.3   177.4   191.&
....     ...    ..            ...........   .........n... ........c         .    . . ......... ...
s1 Tranefar of quaeifIece enPeudturte  to the TreamaT, in 19901 TncIOdSO It InUteret paMete.4
b  Aentstl*.  aNW interet to prefertd greitete, inclludn  itaernaties   fimamuta iustitiusi. and boad. as a pete..at GOP3.
*1o ........  belanee e a pergent of total itereat.
81  aideusIfi. ecurces Use financial varket axon . (net of debt eawereion) U" to 9id of ptS  Club amat. eeo a   2o fit. earkat aul unid. lat.ere



-47-                                                   ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
&$wel   adt Ipouts (Arm%t MA. 08$)               18         1990      lost       1o93      1993      1994      19S      I9t"      1997     1996      1999
We" $      "                                I,II      St151    *4,20       4,40       4,497     4*96    3t,I    S,40    ,1            4,57      7.18
s.t  @5et  eob                             9,S13    13t.33    10,500    11.149    11,916    13,744   13.941   1.237   16,104   186296   20W0A4
2. S at dows                               4*199     4,100     6,as0      4,764      7,219    7,04    8.630    9.517   105460   11.719   12,84
W3   Is"                                     (23)       (39)      (764)     (901)      (935)     .03)  (3,121)  (1.211)  (41,11)  (I, 437)  (1,513)
_s.ne  ofnUS                               2,381     2,59       dS1s      s3,11     2a,923     II13 S *429    3.716    4,004    4,358    41,29
npo   a   as3                              29S,646   1,976      3,S0      3,63       ,871    4*,114    4*50    4.927    5,31S    S,9          6.302
bour. 31me s..109                                       m        3,*466    s3s,0      SIM       3,93     4*,200    4,529    4,33    5,139    5,623
a    ftat  Itam"                           (6,422)    4,3203)   (803)   (, )   (8,211)   (6,194)  (64144)  (4218)  (64800)  (6,M8)  (7,128)
teaotow ese2    36c   t0                                          416       294        347       351       344      344      419       487      155
132m.ti an  .zw                             26S       260       416        294       347        331      34        364      419       44       558
Otbor                                         0         0          0         0          0         0         0        0         0        0        0
tooter at7mI                              (6,667)  (64483)   (6,418)   (4,170)   (6,44)   (4,34)  (6448)  (465$92)  (71020)  (1.269)  (,6846)
U4Sdmui 1.patrtatm                         (664)     (711)   (1.177)   (1,23)   (1.M6)   (1,421)  (1,513)  (1,12)  (1,719)  (1,8)  (1,960)
.W? sum a tow. DU)                       (4,600)   (5.216)   (,499)   (4,5)   (4,814)   (4,735)  (4.620)  (,4641)  (4,038)  (3,088)  (5.719)
nterest                                   (343)     (337)      (174)     (13)       (1        (141)    (143)    (129)    (123)    (138)    (110)
o  Iterest                                 (33)      (256)      (36)      (22O)      (237)     (22a)    (213)    (210)    (218)    (226)    (2O
Other .                                    (829)      (57)      (331)        0          0         0         0        0        0         0        0
U.t08mutba  uafors                              S        11          0         a          0         0         0        0        0         0        0
-8raat  _at 21w..                          (1,305)    1,641    (2,536)   (2.S31)   (1,415)   (2.712)  (1.944)  (1,898)  (1,78)  (1,644)  (1,503)
Not Diret IWat t                           1,028     1."        1SM5        g0          67       450      918       992    1,071    1,157    1,249
Dbot Cawe.s         at                    354      1361          0       00          0          0        0         0        0         0        0
Otbew                                     674       301      1.633       504        ?$I       650      916      9"S    1,071    1,157    1,249
Not SS 12m                                 1,445      (969)   (2,01)   (1,500)        (743)   (1,205)  (1.359)  (1,44)  (2.038)  (1,743)  (om9)
26                                           96       169       23         399       384        48       12        316       48       340      24
US 2  Otb.rm1ltilatorsIs                    343       325        312       319       52s        21       208       141       36        (4)     (10)
IUntural                                  1,403       312       (36)      (310)      (494)     (So1)    (96)       (41)     (64)      24       U7
liuamul   VA*%t                              43    (1,289)   (1.413)    1,93)   (1,044)   (1,541)  (1.61)  (1,1O)  (1.87)  (2.066)  (3,008)
Debt 0.mv.n    et                           0      (693)         0      (300)        0          0        0         0        0         0        0
08e                                        43     4(30)   (1,478)   (1,1)   (1,044)   (1,41)  (1,16o )  (1,79)  (181")  (2.066)  (ISM)
son".                                      (309)     (326)      (581)     (452)      (11)      (2)    (174)    (205)    (234)    (292)    (351)
Dst CAwef,iAI                            (354)        0         0          0         0          0        0         0        0         0        0
ftbw                                       45      (226)      (361)     (452)     (11s)      (235)    (174)    (205)    (234)    (292)    (351)
6.PI.r Cr*4"*                              (1I3)     (16)        (88)      (14)         7        So       30        12        8         7      (14)
ps_iwt    onmposxamS.                         I       (37)       (53)      (11)        (3)       14       24        61       46        67       33
1tur t     n .z                            3,347         0          0         0         0          0        0         0        0         0        0
3sni4mkt(St)                                   0         0          0         0         0          '        0         0        0         0        0
38 S  flow.                                 (958)      342          a         0         0          0        0         0        0         0        0
C         gm0                             (SI2M9)   (I,5si)    1,35           0          0         0        0         0        0         0        0
Si deu d tow"* (a")                                  1,704      3.38     $3,49      2.63       3,359    3.499    2,948    3,1       3,114    3,322
Oi.1 3IP SNpla                               (740)   2,193       1,130       S         400        432      714        95      871      942    1,000
lriumaOilC
onSat SeesaW. (-Am.)                          740    (,793)   (1.130)      (5o8)     ()         (83S)    (114)    (193)    (618)    (943)  (1,000)
4o   ag"                    .)              1,559    (30)         (43)      (0)        (0"a)     (432)    (514)    (5)    (678)    (742)    (600)
Wt SW                                       (485)     (188)      (68)       20        200       ()    (20)    (200)    (200)    (200)    (200)
Puu soba                                    33        50         00      3.05        190        768      17        5 22     519        50      150
Apard-os                                   (716)     (695)      (99)      (655)     (90)       (s6)    (932)    (722)    (779)    (950)    (950)
otbezam 2e"r _.                             (334)   (10o 12)      (9e)        0         0          0        0         0        0         0        0
News
0         s es se m .                        e.3l   4,100      6,53      1,2"      136        6,28,   8,         9,377   10.035   10,197   11,597
L.4*  Shnao  81                          1.604     4,612    s5 .3       5.79      4,339      6*,71    7.263    ,s8      8S,5      9.300   10,100
£e.inlsed Art*m  8 0a14atBt"                ,362     8,06s      6,851    13,33     15.032    16,31   21,409   24,315   27.067   31,16"   34.42
oef    (43.  Ara)                              0         0          0         0         0          0        0         0        0         0        0
on" lfimn.us 3ewuira_   (Sap )                2347   1.s04      2,s9t     se.s      35ss6      410    4,3 2       5.059    6.292    6.237    47.50
bl 16elude. p.s806818*81.
b1 tmijp  mubeq   VI"s oit. 1 bank rnee.  depests in43 GoUsr



-48 -                                                ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
obt  4ps+ * am) mu.  s$O)                      19t       1000      1001      to"        1003      1004     195      100"     1097     lo"      1000
Tota Om0tmie                              2,347     1.704     3.449      .n       Sa,m1      6.04    4."4      e.942    $,Jn     7.037    ,450
btmal                                       a         0         0         0          0         0        0        0        0        0        0
son"                                        0         0         0         0         0          0        0        0        0        0
ovw    auh                                  0         0        IS       415       S07          S      050      727 m     3*      500      5s0
M  & Othr RdtilastAmls,                               0       224       402       411       34 0          40            445      450      450
s31late                                               0 o               200        0          0       2        400     400       400      400
SUpr                                        0         0       100oo     150       0S        130       130      1SO      150       0o       SO
rtao    Varketse                            0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0        0        0        0
frivata o      rwerted"4                    0         0       2o        30o        0         0        2        2        200      200      200
3w                                          0         a         0         0         0         0        0         0        0        0        0
ShornTrO                                    0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0        0        0        0
uIhdlAittd Surce                       2,347     1,704     8.592     5.905     S.55"      4,270    4,542    5.059   4.292    4.37   .*750
Total Diehwate                            7.t200    e.n9      7,29     9,43      9.2       9,9t9   10,224   10,451   11.561   II        Sla01m
&atoiup                                     0         0         0         a         0         0         0        0        0        0        0
son"                                        0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0        0        0        0
leUtoo                                    316       405       547       744       774      1,142    1,153      s9       40       $14      514
G othr mltilterals                       s03       300       480       4o        7e        449      450       450      45l      450      4
Sutort                                  1,'44       "0        to0       2o0       200       no        200     400       400      400      400
Sppller                                    so         0       100       1S0       ISO       IS0      1u        1o       1o       ISO      1o
r_aeadlU.zkt,                              43         0         0         a         0         0        0         0        0        0        0
mivate                                     70         0        ee       20o       20        200      200       200      200      N0       2o
VW                                        2S3       510        00     1,03        79        744       7       5U        s        730      750
hort TOM                                211       2a7n      2,0       Sao0      *4,s0o    2,00    a'.0       I,'00    1,600    28 e      .4e
Fde4t44  Same.                          2.347     1,704     2,592     SIM5      Sam       4270    842   o5o03        n         *,ur 4.7    4.750
total   zt ti.                            54A      5.947     7,370     7,59     *,9X3      $IUs    s.o"7    9,129   10,187   10,271   10,961
1e4t5.ms1                                   0         0         0         a         0         a        0         0        0        0        0
lld                                       309       2*4       541       452       I1        235       174      2        234      292      351
Wr14 a3&                                  221       235       S34       349       30        441       425      473      641      174      2n
no * Otlher Wtlatsl                      1t0        174       2061      221       2U        2n       24S      SOS       J9       4S4      520
Ist"erl                                   844       5u        556       310       4         541       59       461      444      174      233
Ourppre                                   o70       IS          5       14        144        sit       3       1S4      142      14S      1"
?ieuot bblet                                0     1,29     1,47      1,493    1to44    1,541    1.747    I'7M        Igo"    2,0U4    2,0s
Prva teU osv *teed                         G9        57       IS       t11       SOS       144       174     SID       154      1n       1t7
w                                         71S        95       99        ass       59        0        t3       7    ns            050      950
Sot Tom                                  Sam7     a.t1l     2SIM      2. ee00  200           0     2.0 *,0           saw00 2e400    2$40e
OU1,s1tStid Sourc                           0         0         7       334       727     1,011    1.44     2.094    *,4       SN04S    3.424
Tat" Intmert                              5,194    $,710      4,010     *.013     SOS=      $5.27    4.975    4,970    5.300 o    .434    SI7
2d 8adu                                     0         0         0         0         0         0        0        0         0        0        0
a"2                                       8          0        40        437       425       391      354       334      327      317      2"
Vso43m                                    104       lt        19"       m         3         329      39       377       41s2     51       414
US 8 Oth t U1lStustmIs                    147      1it        14       S2         m         242     S2        244      304       32 
2*laterl                                  34        547        1s       473       45       401      349      324      233       ss7      34
9pples                                      9       25?       22        sit       i1s       211      2        lot      200        19,    2i4
2tu5al Verbte                           3.05      2.,42     2,044     16"5      1,m       loss?7   I'm       1.24    1ons    1.007        on
mrivate Uaa4urated                        l02       204       174       1"        272 1U4            15       in4      1"        1n       10
W                                         242       237       174       1U4       1n        147      143      129      12        I4,      110
Shot TeM                                  SS3       LOA       23         2        237       224      21s      SID      24        2        23T
UUBetifted US    n"                       303       so4       424       442     1.147     1.341    1,s31    174"    2071    2,312    a,47
Tota    l 20  a                           3.314     0,449    e0.3u9    61,j0     4*544    45,n75    47,249   6,50   40*9044   71,1U3  72.247
login-in                                    0         0         0         0 e                 0        0        0        0        9         0
IGO"                                   5,ts4      5,"4      5,107     4.Is#     4,5S      4,302    4,128    3.923    3440    3.3097    30"
world eas*                              2.222     2,501     2,423     SI024     3.407     4.046    4.414    SIM      5,241    5,541 *.4S5
us & othe ueltilaels                    a."?7    2,921      2,14      3,442     4,011     4,2U    4.4S   4#542    4.463       4,4      4,54
3,11tl                                  4.000    464"2      4,106      .74      5.800    4,19U    4,5S1    4,440    4,374    4,401    4,744
SWlr                                    2,504     2,434     2,349     SOS"      2.31      2.290    2.419    2,431    S,430        2.4s4 2,43t
pSasail  Verbo                         30,511    235,29    Sl,am     82254    20,213 1U.74   14,907   15,112   13.235   11.147    9,039
trivate  Uma.parated                    2.323     2,ts$     St23      2.123     2,219     2234    I,240    2,S1    2,27    2,424    2.,47
3w                                      3til7     2,90t    2,'        ,S5       2.724     2,524    2,324    2,124    1,924    IM4    1,54
Shot Ter                                2,611     2,473     2,473     20,73     2,473     2,473    2I,47    2.473    2,473    2.472    2,3
pasdeauus"  Souree                      5.371     7,.24     9,447    15,417    K.M       19,547   21.401   S,1t  2s.t    32*.25    3.47
Vt d wsoreate .4 the obeow. In the stoodh  of DO  fin me yor to deo non Msy  ot ooiucol. da to voluatios, obee end debt  Woteraie



49                                        ANNEX III
Page 1 of 5
AMUEX TAE1. 3.1s PUALIC SECTOR BAMLACE (Caeh Basis)
(Percn"t Of GP)
19ar      198          1989         190
Estimate
Current ReVeues                                    20.1         17.6         16.2         17.3
Tax Revetus                                      17.8         16.2         14.8         16.0
General Revenues                               13.8         11.5         11.3         11.3
Social Security Taxes                           4.0          4.7          3.5          4.7
Nwantax Reven4e                                   2.3          1.4          1.4          1.4
Current Expenditures                               20.7         20.0         18.9         19.3
Personml Expenditures                             3.6          3.7          3.S          3.4
Goods and services                                1.7          1.2          1.1          1.1
Interest e                                        2.4          2.4          2.8          2.8
omestic                                        0.4          0.6         -0.4          0.2
Foreign                                         1.9          1.7          3.2          2.6
trwwfers                                         12.7         12.6         11.5         11.8
Provinces                                       6.5          6.0          6.0          S.0
Soiat Security                                  5.1          5.8          4.8          5.4
Others                                          1.1          0.7          0.8          1.3
others                                            0.3          0.1          0.1          0.2
Gwneral Goverruent Savings                         -0.6         -2.4         -2.7         -2.0
Publfc Enterprise Savings                          -1.8         -0.3         -1.7          1.3
Nninterest Current Account                       -0.3          1.2          1.0          3.1
Interest al                                       1.5          1.5          2.7          1.8
Dom_tic                                         0.1          0.0          0.2          0.1
Foreign                                         1.4          1.5          2.5          1.8
Public Sector Savings                              -2.4         -2.7         -4.4         -0.8
Capital Revenues                                    0.3          0.2          0.9          0.5
Investment                                          3.8          3.4          2.8          2.0
General Government                                1.0          1.0          0.7          0.6
Public Enterprises                                2.8          2.4          2.1          1.4
Monfinancial Financial PubLic Sector Balanes       -S.8         -5.9         -6.3         -2.3
Quasi-fisal Batance of Central lank b/             -4.7         -2.1         -3.8         -0.7
Combfned Balance                                  -10.5         -8.0        -10.1         -3.0
Nmow:
Primary Surplus                                  -1.9         -2.0         -0.9          2.2
Totat Interest c/                                 3.9          3.9          S.4          4.6
Source: Ministry of Economy                                                          03-Jul-91
a/ Inctudes reat interest coeponent of domestic debt only and treats forefgn interest on aecrual basIs.
b/ Includes reel Interest component for domestie debt ifth imputed provisioning for nonperforming tons
to publie banks.
e/ Does not include publie foreign debt with the Central Bank (about 0.8X of GDP In interest burden in 1990).



- so -
ANNEX UtI
Page 2 o-f3
ANIX TAOL8 3.2: ACIINTINA * Tax Productftvty Indfcatsr
(NMUer and WS Dolltsr of Oectener 1989)
1986            198T            19"             19              199
Totat Taxes Cottected (USS) e/        2.4S3,684,639   2,498,193,601   2,120,292,549   1,454,997,0t37    ,44,m377,306
Returns                                   3,8m,449        3,902,275       3,279,223       2,374,98B         997,621
filers   b/                               2,736,000       2,791,000       2,192,000       1.338,000         562,031
Audi ts (Murber)                            171,190         113,912          65,073          56,70           111,435
Audits Coverage cl                            6.3X            4.1X            3.01            4.31            19.81
Nut'er of Auditors                           18              1676            1895            1918             1797
Audits per auditor                           93.3            60.7            34.3            29.7             62.0
Assessed Liabilit s (US$)  d/           210,395,497       6,017,627     89,563,768     171,108,725     662.801,729
Rtevenue from audits                   21,628,648      36,108,725      19,049,770       1.976,004       3.879,573
Income Tax                           10,723,597      22,440,379       4,660,791         509,554       1,542,342
Value Added Tax                       2,313,731       2.964.746      10,963,561       1.268,701       2,311,551
Capital Tax                           6,717,523       9,080.877       3,080,284         157,754          20,094
Not Wealth Tax                       1i,873,96        1,622,723         345,134          39,994           S,587
Uncollected Revenues                  188,766,849       9,908,902      70,513,998     169,132,721    6S8,922,155
Assessed Liabilities per Audit (USS)           1229             40L            1376            3009             5948
collected Revenue as X of Assessment           10.31           78.5X           21.31            1.21             0.6"
Collected Revenue per Audit                   126.3           317.0           292.7            34.7            34.8
Cost per Audit CUSS)                          277.S           443.2           806.8           838.4            293.1
Revenue from Audits/Cotlection Cost            0.46            o.7             0.36            0.04             0.12
"Me:
wage Sill of 001 (USS)                 47,498,889      50,487,335      52,504,073      47,681,825      32,662,050
Source: World Sank staff caleutations based on DGI data; see "Assessing Tax Adcinistration                30-Apr-91
in Latin America," LATPS, The World Bsnk, 1991 (draft).                                             12:24 PI
a/ Total receipts of taxes from VAT, income, capital, rwt weetth and other minor related taxes;
does not include excise taxes or taxes from customs or the social security system.
b/ Annual number of individual and corporate taxpayers; many taxpsyers file tmultiple returns.
Filers for 1990 are estimated based on ratIo of returns to filers for 1989.
c/ Nuiwer of audits/number of filers.
d/ In US dollars, Decenber 1989.



ANNE Utt
- Si                                          Page 3 of S
ANNEX TABLE 8  : FEDERAL GOVERNMENT PERSONNEE STAFFINO
December  April       variation
Sectors                             1983     1990    Stott  Percent
Federal Governent                            529860    6917C5    6240     11.6
Presidency                                  10165     11657     1492    14.7
Ministry of Intonrtr                        89070     86022   -3048    -7.8
Ministry of Foreign Affalrs                  8102      8094      -8   -0.8
Mlnltry of Defenae                         91240     73561   -17679   -19.4
Ministry of Economy                         87930    3Sl9    -2737    -7.2
Ministry of Public Works                    18377     14834    -4048   -22.0
Ministry of Education and Justice          208589    as8s56    70829    24.4
Ministry of Labor and Social Security       16283      9705    -6448   -86.8
Ministry of Health and Social Action        24849     48418    23689    94.8
Tribunal do Cuentas                           839       817      -22    -2.8
Public Banks                                  86648     88400    -8246    -8.9
Public Enterpriss                            812261    802879   -9362    -3.0
Total - National Government                  878269    928034   49775      S.7
14-Feb-91



A=C III
- 52-                                        Page 4 of 5
ANNEX TA8UE 8.4: SCHEDUL£ OF AOMINISTRATXVE RATIONALIZATION MEASURES
December        May     DOcombor
1900         1991        109        Total
Reduction of teoporery staff                     84824           0            0       84824
Restructuring or dissolution                     20e20        8767         4080       84367
Rationalization of administrative *reas           6795        14074       13100       83975
PrlvatAzatlon of sorvices                            0        8443         8448        0885
Transfer to the provinces                            0           0        11756       11756
TOTAL                                            69289       26283        33284      121806
14-Feb-91



- 53 -                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX III:
-  53  -            Annex Table 3.5: Fifwal Cost of Indwstrial Promotion          Page  5 of
(Nltlifan of US of JAe 1990)
189    1990    1991       1992      1993     1994
Cost of Pre-199  Se its                                       1565    1762    2814    3285    3675         3683
SICE                                                         400      330      572      539      537      506
Taxes an vatlue.aded, profit nd apftatl o/                 400      330      385      352      350      319
Duty EUx etfmt   b/                                          0        0      18?      187      ta8      187
4 Prol enes c/                                              1019    10?6      150      1740     1922     1753
Tierra dl fuego (t4F) dl                                     144      146      257      36       376      376
Law 23614 /                                                    0      210      420      630      80      1050
Savinps frm 1990 PolIcy change                                   0      281      47       599      880     1090
sp         "_lanioeeoTdFt                                      0        0       27       40       40       40
SO Benefitt Suspmnon                                           0       71        0 o     71)       0        0
Stpwensn La  23614                                             0      210      420      630     8s0        O50
Savings with 1991 Policies                                       0        0     1426     1370     1297    1459
Suspensin Benefits for No-curplfance of Decree 311 h/          0        0      309      13?      128      121
Benfit ExpIratfon I/                                           0        0        0       43      125      125
_Su nion Benf its for Uon-campliance of Decree 1355 j/         0        0      130      429      597    S51
Mon-copltane of projects k/                                    0        0      419      229      240      224
Petties for non-compliance t1                                  0        0        0      135      124      116
Reaction in Benefits for Fiscal Bonus Credit ml                0        0        0      121      III      107
Fiscal saving rsulting from relocation of electronic
fnstry to Tierra dot Fuego n/                                0        0       0       256      256      256
Chars" for nen-comflane of 50X Ewrgncy o/                      0        0      568        0     (284)       0
Fisal Cost after Proposed Pror                                1545    1481      941      1316     1498     1136
S/ The reduction in befits reflects the expiration of defermnts for nvestors.
V Include  triff bnfits from Decree 964 for eatatl goope  fws, the Ifpot of Snputs
exupted for the steet fndustry, wnd lpecfit reimbursomants for the exports of prted buinneses.
c/ TM increase In the fiscal cost rel ects the existence of 120 projects that had tot started ur of
204 projects with delat   that ae expected to be operatnotl dring 1992. 193  d 1994.
d/ Binning in 1991, eptoa  on excise tuAs ar  included. Prodetion, Aich tfte beausa of the
post 1988 receson, is projected to reovr to 1986-197 lelts if 198S polces were to continue.
W WU#O   millon per yer in benefits  or raw projects.
f/ SUp fe n of reibursoments to the continent.
1 Suspension of 50X of bwenfIts by the lecmie Emrgency La. Only 203 of the tax obtSgation is
"timted to have actully bn paid.
h/ 30? projects we  cosdered iaich did not comply with Decree 311. it is asamd that If
the supenon of benf its were decreed, 80X of the fiscal cost would be sad for these projects.
ftil. the rsfsndar would cemply with the presentation of the required informatin.  In 1991
benfits used during 1990 wre aded, ad 6 mtths of 1991  rich ctuld be reqeted for these projects.
'/ It Is dseed thet the cmneltatfan of benefito for 204 projects du  to start by 12/31/90, but not yet
bst. Is deree.
J/ 952 projects are cnsidered that wer prsnted for Decree 311, but net for Decre 1355. it Is sAved
that anly 803 of thes projets mets the lept dqirmmnt. In 1991, six menth e  cofsdred
to calculate fical savin".
k/ It is ssed that  nlty 80X of projects with delayed start- uP  Ill eIOpty with contractual invesnt
plan.   390 milion from 1990 wre included In 199.
t/ This m_asur   the fisc l sngp  from r eIcing plit    1   dke to Pet Shortcomings In preodwtion ed
eployetnt.
ml this measures th  fical avinp to be btained frm projects within the guidelines, by having the
th  theortical cost (adjusted for the reductions of the Uelicuota  for th  VAT  nd incoe taxes) be les
thn the 1989 cot.
nit is ased that. with the added burde  of excise tas (or the ed of exeption  for Tierr  del Fuego),
the electronics fndustry will be Indec  to relocate.
e/ It is esAid that dring 1990, only 20X of the debt based on the Economic Emency Law ws actually paid.
This emout  will be paid in the secod semter of 1991 including a penlty of 103 as provided by law.
The refwd of the original psymnt, as provided by too, iould com  in 1993.



214b"S                                                                                  POL - 1.110  CVAUtMa
Os.o w
Act""7                    *jte                                                 Ac         d                             d                               Sc   T      h
1990                          1091
3swoeoa TMn PoUc end AdbinistraUtie
iastelativ  Refer         Comeidat VAT  a revis                             Ur to gods  mt                           UT with no            _in'ta VtAUT with no
l_xe tan I_ to *118inat                           ia D_cer, 19e9, ed             edditienl e,ette..                        ddItiaa.l    lat .
loophole. ed eWsbtabih poym                       eatende to e.reiceo
system based an apparent                          in bewhoer. 1990.
coamatiom to ..............
Inttti.ltm=Duot    Kapro  tax aftini.rotlm  thrwh                    Decre 43315 inez               Prop...c oneZa Adownitratlen             Prop... * Tox fezuee
poro    of Wstitatiml ioprowveeot                  lasted tax  pme               Progme, incindin  400,0                  as evideced by a AU 
ncidia ctrol od laet 30,                          hited 4,00  ianectwor         *ite Impectis, nopotic                   leer"" ito t. mebor of
tay,re. cro_e-cbecks Ma  ta                       limbe       , ostto            of 200,000 VAT tepayer to ton             aute., * 201 teal Is"&"
eystm, cell, tion-baee  e miseicu                 in.petiu  _p       pae.d       rolla, ialistotco Of                     in _eeeeiute pr Smt. .d
for ipecto, tooe  collectio                       am POlIa. for ton              cceputrtae  ceotrol end Aittc            Sur*. cellectio. tre
of poet-audt lsbiuti.                             ev1aei .                       opt. or largoe  1,000 taleyUs.   _ a_e...ete to  I percent.
" wgnu at c* ezt
inl_esate  of aniwereal
Corhmiwe refm  in cmt"                            Copretim  egro   with          Def bind procnent procdur                C     4lete  isp _mtat'a
a_mialstr*t"osa, i on     Meo,                   ftruh Coatom  to obtain         fr ee ftwr prcesb    . tuitil            of ctevisd eotol sot..
rdr, o._   rgmista. eda                           toicl  eetu   in  otet.   "t of  oe. to be T reied.                     for 23 perent of iqort
pereeml polcy to retise                           ehniantti   en peremel   inoge a rganistimel                            t- ret ceipts.
the eSnistratIM  ad to emAr                       treni.                         etmutr. 
.m e  lndaetrll  re.o I
Iagiaiatiwe Tze.k         Reduce eggregoto      pedtre                      *       s id 50 pet nitated 1010a proc  tor                             ?Shm awne  *estoted to Uidt
for adtin  coutractht                             of *princ  por_                enapoem of benfit. for                   the fiecol cot to l"a  tsn S0
eoot 05S1.6 btilli. me_r                         thboog  Septebe l9Ws           s0  lm. Tabe *"orees                      ft protect      el coot dettet
thO  1.5 percent of =P.                            eseSen of EV c  re..    to redtc fical coot                             efoe for 1. as evidne  by$
en  decre to et up            to la" the  60 of                         (1) hati cOletd th  hod
edit   proceureOm              19o9 coot for 9m.       *      r      _      eg, (i) eoped bellnfit
edunitretiw  crol.                                                     to inetgile fis. mad
(iii) cowlete  requIsit decre"
en r      =olatUm  to * talg
lel bas for cutol.
Red teabed   for Turrn  e                         Co  erelent ""eei                                                       10uitien of spul proetacti
fueg   we  tht cot de                              utie to ad valeore,                                                     e tim for Tem  "I pTe.
set"""to  13PP5 .1110.                            redmtiom in cm1 mob-up.
NW idUetrl pmotio (it eN) *Wa                                                   hnn et _eoef ne newa_lo                  1s me  Is2 that entil
be wsiaet recaree to fderal et==*.                                              that ental edditam   fiow                 eddt l fica  e
cost. to Voderl Teos_y.                  to Ted"   TSreau.
I!
1
O %
W0



ANEX IV
Page 2 of 3
2  !s   i!elid i 5i.,l   I,   I       I iii2E
I~~~~~~~~~~~~I
a i,,i}  %
i    311hi           l  j     Xl,.        1l
i"8 till i} !! ;



- 56 -
2~ ~ d4 14 i!h
'    5  1i1 ii' ii



- 57 -                                        ANNEX V
IESTATUS 0132K OROU MM    E *fl
STATUN 0a35 MM
(As of March 31, 1991)
t~~~~~~~~~~~sm t "
Xo. Jor oum                                                                        IDAlo l
(UlS million
Fully disbursed loans (26)                                          2,310.89
2296     1983      Argentim            Higway SeWtor                   100.0             9.6
2592     1985      YactaLento          Ga  Utilisztion                180.0             82.0
Pat. FIiecas      I Tech. As.s.:.
2641     1986      Argentia            Water supply                     60.0            44.1
2712     1986      Argetina            Public Scetor Mgt.               18.5             2.6
2751     1987      Aretina             Poer Engineer in                 14.0             1.1
2793     1987      Argentina           Small & Ned. Scale Cred.        125.0            63.8
2805     1987      Argentin            Port                             50.0            42.9
2815     1987      Argentina           Trade Policy                   496.0              0.4
2854     1987      Serviclos Blec.    Power Dist.                     276.0            218.7
2920     1986      Argentina           rMuicipal Dev.                  120.0           114.0
2970     198       Banco de la         Agric. Credit                   106.5             11.8
laceon
2984     1989      Axgentia            Socsl sector                     28.0            18.6
2997     1989      Argentina           Housing sector                  300.0            262.3
2998      1989     Argentina           Electric Power                  252.0              2.0
3015     1989      Argentina           Tax AdAml. T.A.                   6.5             S.1
3280 [I  1991     Argentine            Provincial Devel.               200.0            200.0
3281 21  1991     Argentina            Water supply                    100.0            100.0
3291 2|  1991     Argentina            Public Enterprise               300.0           300.0
Reform Adjust. (PERAL)
3292 2|  1991     Argentina            Public Bmt. Refom (PERIL)        23.0             23.0
3297 2/  1991     Argentina            Agric. Services                  33.5             33.5
TOTAL                                             5,100.2
of which bas been repaid                          1.267.3
Total now outstanding                             3,832.9
Amount 8old          12.8
of which has been repaid                             12.8
Total now beld by Bank                            3,820.1
Total undisbursed                                                  1.535.5
n ot yet effective.
N Bot yet signed.



- 58 -
(As of March 31, 1991)
un                   9kLozr               Tie of  utalns           BW                   mm
1960       Actedar InAustri  Avg. S.A.**  Steol Products            3.7         -       3.7
1960       lapelosr  Rio Parmna, S.A.s*    P     nd paper           3.0         -       3.0
1961       fades, S.A.*                   Automotiv                 1.5         -       1.5
1962       P&sa*                                                    3.0         -       3.0
1965172    Celuloa  Argetin, S.A.         Pulp Nd Papr             12.5         -      12.5
1969175    Dalalne S1derca, S.A.*         Stel Products            17.0         -      17.0
1969       Uditorlal Coder, S.A.*          Printing                 7.0        2.0      5.0
1971/73    Calera Avellanea, S.A.*        Cmet                      5.5         -       5.5
1977/14   Alpargats. S.A.I.C.             Textles & Pibere         50.5        5.0     45.5
1977       Soyez S.A.                     Soybean ProcessS.        21.0         ^      21.0
1978      Naussh, S.A.                    Pulp and Paper           31.7        4.2     27.5
1978       Juan Minetti, S.A.             Cement                  103.0         -     103.0
1978/79    Ipako-Industrias               Chemicals and            20.3        2.0     18.3
1988       ASTI                           Petrochemicals           3.4          -      37.4
1979/83/84 Alpesca S.A.*                   tisheries                6.8        1.6      5.2
1984/86    Petroquimica Cuyo S.A.I.C.     Petrochemicals           46.1        4.0     42.1
1986/87    ROPASA/SADICAR                 Capital Markets           2.0        2.0       -
1986       Atanor 8.A.W.                  Chemicals                 8.0        1.0      7.0
1987       Hidr. Oil                      Chemicals and           107.6         -     107.6
1987       Garavaglio/Zorraquin           Food & Food Ptoc.        13.0         -      13.0
1987       Teiminal 6                     Port, Storage            12.5         -      12.5
1988       Bunge y Born                   Yood & Food Proc.        40.0         -      40.0
1988       Arcor                          Food & Wood Proc.        12.0         -      12.5
1988       BRULP                          Dsv. Finance             30.0         -      30.0
1988       Chirate                        Chemicals                 5.2        5.2       -
1988       Bridas                         Chemicals                20.6         -      20.6
1988       Banco General de tegocios      Flinace                  20.0         -      20.0
1989       AIC                            Capital Markets           2.0        2.0       -
1989       Chihuidaos                     Chemicals and             5.0        5.0       -
Petrochemicals
1989       C.G.I                          Money & Cap. Markets       .1         .1       -
1989       Banco Frances                  Devl. Finance            15.0         -      15.0
1986/89    BRSA                           Money & Capital          20.0         -      20.0
1990       Petroken                       Chemicals                20.0         -      20.0
1990       CIP services                                              .1         .1
1990       BCA                             Capital Markets         10.0                 10.0
Total Gross Coamitments                                713.1       34.2  678.90
LseS Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                                 350.5        3.0  347.50
Total Comitments now held by IFC                       362.6       31.2   331.4
Total Undisbursed (IFC only)                            45.3        9.3      36.0
4125191



- 59 -
Page I of 8
A13153A!Z   AN  MVL  a31C  33103.
20WARDS A USOO3 MM3~
Inttroductlon
1.        This annex presents the Government's reform program, titled 'Hacia
un Ustado Modernos Un Programa Para La Reforma Administrativaw (October 26,
1990) as prepared by the Subsecretariat of Administrative Coordination of the
Ministry of Economy. Sections I-IV of this annex are a condensed translation
of the program's objectives, strategy, incentives to improve efficiency, and
the program for workers in transition. Section V summarizes progress in
implementing the program, including the legal framework of the program,
implementation, and the support of the Argentine private sector.
I. flbig.g&±!g
2.        The achievement of staoility and economic recovery of the Argentine
economy regpires a major transformation in the organization and functions of
the state. The experience of those economies that have developed most
successfully over the last years, such as South Korea, Japan, Chile and
Malaysia, underscores the importance of having efficient public sectors.
Equilibrium in public finances and a high quality of human resources in the
civil oervice have been two hallmarks of these public sectors.
3.        The current Argentine government inherited a large and weak state,
unable to perform essential functions required for a modern and dynamic
economy. Employment in the public sector increased from 484,000 in 1981 to
592,000 in 1990, a period when the Argentine economy actually contracted.
Expenditures on wages of public sector employees have decreased from 5.8
percent of GDP in 1973-74 to 3.1 percent in 1990. This, coupled with the
marked increase in staff levels, considerably eroded public sector wage
levels. Moreover, the ratio between the highest and lowest paid workers in
the public administration has been reduced to 4:l, compared to a historical
average of 10-12:1 during the 1960. and the 1970s.
4.        The main objective of the transformation of the Argentine state
must be to eradicate the fiscal deficit. A reduction in public employment is
not a sufficient condition to achieve this objective, but it is a necessary
condition because of the weight of the wage bill in current expenditures.
Simple employment reductions, however, are not sufficient to strengthen the
administrative capacity of the state. The transformation of the state must be
the result of an adequate redefinition of its scope and its role in the
economy. The concentration on essential functions, simplification of
structures and procedures, and the increased incentives in a leaner, but
stronger administration will facilitate a substantial increase in the
efficiency of the public sector. This program outlines: (a) concrete and
effective measures to reduce public expenditures and an administrative reform



- 60 -
Page 2 of 8
program to be applied in a two-year period; (b) incentives to improve tho
efficiency of the administration through the incorporation of the best
qualified human resources; and (c) development of a modern and eff icient
public administration.
I1. UtrAtemies and  ationaliszation Proorn
5.        The proposed program is designed tot (a) strengthen essential
functions of the state, such as education, health and security; (b) modernize
areas related to revenue collection and expenditure allocation; and (c) limit
government intervention in the economy to facilitate market competition and
transparency. The program covers 591,000 jobs in the national administration,
of which 263,000 correspond to decentralized agencies, 71,000 to the central
administration (Ministries and the Presidency) and the remaining to the armed
forces and teachers. The program deals with the security forces and teachers
separately, leaving a universe of 334,000 jobs to be reviewed for possible
elimination. The program would eliminate over one-third of these. Each
subsector requires a different strategy.
Decentralized Aaencik
6.        Decentralized agencies, which comprise about 260,000 jobs (90
percent permanent employees), have been divided into nine groups according to
their main functions or type of service provided: scientific-technical
institutes, market regulators, service providers to private producers,
teaching, producers of goods and services, social service providers, revenue
collection, national security and armed forces. This grouping allows for the
application of specific measures for each category. The proposed measures
include the elimination of agencies designed to intervene in markets,
strengthening of those agencies charged with revenue mobilization and/or
performing essential services of Government, and the privatization of
processes, such as data processing, salary payment and other support services
better contracted out to the private sector.
Cengal AtinistrA&um
7.        The Ministries and the Presidency--the Central Administration--
provide policy direction, administrative support, and selected services to the
public, such as health services and education. Administrative staff
supporting the bureaucracy itself rather than providing survices to the
private sector is currently oversized and will be rationalized and
concentrated in units with improved managerial capabilities. The objective is
to lower the ratio of administrative staff to specialized staff from the
current 1sl to 1:3, that is, one administrative support job for every three
jobs providing services to the community.
8.        The remaining measures for this group include: (a) reduction in the
number of General Directorates (Direcciones Generales) to a maximum of three



- 61 -
Annex VII
Page 3 of 8
per Subsecretariat to reduce personnel and improve administration; (b)
rationalization of functions by eliminating ome and improving work processes
for the remaining onset (a) unification of duplicative and overlapping
administrative areas in Ministries into a General Directorate of Management
(Direccion General de Administracion)l (d) privatization of salary payments
and selected other support services; (e) integral computerization of
administrative functions and review of current procedures; and (f) elimination
of redundant functions.
9.        In addition to these general reductions of administrative
personnel, there is a specific program for reductions of teaching personnel at
public universities. The program, to be applied at the end of the school
year, includes: (a) elimination of service assignments at Ministries; (b)
elimination of existing regime for non-teaching activities; (c)
rationalization of teaching positionsa and (d) a 20 percent staff reduction
for educational institutions under the Ministry.
summary of Pronosed Allocation of Reductions
10.       A detailed review of decentralized agencies and the central
administration, aimed at achieving reductions and eliminating functions, has
identified about 122,000 jobs to be considered for elimination. This
represents a reduction of 36 percent relative to initial staff levels. Annex
table 8.1 summarizes these reductions. Of the total number of estimated
reductions, 60 percent correspond to decentralized agencies, and 40 percent to
the Central Administration.
xII. SIcentives for lanrovine Zfficiency
11.       To improve the efficiency of the administration, the public sector
must use its human resources more effectively, and incentives must be
introduced in the reform process. The objectives are to revamp the labor
regime to ensure the development of a civil service career founded on the
professionalization of managerial functions as well as objective mechanisms of
promotion.
12.       To initiate this process, medium-term salary scales and structure
must be reformulated to consolidate administrative careers leading to
motivation of internal structures. The introductLon of technology will
achieve a modern administrative system with improved management mechanisms,
analysis and simplification procedures.
Salarg Scales and Structurs
13.       The medium-term objective is to strengthen the administrative
career through a review of the existing salary scale regime. The current
situation means that the public sector cannot attract qualified people in
competition with the private sector. This results from the very low



- 62 -                            Annex VII
ANNEX TALE 6.It  ARGENTINA - ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM  PROGRAU          a     o
PERSONNEL REDUCTION TARGETS
Initsli    Reduction     Restructuring   Rationotizatlon Privatization  Trandfer to        Total
Staff    of tewporary   or Dissolution of administrotivo  of sorvices   the provinces Reductlon.
Level        staff                            areas
DECENTRALIZED AGENCIES
Scientifit
Technical       15640             1715            100              1626               0            0         8840
market
Regulators        8662              786           2213               231            a242            0         e472
Service
Providors        2606              164            510               269             886            0          1267
Education
Services        6U108             8se6           4960             11600               0         49S0        24828
Producero of
goods end sorv.   25931              1282           6184              16o6            8807            0        116o9
Social
Service        87661            0788               0              4600               0            0        11283
Revenue
Collection       21040                0              0                 0               0            0            0
Netional
Security        69224                0              0                 0               0            0            0
Armd
Forc"         89202             1208          12066              8289               0            0        lw
Subtotal       268819            15299          25080             28140            ess6         4960       7iS84
CENTRAL ADMINISTRATION
Main Aroea         89082            10786           9887                 0               0         6775        2650
Administrative
Area*              819ss8            687               0             10836               0            0        19622
0e. Adm.         12774             8516 577O
Personnel         9561            286                                4RR
Maintenance       674             1562                              t260
Personml Serv.   8682              1054                             194F
Subtotal        70068           19525            9887             10836               0         6775        46472
TOTAL         884267           84624           84807             8897             6s66        117l5       121806



- 63 -
annexVIX
Page S of 8
compression ratio of 3.6 to 1 between the highest to lowest paid civil
servants. The objective of the program is to increase this ratio to 10 to I
over a two-year period. The proposed program will lead to an improved
allocation of salaries among personnel at the director, supervision and
execution levels. structural rationalization is also necessary for achieving
this objective, including strict control of the evolution of personnel levels
and their budget costs, job descriptions, and development of defined career
streams.
Bad to Flux-Time nJ Imorovine Work For¢e DisCioline
14.       To complement motivational and compensatory programs, it is
appropriate to introduce other instruments designed to reestablish the work
discipline required for administrative efficiency. This will include the
adoption of a unified work schedule for the public administration--9:00 am to
5:30 pm. The existing flexible schedules result in inadequate control of
double employment, use of buildings, support services, overtime, and
attendance.
I5.       Time clocks to control arrival and departure times will be
established. This operation will be privately managed. Also, a regime of
part-time employment will be set up for agents who may choose, especially in
the case of secondary workers (for example, young workers, and females not
head of households). This will result in additional savings since a
significant number of workers are expected to choose the part-time option.
Review of the Leave Ree
16.       A review of the leave regime will be undertaken.  For example,
existing norms allow an employee to work for 160 days of the 250 regular work
days and get his full salary. This distortion must be corrected.
0eIbgloaogml oMd izglion
17.       Technological modernization must complement the reform program.
This plan will includes (a) rationalization of existing systems; (b) improved
availability of software to ensure compatibility and connection among users;
(¢) introduction of data and information processing technologies in all units
of the administration; and (d) development of homogeneous systems to support
decision-making processes, general management, personnel management,
programimng and budgetary execution, and office automation among all
organizational units.
18.       Perhaps tne highest priority is introducing an automated payment
system for civil servants. At present, workers are paid in cash at work sites
bi-montbly, at a cost of payroll administration of same 3 percent of the wage
bill. In addition, the system invites abuse.



- 64 -
Annex VII
Page 6 of 8
T.itnpl  A    _Ami4t4 4a4
19.       Administrative decision-making is too centralized, often delaying
the implementation of programs and absorbing excessive time of senior
government officials. Together with the help of business management
consultants, the Government intends to review these procedures and change
them, including their legal basis as necessary, to improve administrative
processes.
IV. Proaram for Workers in Transition
20.       The reform program entails inevitable social costs.  However, a
solid program under the current economic conditions will allow the government
to take action to cushion the social impact of such measures. In
hyperinflationary conditions, neither the public sector nor the private sector
would be able to help unemployed workers.
21.       To aid workers in transition, the program contains four support
elements. First, financial support additional to that of regular termination
of employment has been devised. This support is designed to help employees in
lower pay scales by providing them with a lump sum payment upon voluntary
retire mnt. Upon receipt of payment, the worker will waive any rights to
apply for a pooition ln the public sector for a perLod of five years. Workers
will then be able to use these resources for retraining or other purposes, and
have more flexlbility ln developLng hli own optlons. Thli strategy will
bypass any dlrect lnvolvement ln retrainlng actlvLties by the government,
which tend to be bureaucratlc.
22.       Second, the program aloo proposes the establlihment of a new
temporary labor regime whlch promotes prlvate sector lntereat in absorbLng
redundant public workers. The regime will last for five years allowing for
employment without labor stability.
23.       Third, the government will be responsLble for benefits to
dependents of workers hlred by the prlvate sector under the new reglme. Thli
wll provide the prlvate sector wlth an lncentlve to provlde employment to
workers affected by the reform program. If the worker chooses not to pay hls
regular contrLbution, hli dependents will not be ellgible for thli government
support.
24.       Fourth, the creatlon of a committee of prlvate enterprLese and
trade aesoclations wlll be promoted to design a program to identlfy employment
opportunltles in the prlvate sector. The commLttee wlll encourage private
firms to lncorporate former publlc sector agents to thelr instltutlons. f
feasLble, the commlttee wlll asslgn a prlvate source to locate specLalLed
workers to fill some vacancies.



- 65 -
Annex V-I
Page 7 of 8
V. prog  s  in Smpl.tation
25.       The Government launched the reform program with Decree 435/90 in
March 1990. The initlal objective was to reduce expendltures through the
applicatlon of a set of provsLLonal measures. These Lncluded the ellminatlon
of over time, freezLng of vacancies and promotions for a 2-year period,
reduction in the number of Secretariats and Subsecretarlats, ceilings placed
on certaln salaries, suspension of several collectlve agreements for personnel
and the administration, early retlrement, elimlnation of double employment,
sale of assets associated with redundant personnel and a major restructuring
of the MinistrLes. Decree 1757 of September 5, 1990 establlihed the Executive
Committee to Control the Administrative Reform (CECRA), includlng the Ministry
of Bconomy and the Secretary of Publlc Adminlstratlon under the President'.
office. This committee was made responsible for implementing the reform,
includlng ldentiflcatLon of objectives and speclfic procedures as well as
control of the restructurlng and reductlons to be undertaken. The decree also
provlded new componsatlon schemea for workers, based upon length of service
with the Government.
26.       Decree 2476 of November 26, 1990, provlded the legal basie for the
full reform program. It stipulated--among other things--that the MinLetries
and decentralized agencies were to submlt restructuring plans consistent with
the strategies and quantifled targets included ln the decree ltself for
approval by the CECRA by a specified time. In addition, lt established the
timetable for staff reductlons. Finally, it mandated the unified workday.
Calendar of Rationalization Measures
27.       The program proposed a calendar of actions for a 15-month period
from October 1990 to December 1991 with three stages of implementation. The
first one (October-December 1990) was deesgned to lead to the reduction of
62,239 mainly tamporary jobs (as stated in Decree 1575/90). During the second
stage (December 1990-May 1991), 26,283 jobs would be shed, mainly from the
rationalizatLon of administrative areas of the Central Administration. Also,
50 percent of the proposed pr$vatizations will take place. The third stage
(June-December 1991) would lead to the reduction of the remaining 33,284 jobs,
including the remaining prLvatLzations, and the transfer of education, health
and social services to the provinces.
28.       The Government has exceeded its timetable for reductions, although
the compositlon of the reductlons proved to be slightly different than
envisaged. More workers closer to retirement opted for the voluntary early
retlrement cum compensatlon than had been anticipated. At the same time, the
Government experienced delays of 30-60 days in restructuring some of the
larger minietries, both because of the complexity of the process as well as
the fact that 6 of 8 ministers were changed between November 1990 and February
1991. As of January 31, 1991, the CECRA had received restructuring plans for



- 66 -
Page 8 of 8
four of eight minLstries and rejected two for lack of compliance with the
guidellnes set out in Decree 2476. Nonetheless, the Government had achieved
reductions of more than 60,000 by June 30, 1991 and has completed at least 6
of 8 ministerial reorganizations by the sam date. The reorganizations will
reduce public employment by the first quarter 1992 by more than 120,000.
sunmort og th  AMtLiain Private Sector
29.       A group of Argentine businessmen recognized in mid-1990 the
importance of improving the efficiency of the civil service. After several
attempts to formulate a workplan-originally with the idea of training courses
for civil servants--the acceleration of the administrative reform in September
1990 provided an opportunity to formulate more specific program.
30.       In the last quarter of 1990, the group provided office equipment
and paid three consulting firms specializing ln management to join the
technical team administering the reform. These consultants have proven
instrumental in advising the CECRA in its decisions to accept or reject
reorganization programs, and in providing suggestions on internal
administrative processes for the particular ministries.
31.       In early 1991, the group incorporated itself into a private
foundation, the Foundation for the Modernixation of the State. It has since
increased its membership to more than 70 firms, and provided arms-length
resources to support the reform worth more than US$300,000. The Government,
for its part, has made by-monthly presentations to the group to report on the
progress of the reform and exchange ideas with its representatives.



IBRD 20450
70.     '.     BOLIVIA              I          f:
\.  .     .       /lk    
VT
f {- |                   '    PARAGUAY
i<.  s!it^>   -  f.h f\''}'l$>                 /   B R A Z I ,L
-JI.~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~Conn
' SATA                    /       'S                     7B '{ tRAZil.@t3a
.s   zA.,,  {; Y ztUCUSiAN , }/ln                                de
Tucu~N..wdd
_ 2s,i    RSISTENCi t
30                   /,)F'hslJJJ ;>        )JS R L U    1>¢tCOttib>t                                              30
3A JUA             C   0S    *ANAe jj
juitN ~ ~ ~ ~~~PAA
Rc rcNko    URUGUAY
CHILE Rt | tAFA,EL,    >   1     '        S,S AIRES
CHIE (gt & i;x  ;: U              BAiA       ELA 4
.tz 4        5~~ANTA ROS$    \         8 ERF: 
Eatl .Trelui                        L NCA
C ities and towns
Major roads
4~Ports
Rivers
d/I Rg~~0 ,GALLEGOS
somw um of 0 VAM                        TIERRA D                                    Pi   boEnde
eV"v                                                        A      GE      TI 
:nCotbsd~~~~~~~~~ ~ ihirilochnl oudaie
no~~~ FUEGO do ll
/                        KILOMETERS         PO
opo tmf. . - lVDAt
~~~ ..ofrafnl onal
a7y ~      /              7 ;101                                               t!                  -
nlb*%dd'' oA                                                                                                    , 
.i"       x-                             IRR    E
UZ ln Zak. 
:  FU£(;iO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



