Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14781
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM LOAN
(LOAN 3394-AR)
JUNE 29, 1995
Country Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mav not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Argentinean Peso
Exchange Rate
I US Dollar = I Peso
(Since April 1, 1991,
the exchange rate has been pegged to the US Dollar by law.)
GOVERNMENT OF ARGENTINA FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANA          National Customs Administration, Administraci6n Nacional de
Aduanas
BANADE    National Development Bank, Banco Nacional de Desarrollo
BHN          National Housing Bank, Banco Hipotecario Nacional
BICE         Investment and Trade Bank, Banco de Inversi6n v Comercio
Exterior
BONEX        External Treasury Bonds, Bonos Externos del Tesoro
CECRA        Executive Committee to Control the Administrative Reform,
Comit& Ejecutivo para Controlar la Reforma Administrativa
CGN          National Accounting Office, Contaduria General de la Naci6n
CIF          Cost insuranice and freight
DGI          General Tax Board, Direcci6n General de
Impositiva
FSAL         Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GOA          Government of Argentina
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
IMF          International Monetary Fund
PB           Participating Banks
PE           Public Enterprise
PERAL        Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan
PSRL         Public Sector Reform Loan
PSRTAL       Public Sector Reform Technical Assistance Loan
SIGENAC    Executive Controller of the Nation, Sindicatura General de la
Naci6n
SIGEP        General Auditing Office of Public Enterprises, Sindicatura
General de Empresas P6blicas
TAL          Technical Assistance Loan
TCN          National Court of Accounts, Tribunal de Cuentas de la Naci6n
VAT          Value-Added Tax



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE   ....................................... i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................ ii
PART I: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S
PERSPECTIVE ............................. 1
A. PROJECT IDENTITY .......................... 1
B. BACKGROUND ............................. 1
C. LOAN OBJECTIVES .......................... 2
The Government's Strategy .................... 2
The Bank's Strategy ......................... 2
D. LOAN DESIGN ............................. 3
Revenue Mo'jilization  ..........                                      ............... 3
Expenditure Reduction and Rationalization  ....                ....... 4
Central Bank Reorganization ................... 5
Coordination With Other Bank Operations  ....                  ....... 6
E. REVENUE MOBILIZATION  COMPONENT   ....                              ....... 7
Implementation ............................ 7
The Bank's Role in Revenue Mobilization   ....                 ....... 8
Results of Improved Revenue Mobilization  ....                 ....... 9
F. EXPENDITURE REDUCTION AND RATIONALIZATION
COMPONENT ............................ 9
Implementation ............................ 9
The Bank's Role in the Expenditure Reduction
Component of the Loan  .................  10
Results of Improved Expenditure Reduction and
Rationalization ....................... 10
G. CENTRAL BANK REORGANIZATION COMPONENT ... 11
H. MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK COMPONENT ..... 11
I. INSTITUTION  BUILDING  ......................  12
Tax Administration   ........................  12
Customs Administration   .....................  12
Federal Administration  ......................  12
Central Bank Reorganization ................  ..  13
J. SUSTAINABILITY  ...........................  13
K. LESSONS LEARNED    ........................  14
L. BANK  PERFORMANCE  .......................  16
M. BORROWER  PERFORMANCE   ...... ..                            ..........  16
N. COORDINATION WITH THE IMF AND THE IDB ...... 17
This docurnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World B1ank authorization.



PART II: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE ............................. 24
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  .................. 25
Table 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ....           .......... 25
Table 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS  ....         ....... 26
Table 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE .................... 27
Table 4: PROJECT FINANCING   ................... 27
Table 5: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF WEEKS ....         ....... 27
Table 6: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ....          .......... 28
ANNEX
Table A: Key Macroeconomic Indicators  ....   ........... 29
Table B1-B3: NATIONAL ADMINISTRATION REFORM  .... 30
Table C: FISCAL COST OF INDUSTRIAL PROMOTION .... 31
STATUS OF SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE CONDITIONS . . 32



-_-
ARGENTINA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM LOAN
(PSRL. LOAN 3394-AR)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Public Sector Reform Loan (PSRL)
No. 3394, to the Argentine Republic, in the amount of US$325 million. The loan, intended as a quick-
disbursing adjustment operation, is repayable in 17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable rate. The PSRL was approved on July 30, 1991 and closed on December 31, 1993. It was
fully disbursed in two tranches of US$162.5 million each, released on September 23, 1991 and March
9, 1993. The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) co-financed the PSRL with its first-ever
adjustment loan to Argentina. The PSRL was accompanied by a US$23 million Public Sector Reform
Technical Assistance Loan (PSRTAL, Loan No. 3362) which was co-financed by a 150.0 million yen
grant from the Ministry of Finance of Japan.
This ICR was prepared by the Country Operations Division of Country Department I of the Latin
America & the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). The ICR
was based, inter alia, on the Initiating Memorandum, the Report and Recommendation of the President,
the Loan Agreement, Mission Reports, correspondence between the Borrower and the Bank, and
internal Bank memoranda.






-ii-
ARGENTINA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM LOAN
(LOAN 3394-AR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
The US$325 million PSRL Loan to the Government of Argentina, approved on July 30, 1991
was designed as an integral component of an effort to stabilize the Argentine economy and eliminate
Argentina's persistent structural deficit through targeting key public sector reforms.  The PSRL
provided support in the Government's efforts to: (i) increase revenues through reorganization of the Tax
and Customs Administrations and reduction of industrial promotion and tax exemptions; (ii) decrease
and rationalize expenditures through streamlining the Federal Administration, improving systems of
budgeting and accounting, and decreasing earmarked funds; and (iii) reorganize the Central Bank so as
to make it an independent institution able to focus upon its core function as monetary authority.
The Bank's role was to offer the technical assistance and financing necessary to permit the
Government to achieve its objectives for the balance of payments without recourse to inflationary
domestic credit creation. The resources from the PSRL permitted the Government to replace domestic
borrowing (on onerous terms) with foreign loans. It used the counterpart from .he loans to pay
indemnization of workers as part of its administrative reform.
The PSRL was complemented by the ongoing Public Sector Reform Technical Assistance Loan
(PSRTAL for US$23 million), which provided financing for goods and services to facilitate meeting
PSRL conditionality and is currently helping to institutionalize the resulting reforms. Similarly, the Tax
Administration Loan (Ln. No. 3015, US$6.5 million) financed improvements in tax administration
which allowed the GOA to meet targets established by PSRL. The overall strategy for eliminating the
persistent fiscal deficit was also supported by the Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan (PERAL,
Loan No. 3291 for US$300 million), which focussed on reorganization and privatization of public
enterprises, and its accompanying Public Enterprise Reform Executive Loan (PEREL, Loan No. 3292
for US$23 million), which helped finance the cost of consultants for restructuring the PE framework
and the telecommunications and railway organizations.
Implementation
The PSRL was disbursed against import receipts according to prevailing guidelines in two
tranches of US$162.5 million each. The first tranche was available for disbursement at the time of loan
effectiveness. The second tranche was available for release when 14 specific conditions were met. All
but one of the 14 specific second tranche loan conditions--including the politically and technically
difficult measures of the passage of the Federal Administration Reform, Financial Management and
Control Law and the Central Bank Charter--were met by February 1993; the second tranche was
released on March 9, 1993. The loan was also conditioned upon evidence of progress on the
macroeconomic program, and indeed, macroeconomic indicators were strong, exceeding projections in



-iii-
many critical areas. The unsatisfied condition pertained to the enactment and implementation of a
Public Procurement Law which would abrogate existing Compre Argentino (Buy Argentine) laws, which
provided procurement subsidies to preferred domestic producers supplying public enterprises. The
condition was waived in view of progress already made, and because privatization had reduced the
urgency of an explicit repeal of this legislation. As of June 1995, the law remains in Congress, and
there is no expected date for its passage. In addition, in the latter half of 1993, contrary to the spirit
of the loan's effort to reduce industrial promotion costs, there was a slight resurgence of industrial
promotion, and a partial exemption of the VAT for producers in Tierra del Fuego was extended to the
year 2003. Finally, measures announced in March 1995 to tighten the fiscal accounts could reverse,
at least temporarily, efforts to reduce wage compression in the public sector.  Despite these
shortcomings, the vast majority of the loan conditions were met, including the critical enactments of
the Federal Administrative Reform and the Financial Administration and Performance Control Law.
The PSRL was successful in supporting reforms pursued under the Convertibility Plan to
eliminate the fiscal deficits that generated hyper-inflation and to launch economic recovery. Under the
Plan Monthly inflation fell from 24.9 percent in 1990 to an annual average rate of 4.2 percent by 1994;
the fiscal accounts improved from a deficit of 2.5 percent of GDP in 1990 to a surplus of 1.8 percent
in 1993; and annual economic growth during 1990-93 was in the 6-9 percent range. However, while
macroeconomic aggregates for 1994 remained positive, with growth of 7.1 percent and inflation of less
than 4 percent, fiscal performance began to falter during the second semester. Significant efforts were
required during the last quarter to achieve a surplus of 0.7 percent of GDP. Economic performance
is now projected for 1995-96 to be substantially below that of the previous four-year average of 7.7
percent, due to the spillover effects of the Mexican financial crisis.
Summary of Findings
The successes of the Loan can be attributed to a variety of factors. First, Argentina was
engulfed in macroeconomic crisis and willing to undergo a major structural reform in order to decrease
its massive deficit. Second, given Argentina's balance of payments needs, co-financing from the Inter-
American Development Bank significantly of the Loan in ensuring that conditionality was met. Third,
the Loan benefitted from the intellectual capital, experience, ongoing dialogue and personal relationships
developed during the course of previous projects and economic work. Without the Bank, the Argentine
Government undoubtedly would have undergone a public sector reform, however, it is doubtful it would
have been as comprehensive or structural as it was.
Loan conditionality that required the passage of laws by the legislature was critical for ensuring
the sustainability of reforms. This, however, required substantial preparation work in formulating the
proposed laws and reviewing changes during legislative deliberations, and the ability of the executive
to push the laws through Congress. Such a strategy entailed considerable risk, witness the failure to
pass the legislation to abolish the Compre Argentino Laws. While the loan was largely successful,
owing to a variety of factors, future operations might be cautioned against using this approach.
The ongoing regional crisis represents the first significant challenge to the sustainability of the
program, which remains particularly sensitive to foreign capital flows. For its part, to date the
Government has reacted swiftly to the crisis to further strengthen the fiscal accounts and the banking
system. While the duration of the regional crisis and the sustainability of the program are still
uncertain, the policy and institutional improvements fostered by the PSRL have served the Government
well in meeting this challenge.



-1-
ARGENTINA
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM LOAN
(LOAN 3394-AR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name:      Public Sector Reform Loan
Loan Number:       3394-AR
RVP Unit:          Latin American and the Caribbean Region
Country:           Argentina
Type of Loan:      Support for public sector reform
B. BACKGROUND
1.    During a half century of slow economic growth, Argentina gradually fell from the ranks of the
world's most prosperous nations. This decline can be traced mainly to increased reliance since the
1940s on state-led growth and its associated chronic public sector deficits and endemic inflation.
Economic policy was commonly used to propagate rules and transfers favoring successive groups with
access to power--unionized labor, privileged industrialists, housing contractors and selected middle class
home buyers, some provincial governments and the military. Public expenditures surpassed 50 percent
of GDP, and high levels of external protection compounded the misallocation of resources.
2.    The abrupt end of voluntary foreign commercial credit in the early 1980s and the sudden rise
in real international interest rates--coupled with the 1982 South Atlantic War which provoked a financial
collapse that forced the Government to assume responsibility for all foreign debt and placed additional
pressure on public finances--led the Treasury to resort increasingly to money creation. To avoid the
inflation tax, the private sector withdrew its resources for the financial system and reduced its real
currency holdings. By the mid-1980s, the country entered its longest period of stagnation this century.
Savings and investment rates fell as Argentines saved and invested abroad. Labor productivity fell,
poverty worsened, and unpredictable inflation became the main impediment to recovery of private
savings and investment. By the late 1980s, subsidies through the budget, tax exemptions, agricultural
regulations, public enterprises, and central bank rediscounts were roughly 8 percent of GDP, average
tariffs exceeded 40 percent. and quantitative restrictions protected 60 percent of domestic production.
3.    Upon taking office in July 1989, the Menem  Administration recognized that without
macroeconomic stability, the economic slide could not be reversed. Its November 1989 stabilization
program, supported by the IMF, relied on a fixed exchange rate and stressed fiscal performance and
structural reforms more than the Plan Austral (1985) and Plan Primavera (1988) programs initiated by
Alfonsin, Menem's presidential predecessor. Despite successes in passing legislation to sell PEs,
suspend most subsidies, limit Central Bank credit to the public sector and expand the VAT tax base,
these measures failed to earn the confidence of financial markets, and the primary surplus remained



-2-
insufficient to transfer resources to the Central Bank to cover its large nominal interest bill on domestic
debt and its external debt service. Meanwhile, high interest rates required to support the fixed exchange
rate drove up the Central Bank's interest bill thus creating an unsustainable cycle: the Central Bank
created money to pay its own interest bill and then borrowed back the australes to sterilize the
endogenous monetary expansion. The program finally exploded in early December 1989 when markets
moved against the austral and interest rates skyrocketed.
4.    On December 15, 1989, a new economic team floated the exchange rate and removed nearly all
remaining price controls.  Amid inflation fears and rumors of dollarization, the exchange rate
depreciated sharply as demand for austral-denominated assets plummeted further. Over the New Year's
weekend, to forestall imminent hyperinflation, the authorities converted virtually all domestic
commercial bank time deposits, worth about US$3.5 billion, and most of the Central Bank and
Treasury's outstanding debt that the deposits financed, into 10-year dollar-denominated External Bonds
(BONEX). While this penalized savers, the measure halved the potential liquid stock of financial assets,
stopped incipient hyperinflation, and eliminated the Central Bank's destabilizing quasi-fiscal deficit by
eliminating its short-term debt and its interest burden. However, the Government failed to complement
these measures with fiscal adjustments that would have reduced the public sector demand for credit,
and it failed to prohibit Central Bank money creation. In early February 1990, unexpected price
adjustments for public enterprises and persistent rumors of dollarization triggered renewed fears of high
inflation. In February 1990, the ensuing collapse in money demand from its already low level spun the
economy into hyperinflation, and it was in this environment that preparation for the PSRL began.
5.    In early 1990, the Argentine Government was prepared to undergo a massive deficit-reducing
reform, and it was willing to accept the political consequences of such a reform; however, it lacked a
coherent strategy for achieving this reform. The Bank, for its part, aided by substantive knowledge
from previous work done on Argentina's tax administration, public finance, financial sector and trade
laws, had a clear vision of reforms that the Argentines needed to undergo in order to reduce their public
sector deficit. This situation provided for a synergistic reform effort. The program was aided further
by the fact that the GOA trusted the Bank's advice, based upon Argentina's previous experience with
the Bank during the Plan Primavera episode, when the Bank remained supportive despite the ultimate
short-term failure of the Plan. In order to effect permanent improvements, the Bank sought concrete
reforms that most likely would have been avoided in the Bank's absence. Specifically, these were
reforms in tax administration, personnel administration, financial management, industrial promotion and
the Central Bank Charter. It was believed that only an all-encompassing strategy, inherently high yield
and high risk, could be effective in executing a massive public sector reform.
C. LOAN OBJECTIVES
The Government's Strategy
6.    The Bank encouraged the Government to switch strategies from  incentive reforms (trade
liberalization and financial deregulation) to public sector reforms focused on sustainable fiscal
improvement and an efficient retrenchment of the state on core public functions. Structural changes,
including reorganizing and downsizing the Federal government, privatizing PEs, improving management
in the provinces and reforming the social security system, were intended to replace temporary measures
such as emergency taxes and wage and investment compression. The second phase of the structural
reform program focused on a major administrative reform (which included decentralizing secondary
education and other public services to the provinces), expenditure controls, improvements in tax policy



-3-
to make it more efficient and effective, reductions in the costs of industrial promotion (by deferring
payments or canceling contracts for industrial promotion), and efforts to reorganize the Central Bank
and make it an independent monetary authority.
The Bank's Strategy
7.    The Bank's medium-term objective was to improve public finances--a strategy supported by the
Bank's PERAL, PEREL, Tax TAL and PSRTAL as well as PSRL-- to help eliminate the persistent
structural deficit causing economic instability, slow growth and increased poverty over the last decade.
Endemic deficits originated with an erosion of revenue capacity and an inability to contain expenditures.
The Bank's strategy called for rationalizing public expenditures and improving the revenue base while
focusing the Government's activities on protecting the poor during adjustment and making much-needed
infrastructure investment. To this end, the Bank engaged in its investment loans in water supply and
the social services (and more recently, capital markets development), thus helping lay the basis for a
private sector-led investment recovery.
D. LOAN DESIGN
8.    The PSRL targeted several areas for increasing public revenues, decreasing expenditures and
improving the functions of the Central Bank. It was decided that the loan could only be presented to
the Board on the strength of extensive pre-Board actions as described below, which required numerous
Bank missions during the post-appraisal and negotiation phase. Hence, there was no effectiveness
conditionality but that for second tranche release was substantial.
Revenue Mobilization
9.    Pre-Board Actions for Tax Structure Reform.  In February 1990, the Government
implemented a major tax reform that improved efficiency and increased potential revenues. The VAT
covered all goods at a 13 percent uniform rate, income taxes on corporations were lowered from 33 to
20 percent (with a minimum payment of 1 percent of assets), and individual income taxes were
simplified to 5 brackets between 10-30 percent (with a withholding tax for wage earners). These taxes
replaced capital gains and personal net wealth taxes. Second, a subsequent reform package in February
included a ten day time limit on VAT and income tax payments and an indexing system under which
taxes due would be adjusted on a daily basis for estimated current inflation. Third, a new law in early
1990 levied stringent penalties on tax evaders. Fourth, the Government extended the VAT to services
and increased its rate to 15.6 percent in November 1990 while maintaining the VAT without adding new
exemptions. Last, the February 1991 package raised the asset tax from 1 to 2 percent, widened the
income tax base by suspending loss-carry forwards, raised the VAT to 16 percent, raised the gas tax
to 33 percent, increased the bank check tax from 0.4 to 1.2 percent, pegged energy prices to
international prices, and raised PE tariffs, which had been temporarily frozen since September 1990.
10.   Pre-Board Actions for Lnproving Tax Administration. By July 1991, real revenue and
efficiency gains were to be found in rebuilding the severely eroded tax administration. To this end, the
Government was able to build upon past Bank efforts through the 1988-89 Technical Assistance for Tax
Reform Loan (3015-AR). By the Board Date, the Government had begun making the General Tax
Office (DGI) more effective through: (1) increasing site inspections, (2) incorporating 200,000 VAT
tax payers to the tax rolls, and (3) implementing a computerized audit and control system for the largest



-4-
1,000 taxpayers. In addition, the Government had initiated reforming customs administration by
drafting the revision of customs norms and designing a new organizational structure.
11.   Pre-Board Actions for Reducing Tax Exemptions and Industrial Promotion.  The
Government began restructuring its industrial promotion obligations with the July 1989 Emergency Law
which deferred 50 percent of industrial promotion payments for one year in exchange for bonds to be
paid two years later. In consultation with the Bank, the Subsecretary of Public Revenues canceled
benefits for 43 firms, and Decrees 435 of March 1990 and 612 of April 1990 transferred authority for
industrial promotion from provincial administrations and Tierra del Fuego to the Subsecretary of Public
Revenues, under the Ministry of Economy. In addition, the Government replaced provisions which
allowed beneficiaries to deduct their full costs rather than value added from taxes. Early in the loan
program, the Bank was concerned that the Government was reluctant to adopt an aggressive policy to
reduce tax expenditures if the audit process produced the desired reductions (less than US$600 million
in 1991 and US$200 million in later years). In November 1990, it initiated a mandatory census for all
promotion schemes other than Tierra del Fuego on penalty of benefit cancellation. One-quarter of
beneficiaries did not respond, and their cases were processed. The self-monitored tax deduction system
was dissolved, replaced by a full audit for compliance with original contracts. Those passing the audit
received nontransferable fiscal bonds applicable against taxes in the year of tax obligation. This allowed
the Government to end evasion and know the fiscal costs of the subsides. Those failing to meet the
promises of their original contracts received a bond, sharply reduced in value in proportion to the
noncompliance; they were also audited for back taxes.
12.   To reduce the substantial fiscal cost of exemptions granted to producers in Tierra del Fuego, the
Government reduced specific duties on the electronics industry from 100 percent ad valorem to
50 percent in 1990, and then in March 1991 converted these to ad valorem rates of 22 percent. These
measures induced many closings. Nonetheless, the policy provided for transition period by exempting
domestic producers from the internal tax on electronics products until February 1992, at which time all
protection for the industry in Tierra del Fuego was to be eliminated.
13.   Second Tranche Release Conditions For second tranche release, the Government was required
to: (1) maintain the VAT covering goods and services without granting new exemptions beyond those
already in force as of December 1, 1990; (2) progress on the DGI reform evidenced by: (i) increasing
the number of tax audits performed in the preceding 12-month period to at least 115 percent of audits
performed during fiscal 1990, (ii) increasing the aggregate value of the tax assessment made during the
preceding 12-month period to at least 120 percent of that made in fiscal 1990, (iii) increasing the
aggregate value of additional tax collection resulting from tax inspections assessments to at least
85 percent of the total value of such assessments in the preceding 12 month period, and (v) establishing
a tax roll system to cover all taxpayers both at the national and regional levels; and (3) implement a
computerized control system for at least 25 percent of import tax receipts.
14.   The Government was required to reduce the fiscal costs of industrial promotion schemes to less
than 30 percent of projected costs without reform for 1994 by: (i) initiating the legal process for 800
firms whose benefits had been suspended, (ii) completing the DGI's review of 2,500 industrial projects
receiving incentives during 1991-92, (iii) laying the legal foundation for the bond exchange (a
nontradable tax credit against future tax obligations), and (iv) including actual amounts of contracted
expenditures in the 1994 budget as line items in order to lend transparency to the tax expenditures.
Because industrial promotion for Tierra del Fuego was particularly costly, the Bank insisted that the
Government move to eliminate any programs promoting industrial activities on the Island.



-5-
Expenditure Reduction and Rationalization
15.   Pre-Board Actions for Reducing Federal Employment and Improving Workers' Incentives.
In 1991, wages accounted for 70 percent of all federal expenditures remaining after interest and transfer
payments. Despite the unpopularity of downsizing in a time of high unemployment, under the March
1990 Emergency Decree 435, the Government: (i) froze all vacancies and promotions, (ii) reduced the
number of federal Secretariats and Subsecretariats from 153 to 60, (iii) eliminated overtime, (iv)
required early retirement for those within two years of normal retirement, (v) enforced bans against
double employment and (vi) sharply reduced the operations of the BHN and the BANADE.
16.  In early September 1990, with the Bank's assistance, the Government prepared the
Administrative Reform Program designed to restructure and downsize the entire Federal Government.
Decree 1757 established a commission to oversee the reform, reduced the cost of indemnization to
displaced workers, and created the possibility of revising federal employment statutes to eliminate
permanent tenure benefits. The Program, establishing a legal basis for reform, was codified in Decree
2476 of November 1990. Not including reductions in secondary teachers, the Government intended to
maintain a ceiling on federal employment of no more than 480,000 workers. The federal downsizing
was coupled with an effort to increase efficiency by attracting highly skilled managers and workers by
improved incentives. In March 1990, the Government increased the salary compression ratio from 2:1
to 17.5:1. Decree 1727 of August 1990 allowed the Government to reopen labor agreements to change
permanent tenure rights or "stability privileges" of federal employees that for years had prevented
managers from replacing unproductive or even corrupt employees. The Government also issued
measures to enforce bans on double employment.
17.   Pre-Board Actions to Reform Budgeting and Accounting. At the time of loan preparation,
the Government had already begun its effort to improve budgetary control by merging the auditing
agency of the public enterprises (SIGEP) with the Ministry of Economy. Still, the Government lacked
a comprehensive system which coordinated budgeting, accounting, debt management and the Treasury.
With the Bank's assistance, the Government set specific goals: (i) establish accounting norms,
(ii) increase internal and external auditing, (iii) distinguish between accounting, internal
registration/control and external control, (iv) withdraw judicial responsibilities for the prosecution of
public fraud cases from the TCN (National Court of Accounts), (v) account for important expenditures
(e.g., PEs) in the budgetary process, (vi) program the budget and conduct a regular review of public
expenditures, (vii) maintain ex-post performance control and control of budget execution, (viii) submit
timely budgets, (ix) promote public investment in budget planning, (x) tailor modern information
systems to support financial management, and (xi) curb earmarked funds and industrial promotion
schemes. Prior to preparation for the loan, the Government had already limited transfers to the
provinces with the aid of the co-participation law implemented in January 1988 and limited transfers
to PEs. These budgetary commitments complemented reforms already underway supported by the
PERAL. In 1990, a task force was named to review the 1991 progress, a committee was designated
to control expenditures for 1990-91, and the President issued a decree that placed all revenues under
provisionary control of the Treasury, adjusted projections of budget needs for inflation, and reviewed
expenditures that accounted for the Administrative Reform Program and the new public sector policies.
18.   Second Tranche Conditions. Second tranche loan conditions called for achievement of federal
employment reduction targets as outlined in the Government's Administrative Reform Program as well
as an increase in the salary compression ratio, a program for senior executives, a computerized salary
payments system and the establishment of legal grounds for the new compensation and payment system.
The second tranche release conditions also called for budget and accounting reforms: passage and



-6-
implementation of the new Law of Financial Management and Performance Control, implementation
of a new Public Procurement Law covering procurement of goods and services and management of
public assets, preparation and submission of the 1992 budget to Congress before November 1991 (based
upon a complete programmatic review and new budgeting system), progress made in the elimination
of at least 25 Earmarked Funds, and resistance from making transfers to the Argentine provinces and
public enterprises during 1991 in excess of amounts authorized under the 1991 Budget Law bill.
Central Bank Reorganization
19.   Pre-Board Actions in the Central Bank Reform. The 1989 Economic Emergency Law set a
clear goal for the Central Bank; it was to be an independent entity whose principal objective was
sustaining the value of the nation's currency. But the Central Bank lacked the asset basis to control
monetary policy. It was encumbered by its antiquated organization and was incapable of carrying out
its bank supervision and rediscounting duties. The first step toward recapitalizing the Central Bank was
the conversion of the Central Bank's domestic short-term interest-bearing obligations into ten-year
BONEX in late 1989. The 1991 Convertibility Law, which pegged the exchange rate to the US dollar,
paved the way for reform that would enable the Central Bank to focus on its function as a monetary
authority. The Central Bank Charter, compiled with Bank assistance, would define Central Bank
functions and reorganize its internal structure. Since early 1991, the Central Bank has published
financial statements that reveal its balance sheet; since April 1991 it has published its reserve position
weekly to provide the public with information to monitor implementation of the Convertibility Law.
20.   Second Tranche Conditions.   The conditions for second tranche release included:
(i) reorganization of the Superintendency; (ii) elimination of the system of commercial bank advances
to the social security system, which counted as bank reserves and complicated monetary control and
made it difficult to know the current monetary base; (iii) removal of trade financing functions from the
Central Bank; and (iv) a new draft charter.
Coordination With Other Bank Operations
21.   The Public Sector Reform Technical Assistance Loan The PSRL's accompanying Public Sector
Reform Technical Assistance Loan (PSRTAL for $23 million) is currently halfway through its scheduled
implementation. As part of the customs administration component of the program, the development of
the computerized MARIA project for customs declarations along with a primary communications
network between ports and the Customs Headquarters are nearly completed; simplification of the new
Custom Code, establishment of related norms, and development of four administrative systems are
expected to be completed in six months.  In addition, the customs component has undertaken
infrastructural improvements such as the installation of a chemical analysis laboratory, and a training
program has trained 200 people in the Customs School. As a result of these efforts, collections have
increased since 1991 from $100 million per month to $250 million and irregularities in valuation of
merchandise have decreased from 50% in 1992 to 18% in 1993 while the dispatch of imports and
exports has been reduced by 30 %. Through automation, discretionality in Customs operations has been
greatly reduced long with a 15 % reduction in the number of intervening agents.  Support for
Administrative Reform and Modernization of the Central Government through modernization of the
National Public Administration has thus far resulted in savings of $63 million for the Government from
reducing physical space by 220,000 square feet, a 25 percent reduction in APN staff since April 1990,
and a reduction in average processing time by 50 percent. Meanwhile, deregulation activities resulted
in an estimated aggregate fiscal net gain to the state of $322.4 million in 1993. As part of its financial



-7-
management and control component, technical support provided for the development and implementation
of new methods and procedures with related manuals and policy guidelines to be applied in: budget
preparation and execution, cash and debt management, accounting, and internal and external control;
the development and implementation of an integrated financial system; and a training program for public
officials of the key financial offices. Finally, as part of the loan's components to reorganize the Central
Bank and the Superintendency of Financial Entities, a computerization and communications strategy has
been designed, and implementation of the system and its two applications: accounting and current
accounts; and the training of technical personnel and end users, was undertaken in 1994.
22.   Other linchpins of the Bank's support of public sector reforms in Argentina support reforms in
public enterprises and the provinces. The PERAL and its accompanying executive loan, the PEREL,
supported the major structural changes in the public enterprise sectors, including divestitures, enterprise
rationalization, and new pricing regimes. The level and pace of privatization exceeded targets. The
subsequent PERAL II Loan (FY93 for US$300 million), targeted to privatize defense-related industries,
was also largely implemented in a timely manner. The Provincial Development Loan provided technical
assistance and resources to finance provincial public investments in proportion to the success of
individual provinces at increasing their own savings and balancing their budgets. The recent Provincial
Reform Loan (FY95 for US$300 million) would support the Federal Government's effort to promote
the reform of provincial finances by promoting sustainable policies and the improved allocation of public
resources in the provinces. Taken together, these reforms support ambitious structural changes in the
organization and financing of the Argentine public sector.
E. REVENUE MOBILIZATION COMPONENT
Implementation
23.   All conditions within the revenue mobilization component of the loan were initially met. In the
later half of 1993, however, there was a partial resurgence of quasi-industrial promotion.
24.   Expansion of the VAT and Changes in Tax Policy.              Tax Revenues
The Government gradually expanded the tax base and shifted         (As % of GDP]
from  reliance on  inefficient to efficient taxes.   The
Government did modify the VAT excluding from the VAT   20  -------------------------------------   ....-l
financial services, credit cards payments, services financed   . . ......................
by pension funds, and boats and airplane repairs. But the   ID
VAT base was also broadened to cover insurance operations
with Decree No. 171/92 and financial activities and    D    ,         .      .      3
transports were incorporated in the VAT base with Decree     90 I1 9  1 292  1 93 1  94 1
No. 879/92. In accordance with international procedures,    EItficinei Taxes MTax HaIdles  SolmISaculity
Decree No. 294/92 allows the VAT reimbursement to foreign
tourists.
25.   Improving Tax Administration.  The PSRL played a vital role in accelerating tax
administration reform by supporting the inspection program, reconstruction of tax rolls, auditing reform,
and tax enforcement initiated under the Tax Administration Loan.
26.   Reform of Customs Administration. Customs replicated the DGI's Large Taxpayers system.
By October 1992, it covered nearly 40 percent of National Customs Administration (ANA) collections.



-8-
Beginning December 1, 1992, the Government required the uniform customs declaration (manifestos)
at its main port of entry (Ezeiza Airport) using an adaptation of the French customs computer system
(MARIA). Ezeiza Airport represented 25 percent of imports by value. The program was implemented
in July 1993, and completion of other sites were scheduled for June 1994.
27.   Reduction of Tax Exemptions and Industrial Promotion. The Government canceled all
existing contracts not yet activated and canceled rights to renew existing contracts. It planned to audit
all firms for tax payments due during the 50 percent suspension of the promotion laws in 1989-90, when
evasion was especially high. In November 1992, the Government enacted Decree 2054, establishing
the legal basis to issue nontransferable tax credits to beneficiaries that could be applied against future
tax litigation. By February 1993, the Government had assigned all tax benefits. Before firms could
use benefits, however, the DGI reviewed past tax payments and adjudicated firms that elected to
undergo closer scrutiny through an appeal. During this process, firms could not claim benefits. Firms
choosing to maintain the system were subject to immediate DGI inspection to assess their compliance
with all laws and decrees since July 1989 with respect to industrial promotion benefits.
28.   By June 1992, Decree 888/92 was to end preferential
subsidies to exports from  Tierra del Fuego, hence, the   Non Financial Public Sector Balance
remaining benefit was exemption from the VAT. Decree          CA
1999 (enacted October 29, 1992) was to phase out over 4
years the VAT exemption for electronics producers. Tariff   5 .              .
protection for the industry fell from  35 to 20 percent,
reducing the effective fiscal subsidy; the statistical tax for all
imports (which serves as a minimum tariff) was raised from    - 5..
3 to 10 percent.  In the latter half of 1993, a partial    12324123231;22412341243  2 4123 4
resurgence of industrial promotion was observed though in a    1 ,egv 1 1999 I SS I 1990 I l99r 1 1992 1 1993 1 1994 1
different form than before.  Tax rebates were granted to  -NFPS Bieance -Op. Prnmry Suiplus -*-- Ilerest
specific sectors and non-tariff barriers have been gradually
introduced on specific goods such as textiles and shoes. The Government has claimed that these
constitute transitory measures. The other apparent reversal is the Government's policy toward Tierra
del Fuego producers. The recent adhesion of Tierra del Fuego to the Pacto Fiscal will revert this
measure since, contrary to second tranche release conditions pertaining to this issue, the firms located
in Tierra del Fuego will be required to pay only 25 percent of the VAT until 2003.
The Bank's Role
29.   The Bank played a catalytic role by coordinating the efforts of a disorganized economic team
and by helping the Argentines to focus on specific objectives. The success of the program was bolstered
by the Loan's accompanying PSRTAL, and the fact that the PSRL was able to build upon foundations
of tax administration reform set by the Bank's Tax Administration TAL. The Bank's loan schedule and
conditions for release of the second tranche further served as a monitoring agent. The combined effect
of the time constraint and the Bank's assistance provided for the rapid implementation of tax reforms,
particularly in customs, that might not have occurred otherwise. The Bank's stand on tax exemptions
and industrial promotion, from the beginning, was that continued loan preparation was contingent upon
the Government's continued efforts to permanently reduce tax expenditures supporting the Industrial
Promotion Regime. The Government faced a great deal of political pressure to maintain or increase
levels of industrial promotion, and at the time, the Government remained firm in maintaining and
eventually decreasing industrial promotion. Despite recent signs of slight resurgence of industrial
promotion, the gains that have been made would not have been met without support from the loan and



-9-
pressure from the Bank. In particular, when the reform was delayed because of logistical problems
concerning the bond exchange, the Bank helped the Government to circumvent these obstacles.
Results of Improved Revenue Mobilization
30.   Tax and Customs Reform. Between 1989 and late 1992, tax revenues on a cash basis doubled;
the share from efficient taxes (that gave incentives to investment and savings) grew from 50 to less than
5 percent. Between 1990 and 1992, the number of VAT taxpayers increased from 700,000 to 1.6
million, collection of VAT payments doubled as a share of GDP, and although average tariff coverage
and quantitative restrictions were falling, the program to improve the ANA resulted in a threefold
increase in collections of import taxes as a share of GDP. The Public Finance Review (February 1993)
concluded that improved effort at tax collection and expanding the tax base, after controlling for changes
in tax rates, tax policy, and decreased inflation and improved economic performance, were responsible
for more than 60 percent of the increased revenue performance.
31.   Industrial Promotion. The Government projected that cuts in industrial promotion expenditures
alone would produce fiscal savings of as much as US$2.4 billion in 1993, while subsidies to promote
the Tierra del Fuego regime would fall from 1990 levels of US$350 million to less than US$50 million
in 1995. In light of the greater goal of reducing federal expenditures and market distortions, the recent
15 percent subsidy on capital goods and the retreat from Tierra del Fuego reforms threatens to
counteract gains made from successful reforms such as the industrial production reform. While the
Bank regards this and other quasi-subsidies to the paper and other industries as permissible transitory
measures, the Bank believes that sound industrial policy requires their eventual elimination.
F. EXPENDITURE REDUCTION AND RATIONALIZATION COMPONENT
Implementation
32.   All but one condition within the expenditures component of the loan were met.
33.   Reform of the Federal Administration. The Government's Administrative Reform Program
(October 1990) resulted in a major reorganization of the Federal Government including streamlining the
federal administration, maintaining and attracting high calibre workers, and reallocating resources in
order to increase efficiency.
34.   Improving the Budget and Accounting Processes.  The Government reduced spending
jurisdictions more than 50 percent between 1990 and 1992 as part of the administrative reform; in 1991
and 1992, the Central Government maintained the budgeted limits on transfers to PEs and provinces;
it decreased the number of earmarked accounts from 152 in 1989 to 59 in 1992, and 44 in 1993; and
in 1991, for the first time in nearly a half century, the National Administration budget for the following
year was submitted on time. For 1993, the Executive again presented a proposed budget to Congress
on schedule, and it was approved before the start of 1993. The Government enacted a Public Financial
Administration Law in September 1992 that revamps national fiscal accounting, improves budgeting and
control systems and establishes modern auditing systems for public expenditures.
35.  In 1991, the Government, with Bank assistance, began preparation of a ground-breaking Law
of Financial Management and Performance Control. The Minister of Economy's influence was critical
to its passage on September 30, 1992 and its implementation a month later. The Law provided for



-10-
internal control functions to support management through monitoring and audits, while the external
control function essentially focussed on ex-post performance control based on the information produced
by the internal control structure.
36.  In 1992, the Government prepared a draft Public Procurement Law, intended to make public
purchasing more competitive and more transparent. It would eliminate procurement subsidies to
preferred domestic producers such as those supported by the Buy-Argentina (Compre Nacional Law,
estimated as high as 1 percent of GDP annually. In early 1993, there was discussion with the Bank's
Legal Department as to whether the loan condition had been met. At the time, the Bank was working
with the Government to fine-tune the draft law, and a Presidential decree (2284/91) had suspended all
Buy-Argentina Laws. The Bank's Legal Department asserted that conditionality required that the
Procurement Law contain an explicit derogation of Compre Argentino Laws. After consultation with
Bank specialists, the Government agreed to a number of provisions that would make the bidding process
more competitive, including clarifying the bidding procedures and introducing "single envelope"
procedures based on pre-qualification for international contracting.  In January 1993, the public
procurement condition was waived when the Government had submitted the Law to Congress but
passage was expected to take several months. As of June 1995, the Law remains with the House of
Representatives and there is no expected date for its passage.
The Bank's Role in the ComDonent
37.  It is doubtful that, in the absence of the Bank's support, the administrative program would have
been implemented as smoothly as it was and the reform would have been as comprehensive as it was,
including improvements in the incentives systems as well as general downsizing. The ambitious loan
conditions laid out by the Bank to provide budget and accounting processes provided a checklist of
actions necessary for establishing permanent improvements. The Bank placed particular emphasis on
the importance of the Financial Management and Control Law. For the first time in Argentine history,
a law would establish a comprehensive definition of the public sector, define financial responsibilities
and set up a modern control and auditing framework. The Law replaced the past system of opaque,
discretionary, and often ad hoc Treasury (or Central Bank) expenditures with a system of transparent,
congressionally mandated expenditures subject to the normal audit processes. Although the Bank
applied steady pressure on the Government to enact its Public Procurement Law, it has not been passed
into Law. The higher-than-expected rate of privatization and the suspension of Buy-Argentina Laws
have diminished the condition's urgency, and the Government has been successful at achieving its
broader goal of improving expenditure rationalization without yet complying with this loan condition.
Results of Improved Expenditure Reduction and Rationalization
38.   Reduction of the Federal Administration By early 1993, the Federal Government shrank from
617,000 in 1990 to 284,000 as a consequence of the reform program. The number of on-budget
positions (excluding teachers) were reduced by one-third, three quarters of which was due to direct
retrenchment. In 1991-92, the Government paid about US$312 million in severance claims associated
with these reductions, hence, the program generated only modest immediate fiscal savings. But the
program could eventually produce annual savings as high as US$1 billion. The program would require
on average a six-month period of income maintenance at 75 percent of salary, followed by a limited
number of severance payments averaging about US$3,000. The total cost of the indemnization program
is estimated to be US$300-425 million.



-11-
39.   Despite the achievements of the program, there are
several related issues that should be addressed. First, the          Amministrallon
reform  greatly improved efficiency in the Ministry of
Economy but was less successful in the other areas such as
the Ministries of Health and Education. Second, the task of
reducing provincial and municipal employment--not part of  600
the PSRL--remains to be addressed.
40.   Reform of the Budgetary Process. If the enhanced   200
expenditure controls resulting from the new Law of Financial
Management and Performance Control reduce non-interest    19nn1  9 190  91 t92 1993 1994
expenditures by 3 percent, as projected, they would provide
US$450 million in savings.  Combined transfers to the
provinces and to PEs were A$9,055 less than budgeted amounts. Earmarked funds fell from 151 in
1990 to 44 in 1994, representing expenditures of US$419 million, less than 3 percent of the budget.
G. CENTRAL BANK REORGANIZATION COMPONENT
41.   Implementation, the Bank's Role, and Results. The Government met all conditions within
the Central Bank component of the loan. The Bank encouraged the Government to draft a new Central
Bank Charter, reorganize the Superintendency, eliminate commercial bank advances to the social
security system and remove trade financing functions from the Central Bank. Central Bank employment
declined 30 percent from end-1990 to September 1992. The Central Bank Reform played a principal
role in reducing and stabilizing prices. The average monthly CPI inflation fell from 24.9 percent in
1990 to zero inflation in February 1994 and an annual inflation rate of 3.9.2 by end-1994.
H. MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK COMPONENT
Nonfinancial Public Sector
42.   Argentina's macroeconomic recovery during 1990-94            Prinmry Balance
was very successful, particularly in light of Argentina's          (In % of MJP]
hyperinflation in early 1990 and renewed inflation and    lo
exchange rate devaluation in 1991.  Economic expansion                         I Interest
increased real GDP by a average of 7.7 percent per year;                       P
investment rates increased; and international reserves more                    B -Prlanr
than tripled since the beginning of the program and now back  6 -
virtually the entire money base.  The macroeconomic
program  exceeded loan targets in many areas, including   4                Overall Surplus
public  sector revenues, capital expenditures  (due to               Def Ic
accelerated privatization), and public sector balance. Current  2-
expenditures, at 15.6 percent of GDP, were marginallymar
higher than the projected 14.6 percent because automatic    \                  U lu
transfers to  the provinces were counted  as national          l            m   m  
expenditures. Actual annual real GDP growth rates of 8.9,    .2
8.7, 6.0, and 7.1 percent in 1991, 1992, 1993 and 1994
respectively, far exceeded Board conservative projections of -
2, 2.5, 2.8, and 2.8 percent.



-12-
43.   The Bank's Poverty Assessment Study indicates that Argentina's urban poverty declined
dramatically between 1990 and 1993 with economic growth and price stability. In 1989, almost half
of the population of Metropolitan Buenos Aires reported receiving incomes below the poverty line,
whereas by May 1993 the poverty rate had dropped to 17.6 percent. However, given the strong
relationship between unemployment and poverty, Argentina's urban unemployment rate is worrisome--
since 1992 the unemployment rate has increased continuously, reaching 12 percent in late 1994, despite
the high rate of economic growth during this period. Thus, sustaining these improvements in the rate
of poverty, as well as enhancing the distribution of income, will require consolidating the
macroeconomic reforms and extending them to increase the flexibility of labor markets, as well as
increasing the effectiveness of social service expenditures.
1. INSTITUTION BUILDING
44.   The PSRL called for substantial institutional building.  Tax and Customs Administrations
Reforms improved the agencies' abilities to monitor, collect and audit taxpayers. Streamlining and
restructuring the Federal Government decreased onerous personnel expenditures and enabled the
Government to maintain and attract quality employees. And the reorganization of the Central Bank was
vital to the long-term stability of the macroeconomic program.
Tax Admihiistration
45.   In compliance with second tranche release conditions of the PSRL, the DGI established a control
system for the largest taxpayers that came on stream in February 1991 (it covered 66 percent of tax
collections by end-1992) and rebuilt tax rolls through more than 450,000 site inspections in 1990-92.
The universal tax roll was developed, and in 1993, the tax authorities gained the capability in the
computer system to undertake audits, checks and monitoring on the entire taxpayer base, which was
estimated to reach 2.8 million by year-end 1993. The number of VAT taxpayers increased from
700,000 in 1990 to 1.6 million in 1992. The DGI increased its audits 179 percent in relation to 1990,
and another 80 percent relative to 1991 in the first 8 months of 1992. Although the aggregate value
of assessments in 1991 after DGI audits was lower than 1990, this was because virtually all large
assessments were transferred to the judiciary for prosecution under the new penal code, and therefore
are not registered as assessments. The substantial increase in the "voluntary payment" category of tax
receipts indicates that tax assessments were in fact increasing in value. Also, the number of businesses
closed by the DGI for VAT violations rose from 750 in 1990 to 8,200 in 1991, and was estimated to
have reached 18,000 in 1992.
Customs Administration
46.   The Bank stressed the importance of customs administration reforms that would include norms,
procedures, and personnel policy in order to rationalize the internal organization. The Bank helped the
Government tailor the DGI's Large Tax Payers system for the main operational centers of ANA, and
helped adapt and implement the French customs computer system at the main port of entry.
Federal Administration
47.   The Government's Federal Administration Reform Program, drafted with Bank assistance,
anticipated net retrenchments of 110,000 plus transfers of non-teaching personnel of 11,000 to the
provinces, for a total reduction of about 121,000. The program decentralized secondary education to



-13-
the provinces in the course of 1991-92, reducing federal employment by 54,000 positions, financed
through improved revenues from the shift in the tax base toward greater co-participated revenues. By
the second tranche release, federal employment had been cut by more than 103,000 positions in 1991-
92, a net reduction of 15 percent since 1990; in addition, 284,000 teachers and health workers had been
transferred to the provincial governments. Rather than simply lay off workers, this effort was based
on a ministerial reorganization that focused on federal activities related to core objectives.
48.   The Administrative Reform also called for efforts to increase work incentives and improve
management. The Government increased the compression ratio from about 2:1 in March 1990 to 17.5:1
in the new pay scale (with Decree 2712/91). Decree 2129/91 established a senior executive service
program for qualified technical and management staff with three monthly salary levels. By February
1993, over 170 (out of 300) senior executive positions had been filled through the competitive review
process. However, it should be noted that among the fiscal measures recently taken in response to the
effects of the Mexican financial crisis, was a highly visible move to cut the salaries of higher level
government officials. While this has been billed as a temporary, emergency measure, it represents at
least a momentary reversal of efforts under the loan to reduce wage compression in the public sector.
Central Bank Reorganization
49.   The reform program required by the PSRL aimed to: (i) reorganize the Superintendency, a first
step toward enhancing its powers and separating it from the Central Bank; (ii) eliminate the system of
commercial bank advances to the social security system, which counted as bank reserves as this system
complicated monetary control making it difficult for the authorities even to know the current monetary
base; (iii) remove the trade financing functions from the Central Bank; and (iv) produce a new draft
charter. On September 23, 1992, the Government passed the New Charter. Complementing the Law
of Convertibility, it removed non-core activities from Central Bank duties enabling it to focus on its
function as a monetary authority. The new Bank Charter eliminated the Central Bank's role as
liquidator of failed financial institutions and elevated the status of the Superintendency of Bank,
requiring confirmation by the Senate. The period of visit of financial firms declined from an average
24-36 months to 12-15 months reflecting progress in the approving of bank supervision in the
Superintendency. Bank liquidations reduced staff by 27 percent; and the total number of Central Bank
staff declined 30 percent from end-1992 to September 1992.
J. SUSTAINABILITY
50.   The legislative changes and institutional strengthening achieved by the Loan augers well for
the sustainability of the reforms. After four successful years, the Government's convertibility
program is still on track. The key factor has been growth in private sector confidence brought
about by a series of structural reforms and establishment of a low and permanent ceiling on the
Government's payments to commercial creditors. The main risks to the program are associated with
disruptions in capital inflows; failure to improve competitiveness through productivity growth; and
unforeseen political developments threatening fiscal equilibrium. Strongly rising international
interest rates could reverse capital inflows inducing a sharp economic contraction with adverse
consequences for the financial system and public finances. Over the medium-term, meeting growth
expectations crucially depends on strong export growth. In the context of the legally fixed exchange
rate, this requires competitiveness to be restored through productivity growth above rates achieved
by international competitors. The authorities would otherwise come under pressure to devalue the
exchange rate, which would carry its own inflation risk, in the context of a highly dollarized



-14-
economy. A weakening of fiscal discipline for political reasons constitutes another risk, in the
context of a very open capital account. In such an event, international reserves and therefore the
monetary base could decline sharply, which would severely test the convertibility program.
However, memories of hyperinflation make it unlikely that the electorate will endorse in the near
future populist policies that would undermine the hard-won gains in fiscal discipline.
51.   However, while macroeconomic aggregates for 1994 remained positive, with growth of
6 percent and inflation of less than 4 percent, fiscal performance began to falter during the second
semester due to lower than expected revenues and increased expenditures. The social security
accounts, in particular, deteriorated with the transition costs of introducing the new optional private
pension system, a reduction in employer's wage taxes, and the absorption by the Federal
Government of three financially-ailing provincial pension systems. Moreover, in late 1994, the
regional loss of confidence, provoked by the crisis in Mexico, also represents a crucial test for the
sustainability of the reforms promoted by the Loan. Indeed, the budgetary control systems
implemented by the program have allowed the Government to react swiftly to the need to tighten
fiscally and the overall balance was in equilibrium for 1994, and another round of fiscal measures
was announced in early March 1995 to help restore investor confidence.
K. LESSONS LEARNED
52.   The PSRL's overall success at completing complex public sector reforms are owing to several
major factors. First, Argentina was engulfed in macroeconomic crisis and willing to undergo a major
structural reform in order to decrease its massive deficit. Second, before the official start of loan
preparation, a sound foundation of information had been gleaned through ESW and related public sector
loans. The Bank's past experiences with Argentina during the Financial Sector discussions in November
1989, the research for the Reforms for Price Stability and Growth (September 1989) Report No. 7994
and for the Public Finance Review: From Insolvency to Growth Report No. 10827 (February 1993), the
Plan Primavera Reforms as well as work on the Public Sector Technical Assistance Loan No. 2712
(1988) and the Technical Assistance for Tax Reform Loan No. 3015 (1989) established the foundation
for work on the Public Sector Reform Loan. The 1988 Public Sector Technical Assistance Loan and
Tax TAL, as well as the 1988-1989 Plan Primavera provided opportunities for Bank members to not
only build on information gathered through these works, but also build upon relationships with
Argentine officials that arose through these interactions. Third, the Government trusted the Bank to act
in the Country's interests. This trust was borne of the Bank's demonstrated past commitment to
Argentina, particularly during the Plan Primavera experience from August 1988 to February 1989,
during which the Bank remained supportive of the Argentine Government while other lenders retracted.
The combined effect of these factors produced a synergistic reform effort. The Government realized
that its past efforts provided only temporary relief from economic instability, and it was willing to take
the political risks that accompany profound structural changes. While the Government's economic team
was new and discombobulated, and it lacked the organization, strategy and finances to undertake such
a reform, the Bank had a clear and concrete vision of what steps needed to be taken to effect real
change. Without the Bank, the Argentine Government undoubtedly would have undergone a public
sector reform, however, it is doubtful it would have been as comprehensive or structural as it was.
53.   Initiation. The Public Sector Reform Loan was initiated by the Argentine Government. The
Government's past experiences with the Bank, particularly through the Plan Primavera (1988-89) and
the Financial Sector Discussions in November 1989 convinced the Argentines that the Bank was



-15-
committed. Conclusion: It stands to reason that the reform effort would be more cooperative when
the Borrower trusts the commitment, capabilities and motives of the Bank from the start of the project.
54.   Loan Conditionality. In light of the fact that second tranche release conditions were rigorous,
supporting major structural reforms, the loan was remarkably successful. Conditionality included the
implementation of four laws, one of which was the single unmet condition. Furthermore, the recent
resurgence of industrial promotion is consistent with the Government's initial resistance to the Bank's
insistence in eliminating industrial promotion.  Conclusion:  These shortcomings suggest that
compliance is more difficult when it entails legislative passage and/or politically unpopular actions. To
avoid high levels of non-compliance, the Bank would be prudent to engage in loan discussions with
administrations that have explicitly expressed a desire to undergo important reforms, regardless of the
political risks involved. The Bank's other option, to exclude these conditions from loan agreements
might be acceptable if these conditions could be met during negotiations before the loan signing.
55.   Previous ESW. Previous research and sector work played a significant role in laying the
groundwork for the PSRL. The loan process was facilitated by economic analysis undertaken for the
Country Economic Memorandum tax policy study, Tax Policy for Stabilization and Economic Recovery-
Argentina Report No. 8067 (November 1989) and work on the public finance and the Refonns for Price
Stability and Growth- Argentina Report No. 7994 (July 1989) as well as discussions on the financial
sector reform (October-November 1989). In constructing the loan objectives, its designers were able
to take advantage of gains made by past Bank Loans (such as the Public Sector Technical Assistance
Loan, No. 2712 and the Tax Administration Loan, No. 3015 of 1988-89). Conclusion: The merits
of research and sectoral work should be evaluated on an individual basis. In the case of the PSRL,
previous work and research provided a great deal of important information and the basis for policy
dialogues.
56.   Implementation. Smooth implementation of these rather complex loan conditions to a great
degree can be attributed to ongoing dialogue, advance preparation and the competency of individual
actors. The Bank immediately responded and helped the Government to identify alternate modes of
effectively meeting goals set by the Loan Agreement. For example, when the Government was having
difficulty implementing its bond exchange program for industrial promotion beneficiaries, the Bank
helped the Government formulate an alternative program which entailed immediate DGI audits for
beneficiaries rejecting the exchange program. The Loan was fortunate in that inflation remained
manageable despite ongoing inflationary fears. Failure of the Government to repeal explicitly Compre
Argentino Laws by passing a Public Procurement Law is the one condition that was not met fully. At
the time that a waiver was requested, the Government was making solid progress on the draft legislation
and it appeared to be a matter of time before a completely satisfactory law were passed. Despite this
disappointment, the higher-than-anticipated pace of privatization and the fact that the Compre Argentino
Laws were suspended have diminished the relevance of Procurement Law. Conclusion: Again, the
value of experience and preparation cannot be understated. Experience on the part of the Bank enabled
the Bank to help the Borrower use creative means to meet loan conditions. The loan process was also
buoyed by strong actors, such as the Minister of Economy, who almost singlehandedly pushed the
Financial Law and Budget Control Law through Congress. While the Bank had hoped for a Public
Procurement Law which included repeal of Compre Argentino legislation, it is doubtful that the net
results of delaying release of the second tranche would have improved the overall impact of the reform
program. In fact, in retrospect, the waiver was a prudent decision. Hypothetically, the PSRL may have
benefitted from heavier and earlier pressure on the loan conditions entailing legislative passage and
implementation (such as the Procurement Law condition), yet some delays, such as the delay in the
bond exchange for industrial promotion beneficiaries, would not have been detected early on. Other



-16-
Bank loan operations may benefit from this lesson and may apply early pressure for the progress of loan
conditions that require approval from political bodies outside of the executive. However, the Bank also
should be cautioned to have reasonable expectations in what it can accomplish legislatively.
57.   Post-Closing Follow-Up. The Division continues to keep an eye on developments related to the
Public Sector Reform Loan. The Bank is paying close attention to new quasi-industrial promotion (in
the form of subsidies to capital goods), and part of the Provincial Adjustment Loan is intended to
address a need for downsizing within provincial governments, similar to the Federal Administrative
Reform Program. In particular, follow-up on the civil service reform and improvements in the
payments system would have enhanced this program. Conclusion: It may be advisable to provide
follow-up evaluations of continued progress for reform programs, for the short time frame of the
program means that evaluations are based upon short-term compliance with loan conditions rather than
the long-term objectives they are intended to achieve.
L. BANK PERFORMANCE
58.   The Bank provided finances, technical assistance and a framework for the Government undergo
a largely successful public sector reform that encompassed vast areas of reform in federal revenues,
federal expenditures and Central Bank issues. Some risks linger, however, such as the non-passage of
the Public Procurement Law, the recent emergence of new quasi-industrial promotion policies and the
reneging of Tierra del Fuego industrial promotion reduction decrees, developments that have emerged
despite the fact that the Bank stressed the crucial aspect of industrial promotion reduction as a
component of the loan. The loan's successes greatly outnumber its shortcomings. Through ongoing
dialogue between Argentine officials and the Bank, the PSRL was devised, implemented and disbursed
smoothly. The Bank's short lag time in responding to questions from the Argentine Government kept
the project going when it came upon obstacles. The Bank provided technical assistance for the Tax
Reform Program through the PSRTAL and met with government officials during numerous missions
to ensure that the program was moving according to schedule. The Bank was able to take considerable
advantage of past ESW, the 1988-89 Tax TAL, and past discussions and relationships with Argentine
officials. The Bank firmly stressed the importance of certain conditions, for example, the Federal
Administration Reform, the Tax Reform, the Industrial Promotion Bond Exchange and the Financial
Management and Performance Control Law. Although the Argentine Government had undertaken
public sector reform before the introduction of the PSRL, it is unlikely that it would have pursued a
reform of such magnitude without the Bank's support.
M. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
59.   The Government complied initially with all but one of the fourteen specific second tranche
conditions for the PSRL. This condition, the passage of the Public Procurement Law, currently remains
in Congress. The Government was also initially slow to respond to the Bank's industrial promotion
conditions and has since retracted its Tierra del Fuego decrees and have introduced new policies in other
areas that constitute quasi-industrial promotion. The Government's successes, and there are nmany, are
owing to a variety of factors. In some cases, it was the influence of key Argentines that provided the
necessary support for passage of legislation, the Financial Management and Performance Control Law,
for example. The Government did a remarkable job of prevailing with an exhaustive reform program,
particularly the Federal Administrative Reform and the Industrial Promotion Reform, during times when
it was politically unpopular to do so.



-17-
N. COORDINATION WITH THE IMF AND THE IIDB
61.   The Bank has worked closely with the IMF in the design and supervision of adjustment
operations, in formulating country strategy and in ESW using common data and ensuring consistent
conditionality. The IMF prepared a new stand-by arrangement in July 1991-92 with the Government,
the results of which were incorporated into the Bank's targets for short-term macroeconomic monitoring.
IMF and Bank staff consult continually about specific policies; the IMF adopted the Bank's
recommendations on administrative reform, tax and customs administration, income tax, industrial
promotion, and Central Bank issues in their own discussions with the borrower. Since 1989, the Bank
and the IMF have several parallel missions, and Bank staff have also participated in Fund missions.
62.   The IDB co-financed the PSRL with its first adjustment operation in Argentina and one of the
first for that institution ever. Its representatives have participated in all Bank missions, and IDB staff
have signed joint aide memoirs for these missions. In addition, the IDB provided resources for
consultants and other aspects of loan preparation. Given the magnitude of Argentina's balance of
payments needs, co-financing by the IDB significantly increased the leverage of the Loan in ensuring
that conditions were met.



I



-19-
ANNEX
page 1 of 5
STATUS OF SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE LOAN COVENANTS
Revenue Mobilization
Value Added Tax  Maintain VAT, covering both goods and services, with no
exemptions other than those existing as of December 1, 1990.
Complied. Although the Borrower did modify the VAT with Decrees No. 501/91 and
1669/91 and Law 24073/92 (adopted March 1991, August 1991 and April 1992
respectively), thereby excluding from the VAT base financial services and payments with
credit cards, and exempting minor activities such as services financed by pension funds
and boats and airplane repairs. At the same time, however, the VAT was broadened to
include insurance operations with Decree No. 171/92 in January 1992, and in June 1992,
financial activities and transports were incorporated in the VAT base with Decree No.
879/92. In accordance with international procedures, Decree No. 294/92 allows the
VAT reimbursement to foreign tourists.
2.    Tax Administration Make satisfactory progress in tax administration reform as
evidenced by: (i) increasing the number of tax audits performed in the preceding 12-
month period to at least 115 percent of the number of audits carried out during
fiscal year 1990; (ii) increase the aggregate value of the tax assessment made during
the preceding twelve-month period to at least 120 percent of the total value of such
assessment made during fiscal year 1990; (iii) increase the aggregate value of
additional tax collection resulting from tax inspections assessments to at least 85
percent of the total value of such assessments in the immediately preceding twelve-
month period; and (iv) establish a tax roll system for purposes of controlling all tax
payers at both the national and regional levels.
Complied.
3.    Customs Administration Make satisfactory progress in implementing the Customs
Reform Program as evidenced by the installation of an automated customs tariff and
collection control system covering about 25 percent of import tariff revenues.
Complied. The MARIA program was fully implemented at Ezeiza Airport in 1993, and
other sites were scheduled according to the following calendar: Aeroparque in Buenos
Aires, November 1993; Buenos Aires Port, January 1994; Campana, Rosario, Paso de
los Libres, April 1994; Cordoba and Mendoza, May 1994; Bahia Blanca, Puerto
Madryn, Rio Grande, June 1994.
4.    Industrial Promotion  Take satisfactory measures to limit the fiscal costs of the
Industrial Promotion Regime as evidenced by: (i) replacing previously granted tax
exemptions with tax bonds applicable against tax liabilities; (ii) suspending benefits
for firms declared ineligible after the audit process as set out in the Control
Program for Industrial Promotion; and (iii) completing requisite decrees and



-20-
ANNEX
page 2 of 5
resolutions to establish the administrative and legal basis for control of audited
firms.
Complied. Decree 2054, issued November 1992, supplemented with three ministerial
resolutions, accomplished the following: (i) enacted the bond substitution across the
board for qualifying firms; (ii) established legally the forfeiture penalties for firms falling
short of their original contractual commitment; (iii) established an annual tax credit as
the vehicle for compensation; (iv) established uniform rules for the application of
promotion benefits to suppliers of promoted firms (the IVA compra regime) for purposes
of the compensation, and rules for payment of past benefits during the emergency
suspension; (v) circumscribed benefits for firms that had not yet activated their projects;
(vi) provided for voluntarily resigning from the system while preserving the DGI's right
to inspect for future tax fraud; and (vii) any firm choosing to maintain the present system
would be subject to immediate DGI inspection to assess whether it had complied with all
laws and decrees since July 1989 with respect to industrial promotion.
5.    Take satisfactory measures to eliminate tariff and tax incentives and other subsidies
promoting industrial activities in the territory of the province of Tierra del Fuego.
Not in compliance. The Government did initially comply with this condition. At the
time of second tranche release, the Government had issued decree 888/92 which would
have ended preferential subsidies to exports from the island, and Decree 1999 would
have phased out the VAT exemption over four years.  Since then, however, this
exemption has been extended until the year 2003.
6.    Not enact or otherwise put into effect or grant new tax exemptions, reductions or
incentives similar to, or included among those provided under the Industrial
Promotion Regime, as of December 31, 1990.
Not in compliance. The Government did initially comply with this condition. Until the
second half of 1993, the Government complied with this condition; the industrial
promotion law (Law 23614) was suspended until September 1993, and no new industrial
promotion had been granted since the beginning of the program. Forms of quasi-
industrial promotion other than those explicitly reduced through this loan, have since
emerged. The overall gains from industrial promotion reductions of this loan, however,
greatly outweigh these recent developments.
Expenditure Reduction and Rationalization
7.    Administrative Reform   Achieve satisfactory progress in implementing staff
reductions included in the Administrative Reform Program. Primarily, this called
for total gross lay-offs of 121,000.
Complied.



-21-
ANNEX
page 3 of 5
8.    Improve the incentives system by: (i) increasing the salary compression ratio of the
national administration to at least 10:1; (ii) establishing the program for senior
executives described in the Administrative Reform Plan; (iii) establishing a
mechanism to control salary payments through computerized issue of checks (or
other auditable, noncash form of payment) for the National Administration,
permitting tinely information and auditable accounts on a monthly basis for the
Subsecretary of Finance; and (iv) establishing new rules and the legal basis for a
new compensation and payment system.
Complied.
9.    Expenditure Control  Put into effect the new  Financial Management and
Performance Control Law, excluding the enactment or issuance of all necessary
regulations. Specifically, the new law: (i) assigns full internal accounting
responsibilities to the National Accounting Office in the Treasury (CGN), including
the implementation of the new financial and accounting information systems,
accounting norms and the preparation of the national financial accounts; (ii) creates
a system for internal control of the Executive Branch by transforming the existing
SIGEP into Executive Controller of the Nation (SIGENAC) reporting directly to the
President, and establishing a network of internal auditing units reporting to the
heads of the various government entities and operating on the basis of auditing
norms defined by SIGENAC and under its supervision; and (iii) restructures the
TCN into the new agency for external control, the General Auditing Office of the
Nation (GAO) reporting to Congress.
Complied. The Law was passed by Congress on September 30, 1992.
10.   Put into effect a law regulating the procurement of goods and services and the
management of public assets, including the enactment or issuance of all necessary
regulations.
Not in compliance. At the time of second tranche release, the Government had agreed
to: (i) clarify the bidding procedures; (ii) include pre-qualification procedures; (iii) clarify
sole-source contracting procedures; (iv) revamp the proposed "private initiatives"
contracting procedure" (v) introduce "single envelope' procedures based on pre-
qualification for international contracting; (vi) introduce consideration of price in hiring
consultants; and (vi) establish procedures consistent with international regulations for
projects with financing from international organizations. A Law of Public Procurement
was submitted to Congress in January 1993, where it remains. There is no expected date
for its passage.
11.   Submit a Budget Law bill for 1992 to Congress on tune.
Complied. The Executive Power has also submitted proposed budgets on time for 1993
and 1994.



-22-
ANNEX
page 4 of 5
12.   Eliminate at least 25 Earmarked Funds, comprising at least 22 percent of the total
Earmarked Fund's resources.
Complied.
13.   Not make transfers to the Borrower's provinces or public enterprises in excess of
amounts authorized under the Borrower's 1991 Budget Law bill submitted to
Congress on February 12, 1991.
Complied.
Central Bank
14.   Achieve satisfactory progress in the implementation  of the Central Bank
reorganization activities including: (i) the enactment of the New Central Bank
Charter; (ii) the implementation of the reforms to the Central Bank's
Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions; and (iii) the elimination of the
Central Bank's role as liquidator of financial institutions together with reductions
of the staff and other administrative support previously assigned to the carrying out
of such functions. The new Central Bank Charter was to accomplish the following: (i)
provide Central Bank directors sufficient independence to manage the institution with the
objectives of preserving the value of the currency; (ii) restrict the Central Bank from
financing public sector open market purchases of government securities with specified
legal limits; (iii) remove functions from the Central Bank not directly related to its
fundamental function of currency stability, including removal of the trade credit and bank
liquidation functions from the present Central Bank; (iv) restrict Central Bank credit to
commercial banks to emergency liquidity rediscounts associated with its lender of last
resort functions; (v) prohibit the Central Bank from issuing interest-bearing liabilities;
and (vi) strengthen the Superintendency of Financial Entities. In addition, the Central
Bank removed functions ancillary to their functions by transferring legal authority on
failed institutions to the courts for their resolution.
Complied. The New Central Bank Charter was passed by the Congress on September
23, 1992, and was made effective on October 30, 1992. The final version, reflecting
Bank input, included: (i) the establishment of the Central Bank's independence; (ii) the
elevation in status of the Superintendency within the Central Bank with the requirement
that he or she be a member of the board, and as such, be confirmed by the Senate; (iii)
proscription of direct lending to the Treasury; (iv) proscription of the issuance of interest-
bearing liabilities; (v) limits on the use of rediscounts to emergency situations consistent
with "lender of last resort" functions; and (vi) removal of non-core function
responsibilities such as trade financing, liquidation of banks and on-lending of publicly
guaranteed credit. In addition, the number of staff associated with the liquidation of
closed banks declined from 309 to 223 between December 31, 1990 and September 1992.
While the staff associated with bank liquidation activities declined about 27 percent, the
total number of employees in the Central Bank declined 30 percent from December 31,
1990 to September 1992.



-23-
ANNEX
page 5 of 5
Macroeconomic Framework
15.   Maintain a macroeconomic policy framework consistent with the objectives of the
PSRL program.
Complied.



-24-
PART II
PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Not received from the Borrower.)



- 25 -
ARGENTINA
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM LOAN
(LOAN 3394-AR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obmectives    Substantial    Partial    Negligible  Not apDlicable
Macro policies                      X
Sector policies                                                           X
Financial objectives                X
Institutional development           X
Physical objectives                                                       X
Poverty reduction                                                         X
Gender issues                                                             X
Other social objectives                                                   X
Environmental objectives                                                  X
Public sector management                        X
Private sector development                                                X
B. Proiect sustainability         Likelv     Unlikely    Uncertain
x
C. Bank Derformance               Highly
satisfactory Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                      X
Preparation assistance              X
Appraisal                           X
Supervision                         X
D. Borrower Performance          Highly
satisfactorv Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                         X
Implementation                      X
Covenant compliance                             X
Operation
E. Assessment outcome            Highly                                 Highly
satisfactorv Satisfactory nsatisfactor unsatisfactory
x



- 26 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                   Purpose                  Approval Yr.   Status
Precedina oerations_
1. Municipal Development Loan Assist provincial/municipal govts.       1988      Disbursing
(L-2920-AR)              through improvements in financial
mechanisms for municipal investments.
2. Tax Administration (TAL I)  Strengthen the DGI structural reform    1989       Disbursed
(L-3015-AR)               program through TA in computarization
tax inspection, training, and control.
3. Provincial Development   Provide financial support and incentives   1991      Disbursing
(L-3280-AR)              for provinces to undertake their own
adjustment programs, consistent with
national program, through physical
investments.
4. Public Enterprise Reform  Part of Bank program to support GOA's     1991       Disbursed
Adjustment Loan (PERAL)   objectives of stabilizing the economy and
(L-3291-AR)               resuming growth. Loan aims to support
efforts to privatize PEs in several sectors
and to assist in mgmt. improvements in   _
other sectors.
5. Public Enterprise Reform  Same as above, plus finance costs of      1991      Disbursing
Execution (PEREL)         service and equipment contemplated
(L-3292-AR)               under the accompanying PERAL and
extend activities to additional sectors.
Following operations       I
1. 2nd Public Enterprise Reform Part of Bank program to reduce public  1993      Disbursed
(PERAL II) (L-3556-AR)    sector participation in the productive
sector. Loan aims to privatze defense-
related firms, convert defense activities
to civilian use and promote competition.
2. Financial Sector Adjustment Part of a Bank program to reduce the    1993       Disbursed
(L-3558-AR)               role of the state in the financial sector,
strengthen the banking sector and its
supervisory framework and provide
resources for Argentina's debt and debt
service reduction arrangements.



- 27 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle    Date planned latest estimate
Identification                                  02/20/90
Appraisal                          06/00/90      11/07/90
Negotiations                       01/00/91      05/02/91
Board presentation                 03/00/91     07/30/91
Signing                                          08/13/91
Effectiveness                      03/00/91      09/23/91
Second tranche release             03/00/92      03/09/93
Project completion
Loan closing                                     12/31/94
Table 4: Project Financing
(US$
Source                Planned      Revised        Final
IBRD                   300.0        325.0         325.0
IDB                    300.0        300.0         300.0
Total                                ====         625.0
Table 5: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(Manweeks)
Stage of Project cycle    FY90      FY91          FY92        FY93      Total
Preparation            67.5          32.7          _                   100.2
Appraisal                0           69.6           0           0       69.6
Negotiations             0           34.6          12.6         0       47.2
Supervision              0            0           27.7         15.9     43.6
,Sub-total              67.5        136.9          40.3        15.9    260.6



- 28 -
Table 6: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of              Month/ Number of Days in  Specialized staff
Project cycle            Year    Persons    field   skills represented
Through appraisal
Identification                  02/00/90          5        44 b,c,e,f,i.
PSRTAL Coordination             04/00/90          6        63 a,d,i.
Pre-appraisal mission I         06/00/90          7        79 a,d,e,f,h.
Pre-appraisal mission 11        09/00/90          5        45 a.d.e.f.h.i.
Pre-appraisal mission III       10/00/90          2        14 1,g.
Appraisal through Board approval
Appraisal mission I             11/00/90          9       117 a,d,f,g,h.
Appraisal mission 11            12/00/90          2        18 d
Post-appraisal mission I        01/00/91          2        20 a
Post-appraisal misison 11       02/00/91          4        24 a,k.
Post-appraisal mission III      04/00/91          1         3 a
Board approval through effectiveness
Supervision mission I             09/00/91          1         2 e
Supervision mission 11           10/00/91          1         5 f
Supervision mission III          11/00/91          3        56 i,g,h.
Supervision mission IV           01/00/92          2        17 f
Supervision mission V            02/00/92          4        56 a,d,e,h.
Supervision misison VI           03/00/92          3        27 a,d,h.
Supervision mission VIl          07/00/92          1        12 f
Supervision mission VIII         10/00/92          7        63 a,d,e,f,g,h,j.
Procurement mission I             01/00/93          1         6 a
Audit mission                     04/00/93          1        16
Specializations:
a. Task Manager
b. Public Bank Expert
c. Education Expert
d. Economist on the Central Bank
e. Industrial Economist
f. Financial Analyst
g. Public Expenditures Specialist
h. Tax Policy Specialist
i. Financial Sector Expert
j.  National Accounts Specialist



29 _
Table Al: Key Macroeconomic Indicators
(in pecent unle  othetwie specified)
1990        1991      1992      1993       2994       1991      1992     1993      1994
(actual)       (as projected in Presidents Report) at         (actual fig-s)
Annual Real Growth Rates
GDPcontantmrwketpnce                              0.1         2.0       2.5       2.8       2.2         2.9       2.7       6.0       7.1
Private Consaunption per cpitta                  -7.5         3.0      -1.6       0.0       0.6        10.3       9.5       2.9       4.3
National Accounts (% of current GDP) cd
Total hnveatmnt                                   8.9         11.9     13.5      14.3      14.3        14.6      16.7      13.4      20.0
Private                                         5.9         S.2       9.7     10.1       10.3        12.4     14.g      16.0       17.7
Public                                          3.0         3.7       3.3      4.2        4.5         2.2      1.9       2.4        2.3
National Savinp                                  10.5         9.9      11.6      12.3      13.1        13.2      13.0      15.5      16.4
Private                                        12.1         2.5       9.3      9.0        8.9        13.3     11.3      13.5       15.4
Public                                         -1.6         1.4       2.3      3.3        4.2        -0.1      1.2       2.0        1.0
Foreign Svip                                      -1.6        2.0       1.9       2.0       1.7         1.4       3.7       2.9       3.6
ICOR (lagged)                                     -S.3        4.5       4.3       4.3       5.2         1.6       1.9       3.3       3.0
Pubflc Sector
Total Current Revenues d/                         9.7         15.5     15.4      15.2      15.9        11.5      12.5      12.3      12.9
Totl Current Expenditures eJ                     11.9         15.7     15.1      14.6      14.7        12.5      12.4      12.1      11.3
PE Non-intemt Savinp                              0.9          1.1      1.2       1.5       1.6         0.2       0.2       0.3       0.0
Public Saving                                     -1.5         1.0      1.6       2.2       2.3        -0.7       0.7       1.5       0.5
Capital Expenditara                               1.4         2.6       2.6       2.7       3.0         1.0       0.3       1.0       1.0
Nonfinancial Public Sector Balance                -2.5       -0.3      -0.1      -0.2       0.1        -0.7       0.7       1.5      -0.2
Quasi-Fiscal Surplus                              0.0         0.1       0.1       0.1       0.1         0.0      -0. 1      0.1       0.1
OverallBalbnceFinsncedby:                         -2.4        -0.6      0.0      -0.1       0.1        -0.7       0.6       1.6       0.0
Extenal Borrowig (net)                         -2.0         0.1       0.7      0.3        0.7         1.4     -0.4       1.7        0.3
NetDomesttcFuancag                              4.3         0.6      -0.3     -0.7       -0.9        -2.0     -0.1      -0.1       -0.2
Balance or Paytents
ExportsGNFS(rel growthr ee)                      21.S        -15.3      3.4       4.6       4.7        -0.5      -1.1       7.2      12.1
Exports of GNFS/Curent GDP                       10.5         7.6       7.6       7.3       8.0         7.3       6.6       6.3       6.3
ImposGNFS(rel growthrate)                         -2.6       23.3       5.6       6.0       5.3        66.3      53.4      11.2      19.1
Imporu GNFSlCurmnt GDP                            5.0         5.6       6.0       5.3       6.0         6.2       8.2       3.2       9.2
Resource Balance/Current GDP                     0.05         2.0       1.9       2.0       2.0        0.02     40.02     -0.01     -0.02
Current Account BaLancetCurrent GDP              0.01         -1.4     -1.3      -1.3      -1.1        -0.01    -0.04     -2.90     -3.60
Current Account Balance (million USS)            1331       -2535    -2373    -2475       -2272       -2763    -8361      3456       3557
Debt Indicators
Total DOD (million USS)                         59413       60339    61602    63896    65750          69330    37304    37945       97077
TotAl DOD/Current GDP)                           0.42        0.42      0.49      0.51      0.50        0.37      0.33      0.34      0.35
Debt Scrvice Total/Current GDP                    3.3         7.0       6.6       6.4       6.7         5.9       3.5       3.0       3.3
Interet Total(nllion USS)                        5757        5241      4913     5223       5127        4955     4173      3634       4374
Lnteret Totl/lCurrent GDP                        0.04        0.04      0.04      0.04      0.04        0.03      0.02     0.01       0.02
Prices, Exchange Rates and Interest Rates
Domeatic Inflation Lndex (annual)              2023.0        79.0      40.0      25.0      20.0       141.0      15.3       7.5       3.9
Real Exchange Rate Index (1937=100)              99.5        72.0      75.1      79.2      79.2        61.2      53.2     43.9       49.3
LJBOR                                             3.9         7.7       7.5       7.2       7.4         7.3       3.9       3.4       4.9
Monetary Survey - Expnsion to Money (million Peso)
International Resrves                           13423        6391      3936     4123       7526        9093    12495    17222       17929
Domestic Credit                                 20529       55463    60337    54233      74445        50710    51197    63063       73671
Private Sector                                6567       34520    67519    63736    105222         24235    27547    42617       53220
Public Sector                                 13962      20943    -7131   -14452    -30723         26425    23650    20451       20451
Quasi-money                                      2693       53690    52103    43220      67530         5028     9047    12797       14342
Ml                                               2701       17397    17363    16073       22510        7929    11692    16632       19567
GDP (milion USS)                               141400      124900   124900   124100    132500        139700   223300   255300    279500
a / Projections in Presidents Report were based on old national accounts data; these have been converted to new national accounts system.
b I Estimate.
c I Projected national accounts figures and actual 1991 figures based on old national accounts data, hence, actual 1991-1994 figures are
reltivey high, except the forein ssng figures, which amre rlativly low. They are not directly compable to actual 1991-94 figures.
d I Includes net operational sutplu of Public Enterprie.
c I Transfer of quasifl expenditura to the Treasury in 1990; includes PE interest payments.



- 30 -
TIble BI-B3: National Administration Reform Program
Apnl 199    1993                Reductions
Budget      Total  Lav-otrs a/  Transters
TotalNationalAdministtion b/                  671479   284215      387264   103469 c    283795
Adminisaive Reform Proga                    341021   227677      113344    90913       22431
Natonal Admmnisution (Budgeted)          268246   184667        83579    61148       22431
Cemkal AtniinisMUa                     123646    61276        62370    39939       22431
DumtuizedAg-ci                        144600   123391        21209    21209
Oth. Natioral Administion (off Budget)    72775    43010        29765    29765
OthaProPmr                                  330458    56538      273920    12556      261364
Leglaue                                   12405    12405            0    ...         ...
Judiciary                                 14053    17476        -3423    -3423       ...
Nation Accounts Court                       1000     1021         -21      -21       ...
Teache                                   303000    '5636       277364    16000      261364
Mmo:
AnndFoamea(A.F.)anddConscriptsdt            131297   112594       IS703    18703
Natiasi AdminisrauionandArmed Forc          802776   396809      405967   122172 el  283795
Ose lay-offs (exc. tax agencies. Police and A. F.)                        121600
ad Reducuons in positionsvia lay-atfs. early reuremect and attition.
b/ Does not mclude Univesity Teachers, estimated to be auound 95.000.
c/ Total net lay-offs. Discounung incrcms ian the mam tax collection agencies (13,300) and police (4,800).
total  s lay-offs reach 121,600.
d/ Net of civilian personnel in Ministry of Defense. included in National Administation
buget (above). Inludes conscripts, which were reduced from 29,000 in 1990 to 12,000
in 1992, a reduction of 17,000.
eJ Gross total lay-olTs of 121,600 (footnote c) in the National Administration plus military reductions. are
140,300.
Apnl 1990     1993  Reduction
Budtet
Totl Adnunistauve Retbrm Program               341021      227677   113344
Budget
National Administration                     268246      184667    83579
Central Administration                    123646       61276    62370
Decentralized Agencies                    144600      123391    21209
Olr-Budget
National Administration                      72775       43010    29765
Catnl Administration                           0           0        0
Doeentralized Agencies                    72775       43010    29765
A/ National Administration covered in Decree 2476/90 and in 'Hcia un Estato Modemo
A pat



- 31 -
Apni      1993      Reducuon
1990    Budect
Nadonal AdminisuLtion                             26S246   184667        83579
C l  Adminisutaon                               123646    61276        62370
Minitry of Economy and Public Works           11115      6973        4137
Miisty of Forgi  Affairs                       3082      1611        1471
MinistyofHealth                               44360    12022        32838
Ministy of T    and Social Security            2874      2149         725
Ministy of D fe                               41293    27020        14278
Minisay of Intenor                             1167      1173           -6
Ministry of Culture and Educauon              14157      4120       10037
Ministy of Justice                             1751      1765         -14
PresIdency                                     3342      4438       -1096
Docmnutized Agencies                          144600   123391        21209
. 1993 Budget definition: because of changes in administrative structure selected agencie
have been grouped dilferenity from previous layouts in order to make data comparsble.
bl Does not include Teachers and Military.



- 32 -
Table C: Fiscal Cost of Industrial Promotion: Estimated Fiscal Cost and Savings of Reform Progrt
(Million of USS of June 1990)
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Tax Expenditures Before Reforms (Projected) a/                   3012    3269    3491    3945    3675    3719
Industrial Promotion                                          2661    2828    3085    3521    3232    3256
Existing Projects b/                                        2451    2468    2455    2681    2182    1996
Law 23614 (Projected) ct                                     210      420     630      840    1050    1260
Tiern del Fuego d/                                             351      381      406     422     443     463
Savings from Policy Reforms                                       528     822      828    2382    2256    2335
Industrial Promotion                                           518      760     630    2118    1929    1910
Suspension of PromoEion for New Projects e/                  210      420     630      840    1050    1260
50 % Benefit and IVA Compras Suspension f/ g/ h/             308      340       0        0       0    -172
Penalties for Non-Compliance with Emergency Law i/             0        0       0      353       0       0
Reducuon in Benefits - Decree 2054 j/                          0        0       0      925     879     822
Tiera del Fuego kI/ll                                            10      62      198     264     327      425
Fiscl Cost After Reforms                                         2484    2447    2663    1563    1419    1384
Industrial Promotion                                          2143    2128    2455    1403    1303    1346
Tierra del Fuezo                                                341     319      208     160      116      38
a I Includes SICE and Four Provinces programs. Based on February 1993 information.
b / Equal to "Costa Fiscal Utilizado."
c / Includcs USS210 rmillion per year of new projects. as providcd in law 23614 of September 1989, but
not yet in force.
d / Production and import levels are assumed to increase at a 4.5% rate after 1992.
o / Savings from suspension of Law 23614 (footnote b).
f / Suspension of 50 % of benefits by the Emergency Law. Only 20 % of the tax obligation is estimated
to have been paid.
g / It is assumed that only 50 % of the IVA compras %was acutally collected during 1990 and 1991.
In 1992, a judicial decision suspended the collection of IVA compras.
h / The refund of the IVA compras paid during April 1990 to December 1991 starts in 1995.
i / It is assumed that during 1990 and 1991, onlyu 20 percent of the tax liability from the 1989 Emergency
Law was actually paid. This amount was announced to be paid in 1993, as a consequence of audits.
including a penalty of 100%, as provided by law. The refund of the original payment. as provided by
Law, will also come in 1993.
j / This measures the fiscal savings from the bond substitution process started in Dccember 1992
(decree 2054).
k / Includes suspension of reimbursements to the continent (June 1990).
I / Includes 1991-92 fiscal savings from reduction in the domesuc sales tax (impuestos internos); also
includes 1993-95 savings from decree 1998/92 (November 1992), assuming a yearly percent fall of 8%
in production and import levels after 1992.



DOCUMENT OF THE INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
NOT FOR PUBUC USE
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(LOAN No. 633/OC-AR)
13 1995
Rev M;j:ch i, 1996






PREFACE
This is the Program Completion Report (PCR) for Argentina's Public
Sector Adjustment Program (PSAP), which was supported by a fast disbursing
operation in the amount of US$ 325 million (Loan No.633/OC-AR). The loan
was approved on September 25, 1991 and was fully disbursed by March 1993.
This report was prepared by specialists of the Finance and Basic
Infrastructuro Division 3.
Preparation of the report began on December 1, 1994. The report is
based on the loan documents, supervision reports, correspondence with the
borrower and internal memoranda.






- i -
ABBREVIATIONS
ANA         National Customs Administration
BCRA        Central Bank of the Republic of Argentina
CPI         Consumer Price Index
ENTEL       National Telecommunications Enterprise
EFF         Extended Fund Facility
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
IFI         Intermediary financial institution
IHF         International Monetary Fund
IRR         Internal rate of return
INDER       National Reinsurance Institute
PSAP        Public Sector Adjustment Program
QR          Quantitative restriction
SIGENAC     Executive Comptroller's Office
YFP         Federal Petroleum Enterprise
VAT         Value-added tax
WB          World Bank






- ii -
INDEX
I. EVALUATION SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                1
A.    INTRODUCTION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               1
B.    OBJECTIVES  AND DESCRIPTION OF THE PROGRAM  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              2
C.    COMPLIANCE WITH POLICY CONDITIONALITY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               3
D.    PROGRAM RESULTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               3
E.    MAIN LESSONS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               3
(a)    Design   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             3
(b)    Execution and Monitoring   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             4
(c)    Disbursement Procedures  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             4
(d)    Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .                            4
(a)    Bank and Borrower Performances   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             5
F.    MAIN RECOMMENDATIONS  FOR FUTURE OPERATIONS   . .  . . . . . . . . . .                             5
II.   ANALYSIS  OF THE OPERATION   ...  .                 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  5
A.    BACKGROUND   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               5
B.  OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION OF THE LOAN .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
C.  COMPLIANCE WITH POLICY CONDITIONALITY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
D.  PROGRAM RESULTS .                            . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
(a)  Macroeconomic Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
(b)     Fiscal Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
(c)    Public  Procurement Law   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
(d)    Central Bank Reorganization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
E.    MAIN LESSONS  FROM THE PROGRAM  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
(a)    Design   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
(b)    Execution and Monitoring   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
(c)    Disbursement  Procedures  ; . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
(d)    Program Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
(e)     Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
(f)    Bank and Borrower Performances   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
F.    MAIN RECOMMENDATION FOR FUTURE OPERATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . .-.  .    16
III.   BASIC  PROGRAM INFORMATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
A.    BASIC DATA   . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              16
B.    IDB FINANCING  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
C.    FINANCING  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              16
ANNEXES
Annex A Report on Second Tranche Release



- iii -
PROJECT KEY DATA
Borrower:         Republic of Argentina
Executing agency: Ministry of Economy
Amount and purpose:.
Import financing               US$321.75 million
Inspection and supervision    US$  3.25 million
Total                   US$325.00 million
Sources:
Ordinary Capital               US$325.0 million
Terms and conditions:
Amortization                   20 years
Grace period                    5 years
Interest rate                  variable
Commitment fee                  0.75 X
Inspection and supervision      1X
Disbursement period:
Original                       2 years
Actual                         1 year and 5 months
after effectiveness



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
PUBLIC SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
( LOAN No. 633/OC-AR )
I. EVALUATION SUMMARY
_.A.   INRODUCTION
1.1   Argentina followed inward-oriented substitution policies since the 1930s
that led to the development of a protected, non-competitive manufacturing
sector, which grew with the shortages of consumer goods that prevailed
during the Second World War and the immediate postwar period. The
Government also expanded into the productive and service sectors as well
as into the financial sector in the areas of development and mortgage
banking. Since the 1950s, Argentina's economy experienced erratic and low
real growth, high inflation, declining investment/GDP ratios, and capital
flight. The situation began to worsen in the mid-1970s as balance of
payments and fiscal deficits further clouded the economic situation and
their financing led to heavy borrowings from abroad.
1.2   Anti-inflationary policies followed during 1979-81 used the exchange rate
as an anchor under a pre-announced devaluation schedule (tablita).
Significant private capital inflows attracted by short-term financial
benefits financed mostly consumer goods imports, tourism expenditures, and
outflows of funds (e.g. real estate investments in Uruguay). The increased
trade deficit and the rising debt service payments deteriorated the
current account balance of payments. Private enterprises were adversely
affected by high real interest rates and high debt/capital ratios and
experienced severe difficulties, which also impacted on the financial
sector. The fiscal deficit worsened as revenues declined with the economic
slowdown. The overvaluation of the currency could no longer be sustained
in early 1981.
1.3   The abandonment of the tablita in March 1981 led to a financial collapse
of the private sector. As a result, the government had to honor the
3exchange guarantees' it had issued to private debtors and, thus, became
responsible for nearly all private external debt. Subsequently,
international interest rates shot up to very high levels and foreign
financing sources began to dry out with the retrenchment of international
commercial banks from Latin-America on account of the South Atlantic
conflict and, particularly, the 1982 debt crisis, which was triggered by
the Mexican moratorium on the external debt. As a result, Argentina's
external debt multiplied while its sources of financing were limited to
multilateral lending. Commercial debt rescheduling and limited amounts of
new money became a necessity.
1.4   Rather than making an effective fiscal adjustment to pay for its debt
service obligations, the government resorted to money creation and used



2
foreign exchange restrictions anc/or broad quantitative restrictions on
imports to mobilize resources for this purpose. The private sector
gradually withdrew its resources from the financial system to avoid the
inflation tax. Meanwhile, several stabilization programs failed and
inflation kept recurring with renewed strength until it reached 200
percent in July 1989.
1.5   The crisis provided the momentum for an early transfer of power to the
newly elected President, whose administration launched programs of
stabilization and structural reform with mixed results in 1989 and 1990.
Advances in privatization of public enterprises and administrative reforms
were not accompanied by a stable fiscal equilibrium or success in the
control of inflation. Hyperinflation resurfaced in December 1989 and,
after some decline, inflation climbed again at end-1990. In early 1991, a
major stabilization program began. The program comprised revenue and
expenditure measures to eliminate the fiscal deficit. The turning point
was an April 1991 convertibility law establishing a par fixed exchange
rate peso/dollar, which so far has been maintained albeit with some
corrective measures as export competitiveness weakened. The aim of the
measures is to reduce domestic costs, including labor and social security
costs, through structural adjustments on the supply side to restore the
economy's competitiveness.
1.6   The Government aimed at balancing the public sector accounts, reversing
the demonetization of the peso economy, and normalizing relations with
external bank creditors.The fiscal and quasi-fiscal deficits so far had
been virtually eliminated, partly with the proceeds of the privatization
of public enterprises and debt-equity conversions. The monetization of the
economy  was  enhanced  by  the  introduction  of  bimonetarism,.  the
strengthening of the peso free convertibility with a reportedly 100
percent  dollar  backing  of  the  monetary  base,   freeing  financial
intermediaries to provide credit in pesos or dollars, guaranteeing dollar
deposit withdrawals in the same currency, and deregulating the stock
exchange. With respect to the external debt, the Government moved to
renegotiate the debt with commercial bank creditors under the Brady plan,
which supported major debt and debt service reductions with a strong
linkage to economic reforms.
B.   OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIfTION OF THE PROGRAM
1.7   The Bank loan supported the Public Sector Adjustment Program (PSAP) in a
cofinancing operation with the WB. The main objective of the PSAP was to
remove the sources of the public sector deficit. Towards this end, the
PSAP  concentrated  in  three   areas:   increasing   fiscal  revenues;
rationalizing public expenditures; and restructuring the central bank
(BCRA) and reducing its role in deficit financing.
1.8   The  revenue  component  aimed at  increasing  collections  and reducing
evasion. It included: expanding the value-added tax base; removing up to
80X of manufacturing subsidies; and, more importantly, strengthening the
tax administration through better and expanded auditing of declarations,
more complete taxpayers rosters, greater efficiency, computerization of



3
internal and custom taxes, and administiative restructuring of tax
offices.
1.9   The expenditure component aimed at lowering expenditures by reducing the
federal bureaucracy by over 120,000 and the federal payroll by 25 percent,
by strengthening budgetary management and by expenditure controls. In
addition, the program supported the creation of a special executive
service of about 1,500 people to alleviate, on a selective basis, the
flattening of the wage scale of the federal administration; this was
envisaged as a step in creating a high level civil service well-
remunerated to run the country's bureaucracy.
1.10 The BCRA restructuring component aimed at restoring its role as the
monetary authority and avoid a repetition of past practices when BCRA was
an important source of financing for all government levels. The loan
required: a new charter, a drastic reduction in credit to the non-
financial public sector, staff reductions and the termination of the
financial support to commerce and to the liquidation of banks.
C.   COMPLIANCE WITH POLICY CONDITIONALITY
1.11 The Bank loan was approved on September 25, 1991 and had been disbursed by
March 26, 1993. Second tranche disbursements were delayed because the
supporting import documentation was not provided in a timely manner.
D.   PROGRAM RESULTS
1.12 The program was successful in reducing macroeconomic instability
originating in the fiscal accounts. The revenue component based mostly on
administrative improvements of the tax administration and the expanded VAT
tax base increased Central Government revenues over 4 percentage points of
GDP during 1990-93. The expenditure management and control component,
however, did not contribute much to deficit reduction as total
expenditures of the Central Government increased about 2 percentage points
of GDP during 1990-93. The BCRA component resulted in a significant
improvement of the financial sector's supervision, a new BCRA charter, the
restructuring of the BCRA, and limitations on credit to the non-financial
public sector. However, recent events (reappearance of the fiscal deficit,
unsustainable rising current account balance of payments deficits, Mexican
peso difficulties) raise questions about the medium-term sustainability of
the program (see main body of the report).
E.   MAIN LESSONS
(a)   Desizn
1.13  The main design lesson from the PSAP is the confirmation that the
conditionality should concentrate on a few, key important areas rather
than dispersed over many components and sub-components. This was the
positive experience of the PSAP, which had few components. The dispersion
of the conditionality over many areas is a recipe for incomplete or sub-



4
standard performance in one or more sub-components, which, in an overall
balance, has to be accepted as some level of compliance.
1.14  The PSAP demonstrates also the importance of the overall macro context or
policy framework in which the program is being implemented. Argentina was
involved in a broadly based overall program of structural reforms of which
the PSAP was a part. All reform programs were consistent and had full
government support. In particular, the PSAP, by strengthening public
finances,  was a fundamental element of the quest for price stability,
which was the core of the government policy.
(b)   Execution and Monitoring
1.15  The PSAP provides a lesson about the importance of the government and
other public sector bodies being fully committed to the program as a
condition of success. In this case, the government had a strong commitment
and pushed forward the agreed measures. With respect to monitoring, this
is facilitated by a well-focused and concentrated program, which was the
case of the PSAP.
(c)   Disbursement Procedures
1.16  The PSAP developed difficulties for the provision of the necessary support
documentation for second tranche release. The support of the WB permitted
to circumvent this obstacle but this approach should not be satisfactory
for dealing with the problem. The lesson extracted from the PSAP
experience is that procedures for tranche disbursement should be clarified
at the negotiation stage to avoid misunderstandings.
(d)   Sustainability
1.17  The risk of unforeseen developments derailing progress obtained under the
PSAP is still present. Macroeconomic performance is crucial to the
sustainability of the results of the PSAP. This concerns maintaining the
exchange rate regime, restoring export competitiveness, generating genuine
savings and foreign exchange earnings to service the public sector debt
and cover current account balance of payments developments. Up to now the
Government has been able to stay the course. However, the program still
confronts potential risks arising of: the fallout from the Mexican peso
crisis on capital markets, higher international interest rates, failure of
productivity increases to exceed those of trading partners and thus
failure to boost competitiveness for strong export growth, and pressures
for a devaluation leading to higher inflation rates.
1.18  A program dealing with the public sector deficit, which basically achieves
results through revenue increases and much less through expenditure
reductions, is bound to develop difficulties if the economy encounters
major problems affecting adversely growth and tax revenues. Some
indications of fiscal disequilibrium already surfaced in 1994 and could
widen in 1995. It is too early to assess the magnitude of the impact.



(e)   Bank and Borrower Performances
1.19 Bank performance was adequate in the framework agreed at the time for
cofinancing WB operations.
1.20 Borrower performance was satisfactory in complying with Bank conditions,
with the exception of the enactment of the Public Procurement Law.
However, the documentation required for second tranche release was not
provided as required, forcing the Bank to rely on WB information.
F.   MAIN RECOMMENDATIONS FOR FUTURE OPERATIONS
1.21 An adjustment program should concentrate on a few, important areas to
ensure meaningful reform results. In this connection, the diagnosis of the
problem and the identified solutions should be very accurate.
II. ANALYSIS OF THE OPERATION
A.   BACKGROUND
2.1   Argentina embarked on import-substitution policies since the 1930s Great
Depression. These policies led to the development of a protected, non-
competitive manufacturing sector, which grew with the shortages of
consumer goods that prevailed during the Second World War and the
immediate postwar period. A parallel development was a significant
expansion of the Government into productive and service sectors, such as
petroleum, coal, steel, electricity, telecommunications, railways and
airlines, and into the financial sector with development and mortgage
banks. Since the 1950's, Argentina's economy experienced significant
difficulties characterized by erratic and low real growth, high inflation,
declining investment/GDP ratios, and capital flight.
2.2   Anti-inflationary policies followed during 1979-81 used the exchange rate
as an anchor under a pre-announced devaluation schedule (tablita), which
lagged behind the inflation rate; they exacerbated the economic
deterioration. Significant private capital inflows attracted by short-term
financial benefits financed mostly consumer goods imports, tourism
expenditures, and outflows of funds (e.g. real estate investments in
Uruguay) and did not add significantly to the production and exporting
capacity. The increased trade deficit and the rising debt service payments
deteriorated the current account balance of payments. The fiscal deficit
worsened as revenues declined with the economic slowdown. The
overvaluation of the currency could no longer be sustained in early 1981.
2.3   The costs of the experiment were. significant.  First, an increasingly
overvalued peso led to an import boom and significant deficits in the
current account balance of payments while lack of expenditure discipline
and real revenue declines sharply increased the fiscal deficit. Larger
fiscal and balance of payments deficits were financed with substantial
foreign borrowings when international interest rates were highly positive
in real terms. These borrowings were used to finance fiscal deficits,



6
losses of public enterprises and provincial governments, industrial
promotion schemes favoring privileged industrialists, housing contractors
and selected middle class home buyers, military expenditures and, in
addition, foreign exchange gaps to sustain the pre-announced devaluation
schedule. Second, the financial structure of private enterprises became
very weak. Private enterprises were adversely affected by high real
interest rates and high debt/capital ratios and experienced severe
difficulties, which also impacted on the financial sector and on public
finances. Third, the public debt stock escalated further when private
debtors experienced difficulties with their external debt obligations and
the Government had to honor its exchange guarantee commitments and become
responsible for almost all private external debts. As a result, the public
external debt service increased very significantly in 1982. At the same
time, the armed conflict with Great Britain and, particularly, the Kexican
debt moratorium led to a retrenchment of foreign commercial banks from
lending in Latin-America.
2.4   With the retrenchments  of foreign lenders  from the region in 1982,
servicing the external debt became a serious problem. Argentina's access
to external financing was limited to multilateral lending. Resorting to
involuntary debt rescheduling of debts with foreign commercial banks with
the commitment of some new money became a necessary arrangement. The debt-
servicing problem was further compounded by the well-known transfer
problem, i.e, the generation of income and foreign exchange earnings by
producers/exporters and the transfer mechanism for appropriating these
resources by the Government for payment to the creditor banks. Military
and civilian governments avoided the problem and resorted to foreign
exchange restrictions, quantitative import restrictions and money creation
instead of generating genuine fiscal resources. Stabilization programs
failed and inflation rekindled after each failure. A severe crisis
developed when inflation reached 200 percent in July 1989.
2.5  The crisis facilitated an earlier transfer of power to the newly elected
President, who took office with a strong mandate to stop the chaotic
economic situation and carry out programs of stabilization and structural
reform. The government launched a privatization program of public
enterprises in 1990, which covered the airline, telecommunications
company, railways, oil and gas companies, power and water companies,
steel, armament factories, etc. with the proceeds of these sales providing
resources for a temporary improvement of public finances. However, the
initial stabilization efforts were not successful; hyperinflation levels
were recorded in December 1989 and, after some decline, inflation began to
accelerate again in late 1990 and early 1991.
2.6   A new program began reversing the trend in April 1991.  It aimed at
reducing inflation, changing the structure of production, balancing the
public sector accounts by increasing tax revenues and controlling
expenditures, continuing the privatization of public enterprises,
reversing the demonetization of the peso economy, and restructuring the
central bank (BCRA). The turning point was the April 1991 Convertibility
Law establishing a par fixed exchange rate peso/dollar, with free
convertibility, and a reportedly 100 percent dollar backing of the



7
monetary base. This led to the dollarization of deposits and credits of
financial intermediaries, and the guarantee of dollar-deposit withdrawals
in the same currency. The peso/dollar exchange rate so far has been
maintained albeit with some temporary corrective measures, such rebates to
improve export competitiveness, or pressures from the investment climate
in the region, particularly the-devaluation of the Mexican peso and its
aftermath on financial markets.
2.7   To stimulate private activities, trade liberalization efforts continued.
The maximum import tariff rate was reduced to 20 percent; quantitative
import restrictions were removed, except for cars; export taxes were
eliminated and indirect taxes reimbursed to exporters; and the anti-
dumping mechanism was revamped to comply with the GATT Code. In parallel,
restrictions on professional, transport and port services were ended to
reduce businesses costs. Labor legislation was approved aiming at
improving collective bargaining and providing more flexibility.
2.8   On the strength of the reform program, the Government negotiated in 1992
with creditor commercial banks, under the Brady plan, a debt and debt
service reduction program. The DDSR Agreement restructured about US$21
billion of external debts with commercial banks and normalized the
situation of about US$8 billion of past due interest. The Agreement
provided a partial discount and a lower fixed interest rate in exchange
for normalizing the repayments and continuing the implementation of
significant policy reforms and structural adjustments. The agreement
improved Argentina's creditworthiness and ability to attract foreign
financing.
2.9   The above-noted developments shaped the growth performance of the economy.
The real GDP's growth rate fluctuated during the 1980's, dropped 6 percent
in 1989 and showed no growth in 1990. Savings and investment rates in
Argentina dropped as funds increasingly moved abroad. However, under the
1991 stabilization and reform program,  the economy recovered.   During
1990-93, GDP grew over 7 percent a year and exports of goods increased 2
percent a year. Nevertheless, productive investment was insufficient to
restore competitiveness. The current account balance of payments
deteriorated abruptly from a surplus of US$4.6 billion in 1990 to a
deficit of US$11.6 billion in 1994, reflecting the increasingly
uncompetitive trade position and the reduction of protection. Imports
expanded from US$3.7 billion in 1990 to US$15.5 billion in 1993 and rose
again by 40 percent in the first semester of 1994 compared to the same
period in 1993.
2.10 Projections for 1995 indicate the need for continuous private capital
inflows and the essential importance of boosting export performance. Given
developments in the Mexican capital market, the inflows of foreign private
capital is not ensured; thus, the balance of payments financing would most
likely be a function of desired savings and investment levels in the
private sector. 1
World Bank, Provincial Reform Loan, President Report No. P-6414-AR.



B.   OBJECTIVIS AND DESCRIPTION O  THE LOAN
2.11  The Bank loan provided US$325 million In support of the PSAP to help cover
some of the costs of the adjustment. This was a cofinancing operation vith
the World Bank (WB), which provided also US$325 million in support of the
adjustment program.
2.12  The principal government objective in undertaking the PSAP vas to take
corrective action to remove the sources of the public sector deficit. To
accomplish thia, the PSAP covered the folloving areas: (i) Increasing
fiscal revenues; (ii) rationalizLng public expenditures; and (iii)
reforming the Central Bank (BCRA) and, in particular, reducing its deficit
financing of the government.
2.13  On the revenue side, the program included important steps to increase
governmont revenuec, ac follows: (l) expanding the value-added tax base to
cover services and the vetoing by the Executive of any new exemption to
this tax; (ii) eliminating up to 80 percent of the subsidies granted to
manufacturing; (iii) strengthening the tax administration through better
audit systems to cover the 30,000 largest taxpayers in 1991 and all
taxpayers in 1992; (iv) cross-checking of taxpayers ,declarations for
social security payments and tax collections; (v) stimulating greater
efficiency of tax collectors with a revenue-sharing system; (vi) improving
the follow up and collection of taxes owed an a result of audits; and
(vii) revamping of the General Tax Directorate (DGI), with particular
reference to revisions of administrative regulations and budgetary
procedures, and the introduction of new procedures for hiring personnel
and purchases by DCI. In addition, drastic actions were taken against
firms which were not in compliance with VAT procedures; about 200 firms
were closed down in the initial steps of the program. The program also
supported a new computerized system for the control of import
classification to reduce errors and corruption.
2.14  On the expenditure side,  the program consisted of: (i) reducing the
federal bureaucracy by 120,000 no later than May 1, 1992, with particular
emphasis on the elimination of whole government functions and entities
rather than on piecemeal reductions; (ii) diminishing by 25 percent
payroll expenditures; (ii) improving salary scales for about 1,500
executives as a step in creating a high-level executive service to corroct
the flattening of the federal wage pyramid; (iv) a tormination package for
fired employses, which consisted of payments for six months at 75 percent
of the original wage plus a lump-sum payment plus saintonance of social
benefits for one year; and (v) strengthening budgetary programming of and
controls over expenditures, including drafting legislation on financial
management and controls.
2.15  With  respect  to  the BCRA,  the program  aimed at  restructuring  the
Superintendency of Banks; a new charter for the BCRA; a substantial
reductlon of credit to the non-financial public sector as a result of the
progress In strengthening public finances; termination of BCRA's. financLal
support to commerce and to the liquidation of bank., which conveyed a
parallel staff reduction under conditions similar to those granted to
governaent employees.



9
C.   COMPLIANCE WITH POLICY CONDITIONALITY
2.16  The loan was approved by the Board on September 25, 1991 and was fully
disbursed by March 1993. After loan signing on November 15, 1991, first
tranche disbursements took place on December 13, 1991 and second tranche
disbursements in March 1993 after loan conditions had been met. Second
tranche disbursement of the cofinanced WB loan had taken place a month
earlier in February 1993.
D.   PROGRAX RESULTS
(a)   Macroeconomic Performance
2.17  The  main  program  objective  of  reducing  the  chronic  macroeconomic
instability was achieved. In general, the macroeconomic performance was
consistent with the program objectives. The government economic program
lowered inflation substantially by establishing a fixed peso/dollar
exchange rate and full convertibility while achieving a fiscal balance.
With price stability, the economy recovered its growth path; GDP grew an
average 7.9 percent a year during 1990-93. However, unemployment reached
levels exceeding 10 percent, which are significantly above traditional
country levels, and the trade account deficit of the balance of payments
widened to about US$5.0 billion in 1994 from US$3.7 billion in 1993, as
imports were fueled by domestic demand and the peso appreciation. Capital
inflows financed the larger current account deficit.
Table 1
MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
(billion dollars or X)
ITEM                                              1990   1991   1992  1993  19941
GDP                                                 69    181    727   255    280
Exports (FOB)                                       12      12     12    13      15
Imports (FOB                                         4       8     14    15      20
Trade Balance                                        9       4     -1    -2       -5
Gross Domestic Investment/GDP (X)                   14      14     17    18      20
National Savings/GDP (X)                            18      15     14    16      16
Foreign Savings/GDP (X)                             -4      -1      2      2      4
Current Account B.O.P.                               5      -1     -6    -8    -11
Net Foreign Assets (Monetary Survey)                 4       6      3      8      5
Reserves (Monetary Survey)                           4       9     11    15    152
Federal Deficit (-), cash basis (X of GDP)          -3      -1      1      1      0
^ Preliminary.
2 July 1994.
Sources: IFS and WB, PR-6414-AR, and Secretaria de Programaci6n Econ6mica, Informs
Econ6mico, 1994.



10
2.18  Sustainability of the program in the medium-term depends on corrective
actions. The government medium-term strategy is: (i) with respect to
export competitiveness, to reduce domestic production costs, particularly
through lowering equivalent-dollar wages and eliminating the employer's
payroll contribution to social security below those of Argentina's trading
partners; and (ii) with respect to balance of payments imbalances, to
increase national savings to compensate for the recent instability in
capital markets, which might not provide the private capital inflows
needed to finance the current account balance of payments deficit. In this
connection, legislation was approved to ease collective bargaining and
provide more flexibility to the labor market, and to reform the social
security system into a capitalization program and eliminate the employer's
contribution. New legislation on these two matters is now under discussion
in Congress. Despite the increase in private savings, external private
capital inflows will still be needed to ensure a smooth transition to a
sustainable balance of payments.
(b)   Fiscal Performance
2.19  Fiscal performance was satisfactory from 1990 to 1993 as the current and
overall deficits of the Central Government became small surpluses. Tax
administration was successful in reducing tax evasion and pushed
collections to record levels. Central Government revenues increased from
about 12 percent in 1990 to over 16 percent in 1993. The expenditure
reduction in the Central Government, however, was less successful as
current expenditures increased from 14 percent of CDP in 1990 to 17
percent in 1993, increase which was not fully compensated by a slight drop
of capital expenditures. Total expenditures increased from 15.6 percent of
GDP in 1990 to 18.1 percent in 1993.
2.20  In 1994, there was some deterioration of the fiscal accounts resulting on
under performance in compliance with some of the IMF's targets.
Afterwards, with the Pension Reform Law 2041, which became effective on
July 1, 1994, payroll revenues on manufacturing activities were
transferred to new pension arrangements and the employer contribution
eliminated, while the government retained the liabilities of the old
pension system. As a result, the government has been experiencing monthly
fiscal deficits in the second half of 1994, which have continued into
1995. Reductions of employer's payroll contributions, for commerce and
services scheduled for January 1, 1995 were postponed until the fiscal
situation improves. The pension reform effect, combined with the increase
in interest payments from higher international interest rates on part of
the external debt (past-due interest borics), is likely to increase the
public sector deficit over that of 1994. Early estimates are for a
government deficit of US$2 billion.
2.21  The fiscal and quasi-fiscal deficits were virtually eliminated through:
(i) increases of the value-added tax rate from 13 percent to 18 percent
with very limited exemptions1; the value-added tax (VAT) collections
expanded from 2.3 percent of GDP in 1990 to 6.2 percent in 1994; (ii) a
large revenue impact of rebuilding the tax rolls and improving the tax
1 Raised to 21X in March 1995.



11
administration to combat tax evasion; (iii) lower manufacturing subsidies;
(iv) stronger expenditure controls, redimensioning of the public
administration; (v) lower transfers to the provinces and public
enterprises; (vi) the proceeds of the privatization of public enterprises;
and (vii) the reduction of interest payments associated with the
renegotiation of the external debt. The primary surplus of the public
sector reached 2.1 percent of GDP in 1992 and 2.7 percent in 1993 before
declining to 1.1 percent in 1994.
2.22  On the revenue side, the government made serious efforts to raise revenues
through VAT rate increases and improvements in the general tax
administration (DGI), which had a substantial impact on increasing Central
Government  revenues,  as  nsited  in  paragraphs  2.19  and  2.21.  The
administrative improvements _arried out were:  (i) the number of audits
increased significantly and the collection target of over 85X of the
additional tax liabilities determined by these audits was accomplished;
(ii) a universal roster of taxpayers was established and the coverage of
the roster of large taxpayers was expanded from 60,000 in 1992 to 250,000
in 1994; (iii) the value of tax assessments increased although it did not
lead to higher global assessments over those of 1990, as required by the
conditionality, because most important valuations were sent to the courts
for disposition in compliance with the new penal code; and (iv) revenues
from the "voluntary" tax payments category doubled as a ratio to GDP
between 1990 and 1992.
2.23  In addition, the program to improve customs administration was successful
in raising import tariffs revenues, which tripled from 1990 to 1992. The
basic tools were: the adoption of the French customs computerized system
(MARIA), the simplification of procedures and norms, and the adoption of
the General Tax Directorate (DGI) system for controlling large taxpayers.
2.24  With respect to industrial promotion exemptions, the program led to a
significant overhaul of the system. The tax administration examined 2,500
industrial establishments benefitting from these exemptions and the
government promulgated Decree No. 2054 and three ministerial resolutions,
which established the legal and administrative set up for the control of
the audited firms. The Decree required that all firms remaining under the
old system would be subject to an audit to ascertain its co:apliance with
all laws and decrees enacted since 1989. Decree No. 2054 also established:
(i) new rules replacing tax exemptions with non-negotiable tax
certificates, which could be used to pay tax liabilities; (Ci) termination
of benefits for firms not in compliance with their initial commitments;
(iii) limitations of benefits for beneficiary firms which had not begun
operations; and (iv) new uniform rules for the application of the VAT
regime norming sales of suppliers to firms benefitting from the industrial
promotion scheme.
2.25  The elimination of the fiscal and other incentives  to manufacturing
activities in the province of Tierra del Fuego also achieved satisfactory
results. The domestic tax on sales of electronic equipment was repelled in
november 1991; export subsidies were terminated by Decree 888/92; the VAT
exemption for manufacturers of electronic equipment was expected to be



12
gradualLy eliminated in four years by Decree 1999/92 but has been
partially retained until the year 2013, as noted below; and import tariff
protection was reduced from 35Z to 20X. However, the special preferential
treatment of Tierra del Fuego was only partially eliminated. In 1993, a
partial exemption of the value-added tax (7 percent instead of 18 percent)
was retained until the year 2003 and, under MERCOSUR's external tariff
arrangements, the province was permitted this prerogative until the year
2013; inputs also are imported duty free.
2.26  The government, at disbursement of the second and final tranche of the
loan, had complied with a closely related condition requiring that no new
tax exemptions or other benefits would be provided after December 1990
under the Industrial Promotion Regime or other existing legislation. Later
on, however, special exchange rate arrangements have been established for
some manufacturing activities adversely affected by the Convertibility Law
regime, such as car exports.
2.27  On expenditure reduction, the government complied satisfactorily with the
conditionality. However, total public expenditures remained at about the
same level. Declines in infrastructure expenditures, debt service, and
miscellaneous other expenditures were compensated mostly by increases in
social security expenditures, which went up from 5.86 percent of GDP in
1991 to 8.84 percent in 1994.
2.28  With respect to staff reductions, about 120,000 jobs were eliminated at
the Federal level, of which 22,000 were transferred to the provinces,
about 19,000 were laid-off in the armed forces, and 20,000 retired. This
was partly compensated with the reported increases in revenue-collection
personnel and police, which totalled 13,300 and 4,800, respectively.
During 1991-92, the cost of the reduction in force was about US$312
million. Public enterprises employment declined from 347,000 in 1989 to
37,000 in 1994 as a result of the privatization program. Overall, it is
estimated a reduction in force of about 300,000 jobs in the public sector.
2.29  The Law on Financial Management and Performance Control was approved on
September 30, 1992 and the corresponding regulations were issued. The law
established: (i) an integrated public financial management system,
including comprehensive budgeting and accounting for the federal public
sector; (ii) an effective system of internal controls for the Executive
branch, coordinated by the executive comptroller's office, which reports
directly to the President of Argentina; and (iii) reestablished a National
General Auditing Office, which reports to Congress.
2.30  Other conditions on expenditure accounting control that the government
complied with were: (i) the annual budgets submitted to Congress to be
based on a new programming system; (ii) the elimination of earmarked
funds, which dropped from 151 in 1990 to 59 in 1992, with a parallel
reduction in expenditures of 23X, which was close to the agreed percentage
reduction; further action in 1993 reduced the number of funds to 44, which
represented about 3% of the budget and are no longer a source of subsidies
to the private sector; (iii) transfers to the Provinces were lowered



13
significantly bel'.w 1991 budget authorization while transfers to public
enterprises were only slightly lower.
2.31  At the same time that the government took steps to reduce expenditures, it
established a senior executives service and widened the pay ratio between
top executives and other staff positions. Decree No. 2712/91 established
a new pay scale for civil service.
(c)   Public Procurement Law
2.32  At second tranche disbursement, the Board's tranche release document noted
that the government had not fully met its commitment to enact and put into
effect the Public Procurement Law. A draft law had been prepared
clarifying  and  revamping  bidding,   pre-qualification,   price,   and
contracting procedures, and particularly those procedures dealing with
projects  financed  by  multilateral  banks  and  other  international
organizations. The law had been submitted to Congress in January 1993 but
has not been approved. However, a Presidential decree advanced most of the
expected changes by postponing preferences for domestic firms and issuing
administrative instructions to purchasing agencies. The privatization of
state enterprises also contributed to a positive result on this score as
these entities did most of the procurement of goods in the public sector.
(d)   Central Bank Reorganization
2.33  The monetary authority of the Central Bank of the Republic of Argentina
(BCRA) was reestablished with several actions. Short-term, high interest
deposits were converted to long-term dollar bonds (BONEX) at LIBO-based
rates in January 1990, thus ending the destabilizing practice of BCRA of
covering its losses with short-term debt. This was followed by the
approval of the Convertibility Law in April 1991, which fixed the exchange
rate at one peso per one US$, de-indexed contracts, permitted dollar
transactions, and required a 100 percent dollar backing of the monetary
base; and by the passage of a new BCRA Charter in September 1992 to
reestablish an independent monetary authority. The dollarization of
deposits and credits of financial intermediaries, the dollar guarantee of
deposit withdrawals in the same currency, and the deregulation of the
stock exchange strengthened the monetization of the economy.
2.34  The reorganization of the BCRA was carried out in step with the agreed
changes. The new BCRA charter prohibited the bank from issuing bonds,
lending to financial intermediaries (except for short-term liquidity
needs), paying interest on deposits, and financing the government by more
than 10 percent a year. It also required the reform of the Superintendency
of Banks and the transfer of the activities connected with the liquidation
of banks from BCRA to the courts. BCRA retained the liquidation of assets
of failed banks. As a result of the restructuring the total number of
employees of BCRA dropped 30 percent from 1990 to 1992; the staff
associated with the liquidation of failed banks also declined about 27
percent.



14
2.35  The regulatory framework of the banking system experienced a significant
improvement. Apart from eliminating restrictions, the new norms represent
a significant step to strengthen the solvency of the banking system with
the introduction of Basle-type norms on the risk classification of assets
and minimum capital requirement at 8 percent of said assets. The new
criteria for portfolio classification was expected to be in place by
December 1994 and the provisioning needed to be provided by July 1995.
Argentina's banking system is overdimensioned for the existing business
and thus tends to charge higher fees and interest rates to cover
expenditures. The full impact of the Basle-type rules on asset
classification and provisioning to cover minimum solvency requirements is
likely to lead to a rationalization of the banking system. Already some
banks have failed and others are experiencing liquidity difficulties,
which may worsen if the portfolios are not of good quality.
E.   MAIN LESSONS FROM THE PROGRAM
(a)   Desin-
2.36  The main lesson from this program concerns the importance of keeping the
conditionality centered on a few important areas to ensure the overall
success of the adjustment operation. The PSAP experience clearly supports
this approach. It shows positive results on a well-defined, concentrated
conditionality. Complex conditionality could be tackled more successfully
under several operations.
2.37  A second design lesson relates to the consistency with the overall policy
program being carried out by the government. The PSAP's design was
consistent with the overall adjustment policy followed by the government,
which covered many areas under several adjustment programs. In particular,
it should be mentioned the close connection between price stability and
sound fiscal accounts and a properly functioning central bank and banking
system.
(b)   Execution and Monitoring
2.38  The commitment of the national authorities to the implementation of the
program is essential for positive implementation results. This was the
case with Argentina's PSAP with the strong commitment of the Ministry in
charge of economic policy, who also had the firm support of the President.
2.39  With respect to monitoring, the importance of a clear, identifiable level
of advance in measuring progress should be stressed. It helps
substantially to keep down monitoring activities but also helps ensure
more substantial compliance.
(c)   Disbursement Procedures
2.40  The second trarnche disbursement was the subject of some misunderstanding.
A disbursement request was made by the government without the appropriate
documentation supporting  the  fulfillment  of  the  conditionality.  The
documentation was put together with help from the UB staff that prepared



15
the tranche release for that institut.on. The disbursement was further
delayed for the need to wait, in cofinancings with the WB, for the WB's
Board decision approving the disbursement with a waiver on the condition
requiring the enactment of the Public Procurement Law. In this connection,
it should be noted that the collaboration WB-BID was satisfactory.
(d)   Program Risks
2.41 The Bank documentation anticipated the potential risk of rising
unemployment linked to the reduction in force in the public sector. The
PSAP impact on unemployment has been magnified by the economic
consequences of overall deflationary economic policies with unemployment
reaching about 13 percent of the labor force. However, there was no
negative feedback to stop the program.
2.42 The identified risk in the loan proposal of a condition not been fulfilled
materialized in the case of the Procurement Law as noted above.
(e)   Sustainability
2.43 The main risk noted in the loan proposal was that of unforeseen
developments derailing or reducing the effectiveness of the overall
program despite a committed government. The economic conduction has been
instrumental in carrying forward the program. Nevertheless, despite this
commitment, there are potential developments ahead, which may raise major
hurdles in the near future, e.g. pressures on public finances. If this
risk materializes, there is a lesson to be drawn: public sector financial
adjustments are closely interrelated with the short and medium term
performance of the economy and, unless there is vigorous economic recovery
and growth, fiscal performance could deteriorate as revenues falter.
2.44 Furthermore, private savings increase should be a clear goal of the
overall reform program to ensure the sustainability of the macro reform
program. In this context, the lesson is that domestic measures should be
put in place to help avoid an import stampede caused by trade
liberalization and an overvalued currency. These measures might include
transitory selective consumption taxes, limits on consumer credit, etc. to
ease the transition and create the conditions for lasting reforms and
avoid booms and busts, which would be blame on the reforms..
(f)   Bank and Borrower Performances
2.45 Bank performance was adequate in view of the existing constraints at that
time, which required the Bank to cofinance adjustment operations developed
by the WB.
2.46 Borrower performance was satisfactory in complying with almost all the
loan conditions in a timely manner. The only major exception was the
Public Procurement Law. The documentation required to meet disbursement
conditions, however, was not timely provided for second tranche
disbursement as noted above.



16
F.   MAIN RECOXXEINDATION FOR FUTURE OPERATIONS
2.47 This operation provides a good example to be followed: an adjustment
program concentrated in a few, important areas with a good diagnosis and
where important results are feasible. The operation provides a clear case
to contrast against other programs with a much broader, all-inclusive
coverage but with potential non-compliance in several areas.
III.  BASIC PROGRAM INFORMATION
Country:                 Argentina
Loan number:             633/OC-AR
Name of the operation:  Public Sector Adjustment Program
Borrower:                Republic of Argentina
Executing agency:        Ministry of Economy
Modality:                Fast-disbursing
A.   BASIC DATA
Orizinal
Program Committee (SLP):             08/10/90
Program Committee (SLS):             05/08/91
Loan Committee:                      08/01/91
Negotiations:                         08/12/91
Board approval date:                 09/25/91
Loan contract signing:                11/15/91
First tranche disbursement:           12/13/91
Second tranche disbursement:         03/26/93
B.   IDB FINANCING (million US$)
Total IDB amount disbursed            325
Total Program                         650
IDB percent of total                   50 X
C.   FINANCING (million US$)
1. Total                             650
IDB loan (Ordinary Capital)   325
WB loan                        325
2. Disbursement Schedule             La
First tranche                  162.5        162.5
Second tranche                 162.5        162.5
3. Loan Disbursement
Disbursed                      325.0
Canceled                       none
4. Disbursement Dates                 ,Exected    Actual
First tranche                               12/15/91
Second tranche                 12/31/93    03/26/93
at the latest
5. Terms
Grace period                   5 years
Amortization                   20 years
First amortization             11/15/96












[ i  A  "-I I  N    ;
Repc.r NL ,: NL.478 1
Type: ICF:



