Document of              FILE COpy
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2515-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
INTERCONEXION ELECTRICA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
SAN CARLOS II HYDRO POWER PROJECT
May 30, 1979
This document hbs a restrictd distributIn and may be _ns  by recipients only in the perforance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Average Calendar 1978            Mid-1979 Estimate
(estimate)
Currency Unit - Peso - Col$              Col$
US$1          = Col$39.32                 43.10
Col$1         = US$0.0254                 0.0232
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)           2          3.281 feet (ft)       2
1 square kilometgr (km )         0.386 square mile (mi3)
1 cubic meter (m )               35.315 cubic feet (ft )
=    264.2 gallon (gal)
1 kilogram (kg)             =    2.206 pounds (lb)
1 ton (t;metric;1,000 kg)  =    1.100 short tons (sh. to s)
1 kilowatt (kW)             s    1,000 Watts (10  kW = 10  W)
1 kilowatt-hour (kWh)            830.3 kilocalorieg (kcal)
I Gigawatt-hour (GWh)            1,000,000 kWh (10  kWh)
1 kilovolt (kV)                  1,000 Volts (V)
... per...           /
...per second; ...per hour =    .../s;.../h
...per day;...per year      =       /d;.../a
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CHEC       =  Central Hidroelectrica de Caldas
CHIDRAL    =  Central Hidroelectrica del Rio Anchicaya S.A.
CORELCA    =  Corporacion Electrica de la Costa Atlantica
CVC        =  Corporacion Autonoma Regional de el Valle
del Rio Cauca
DNP        =  National Planning Department
EEEB       =  Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota
EMCALI     =  Empresas Municipales de Cali
EPM        =  Empresas Publicas de Medellin
GDP        =  Gross Domestic Product
ICEL       =  Instituto Colombiano de Energia Electrica
IDB        =  Inter-American Development Bank
ISA        =  Interconexioni Electrica S.A.
JNT        - Junta Nacional de Tarifas de Servicios Publicos
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



- i -                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
SAN CARLOS II HYDRO POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Interconexion Electrica, S.A. (ISA)
Guarantor:           The Republic of Colombia
Amount:              US$72.0 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayment in 17 years, including four years of grace;
interest at 7.9% per annum.
Project
Description:       The project forms part of ISA's 1978-85 expansion program
to provide the additional power required through the mid-
eighties and comprises mainly the second phase of the San
Carlos hydro power development. (The first phase is being
financed partly by Loan 1583-CO.) The project includes:
(a) San Carlos II: construction and erection of a second
penstock, four turbine-alternators and transformer groups
totalling 620 MW, and ancillary equipment and works; (b)
Calderas: construction of a 15 m high rock-fill dam on the
Calderas River, inlet and discharge tunnels, and a surface
power station with an 18 MW generating unit; (c) construction
of two 230-kV transmisson lines, between San Carlos and
Medellin (90 km) and between Esmeralda and Yuma (200 km), and
expansion of the various terminal substations; (d) consult-
ant services for engineering, civil works and supervision;
(e) a study of dispatch aspects of the interconnected sys-
tem, as well as related training; and (f) a study of ISA's
manpower and training requirements, and an associated train-
ing program. Once completed, the San Carlos hydro plant
would be the largest power generating facility within the
integrated system, with an aggregate installed capacity of
1240 MW. The project would continue the Bank's institution-
building efforts in the sector started in 1950. In parti-
cular, it would support further consolidation of the
considerable progress over the past two years in achieving
centralized sector planning and coordination through ISA,
as well as in improving the finances of ISA and its share-
holders, and would assist ISA in preparing for the more
complex operational responsibilities it will face in
future. Moreover, the project would help meet the heavy
forecast requirements for specialized manpower in the
sector. The project is subject to virtually the same
risks as San Carlos I, i.e., those associated with large
civil works in difficult terrain.
This document his a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofllcial dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                                            US$ million equivalent
Local Foreign Total
San Carlos II
Engineering                             10.1    1.4    11.5
Electro-mechanical Equipment             5.1   41.7    46.8
Transmission                             7.9   22.6    30.5
Calderas
Engineering                              0.6    0.8      1.4
Civil Works                              4.1    4.1      8.2
Electro-mechanical Equipment             1.9    4.3      6.2
Studies and Training                     0.7    2.9      3.6
Physical Contingences                    2.6    7.8    10.4
Price Contingencies                    12.6   25.9    37.5
Total Project Cost                45.6  110.5   156.1
Note:  During the period 1978-84, ISA will carry out other
works with an estimated cost of US$2.4 billion
equivalent and will require an increase in working
capital of US$53 million.
Financing Plan:                                             US$ million equivalent
Local  Foreign   Total
Net Internal Cash Generation
and Shareholder Contributions       45.6      8.4       54.0
Proposed IBRD Loan                     -       72.0       72.0
Suppliers' Credit                      -       30.1       30.1
Total                            45.6   110.5       156.1
Rate of Return:      For the overall San Carlos development - 14%.
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 2464b-CO, dated May 30, 1979.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
INTERCONEXION ELECTRICA, S.A. FOR THE
SAN CARLOS II HYDRO POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Interconexion Electrica, S.A. (ISA), with the guarantee of the Republic
of Colombia, for the equivalent of US$72.0 million to help finance the San
Carlos II Hydro Power Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, includ-
ing four years of grace, with interest at 7.9% per annum.
PART I: THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report on Colombia (2235-CO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in January 1979. An updating mission visited Colombia
during February 1979 and is preparing its report. Its findings are sum-
marized below. Country data sheets are provided in Annex I.
Background
3.        During the past two decades, Colombia has made substantial progress
in the transition from a predominantly rural and agricultural economy made
up of largely self-contained regions to a more integrated urban-industrial
economy. The productive base of the economy has been widened appreciably,
and there has been substantial diversification of production in both the
agricultural and industrial sectors. These improvements have been accompanied
by rapid growth of non-traditional exports and by the development of a
modern sector relying to a considerable extent on imported inputs. As a
result, the country has become less dependent on coffee as a source of
foreign exchange earnings, and fluctuations in domestic economic conditions
resulting from unpredictable shifts in world coffee prices, while still
considerable, have become more manageable. Although substantial progress
has been made during the past two decades, Colombia is still only partially
developed with a limited modern sector superimposed on a large, traditional
and economically poor base. Per capita income is low by developed world
standards, the maintenance of high employment is a persistent problem, and in
1975 an estimated 55.0% of the rural and 24.0% of the urban population had
incomes under the relative poverty level as defined by the Bank.
4.        Colombia's population growth rate declined sharply in the past
two decades; from well over 3% in the 1950s, to about 2.8% in the early 1970s
and to an estimated 2.1% at present. 2/ This was in large part the result
of a rapid decline in the crude birth rate; one of the most pronounced declines
1/   Unchanged from President's Report, Third Bogota Water Supply, Sewerage
and Drainage Project (Report No. P-2525-CO, dated May 2, 1979).
2/   Estimated 1978 growth rate.  This rate differs from that given as the
most recent estimate in the Social Indicators Data Sheet (Annex I) which
is an average for early 1970s.



- 2 -
ever recorded in a Latin American country. Rising per capita income, rapid
rural/urban migration, expanded economic opportunities for women and increased
effectiveness of family planning programs are included among the factors
responsible for the lower birth rate. Although rural/urban migration slowed
from the early 1960s on as progress was made in eliminating the widespread
violence in the countryside, approximately 64% of the current population lives
in urban centers and there are now 22 cities with populations exceeding
100,000 persons. Colombia's population is not considered excessive relative
to the country's resource base. Economic growth will have to average around
7%, however, especially in the directly productive and service sectors, in
order to increase employment at a pace sufficient to keep up with growth of
the labor force.
5.        Available information--while scanty--suggests that some improvement
has occurred in income distribution and welfare of the lowest income groups
in Colombia since the 1950s. These gains were probably the consequence of
several factors, including migration of surplus labor from rural to urban
areas, rapid growth of employment in high productivity jobs in industry and
the services and reduced population growth. Policy efforts, particularly
since 1967, have been directed increasingly toward improving the welfare of
the poorest 50% of the population. These efforts have emphasized both
employment generation and greater public investment in health, education,
nutrition and urban development. The Bank has strongly supported these
efforts. Continued emphasis on growth of the productive sectors of the
economy, on industrial decentralization and on programs to encourage small-
scale industry and agriculture should provide increased employment oppor-
tunities and higher real wages for unskilled and semi-skilled labor in both
rural and urban areas. Further improvement in the public services provided
to the poor should reinforce these trends and raise the level of welfare of
this segment of the population.
6.        The Colombian authorities introduced a dramatic change in develop-
ment strategy in 1967, shifting emphasis from the then existing protectionist
policy of import substitution to measures designed to expand and diversify
exports. These policies were highly successful in expanding exports, thereby
alleviating the foreign exchange constraint and making possible a substantially
higher level of investment. As a consequence, real GDP rose by an average
6.5% annually between 1967-1969 and 1974, well above the historical average.
Merchandise exports in current prices expanded nearly threefold during this
period, and most significantly, non-traditional exports became an increasingly
important source of foreign exchange earnings, in part compensating for slow
growth of receipts from coffee exports. By 1974, non-coffee exports comprised
56% of total merchandise exports, up from about 30% in 1967.
7.        Despite the growth of output and the diversification of exports,
the country faced some potentially serious problems at the time the new
administration took office in 1974. Weakening balance of payments in part



- 3 -
related to the slowdown of growth in the industrial countries, loss of
self-sufficiency in petroleum production, deterioration of the public
finances, accelerating inflation, and declining investment threatened to
reduce growth of output and employment. As a consequence of these develop-
ments, the Government introduced an economic stabilization program which
combined basic reforms of the fiscal, monetary, and trade systems with
measures aimed at accelerating long-term economic growth.
8.        In an effort to strengthen the public finances, the Government
undertook a comprehensive tax reform designed to improve the progressivity
and elasticity of the tax system. Some of the distortions which had deve-
loped in the financial system caused by forced investment requirements
placed on financial institutions and by differential tax treatment of
financial instruments were eliminated. Interest rates were raised in an
effort to increase private savings and improve resource allocation. In
order to increase the efficiency of the economy through greater reliance on
market forces, price controls on a number of industrial and agricultural
products were removed, thereby providing greater stimulus for increasing
production. Modifications in petroleum pricing policy aimed at regaining
self-sufficiency in the production of crude petroleum by improving incen-
tives for exploration and exploitation were introduced. Concurrently, the
Government initiated policies designed to reduce the subsidy on local
consumption of petroleum products, which eventually led to a 220% increase
in gasoline prices by 1978. Tariff levels and non-tariff barriers to trade
were reduced significantly in order to increase competition and the effi-
ciency of domestic firms. While these reforms were successful in improving
the public finances and reducing inflation in 1975, they also served to
reduce economic growth and the slowdown of domestic economic activity which
began in 1974 continued through most of 1975.
Recent Economic Developments
9.        During the past three years, the Colombian economy has been
dominated by developments in the external sector. As the result of a
serious frost in late 1975 affecting Brazil's major coffee producing area,
coffee exports from that country declined sharply triggering a fourfold
increase in the world price of coffee by mid-1977. This caused Colombia's
export earnings from coffee to increase to nearly US$1.8 billion in 1977
from US$764 million in 1975, and produced an unprecedented rise in incomes
and demand in the country's rural areas. Lagging supply of consumer goods,
particularly basic foodstuffs--the production of which was adversely affected
by drought conditions in most of the country's interior--failed to keep pace
with rising demand and inflation accelerated from 24% in 1975 to 44% in the
twelve months ending June 1977. Inflation in Colombia has been moderate
relative to that experienced by other countries in the region, seldom
exceeding an annual rate of 20%. The acceleration of inflation which took
place during the period, therefore, was unprecedented in recent history, and
efforts to lower the rate of inflation have dictated economic policy since
that time.



10.       The authorities responded rapidly by introducing a broad range
of fiscal, monetary and trade policies designed to gain control over the
explosive increase in prices. Beginning in late 1976 reserve requirements
were raised and rediscounting and public sector borrowing from the Central
Bank were discouraged. The authorities temporarily suspended their policy of
periodically adjusting the exchange rate and prices of petroleum products.
In January 1977, a 100% marginal reserve requirement was placed on increases
in commercial bank deposits exceeding the December 31, 1976 level. To delay
the impact of rising foreign exchange receipts on the monetary base, exporters
were required to accept 90-day US dollar denominated certificates of exchange
in lieu of cash payment for their exports. In order to sterilize a portion of
the increase in foreign exchange earnings from coffee exports, the Coffee
Federation agreed to invest a large portion of its receipts in Central Bank
bonds, the proceeds of which were frozen in a special account. To increase
supplies in the domestic market, a number of measures were taken to liberalize
imports.  Food imports by the state marketing agency, IDEMA, were increased
sharply.  In addition, restrictive fiscal measures were introduced to curb
growth of aggregate demand and in 1977 the Treasury registered an overall
budgetary surplus for the first time in recent years.
11.       As a consequence of these measures and a favorable second semester
harvest, inflation declined sharply beginning in July 1977. By the end of
the year, the annual rate of inflation had fallen to 29%. With inflation
subsiding, periodic exchange rate adjustments and gasoline price increases
were reintroduced. With few other exceptions, however, the stabilization
policies were continued in effect throughout 1978 and by year end inflation
had subsided to an annual rate of 17.8%.
12.       Because of the lack of dynamism in world markets, slow growth in
agricultural production, capacity constraints in the industrial sector and
a decline in real investment, the Colombian economy expanded only moderately
in 1976 and 1977. Growth of real GDP increased from 3.8% in 1975, to 4.6%
and 4.8% respectively in the subsequent two years. The higher growth was
a direct result of the expansion of domestic demand brought about by the
rise in incomes of coffee producers. Output in the trade and personal
services sectors of the economy (including transport and communications)
responded strongly to the rising demand, while agricultural output, because
of the drought, rose by only 2.2% p.a. on average for the 1976-77 period.
Industrial sector output rose by only 5.4% p.a. during this period, despite
the strong growth in domestic demand. Because growth occurred in the rela-
tively labor intensive sectors of the economy -- personal services, trade,
transport and communications and manufacturing -- the urban unemployment
rate had declined to an estimated 8% by the end of 1977, from an average 12%
during the early 1970s. In addition, there is evidence of labor shortages
and rising real wage rates in rural areas during this period, and it is
believed that rural unemployment also declined.
13.       Preliminary estimates for 1978 show a strong increase in real
GDP resulting primarily from continued stimulus to aggregate demand from
high coffee receipts and from an expansion of investment. In addition,
favorable weather conditions permitted a sharp recovery in agricultural



output. Real GDP growth is estimated at 8% for the year, with agricultural
production estimated to have grown by as much as 9% over the low level of
1977.  While coffee prices fell considerably in 1978 from their 1977 levels,
this decline was more than offset by expanding export volume as Colombia
undertook a more aggressive coffee export policy. Consequently, receipts from
coffee exports rose to nearly US$2.1 billion for the year. The accompanying
rise in domestic demand and a modest recovery in export markets caused manu-
facturing and transport and communications to grow by 8.5% each and trade
(including commerce) by 9.0%. Construction activity, which had continued at
a low level during the past several years, recovered strongly in 1978, partially
as a result of an increase in speculative demand arising from an inflow of
funds from contraband activities. Only the mining sector, in which output
fell by 2.3% as a result of declining oil production, failed to show signifi-
cant growth in 1978. Open unemployment in urban areas is estimated to have
fallen to 7.6% by June 1978.
14.       Colombia's balance of payments was also highly favorable in 1978,
continuing the trend of the previous three years. Largely as a result of
the increase in coffee exports, although non-coffee exports rose modestly
(7.0%) in real terms also, Colombia's net official international reserves
rose by US$664 million, reaching US$2,493 million by the end of the year,
equivalent to about nine months imports of goods and non-factor services.
This increase in reserves occurred despite a nominal 25% increase in import
payments, reflecting the rise in domestic demand, continued overvaluation
of the exchange rate and liberal import policies. There were few significant
modifications in trade and exchange rate policies in 1978. The slow rate
of peso devaluation was continued during the first three quarters of the
year, but accelerated in the fourth quarter when the pace of reserve accumu-
lation began to slow. In general, trade and exchange rate policies were
directed towards reducing the impact on the monetary base of reserve accumula-
tion by delaying the monetization of export receipts and advancing import
payments. These measures complemented monetary policies which were aimed at
restraining growth of the money supply.
15.       Colombia's public finances generated a large surplus in 1978
thereby permitting the Government to relax somewhat the policy of fiscal
restraint which formed part of its anti-inflationary program during the
previous two years. Current savings of the public sector rose to an
estimated 6.0% of GDP, compared with 5.5% of GDP in 1977, and covered about
90% of public sector investment. Both the Central Government 1/ and the
consolidated decentralized agencies increased their savings in 1978,
the former by 29% and the latter by 153%. The strong increase in savings
of the decentralized agencies, which rose to 1.4% of GDP from 0.7% in 1977,
was the result of increased charges for the services they provide and of
restraint on current expenditures. Large increases in customs duties and
in sales taxes brought about by the growth in domestic demand were the main
factors responsible for the increase in savings of the Central Government.
As a consequence of this improved financial situation, public sector fixed
1/   Comprised of the National Government, the National Highway Fund and the
Social Security Agencies.



-6-
investment rose during the year, reaching 6.9% of GDP compared with 6.3% of GDP
on average for the 1975-77 period. Some of the heaviest investment took place
in the development of hydropower and in the petroleum sector, for both explora-
tion and development.
16.       Despite continuation of the stabilization programs largely unchanged
from last year, the rate of inflation accelerated sharply in early 1979. On
an annual basis, inflation had reached 22.7% by the end of April. At the same
time, the international price of coffee fell sharply, prompting the Government
to take measures to avoid a large financial deficit for the Coffee Federation.
In the past, such deficits were financed in part through recourse to the
Central Bank. The Federation, an autonomous entity which manages the domestic
and external marketing of Colombia's coffee, purchases coffee from producers
at a fixed price in pesos and then sells it on the world market. Since the
Federation stands ready to purchase all coffee offered at the fixed price, it
also bears the financial burden of stock accumulation in periods of declining
world prices. After paying taxes and marketing costs equivalent to nearly 25%
of the international price, the Federation could not sustain the high domestic
purchase price given the lower world coffee price without incurring huge
losses. To avoid this, the domestic purchase price of coffee was lowered by
12% and the exchange certificate system was abolished for coffee exports.
This latter measure will result in the conversion to cash over the next
several months of around Col$10 billion in outstanding exchange certificates.
To offset the monetary impact of this measure, reserve requirements on term
deposits of commercial banks and financial corporations are to be increased
gradually over the next few months, to 25% from 20% at present, and prior
import deposit requirements have been raised substantially, to 95% from 40%
and 60% previously. In addition, the interest rate on dollar denominated
certificates issued by the Central Bank was raised to 14% from 7% in an
attempt to absorb some of the funds flowing from the exchange certificates.
In a separate measure, retail gasoline prices were increased in mid-March and
Sunday sales of gasoline were outlawed. Gasoline prices have been raised by
67% since September 1978.
Development Strategy and Prospects
17.       The development strategy embodied in the 1975-78 Development Plan
aimed at accelerating the rate of growth of GDP and at distributing the
benefits of such growth more equitably. This was to be achieved by increasing
the allocative efficiency of the economy through greater reliance on market
forces, by providing incentives for increasing private sector investment, by
expanding economic and social infrastructure, and by improving public services
provided to the poorest half of the population. Substantial progress has
been made in carrying out this strategy during the past four years. Public
sector investments have focused increasingly on projects designed to alleviate
rural and urban poverty and on expanding and improving infrastructure. Compre-
hensive integrated rural development and nutrition projects aimed at increasing
incomes and welfare of the lowest income groups have been introduced. Urban
development projects designed to provide improved services and employment
opportunities to residents of slum areas in Colombia's major cities have been
initiated. These programs have been complemented by policies to encourage the



- 7 -
development of small- and medium-scale enterprises and to decentralize industry
away from the three largest cities. This latter policy, together with credit
programs aimed at increasing output and employment in agriculture, have been
designed to alleviate rural poverty and reduce rural/urban migration. Public
sector infrastructure investments have been concentrated on improvement and
extension of highway and communications systems. Special priority has been
given to the development of domestic energy sources to reduce the country's
growing dependence on imported oil.
18.       Increased emphasis on provision of improved social services is re-
flected in the increased proportion of total National Government expenditure on
education, health, and water and sewerage systems, which rose from 33% in 1974
to 38% in 1977. The economic dislocations caused by the coffee boom and the
need to concentrate economic policy on short-term management problems have
limited expansion of public and private investment and required temporary
suspension of some of the measures designed to free the price system and
stimulate growth of non-traditional exports.
19.       The Government, which took office in August 1978, intends to continue
with essentially the same development strategy as the previous administration.
Under this strategy, economic growth is to be promoted through expansion of
non-coffee exports and through measures to stimulate investment and increase
the efficiency of resource allocation. This Government proposes to give
greater emphasis to expansion of economic and social infrastructure, however,
with particular stress on improving transport and communications networks.
Improvement in transport and communications infrastructure is expected to
encourage increased inter-regional trade which, together with alleviation of
the foreign exchange constraint, should further stimulate investment and
economic growth. Measures to encourage industrial decentralization have been
introduced to complement the actions taken to unify regional markets.
20.       Rapid expansion of domestic energy resources is to be given high
priority with the view to regaining self-sufficiency in energy as early as
possible. Even under the most optimistic assumptions regarding development
of such resources, however, Colombia will continue to rely heavily on energy
imports until the mid-1980s when exports of coal and natural gas are expected
to reduce the country's net energy deficit. Small scale agriculture and
industry will continue to receive strong support through credit, and low
income rural areas are to be helped through rural electrification, health
and education programs and through expansion of feeder road projects.
Innovative programs such as the integrated rural development (DRI) and
nutrition projects financed by the Bank are expected to receive continued
high priority. Public investment programs in education, health, water and
sewerage and urban development (especially those directed at alleviating
urban poverty) are to be continued as well.
21.       Given the country's strong resource base and its high level of
international reserves, Colombia should be able to achieve annual real GDP
growth averaging about 7% during the 1979-83 period. Maintenance of this
level of growth will require rapid expansion of non-coffee exports and high
savings and investment rates. Public sector investment is expected to expand
faster than GDP during this period because of the large proposed programs



- 8 -
for infrastructure, social services and energy development. Financial require-
ments for this higher level of investment will be substantial and public
sector savings will have to be sustained at the current high levels. Given
the expected decline in coffee revenue, improvements will be required in the
administration and collection of non-coffee taxes, and additional tax measures
may be required. Of equal importance is the continued upward adjustment in
prices charged for the goods and services provided by the public decentralized
agencies. Growth of non-coffee exports, especially of manufactured goods,
will no doubt be strongly influenced by the rates of economic growth of
Colombia's major trading partners, but appropriate domestic incentives will
also play an important role. In this regard, it is expected that Colombia will
follow an exchange rate policy designed to maintain the competitiveness of
Colombian exports and that additional export promotion measures will be
adopted to encourage both product and market diversification.
22.       Greater efforts to increase efficiency and production in the agricul-
tural and industrial sectors will also be needed to complement incentives given
to non-traditional exports. Programs to meet these needs in the agricultural
sector, including integrated rural development, expansion of farm credit, im-
proved research and extension services, and upgraded marketing facilities, are
already in place and will need to be strengthened. Further development of
the country's capital markets is expected to increase private savings and im-
prove the allocation of financial resources, thereby providing the basis for
more rapid growth of industry. Ongoing and future infrastructure investments
by the public sector should facilitate improvements in economic efficiency and
lead to more rapid growth of output and employment in both industry and
agriculture.
23.       Projections of Colombia's energy balance indicate a rapidly growing
deficit that is expected to reach significant proportions in the early 1980s
in the absence of an aggressive energy development program. To avoid the con-
straint on growth that large scale shortages of energy would entail, high
priority is being given to the development of additional energy sources. The
strategy which is being pursued is to reduce the nation's dependence on petro-
leum as an energy source by developing substitutes such as hydropower, coal
and natural gas. Major projects are being executed and others prepared to
expand hydroelectric power generation and incentives are being given to pri-
vate foreign companies for accelerated exploration and development of the
country's petroleum, coal and natural gas potential. Exports of coal and
natural gas are expected to offset a large portion of the petroleum imports
projected for the mid to late 1980s. Conservation of existing resources
resulting from higher energy prices is expected to slow the growth in energy
demand. While the total investment cost of future energy development is still
being determined, preliminary estimates indicate that the required investment
could run as high as US$8.0 billion in current prices over the next decade.
Even under the most optimistic assumption regarding foreign private investment,
suppliers' credits and domestic resource mobilization, external long-term
financing of about US$4.0 billion would be required in this sector alone
during this period. Any significant delay in implementing the country's
energy development program would most likely have serious adverse repercus-
sions on future economic growth.



24.       Because of the expected continued decline in world coffee prices,
accelerating oil imports and the high import content of future investment
projects, the current account of the balance of payments is expected to be
in deficit throughout the early to mid-1980s. Increased mineral exports
including coal, natural gas, and nickel, and completion of the large invest-
ments in energy development are expected to relieve the pressure on the
balance of payments by the late 1980s. Colombia is expected, therefore, to
continue to be a large net importer of capital for some time to come. Its
future external resource requirements reflect the need to supplement domestic
savings in order to carry out the public sector investment program and to
provide increasing amounts of foreign exchange to finance required imports
of capital and intermediate goods. Assuming that the Colombian authorities
permit a drawdown of international reserves to the equivalent of three months'
imports in the years immediately ahead, gross external capital requirements
are projected at US$6.3 billion between 1979 and 1983, or an annual average
of about US$1,260 million. About half of Colombia's capital inflow during
this period is expected to be provided by official multilateral and bilateral
sources, with commercial financial credits becoming increasingly important.
25.       Colombia's public external debt repayable in foreign currency
amounted to US$4.2 billion at the end of 1978, of which US$2.7 billion
was disbursed and outstanding. The Bank/IDA share of this external debt
was 29% and is expected to rise to 31% by 1983, before declining to 29%
again by 1985. Although the public debt service ratio fell during the past
two years as export growth accelerated, this ratio is expected to increase
from 10.2% in 1978 to about 14.7% in 1983. Balance of payments prospects
beyond 1980 will depend heavily on the timely development of domestic
energy sources and on progress made in executing several natural resource-
based export oriented projects currently under preparation. Given the
expected continuation of sound economic and financial management and timely
execution of the country's energy program, it should be possible to prevent
the external sector from again becoming a constraint on economic growth and
to maintain Colombia's creditworthiness for the required external borrowing.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
26.       The proposed loan, the 81st to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$2,169.6 million (net of cancella-
tions). Of this amount, US$1,593.7 million is now held by the Bank; IDA made
one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in Colombia in 1961. Disbursements
have been completed on 47 loans and the IDA credit. IFC has made investments
and underwriting commitments of US$53.66 million in 24 enterprises and now
holds US$17.93 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,
the IDA credit and IFC investments as of March 31, 1979. The Annex also
contains summaries on the execution of the 29 on-going projects.
27.       Since FY68, Bank lending in Colombia has become more diversified
and has been concentrated on production-oriented programs and activities which



- 10 -
emphasized social as well as economic benefits. Eight of the eleven agricul-
tural loans have been made since then, nine of the twelve loans for industry,
all three loans in the education sector, all nine loans for water supply
and sewerage, one loan for a nutrition project and two loans for urban
development projects. This compares with only eleven loans since FY68 in the
power and transport sectors.
28.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY78 consisted of loans for nutrition
improvement, water and sewerage, urban development, power generation and
interconnection, development finance companies and development of an export
processing zone, totalling US$354.6 million equivalent. In addition to the
proposed project, the FY79 program includes recently approved loans for avia-
tion development, hydro power, water and sewerage, medium-city water supply
systems, and slum improvement, as well as proposed loans for nickel mining
and processing, and agricultural credit for land reform beneficiaries. Work
is also underway in vocational training, transportation, further mining
development, power, including distribution expansion and rural electrification,
oil exploration, industry, including small scale enterprises, agricultural
credit, and small farm development for possible consideration by the Executive
Directors during the next two years.
29.       The proposed Bank lending conforms closely with the Government's
development strategy. To help Colombia develop domestic sources of energy,
a substantial part of the proposed lending would be for hydropower. The Bank
intends to assist the development of coal mines and petroleum, which hold
potential in helping Colombia meet part of its energy requirements and in
diversifying exports. Bank involvement in the energy sector would help
mobilize additional external financing as some of the projects would require
co-financing. Other future loans would finance agriculture and industry to
assist the Government in its efforts to raise overall productivity, incomes
and employment, and to strengthen and diversify exports. Closely related to
these objectives would be the proposed Bank lending for transport infrastruc-
ture. In this context, we are assisting the Government in preparing a rural
and feeder roads project to integrate the more backward areas of the country
into the modern economy. Other loans under preparation for highways, ports
and railroads are aimed at helping Colombia handle larger volumes of non-
traditional exports and the imported inputs on which the modern sector of
its economy relies for expansion. Finally, a relatively large number of loans
are being prepared in support of the Government's efforts to help the lowest
50% of the Colombian population. The proposed projects for vocational training,
rural electrification, small farm development, small scale industry and credit
for land reform beneficiaries are principally designed to improve the standard
of living of the poor.
30.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex I.
While IBRD, IDB and AID provided about 75% of total external financing to
Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased since then' to
approximately 50% over 1975-77. Like the Bank, IDB has given increased
emphasis to social projects and has financed projects in low cost housing,
urban and rural development, agrarian reform, university education, water
supply, and land erosion control. In the future, it proposes to assist
Colombia to develop sources of domestic energy and to expand the activity of



- 11 -
the productive sectors to help generate increased employment. AID has supported
programs in education, urban development and small farm development. It plans
to phase out its aid program in Colombia at the end of this year with the
disbursement of a US$6 million nutrition loan. The Governments of the Federal
Republic of Germany and the Netherlands have also provided concessional
financing for social and regional integration projects.
PART III: THE ENERGY SECTOR AND POWER REQUIREMENTS
Energy Resources and Requirements
31.       Colombia is endowed with substantial primary energy resources (hydro-
power, natural gas, petroleum and coal), the most promising of which is hydro-
power, estimated at a potential 100 GW, of which only 2.7% have been developed
to date. Coal resources have been little explored, but reserves are estimated
to range from 20-40 billion metric tons, at which level they would be the
largest in Latin America. A recent discovery of natural gas in the Guajira
Peninsula, amounting to 3.5 trillion cubic feet, has brought proven reserves
to a level well above 5 trillion cubic feet. On the other hand, because of
insufficient exploration, known reserves of crude oil have fallen and are
estimated to amount to less than eight years of 1976 output. However, only
one of Colombia's nine sedimentary basins (the Magdalena River Valley) has
been explored on a systematic basis, although the state oil company, ECOPETROL,
in association with foreign oil companies, is now exploring other basins.
Additionally, investigation of nuclear, geo-thermal and solar energy is under-
way.
32.       Since 1965, output of primary energy has lagged behind overall econo-
mic growth, mainly because of declining crude oil output. By 1977, production
of crude (281.1 trillion Btu) had fallen to 69% of 1965 output and 63% of the
1970 level. While over 1965-77 total energy output increased by 10%, from 578
trillion Btu to 637 trillion Btu, energy consumption increased by 132%, rising
from 271 trillion Btu to 629 trillion Btu.  (Exports and losses account for the
difference between production and consumption figures.) By 1976, hydrocarbon
imports exceeded exports by US$35.6 million equivalent. Projections of
Colombia's energy balance indicate an expanding deficit that could reach sig-
nificant proportions in the early 1980s and become a constraint on economic
growth (paragraph 23).
Energy Development Objectives and Strategy
33.       As stated, the Government's objective is to overcome the energy
deficit by developing domestic energy sources and by promoting rational use of
them. To this end, it has adopted several measures. First, it has recast its
hydrocarbon pricing and regulation policy to stimulate output of petroleum,
natural gas and coal. Foreign oil companies have reacted favorably to these
measures and have initiated new explorations. Second, CARBOCOL, a Government
agency established to develop the country's coal resources, has concluded con-
tracts with various foreign companies and governments to undertake exploration
and development of several coal fields, particularly the largest, El Cerrejon,
in the Guajira region. Third, considerable substitution of gas for petroleum
products in industry and thermal power generation is being carried out on the



- 12 -
Atlantic Coast. Fourth, a program for expansion of power generation and trans-
mission facilities to meet forecast demand over the 1977-85 period has been
drawn up (paragraphs 41 and 42). Fifth, COLURANIO, a public enterprise, has
concluded a contract with the French Minatome Group to explore the country's
uranium potential. Lastly, the Government has adopted a policy calling for
charging the full cost of energy to consumers in order to promote rational
energy use and to self-generate an important share of the financial resources
required for investment in the sector (paragraph 40).
The Power Market, Service Levels and Institutional Framework
34.       Electric power is the fastest-growing form of energy in Colombia.
Its share of total energy consumption has risen from 14% in 1960 to 25% in
1977. Colombia's installed capacity at the end of 1977 was 3,765 MW, includ-
ing self production; hydro stations account for 68% of total energy generated.
Since 1971, production of electricity has been growing at an annual rate of
9.8%, i.e., one and a half times as fast as the growth rate of GDP. Power
sales have also been rising rapidly (9.5% per annum since 1971). Annual per
capita electricity generation stands at 610 kWh, which is below the average
for Latin Amercia. Households (42% of the total), industry (33%) and commerce
(14%) are the major electricity users.
35.       About 60% of Colombia's 25 million population has electricity.  The
urban population, in 1977 estimated to be about 641% of the population, has
greater access to electricity. 1/ In 1976, for example, 86% of households in
large cities (population of 50,000 or more) had electrical service while in
rural towns (population between 50-2,500) the corresponding figure was 36%; in
other rural areas, 16%. With the assistance of external lenders. the Government
is carrying out programs to increase the supply of electricity to rural areas.
36.       The Ministry of Mines and Energy is charged with formulating national
policy for power generation, transmission and distribution. In defining invest-
ment priorities, it shares responsibility with the National Planning Department
(DNP). The Government cannot enforce its policies directly on the municipally-
controlled power companies, but Interconexion Electrica, S.A. (ISA), a generat-
ing and transmission company controlled by the largest municipal power companies
and by the Government-owned national power companies, provides a mechanism for
reaching agreement on major issues affecting the sector. Public utility tariffs
are regulated by the Junta Nacional de Tarifas de Servicios Publicos (JNT) in
the DNP. JNT, which was established in the late sixties with Bank support, has
the power to approve requests from the power companies for tariff increases.
The power companies, however, are free to set rates lower than those approved
by JNT.
37.       The entities which provide public electricity service comprise:
(a)  independent municipal companies, of which the largest are
Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota (EEEB), Empresas
Publicas de Medellin (EPM) and Empresas Municipales de Cali
(EMCALI);
1/    Residents of cities with 2,500 or more inhabitants.



- 13 -
(b) entities under the National Government, the most important
of which are Corporacion Autonoma Regional del Cauca (CVC),
Corporacion Electrica de la Costa Atlantica (CORELCA), and
Instituto Colombiano de Energia Electrica (ICEL), all of
which have numerous local subsidiaries; and
(c) ISA, the shareholders of which are EEEB, EPM, CVC, CORELCA
and ICEL.
38.       The power sector's rapid expansion (paragraph 39) has been accom-
panied by various organizational and institutional changes. Over the past
20 years, numerous isolated local utilities were consolidated into regional
systems and, by the early 1960s, the systems were approaching a size which
would make an interconnected system more efficient and facilitate development
of Colombia's low-cost hydro resources. The task of interconnection and of
constructing, owning and operating generating plants to meet the demands of an
integrated system has been undertaken by ISA, which was established in 1967
for this purpose. By 1972, ISA had interconnected the Central System; by
1982, with the incorporation of the Atlantic System, the national grid will be
completed (paragraphs 44-45). Currently, ISA owns and operates a 500 MW
hydrostation and has an additional 1290 MW under construction (the Chivor II,
San Carlos I and Jaguas hydro plants, the foreign exchange cost of which is
financed mainly by the Bank and IDB). Moreover, in line with its recently-
revised bylaws, ISA defines the generation and transmission expansion program
for the interconnected system; after approval by its Board, this becomes the
national expansion program (paragraph 43).
Power Development and its Financing
39.       Colombia's power sector has developed rapidly.  Between 1950-1977
installed generating capacity increased by 3,515 MW or fifteenfold. A substan-
tial part of this expansion was financed with internal cash generation (in
the case of the large municipal companies, about 40% of total capital outlays)
and with contributions from the National Treasury, chiefly to ICEL, CVC and
CORELCA. The Bank and IDB were the main source of foreign financing for the
power sector (US$607 million equivalent combined), although in recent years
suppliers' credits and external commercial banks have increased their parti-
cipation.
40.       During 1971-74, power rate adjustments lagged behind cost increases
and the companies' finances deteriorated, with the result that construction of
new works was delayed and the operating efficiency of the companies suffered.
However, beginning with 1975, rate adjustments have been accelerated, with
average yearly increases through 1977 marginally exceeding average annual in-
flation and substantially exceeding it in 1978. Investment outlays have once
again increased and in 1975 totalled US$187.6 million equivalent, i.e., 31%
over the preceding year. In early 1978, the Government and the major power
companies initiated a program of tariff increases with the aim of generating
an adequate portion of investment funds for planned expansion. In line with
this, average tariff levels in companies accounting for the bulk of power sales



- 14 -
were increased by some 37% by the end of 1978, with further increases of 33%
already approved for 1979. They propose to continue doing so as necessary to
generate sufficient resources for investment. Also, to promote rational
energy use, the power companies and the Government, under San Carlos I, are
studying the internal structure of rates with a view toward bringing them more
in line with the cost of supply to each consumer category. The study is taking
into account the Government's income redistribution policies with respect to
rates to be charged to low income consumers.
Power Requirements and Proposed Investments
41.       To catch up with rising power requirements, in view of the under-
investment in new facilities during the first half of the 1970s (paragraph 40)
and the aim to substitute some electricity for more costly forms of energy,
effective generating capacity is planned to be increased by 130%, or about
4,700 MW, by 1985. Of this total, about 580 MW were completed in 1977 and
2,600 MW are under construction.
42.       Investments in generation and transmission during 1977-85 are
expected to amount to about US$3.6 billion in 1977 prices. (Approximately
65% of overall investments pertain to ISA.) Of total requirements, some
60% would be foreign exchange. Thus, in accordance with national policy of
financing only foreign costs with external borrowings, external financing
on the order of US$600 million on average per annum, in nominal terms, would
be required. A substantial share of such borrowings is expected to come from
foreign capital markets, which have recently been providing increased financing
to the power sector, including Bank-financed projects.
43.       To provide for future sector expansion, ISA and its shareholders
are preparing a power sector development master plan covering the period
1980-1990 in detail, and 1991-2000 in more general terms. Moreover, the
shareholders and the Government are carrying out a 1980-2000 master plan
for distribution, covering 1980-85 in detail. Overall, the consolidated
master plan is expected to provide a valuable framework for long-range
decisions on sector expansion, financing, pricing and rural electrification.
Bank Participation in the Power Sector
44.       Since 1950, the Bank has made 21 loans to Colombia's power sector,
totalling US$610 million. Seventeen loans have assisted the expansion of
generating capacity and transmission and distribution facilities in the systems
serving Bogota, Medellin, Cali, Cartagena, Bucaramanga and Manizales, includ-
ing expansion of electricity distribution to low income areas (874-CO, 1973).
In addition, the Bank has supported rural electrification under 246-CO (1960)
and 313-CO (1962), and under the ongoing Integrated Rural Development Project
(1352-CO, 1977). The most recent loans included the 500 kV Interconnection
Line and the San Carlos I Hydropower Projects (Loans 1582-CO and 1583-GO, July
1978) which would, respectively, complete the task of interconnecting the



- 15 -
country's regional power systems begun under 575-CO (1968), and add 620 MW of
hydro capacity to the national interconnected system; the Mesitas Hydropower
Project (1628-CO, April 1979) would meet about 95% of projected incremental
demand in the Bogota system during 1982-84.
45.       ISA has received three Bank loans, totalling US$196.3 million.  The
first (575-CO, 1968) was to interconnect the central regional systems and was
completed ahead of schedule at lower-than-estimated cost. Remaining funds were
used to construct an additional transmission line which began operation in
1976. The second loan (681-CO, 1970) was used to construct ISA's first gene-
rating facility, Chivor I, which came into operation two years behind schedule
in 1977, with a US$54.5 million cost overrun. San Carlos I (see above) is pro-
ceeding on schedule, at lower than anticipated cost (paragraph 56).
46.       One of the objectives of Bank assistance has been the strengthening
of power sector institutions and finances. Through the late sixties, Bank
efforts at institutional strengthening were most successful in the cases of
EEEB and EPM. The late sixties also saw the creation of two new institutions,
ISA and JNT, in which the Bank played a critical role. In the case of ISA,
the entity's role in sector planning, coordination and regulation has been
expanding as a direct consequence of Bank lending, and the company's importance
has been growing concommitantly with its share in the sector's total generating
capacity. By the mid-eighties, ISA would have the largest generating capacity
in the sector. The proposed project would contribute to strengthening ISA
further with the objective of preparing the institution for the more complex
responsibilities that lie ahead in the power sector
47.       Bank support of sound power development financing has, until
recently, been most successful with the large municipal companies, EEEB and
EPM. The consolidation of public power entities into regional companies,
the joint participation of the major regional and municipal companies in
national expansion programs through ISA and most importantly, the national
adoption of a policy of adequate rate-setting have enabled the sector to
attain the current overall satisfactory level of financial performance.
48.       Past Bank lending to Colombia's power sector has been reviewed
in three OED reports. "Third Power Expansion Program - Loan 537-CO"
(Report No. 536, June 29, 1977) concluded that the objectives of the
1968 US$18 million loan to EEEB for expansion of its generating capacity
(by 200 MW) and transmission, subtransmission and distribution systems
had been met, despite some delays and a 12% cost overrun. A second report,
"Third Medellin Power Project - Loan 369-CO" (Report No. 450, May 24, 1974)
concluded that the project had been very well executed despite considerable
geological difficulties. Although EPM's power rates were in general main-
tained at a level which should have generated sufficient funds, anticipated
revenues did not fully materialize because of power losses in the distri-
bution system, a problem which has since been rectified. Overall Bank opera-
tions in the sector were reviewed in OED report entitled "Bank Operations in
Colombia, an Evaluation" (Report No. Z-18) of May 25, 1972. The report
concluded that Bank financing was successful in assisting the power companies
to develop hydroelectric plants at lower unit cost than they otherwise would
have been able to do. In turn, this permitted greater urban coverage as well



- 16 -
as cheaper and more reliable electricity supply to industry. The report
commended Bank efforts in the establishment of JNT and the central inter-
connected system which facilitated further power sector development. Among
other things, the report recommended that in the future the Bank pay increased
attention to the companies' financial planning, tariff structures and energy
losses. These points have been addressed under the aforementioned recent
loans for power development. Complementary measures are provided for under
the proposed project, and would be included under possible future projects,
particularly those related to distribution.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
49.       The project, prepared by ISA with the assistance of consultants,
forms part of its 1978-85 Power Expansion Program and would provide about 15%
of the planned increase in generation capacity. The project was appraised
by a Bank mission which visited Colombia in late 1978 and in January 1979.
Negotiations were held in Washington during the week of April 30, 1979, with a
Colombian delegation led by Dra. Leonor Montoya de Torres, Director of Public
Credit.
50.       Project objectives are to:  (i) satisfy part of forecast demand
at least cost by utilizing the country's large hydroelectric potential;
(ii) enhance ISA's role as the major planner, coordinator and dispatch agency
in the sector; (iii) improve long-term sector planning and operating effi-
ciency; and (iv) assist ISA in meeting forecast manpower requirements.
Project Description
51.       The project comprises:  (i) construction and erection of a second
penstock at San Carlos, and turbine-generators and transformers totalling
620 MW; (ii) construction of a 15 m high concrete dam on the Calderas River,
inlet and discharge tunnels and a power station; (iii) construction of two
230-kV transmission lines; (iv) consultant services related to (i)-(iii);
(v) a dispatch study and associated training; and (vi) a manpower require-
ments study and related training. Under the project, ISA and its shareholders
would also carry out a study of their accounting and asset revaluation
methodologies with a view to introducinR a uniform system in the power sector
(paragraph 65).
52.       Physical Facilities.  The San Carlos hydroelectric complex, which
will be located about 150 km from Medellin in northwest Colombia, is being
built in three stages, the first of which (620 MW) is being financed under
1582-CO; the second is included in the proposed project. A third and final,
stage (310 MW) would be added when the further capacity would be required for
peaking purposes. These facilities, together with the Calderas development,
constitute the second step in a series of five interrelated hydro schemes,
with a total capacity of approximately 2,200 MW on the rivers Nare, Guatape
and Samana, of which the Guatape complex, financed by Loans 369-CO and
874-CO, is the major step. The project works consist of:



- 1 7 -
(a) San Carlos: four 6-jet vertical shaft Pelton turbines and
related 155 14W generators, connected in pairs to 16/230 kV
transformers and associated electrical equipment. Construc-
tion and erection of a 90 km long 230-kV double circuit
transmission line between San Carlos and Medellin as well
as a similar 200 km long line between Esmeralda and Yumbo
(Cali), including expansion of the various terminal sub-
stations; and
(b) Calderas: a 22 m high concrete dam impounding a reservoir
with a useful volume of 40 Mm3; a 3 km long pressure tunnel;
a surface power station of 15.4 MW, operating at a gross head
of 210 m, and ancillary equipment.
53.       Engineering Services:  With Bank agreement, ISA has engaged Integral,
the Colombian consultants who prepared the final design of the San Carlos
plant, for all phases of project execution. Integral will engage outside
expertise as needed for specialized tasks during construction.
54.       Dispatch Study:  In order to prepare ISA for its role as national
dispatch agency, a study and related training of staff would be carried out by
December 31, 1981 of the dispatch functions required for efficient, least-cost
operation of the interconnected system. The study would be undertaken with the
assistance of consultants, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
(Section 3.02 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
55.       Manpower Study and Training:  A study of ISA's manpower require-
ments through 1985 would be carried out with the assistance of consultants,
under satisfactory terms and conditions, by June 30, 1980, for subsequent
discussion with the Bank (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
study, which would also review the present capability of Colombia's educational
programs to meet the specialized requirements of the power sector at the grad-
uate level, would make recommendations for (i) the creation, organization and
staffing of a manpower and training department in ISA; (ii) the establishment
of a training program for new and existing specialized staff in Colombia and
abroad; and (iii) provision of job descriptions for staff to be recruited for
further training in specific fields. An associated training program would be
carried out by June 30, 1983 (Schedule 2 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Costs and Financing
56.       Total project cost is estimated at US$156.1 million equivalent,
of which US$110.5 million equivalent correspond to the foreign exchange compo-
nent. During project execution (1978-84),- ISA plans to carry out other invest-
ments at a cost of US$2.4 billion equivalent, and will require an increase in
working capital of US$53.0 million equivalent. Tunnel works associated with
San Carlos II (at a foreign cost of about US$24.0 million) are not included
in the estimate because they would be financed under the ongoing San Carlos I
Project (1582-CO). The lowest evaluated bidder (ICA-Grandicon) for the major
civil works for San Carlos I was 36%, or US$27.0 million, below the estimated
foreign cost.



- 18 -
57.       The proposed loan of US$72 million would finance 46% of the total
funds required for the project, i.e., 65% of the project's foreign exchange
cost. The remaining foreign exchange costs would be financed by internal
cash generation and shareholders' contributions of US$8.4 million and US$30.1
million from supplier's credits. Local costs, US$45.6 million equivalent,
would be financed by internally-generated cash and by ISA's shareholders
through equity contributions in the form of shares and securities.
58.       The Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange element of (a) the
penstock, (b) miscellaneous electrical-mechanical equipment, (c) transmission
lines and substations, (d) civil works and equipment associated with Calderas,
(e) engineering, and (f) studies and training. About 4,750 man-months of
consultant services, most of which would be secured in Colombia, would be
required for engineering, studies and training, at an average base cost of
US$670 per man-month. It also estimated that 60-70 staff of ISA would be
trained outside Colombia for (f) at an annual cost of US$10,000 per man-year.
ISA and its shareholders would finance the local costs and down payments on
major equipment, with the remaining cost of major equipment financed by
suppliers' credits.
59.       Effectiveness of the proposed loan would be conditioned upon ISA's
having made arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, for the financing of the
Jaguas Project. San Carlos II generation capability depends crucially upon
the Nare River water diversion to be carried out under that project. Receipt
of assurances that ISA has made satisfactory arrangements for the balance of
financing required for the proposed project would also be a condition of
effectiveness (Section 8.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The Borrower. ISA
60.       ISA, established in 1967, is a stock corporation formed to inter-
connect the systems of its shareholders and to construct, own and operate
new generating plants required for the integrated system. It is governed by
a Board of Directors, representing the five major shareholders (EEEB, EPM,
CVC, CORELCA incorporated into ISA in 1978, and ICEL). Major decisions
require the agreement of 75% of the shares. Day to day operations are
managed by a General Manager (appointed by the Board), assisted by four
departments (Technical, Operations, Finance and Administration). The
company has sufficient competent staff and its pay levels are satisfactory.
However, in view of the rapid growth of the sector, the need for staff
trained in specialized technical fields (e.g., hydrology, soil and rock
mechanics, etc.), which are not taught at Colombian universities at the
graduate level, is expected to outstrip available supply of trained man-
power. Thus, the proposed loan would finance a study to determine training
requirements, as well as the carrying out of a subsequent training program
(paragraph 55).
61.       In line with its recently amended bylaws, ISA:  (i) plans and coor-
dinates expansion of the interconnected system; (ii) constructs, owns and
operates all future plants in the system except for plants of regional interest
which may be undertaken by the shareholders after approval by ISA; and (iii)
sets tariffs to achieve adequate annual returns on its revalued assets (para-
graph 63). Any change in ISA's statutes would require prior Bank approval
(Section 7.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
62.       Finances.  Between 1972 and mid-1977, ISA's assets comprised only a
230 kV transmission system (financed under 575-CO), which was expected to
serve for energy exchanges at cost between its shareholders. Thus, the company
did not generate funds and relied upon shareholders' contributions to finance
its investments until its first generation asset, the Chivor I power station
(681-CO), entered into operation in September 1977. During that period, when
the shareholders faced financial difficulties because of inadequate rates and
rising costs, so did ISA. Under San Carlos I, the shareholders addressed
the problem of cash shortages by agreeing to maintain in future a satisfac-
tory rate of return on revalued assets which, inter alia, would enable them
to cover their shares of project costs. The financial results of 1978 are in
line with this objective. The agreed rates of return, which would be recon-
firmed under the proposed project (Section 5.02 of the draft Shareholders
Agreement), and the expected levels of investment financed from internal cash
generation (including investments in ISA) are as follows:
(i) EEEB would earn at least 12% in 1979 and subsequent years and
expects to cover, from internally-generated funds, more than 60%
of its total investment requirements during the 1978-85 period;
(ii)  EPM would earn 6% in 1979, and 9% in 1980 and thereafter and
expects to generate internally in excess of 65% of its overall
investment requirements over 1978-85;
(iii) CVC would earn 9% in 1979 and following years, and expects
to generate over 50% of its total investment requirements;
(iv) CORELCA, a rapidly-growing entity which serves the relatively
poor Atlantic coast with 100% thermal-based power, would achieve
5% in 1979-80, 6% in 1981, 7% in 1982 and 9% from 1983 onwards.
CORELCA would rely on the Government for its contributions
to ISA (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement). As
anticipated under San Carlos I, CORELCA would undertake a program
to improve its operating efficiency and financing planning, as
well as that of three of its subsidiaries (Section 5.05(a) of the
draft Shareholders' Agreement); and
(v) ICEL functions essentially as a holding company for eleven, mostly-
rural power utilities. It does not have any revenues of its own;
the Government covers its expenses, debt service and investments,
and has agreed to provide, as required, the necessary resources
to ICEL for its contributions to, and energy purchases from,
ISA (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement). To assist
in strengthening its major subsidiaries, ICEL would undertake
under San Carlos I and the proposed project, a program to improve
the operating efficiency and finances of at least the five most
important of them (Section 5.05(b) of the draft Shareholders'
Agreement).
63.       For its part, ISA would earn a rate of return on its revalued
assets of 8% in 1979, 9% in 1980, 11% in 1981 and 9% from 1982 onwards
(Section 5.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). Long-term take-or-pay contracts



- 20 -
for the sale of Chivor energy have been finalized by ISA and the shareholders;
prior agreement of the Bank would be obtained before any material amendment is
made to these contracts (Section 7.O0(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). ISA's
net internal cash generation would finance about 13% of the 1978-84 investment
program. This is low but acceptable since the share-holders contribution to
the program would be 20%.
64.       ISA faces heavy debt service obligations, despite its satisfactory
forecast financial performance. ISA has therefore confirmed that, until
project completion, it would obtain the Bank's concurrence before undertaking
any project costing in excess of 2.5% of the value of its net fixed assets in
operation (Section 5.06(b) of the draft Loan Agreement) and before contracting
any long-term debt unless internal cash generation is more than 1.5 times its
maximum projected long-term debt service requirements (Section 5.09(a) of the
draft Loan Agreement). Finally, the shareholders have confirmed that they would
maintain in ISA all payments due to them from their shares and securities until
project completion and in any subsequent year in which ISA would need Bank
concurrence to incur long-term debt because the 1.5 debt service target would
not be met (Section 3.02 of the draft Shareholders' Agreement).
Uniform System of Power Sector Accounts
65.       The varied formats, criteria and presentation of financial forecasts
by ISA and its shareholders indicate that a uniform system of accounting would
be desirable, as this would facilitate sound system planning and management.
Thus, ISA and its shareholders have agreed to undertake a study which would
recommend a common accounting system and asset revaluation methodology under
terms of reference to be reviewed by the Bank, in discussion with the Govern-
ment, by the Bank by December 31, 1979. By March 31, 1981, the draft report
would be reviewed by the Government and the Bank, and the study completed by
June 30, 1981 (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.04 of the
draft Shareholders' Agreement, and Section 3.02(a) of the draft Guarantee
Agreement).
Procurement, Implementation Schedule and Disbursements
66.       Procurement under the proposed loan would be in accordance with
international competitive bidding consistent with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement. Colombian manufacturers would receive a preference of 15% or
applicable duties, whichever is less, for bid evaluation purposes. The cost
estimate assumes that local manufacturers would supply conductors, towers and
certain miscellaneous electromechanical equipment, with an estimated cost of
about US$10-12 million. Project works would begin in 1979 and be completed
by June 30, 1984.
67.       Disbursements would be made against (a) 100% of the foreign expendi-
ture for imported equipment, materials and ancillary works and services;
(b) 100% of the foreign expenditure for the Calderas civil works and equipment;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for foreign consultant services, and 50% of



- 21 -
the total cost of local consultants; (d) 50% of the total cost of surveys and
drilling (e) 94% of the ex-factory cost of locally produced materials and equip-
ment; and (f) 50% of the cost of training in Colombia and 100% of the foreign
cost of training abroad. Retroactive financing of up to US$1.0 million equivalent
is proposed for engineering services paid after October 1, 1978. The loan is
expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1985.
Benefits and Risks
68.       The proposed project, which is the least-cost development in the
national power expansion program, would support the Government's objective of
developing domestic sources of energy. Together with the Jaguas hydrostation
(170 MW), which is being financed by IDB, and other diversion works which are
under construction, San Carlos would add 6,910 GWh to the system. In the
absence of the project, power rationing would be required; despite San Carlos,
there would be energy shortfalls during possible dry spells over 1982-85.
Therefore, emergency works have already been started (additional thermal
plant and river diversions) and further ones would have to be decided upon
by 1981.
69.       A return on investment was calculated for the San Carlos II Project
by relating the combined costs (capital and operating/maintenance cost
including related distribution) of San Carlos I, II, Calderas and Jaguas
since they are being constructed concurrently, to the estimated 1978
average revenue for the Central and Atlantic regions of about USd2/kWh. On
this basis, the discount rate at which the present value of project costs
would equal benefits would be 14%, i.e., 3 percentage points above the oppor-
tunity cost of capital. The results of the sensitivity analysis indicate
that, even assuming that costs would increase by 10% or projected revenues
would decrease by the same proportion, the rate of return would not fall
below 12%.
70.       The project is subject to risks normally associated with large
civil works in difficult terrain. There is also a risk that the project
may not be implemented in the time proposed if ISA, because of shareholder
inaction to maintain appropriate power rates, would be delayed in mobilizing
the required local currency. Given the rate increases approved and enacted,
the assurances obtained and, more importantly, the general acceptance by all
political sectors of the need for ISA and the shareholders to maintain sound
finances, it is to be expected that the project will be carried out as
scheduled.
Ecology
71.       An ecological study carried out by a specialized consultant (Cesar
Perez Figueroa, Colombia) for Integral indicates that the project area is
unsuitable for farming or stockraising because of extremely hilly topography,
poor soils and heavy rainfall. Since conditions appear favorable to the
development of water hyacinth (Eichhornia crassipes) in the reservoir area,
ISA took measures to control it under the San Carlos I loan. In consultation



- 22 -
with the Bank, ISA is expected to formulate before December 31, 1980, a satis-
factory medium-range program for rational use of the project basins, including
reforestation, and organize a unit with adequate funding and administrative
capacity to carry it out, not later than December 31, 1981 (Section 5.05 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and ISA, the draft Share-
holders Agreement between the Bank and ISA's shareholders and the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank, and the
report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
73.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Additional conditions of effectiveness would be that ISA has made
satisfactory arrangements for the financing of the Jaguas Project and has made
satisfactory arrangements for the balance of project financing (paragraph 59).
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 30. 1979



- 23 -                                     A_-EFX Ir            
Page 1 of 5
COlO!1BIA - SOCIAI INDICA'rnRS DATA SHEET
REFIR,ENCF GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVULAGES
COLOMBIA
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. K1l.)                                           -_N UTTIPCENT ES'IIMATE)
TOTAt           1138.9                                                  SANI        SAME     NFXT HICHER
AGRICULTURAL     224.8                                MOST RECENE     GEOCRAPl:IC   IN(COME     INCOME
1060  lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b      REGION /,  GROUP /d   GRO!'P 
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 220.0       370.0    710.0           1066.7      867.2       1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION P'ER lAPITA
(KIlOGRAMS OF COAI. EQUIVALENT)   491.0        606.0    671.0            911.1      578.3      1525.D
POPULATION AND VIlAl STATISTICS
TOTAI. POPlJLATl1)S, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        15.4        20.6      25.0
URBAN POPUIATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 53.0 /f     60.3      64.3            57.9       46.2        52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                       14.0        18.0      22.0            25.6       50.8        27.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     71.0        93.0     111.0            77.6       93.3       116.4
POPUIlATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         46.6        46.6      44.1            42.0       42.9        34.8
15-64 YRS.                         50.4        50.4      52.7            52.2       53.5        56.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.0         3.0       3.2             3.7        3.5         5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.9         2.9       2.8             2.17       2.5          1.6
URBAN                              6.0 /       5.5 /h    4.5             4.3        4.7         3.4
CRUDE BIRTH BATE (PER THOUSAND)     46.1 /i     44.3 /i  40.6 /i          35.8       37.8        27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     14.7        11.0       8.8             9.1        10.8        9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.2         3.2       3.1             2.6        2.5          1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       115.4     177.3
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          ..      31.0            15.1       20.0         19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             98.0       100.0     109.1           102.1       107.3       103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   94.0        92.0      94.0           103.9      105.3        110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          50.0        51.0      47.0            60.3       63.0        77.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       28.0        29.0      24.0            26.7       21.7         22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     16.3          ..      12.1             8.7        8.0          I.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.7        58.5      60.9            62.6       57.2         63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          100.0 /j     70.0      97.1            56.9       53.9         38.i
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULAT ION)
TOTAL                               ..        63.0      64.0            60.7       56.8        67.7
URBAN                               ..        88.0      86.0            78.0       79.0        83.5
RURAL                               ..        28.0      33.0            34.9       31.8         41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        47.0      48.0            61.1       30.9         70.3
URBAN                               ..        75.0      73.0            80.3       45.4         90.7
RURAL                               ..         8.0      13.0            25.4        16.1        38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2400.0      2170.0   2180.0           1899.3     2706.8       1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     3740.0      2040.0    1920.0          1220.1    1462.0        849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            580.0       510.0     530.0           422.3      493.9        275.4
URBAN                               ..          ..    320.0            258.2      229.6        129.9
RURAL                               ..          ..   9670.0           2281.6     2947.9        965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        23.0      25.0            25.6       22.1         18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         6.0       5.9             5.2        5.2          3.9
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..              ..        5.0
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..              ..         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..             2.0         2.0         0.9
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..             2.1         1.5         0.8
RURAI.                              ..          ..        ..             2.7         2.7         1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAI.                            47.0 If       ..        ..            51.2       64.1         59.2
URBAN                             b3.0 /f       ..        ..            77.3       67.8         78.0
RURAL                              8.o If       ..        ..             12.8      34.1         12.5



- 24 -                                    ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
COLOTBIA - SOCJAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
COLOMBIA                                                la
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SANE      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME       INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROULP e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLIAENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    T11TAL                 77.0         98.0      105.0            103.5       99.8         97.6
FEMA1E                77.0       J00.0      108.0            102.9       93.3         87.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 12.0         23.0       36.0             37.2       33.8         47.8
FEMkLE                11.0        22.0       36.0             37.9        29.8        42.6
VOCATIONAI (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) i.O /Ic       21.0       1/.0             14.7       12.8         22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRLMARY                            38.0         38.0       33.0             32.8       34.9         25.4
SECONDARY                           11.0        17.0       19.0             17.8       22.2         24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         63.0        73.0       81.0             74.9        71.8        96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.0         11.0       15.0             26.9       12.4         32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PFR TIIOUSAND
POPULATION                        139.0        105.0      117.0            173.5      104.5        201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         11.0         38.0         ..             69.4       28.1         97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCUIATICN PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   56.0       109.0       69.0             72.8       45.2         70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTFNDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        6.8              4.3         4.6         4.4
EMPLO MfENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      5100.0 /f   6200.0    6700.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    18.9        24.6       24.6             21.4       25.7         17.4
AGRICUL.TURE (PERCENT)             47.0 If      39.0         ..             37.8       46.2         38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.2         21.0         ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.6        29.7       29.7             30.8        33.8        33.7
HALE                                  49.8        44.9       44.7             47.2        48.1        50.8
FEMALE                                11.6        14.6       14.6             13.2        17.3        12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.8          1.6       1.6              1.7         1.4          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVELP BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   41.2 /f,1   31.9 /1   27.2                28.9       23.6         20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  67.7 I/.l  60.1 /1   54.4                 57.7       52.3         47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.1 /f,l    3.5 T5    5.2                 3.2        4.3          3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCFNT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.8 /f,l   10.1 /1   14.3                10.7        13.1        13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
LtRBAN                               ..           ..         ..            251.9       191.9
RUtRAL                               ..           ..      145.0            200.6       193.1       157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      154.0            403.1      319.8        448.8
RUJIRAL                              ..           ..      153.0            258.0      197.7        313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       24.0             24.8        19.8        23.2
RURAL                                ..           ..       55.0             65.2        35.1        54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
La    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniforms.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and fot Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c  Latin America & Caribbean;  /d  Intermediate Middle Income (S551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /e  Upper
Middle Incone (S1136-2500 per capita, 1976); /f 1964; /R 1951-64; /h 1964-70; /A Official estimates
based on registration data shov crude birth rate for 1960 as 39.0. average 1961-70 as 36.0 and average
1971-76 as 31.0;  /I fRistered only;  7k  Includes teacher-training at the third level;  /1  Economically
active population.
September, 1978



-25 -
ANNEX I
DtIT~,  FSOCIAL lIflICAlORS                           Page   3   of   5
fg:   'ie .1lunrd grop avreg--  ittcart  oU mcor ae r.p.i-v.uo--.gnou  geetori  mean, exludinltheextreecvaues oitheindictor  nd ti  ove
poult   - crrr In,"i eac  group    loo"ae-cicrund cer   eog  thonir  oeot    scvmiaIIty of dtand is not uniform.  Due to lack of data,
grou   yvo'i  for Capita   orylust ill k'rtort an ntratraof aorLa  toolse    crera disp...si, housing, moaos distributio   ndpovertyare
[AliTASPI   thuusod eq  hr..                                                 Ppp"suor   r hou14s01led-ttal   uban,  nd roal --opulaiunn(otal
otl-Totaloraeae   upiso1aiao   v    u    waters,                                        urban&, nd r-Io) divided by their- resco loe noaher,af hosPital hedat
~41oirurui    Rout roort estiert  ofaunlctucal u,a used texpu-urlp                     avat.lae inp Iloao   rivt           :reaPn   pratndhsia   a   e
or prsoorly fo  coup, fat-tro,  -uakot sod kito-er. gorfons or to                   aiitto  rooers             op gtI r   salihet    emnosyaatdb
lie failoc.                                                         a~~~~~~~~~~~~~t Iust .u. physician    istabiafhr-ta Providing principally.. cutodial
GNP PERCA~~~~~~~~~~~ITA_~~~~cen  reco  iclded.  Rural hosp,,.Ja. however, Include healthad m.di-
-    GlIP PkRCAP1T~~~(Sj)  - Citf per capi~ta otacaaurronaktpie,alotrsotevcoly tfed bya physiotan (but by a med ical  s
caicoarod  y sac  coveroicu  -ehdasWorld Danb Atlas (1975-77 basia);                  sistant, nurse, o,idwife, etc.) which offer in-patient acconsodation and
ISn9    b,     and  d97  dta.n                                                             provide a limited rouge of medical facilitIes
-4ERGK--C(-N-'U                                                   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~Adv,iaulovsefhE i h oZ~~lbd - Total comber of admission. to or diachargos
ENRY  CSUPIOS  PUR CAPITA- Annual Cooxoeptjon of  cnera    nergy                       froo hospitls1  divided by the number of beds.
(coal and  lignito, poto,out   o.tunrsl &sa ard hydro-, nucle-arnsd geo'-h
thermalIelectrIiciy) In killgroa Osrcue   qui-ala.t per capita.                       HOUINGlh
Avorsee airs of houaehold (cersoos por househod) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION A7771VITAL STATISTICS                                                              A   . hueholJdcsit  of a -rop of iodicidals who share lit .g  urtets
Total ,popl.tico._ou-ur~r   ollr.oo& -Ai  of July 1;If ot avilable,               sodthei1an  el.  A boarder or lodger may or ma               both  included i
anotae of  wo ru-yna   osti-r; l9h0, 1970, and 197  da,                             th..uehi o  statstca  prposen.  Statisticsl   eintosofhue
Urbayjppolv:Lvn(o~~~~pceot  of idol)  - ~Ratio of orban to total Ppopoi-          hold vary.
nios; dift-sot doilolti-o  of urhan areas say offert  - oparbility                      Av   Pu nohro   oss   e   cr      oa,urban, sod.rrl-Asaesm
of data among ocuntnlox.                                       han of porsoon pen noon ~~in  ll   rban, a'nd rural occupe  cov.sua
PplarLIa Lnc-A dorl-t.L                                                                      dwellings.  ropertively.  Dwellings occlude non-permanent structures and
Per  na. ho. - Mid-y-s  populati-n par square kilometer (lii hectnres)                      unoccupied parts..
of total arcs.                                                                          Acceun toeetiiy(rcnofdllg)- tota.1 urban, and rural -
Per_asq. kg,arlrulture_land - Computed as above for agricultural land                       Conventional dwellings with elecrtnclty in living quartrer  ax perceotage
only,                                                                                      of total, urban, sod rural dw-llings renpeotively.
Pocuctio oe srucure)yerevj -Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 yeur) * and retired (65 ymct.ansd over) as percentages of sid-                 EDUCATIONi
your Population.                                                                       Ajyq   nulorrto
PonuiatiooAoth rate    -ernor)total_asd tlran  - Compound annual                  tnnr cho             otal,~ and feus.le - Total and female enrollmect of all ages
gruwih otT0 c  toftal and uchac old-year populationsa for 1lSSC-60,                        at the primary level as percentages ci respectively primary schoo-age
1960-70, aud 1970-75.                                                                      populations; .on-lly Includes  hbildrs aged,6g-t1 yer  but adjuatedfr
Crudo birth ruts (pe   houod  .       Anr.alIlive births per ch,u,acI of..different lotha of pniray eduo.sti-; for cnuotries with oniaruled-
mid-py-  Popoltc;toya  anI.cl  a...ese  end~ ing Ic191  and                               Cation enrol1oet nay  ocoed 100 percent since some Pupils are below s
19ib aid fioc-peon u-rge coding iIn975fr moat reoront esibo.sove the offlola  school age.
Crude  euth rte (de  thcr.s4 A  Annual deaths per thounao d ofi mid-             Secondary nchobol-tt,jrdfeaes   - Competed an above; seconday educa-
yea r population; ts- year ai,hotin avorges erding  ciSh96  and 1970                       ti o requires at leat fou  years of afyr-oed primary instruction; pro-
and fiv-year average onding In 11%~ for cost receot enrInat-.                              vides general vocational , or teacher training instructions far Pupils
Gnur--oot  o ae - Ar.... o  nobrhe  of d-ughoor  o --ns  ill hear                            co..ally of 12 tc 17 ysa-  ef age; cornsnsonursas..                   gen erally
in her norma  s eprodootiverpoiod if sheI roprios p-eu-tiage-                              -ncluded.
opec if ic ferti lity cton; usua.lly Cf-year averages coding  .In960,                   Voncationnal enrolmen-t (perrent of secondary) - Vocational inetitnti.n. in-
1970, ond 1975.                                                                           clude  tecisiral ioduntnilr          oth,     er Pro gram  whiob opera.te tndapsodetly
Pfii      rianio  - urcocr,  nna  (th-n-adn) - Anua  so 1nmber of                            or so departioenta of so-odary in-tituti-os.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                   Punii-tsscher rati  nylary, sod secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning poogUs.                                                                           primary snd secondary levels divided by suabers of teachers In the curre-
FsniIy_po-rbrg2 u_sers_(ercent omarried women) - Percentage of                               spnsding levels,
married wouc ot ud-al g ad  (15-4, yours) who une hlnih-rontrol                        Adult litenacv_rate_jnroenr) - Literate adulta  (able to read and write) as
d-uicr  to all c,aoio  w0000 in noe  ge group.                                            sporcentofo of totul adult populotion aged 15 ye.ar  end over.
FOOD AND N1WTRTTIPN                                                                      CONSUMP~TION
Indro of f04odcIvo_per rupito (197i0)  -ndee nunher of Pen                               Pass.enger cacs (Per thou...nd Population) - Passenger care comprise motor cars
capita cooo. roduoon of al  mod cono'ditro                                              erating1 less than eight p-.neon   emoludes-. .....e.na  bnarses aod military
Per capita  -uPilo ~of nuorles (percentfc  r             -tiemers  - Computed from        vhirlI.
energy equivalent of Oct rood nopplio ava iluble In  o-ntrvPer cap ita                 Radl  rereivers(per thou..und nopulation) - All types of receiversfr  ai
per day.  Ocilbleoopleocoprio  dornosr.c prod-tonuon,importe lens                       broadcanLs to general puhlic per thousan d of population;eaIu.dest unlice,sd
eeportn, aodchanges in stci.  Not noyplies e-clde antoa  feed, needs,                   rsceiv.ru  in countriestand in years when registration  of radostswsi
quantitleu  -so. ic icd pn       -innntg, acd I.asso  in distribution.  Re-             effect: data for recen  years map st he.. coparable since moat countries
qu ireo.enr  usesr estimured by FAQ based on Physiclogical needs for nor-               aholishod licrening.
ma,I actIvIy and health c-neidonig roviro..m.ota1 teope-ture, body                     IV rereivers (per thond ropulatino) - TV receiners for broadcast to genent
weights, age and sen diotnihunicos of population, and allowing ii per-                     public per thiousand population; enolodes unlicened TV teceioers in roan-
cent for w-ure at ho...ehold 1rve.                                                         trios and In years when registration of TV nets was in effect.
Pe   Uy-eo~1oo   rrin (gr,.s per day.    Protein content of per                      N-wps1er cir-ulatior.erthouunandponultiG                  - Sh-w  the average    ras
capita oct opplc cI  food per day.  tct nupplp of food in defio ed  as                     tion of "dully genenal inntrent noospuper", defined asaperiodica  pobli-
above .Reqire-eni  for all covtnics established by lo SA Prooide "Io                       notion devoted priorily to recordIn gnoines   It is cooid-red to
5 ,int,uo 1.. sl uce oh P   ran  of Iota  poe I       p r day ad 20 gruo                 bedaily" if it uppeu   an let      ei fonI timex   week.
of sninal sod pulse Proteio, of whIch 10 grams sho-ld ho aolrul protein.               Cicna acnual a'rtenduoce oep~r cpi   per year -tgased on the number of tickets
Thesac noundadu ar  lower thathsof 75 frame of rona1 proteic, and                          sold during the yea, including adnls-ion  no dr Iv--In cneas and subtle
23  on   fata  proteic n   as  onag  fortho ecrld, propose.d by                           uits..
FAO in tie Third World Food Surnoy.
Pe   2j ,aotelo   upoio   niu   n,yv  - Protein supply offood                    E26PLOYP'ENT
derived IroT           anelo d poIson In grans pun day.                                Total lhor force_(oho..ods)    E - ..r..oio-11y active persons, including arme d
Child (.go -) motl -ynte  -e oto-urd  - AnnoaI deaths per thos-                              foe-o  and uneoployed hot oncluding hoosewloen, students, etc.  Defini-
and In can enoup 1-i yearn, to roldr-n  ithis age group,                                   cOcos I vacrious oo-trtee are not coepurable.
Feo-I. Irorc-on  - Fe-ale labor. force as percentge of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                    4gricult-rr (orroIIt) -' Lbor fIrc -in f-riotg, forentry. hunting sod flshimg
Life  entctr1yp  birth (peers)- Average,nuober.ofiyosrs of life                              as percentage of total labor force.
tracn   t birth; usualy floe-yea  averages eding io 1960, 1970,                  Indu-tro (percent)- Labor force in mninlg, constraction   manu..facturing and
and 1975.                                                                                  elenictiop,,, wter and gas as percenta,ge of tota  labor force
Infaot morality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                     Patccro-rc   nrert) _ tcia,  cb.  n  feml -. Total, n.Ie, and
one yea  of age P., thocound live  lrhts.                                                 'fenaire labor forc  an p--cetg-s of their respective popolatirns.
Access so sa fe -ute  innocet  f Ipopulaton) - total, nrhen-and rural -hbeye are ILO', ad)uored participation rates  -efecting age-se
Number of pecyls (           -cu b uu, uod cral)  ith reauoouie acces  to                  stooonre of thin  population, and 1ogtin,e treed.
safe. .uter ..upply          tnlue   rcated  or-aewtr  o   nrae   but                  frooceirc dyvenco-ratio  - Ratio of popolatiom  under 15 and 65 and over to
nrretroroId srrno   I_         ro   P rn    r -And broholen  spig,the labor foor- in age group of 15-64 year.-
sed sanitary welle) us pr'eoootcco   i their  epoiopplroo
Is an  rtbo aa   p31110 fnu-uc   or  navup-ot iuo-no  eci .ore                        INClf'T DISTRlIM7Tl0
than 201  Ieer        fro  ..a los  .oy os ocreidored as bin   witinn-                 Percmentage rofrioute ioors (both in cah and kind) receined by riehest 
suoublea-osa of riot ...cse.  In  -rua    ara  reasnbl          .ccs  wud                  p et  richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
toply  rEst the )housost fe or combers of rho house.hold do not huoe to                    of bo...nIolds.
spend a disproportionate Pant of the cay 1o feichiog the taniuy's
water  -edn.                                                                          POVETOY TARGET GROUPSi
Access to or-reta diyy'o-(ierent of pcnain-fou,rvpan   n                                  Etaeasrrroerty ioone level (U) Per                         itsp4 - urban and rural1
ours1 - bunIon of  erpla  total, othe , ad rua)   -and by en-rer                 Absolute foverty Inoc  leve-l Is that mucone level below which a misi-
disoa  an y-rcentoc- of ti dJr revy Ftiv   poplolino.               -rta                   outritio..ulln sdcqaute diet Plus esusotia1 cnn.-food re qu irenen.ts is not
di:sponl cay Include the  -lloti-o  nd istol  oln   r Elobh-
rea,tnrt, of humn,.      ot  an    at -uo   o~wtcIrrsput-m                             ttmod rltv    oec   n elvl(Ufl per capita) - urban and r.ral1
or seuropit prirc e nd vr.to   osulins                                                      elatuvo puretty Irrv i,re l"  Ia that,  iccx l.evel less than one-third
Poou1.iai.c  eyuoir   -  clblc  dvde d by -oor"  or .!P-atrcng                               per capita per-o-o  In-e of the, coo..try.
pirsoonuo  q'rallfru icon    nedicolsulcol s  oi-orsit- I-oel.D~ -siraced                     j cyurLohel .  povenir tir-no level (percent)  -ubanadrua-
-nulonvnrrndy reuv  -ipolati-n dioidnd byonero-eretorPpla -o (urban and rru-l) who are either "absolu,te p.ror  or
p     v,io   ei  a      &ea - oduote nuse, p-snticl nures  and                       "relaIvepor"wIche veri  gretr
.sainto-t nurses.
EcnmicAnlyissna      rojections  eParmn



-26-
(Ic 8tSilIun   ci U5 SOAL!a-)
Avrge   575               75 76            17               170               19 79            5 98 3       lle?617           95.0           07     6',s                1t                 3
559773KAL ACCOUNTS                                                                    5977  ri- c    - ad E-ohcc-  Rate
Gros-    tI  P-od cl                      9.660           146,667          15 ,236          15.911            17,24,9          18 ,391          23,0A,,             6.5           5.4           6.           100.0         5:.              00.6'
fasarcOr.   cT-tde(              -757 It          8699             -                 68               422                78             .sO                -             --                         4             2. 4              6
tree. hc,reetic ircrn,e     8,909          13~~~~I-. 86 8   TS ,736           16,06            17,671            18S.469          23 .81 5            7.4          7.7            6.6          05.2          :4                9
ic,poci 31,scl. 6752        5,495   ,      ~~~~~      ~~2.347  2,302           2,428            2,882            3,187             4,569             7.5          17.9           7.3           14.1          70.7            17 8
too.-i  ho.955 Ic- acclc   -l."4919'                      j2,29            -279              1S29             -3.368           -3.138           -38                 6.5          10.0           4.8           13.8         -16.5            13.5
Rtscorc  Cap                                  72            .250             -480              -681             -466                49              4&4.                           -             -             1.7           2.8             2.0
Ccceocmptlo,c Ucpacdcsoree     ~~7,320         73,908           75,:779           12,560           13,309           14,216            58,323             6.5           7.2           6.5           74.9          77.2            76.5
I.,ccs.aoc  AePeccIt.r,  (Dccl.
Stok.)                                  7.661           2,1747            3,7              3,477,           3,876             4,307            5,959             51.7         10.5           8.5           18.8          22.3            24.9
13--SAiD Sa-snt                           5,8               ,9              3,5              4.0               4,362            4,253            5,9                1..                         6.6          20.            233             219
tdatlctsal Ssvingc         1,509           ~~~~~~          ~~~~~2,84  399     3,881            426               4,84             5,9               11            1.2            62           794           2.42.
lap.iccl  -od0                              290             58               65827                            5,295            7,494            2C2               104          38.2           177          4094.4                         46.7
5,,ttoe,lia,slcdc  (Act. Foc-c     15               0973                              7)2              I' 705                            ,02             27.4           8.                          2.            325              3
F..ela acd tela-d  - -ceIs                  5              13              729              194               23               434               785            12.2         4O0.          54.0           7.3            9.4            54.0
Ccvavccctcon Gvdt                          Al              25               214              335               291              285               399            18!.53       516            8.           17.3           L.68              7.1
Totl-1     csdosStoc  (0783               608           1,425             1 ,74 7          2,728            2, 70             3,738            5,611            50.4          24.4          14.7         50f.            00.0           100. 0
0f OhArh, Pr'rIt  Pc-dvc-                 489           1,3583            1,870            2,415            1,57              2,2              5,3720)           14.5         23.4           9.a          85.1           8A.5            19.1
Whi cihs Cvffra                         731               74             522             (1.7601          12,041            (171              2,044           Il.))         127.05         11.9)        (44.55         61652)          (43.11
-tc,ac,td Goode                       117             32               38170                             446               505              906            2.3            8.2          792            8.9           73.5            2 0.0 
cTa~l  -hcr-cdise Ecco.c   7F0B3          606           1,717             2 ,255           2,796            3,290             2fl                .71             16.2         20.9          10.8         105. 0         100.0           700.0
Mcr-h-.nd-lc.d Iade 725.5
E-000   ricoOdcc                           21.             739              100              145.4             535.0            129.0            154.7
tam   c7Trde lde                       82.5             77,1            7000             129.0             543              1209.
04170  00880905085 FcAc  -cc                           -coo1  -c.c  1976 -cic.- - -..cdohcvce                                                                4--'rceo..1rot.at                            cPcocAcNc
Agrlculc.cre              2,923           ~~~~~~          ~ ~~~~4,7143  4,224  4, 335         4,519             4,855            6,109             2.            5.3.                       30.            2.              1.
lOdActry cod Klvitcg      2,427          ~~~~~~~3,33       3,9 33           4,2087            4,343            4,744             6,430              .             .             .           2.              772.
Scrvsc                                  4 .249          5.558              aIls45!         .3.Il7          .AJ                Lii9 7.23       - 465              3,9           7. 2          7.0          41.51          45.m7           43.5
tecc                                2~9,99   n'3,55           14,102            14.,764          7502             5,3                2005.1                           .            6.t          0.             0.              0.
PUBLIC FI05A1E                                                         A-.vcl Dete atW-rr- 8cc-                                                                                                                    Ac Pet-ev  of CDP
CoretRecrcc41                                         1,302            1,.670            2,050            2,540            3,335             5,000            20.           23.5          5050.3                       50.7            10.0
C   Er.c .. lcedit-e                 262            702              75               930           .3.,J              I  732j          23,754           10.5          27.5            7.5          4.8            4.5              50
Bugeay  clcg                      155              900              01             1,118            7 .439            1,603            2,606            28.2          25.1          1 3.8          5.             6.T0            5.08
OtAco PublIc Seccor 5-0108        434              567              -37              -80                19              -95             -13                                                         I    M. 1       -
S-71  A  -o  lo--serc               612             957            7,593             1123             1,636            2,003             3,2 76            0.0          20.51         33.5           0.3            5.9             7.5
9017-  0101498                                               1965-70            1976-7t         1959-AS
(    fergeOc  P-rt-d Shoce)
OeA--e ICOR (Desd or Gro-  bo-Jtt
toeceet,laod Ott  OoeS                           6. 25            3. 60            3.516
ls,tott -ccorlc                                            1.2              1.8 - 9         1.79
tletgtoai Sosealic Scolvge Rate             0.20~~~O          035             0.22
N.r,tIttADsd   gao   Rot                             3,4               0.4            50.20
1LA00 FORCE 0     OCOrAIP70 ' 0M   0OT-1 labor ForCe                                                                                                                810410l 08P000  008rtOtlSO                    A. fD T-t
1994            7973          1964            1973            1944-73                                                                                                1  6                     97
OgcS colcore                   ~~~~~~          ~~~~2,427  2.057  47,.3         30.7            -1.                                                   A,,o, oc                                          28.9                  26. 5
Uo&,ecty                   0.809            1,21~~~~~~~~~~~~'2  18,7       17.8             2.7                                                  io.erav    lIg10.8                                                       0.
ServIce                                    1.749           3. 52          340-2.                            .2Foe                                                                                                                       22.
T-cl                                       5,534           6.e712        100.C           100.0             3~                                                  T-c.po,-   s-  UC_--..cs-                          24.2                  10.5
cher                                              24 .5                 13.7
VaI.. Added ca   Wocer- 71976 Prlce  evd UccOco-  RTe.-1ce  Ecoe-dl--ore                                                                                              1                    11
1964                              7950,            19 73           7964-73                                               FSiA6CO8C 
Ogs. .lccr                              "I            I  .                66,6            Ia'              5,                                                    6Ol  0.10   Sarg6.5                                                    7.
Itd.ar                                7,87.           203               155.2           748, I,                                                                 ADralA3:t 5.                                                            2.
SerolDe                    ~~~~~~          ~~~1 .730  1.546    1 21.3           90..2Q-i 4.2                                                          Uher E.I00.
T-tl                                  1,559           1,717             700.0            700.0             2.6                                                 TD-]Fvvct                                        100.0                  lOo.9
April 2, 1979



2 7 -                                                                                  r        I 5 of5 w
(A                                             m.mto It r111- oi  03 kilto. st onoot P -oo.)
1971         1973          1974          137   197        6         3970          1             15           1 79   19 D      1          1901          1
pot (tol.    ).20)                                   1            1.,53    i     41,1         2,752         3,           3.993         3,30         4,179         4,731         5,242         6.00
)aso,JIo1Lfl              i.ljj   ~~~~~~~~14A.       !V            LPN Z        LE 141    3aj                 M 143                    i-I    kIS                  LM            L4
O..poooo. tob.o (1-3
Fotoor tortos                           -196          -213         -I92          .26-          .279         -244          -49           -2I5          _25          oll           .374          -449
Froflo.                              1 -70)        ( -70)       1 3531        ( -74)        (.413)       (-114)        (.155) (-130)               (-Ut)        (402)         (-102)        (-001)
Othv,                                (-124)        (-143)       (-137)        (-109)        (-194)       (-130)        ( 131)        (-lt) (-443)               (-140)        (-194)        (-240)
torotot Oo.osf.t. (N.t)               M...21        M...A             53.i       .k              71         7.3J            2DJ3          00            2D           70 20                       20
9u'. Un Ooooot Afo.oto                 .193          --7         6 43        ~ MI90 _1S                                                -0317         _                                      -191_j
2rlito    t -o Lot. -,s t                 17            23           35            31            14            4a           47            52            61            70           76            83
P bLO, hndlJ. o d0 1,32-1.0 Lost.
0o.too..oo.                            334          *12            3d0          30s           272           370          283           a5            743           070          990          10290
- l.oot..o3.                   .24~~~~~~-  _*,fl        -,3            -133        _43            '744          -7            419            350         410,            I~  
3.0 tlsb,o.,.oo.   ~~~~~~~~~~~~I13   091   173     ~~~~~~~1U     ~~~33~~           10                             a os
d  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1t 0{Sb                                                                                      _.3V         -393         0               *        2   7  RLq 
7ther 7i il0- .0 d 7o2-0.oo Loo
-ioL.. tL33                                           0  0         50            72            43            67           43           109           102           000           034          450
__                        ~~~            ~~~         ~~~~            ~~-44  S1 5   -87           -              0t_+ -4      -90           -t              -          -95
7/0 Dto.losstow                         55             2            -2                                                  tIT              a            090 100                    133
- -p1t1          .... .. 1o   .t.i       204           -37          -237          -5            22            143           260          -
Ch.00. it    203010 )-.Ooot.o.o   -UIS41--            -               8 3        -139          -132          -590         -70           _ -10          240           291          302            -
ClWff1 003D 30 C0YIIT72                    1972          1973         L374         1373          134           137           1970
Poblot  1-o- =t  1-            1-.02                                                                                                                                           1972         1973        1 97         1975         9970         1977         1902
1070                                    74           762            0            XS             D          304            390
Ploooooo0                              000            70            32           40           132           43             7 lOttoo.0.olog   bto t144..  jj                 (.24. 05 1.9   7         2,070.0      2,312.        ,0.          ,0.          .0,
0..plo.o.                               339           30           130           974         518            307           hS2           1.3   00 244110 t    .41               37.6         7.2        101.1(S(1)0               120.9 I00.0               091.3
X19At P3bL1C DXDT   Outathi 9F 12/31/77                       0utatchfiZ PD 12/31/71                     totel D bt Sv-v Oe                     25.6        21 7         23.0         15 b         12I 801    2             i2U'2
..;ld ...          7               93     o     90            61     75i                 16            45            10             .     o           16.                            131.0        U)5   - 2 153 I3.        11.           173.1        04.
11    ~ ~    ~      -            -             -             -              Tota  PoIt.  b04  1S-010             133.9        205:.9       300.0       047.0        270.6        30033        401
Oehhr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                               s-eL'er         c 1 5       9                         Intv- e                              3 .Ar 
T . 4.                                   --                                        -. 9905                                                                                                      .6 7119.                7.                       8            90.0
pFolPbilo 1o.o._ 0.00    >n-t          -                              D.52  24DUL; t  SetZinob  (St                                                                             909.        33.          40.          32.         316           39. 7         4.
2.3             3              34          397           300          307           0.a
_1rD      .- 7        l    ( isDb     fILLdns71                                                                     5
lU00 Wt b   oot 5onain 7   (3
2UI  9.01  so                        12.9         13.1         11.6         1 51          3         22 0         210.2
90330011 70110 0000               0o.7.07.04.)-0t2oo.11/311)0                          --Motot  0  L0/3119                       ?o_1 246t                              250003.6     1)          0.            33          1.            01         1.
Wool) 9004  700.0                   274                     otl.,                      04             IDA o  700.39.c tt,.     loot..          01.          26.          07.          01.0 2       .          03. 203O)
OtIto Otloiioooo.I                       132.0                         3.9                    193 O:4                                   Ontoag     pv of Pbll  Lo
1..oplo.o.             197.0                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                        ~~~~~7.1  15.  .  OL000ldo   o
703,.,. 3.36.  3)2.1                   014                     309.1                      13.9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I   0lLLo.4.0                            41.          .3)         3.0     03                1.7 5
tot).                          07.~            ~           ~~~~~~~~~1:  0.2         19.2                       1.4              0000Uto.   1700  0
00.Ooo.00                  ~~~~        ~~~~7.0  0.1  10.9         9.4          6.3         7.2          3.
40.,.  ~~~~~~~~~~~.2,60.9                                  13.0~                  2,0.30.0.                                     '.
LiUo.                           433.3         0.          4.           3.           7.          711.0       732
sod OttUroto                ~~~~ ~ ~~27.9  06.01      27.          2722t12                               2.
1990 nO  PobIto 9063 l0000o.  30.9   26.0        U.~~": 03      73         .9          70.,I         3.
0.Uo....    Li                        20.39        03.0         22.9         =    205     20.7        00.0        07.0
.M0 .06.*..                            1.0          1.0           1.         1.3                       LA          0.7
26.1      bll .-09.-01.                 0.0          0.0         0.9        ~ 0.0          0.0          0.0         0.1
OtioooOo moo.),,                                                                                        a   900~~~~~~~~~~~~~L     t3 o.01o,.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 11
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1979)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                              Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose             Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Fully disbursed loans and credits                                 724.2      23.5 /1   --
680     1970  Colombia                          Roads              32.0               2.8
681     1970  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                 52.3                 .2
738     1971  Empresas Municipales de
Palmira                        Water Supply        2.0                .3
741     1971  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota       Water Supply       88.0               6.6
849     1972  Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria             Irrigation         2.2                1.0
860     1972  Instituto de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply        9.1               2.7
874     1973  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                 56.0               9.0
903     1973  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   60.0                   .8
920     1973  Colombia                          Education          21.2              12.0
926     1973  Ferrocarriles Nacionales          Railways           25.0                 .7
971     1974  Colombia                          Pre-Investment
Studies          8.0               3.5
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de FomentD
Municipal                      Water Supply       27.0              16.6
1073    1975  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones             Communications   15.0                 1.2
1118    1975  Colombia                          Rural Settlement 19.5                10.9
1163    1975  Colombia                          Agriculture        21.0              17.1
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   80.0                26.7
1352    1977  Colombia                          Rural Dev.         52.0              45.7
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica             Agricultural Cr. 64.0                44.7
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de               Communications   60.0                59.9
Telecomunicaciones
1451    1977  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   15.0                11.3
1471    1977  Colombia                          Highways           90.0              90.0
1487    1978  Colombia                          Nutrition          25.0              24.3
1523    1978  Empresas Municipales de Cali   Water Supply          13.8              13.8
1558    1978  Colombia                          Urban Develop
ment            24.8               24.8
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                126.0             126.0
1583    1978  Colombia                          Power              50.0              50.0



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1979) (Continued)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial            Industrial
y Comercial de Cartagena         Export          15.0              14.9
1598    1978  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.  100.0               99.7
1624 /2 1979  Colombia                          Airports          61.0              61.0
1628 /2 1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                      Power             84.0     _84.0
TOTAL                                           2,023.1      23.5
Of which has been repaid                          402.4       1.7
Total now outstanding                           1,620.7      21.8
Amount sold                         49.9
Of which has been repaid            22.9           27.0
TOTAL NOW HELD BY BANK AND IDA                  1,593.7      21.8
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                                                   871.9
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
/2   Not yet effective.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1979)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                    Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.           Fiber-board      0.50       -      0.50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                      Food products   1.99   0.08        2.07
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.          Metal cans       0.70       -      0.70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                     Home furniture  0.08   0.09        0.17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.          Electrical
equipment      0.50      -       0.50
1962       Corporacion Financiera             Development
Colombiana                        financing         -   2.02       2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera             Development         -   2.04       2.04
Nacional                          financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de             Textiles         1.98   0.15       2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de          Development
Caldas                            financing         -   0.81       0.81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.           Steel forging       -   1.27       1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de             Warehousing      1.00      -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Ganadera                Livestock         1.00   0.58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.             Textiles         5.00   2.60       7.61
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de          Tourism             -   0.01       0.01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del         Development         -   0.45       0.45
Norte                             financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del         Development         -   0.43       0.43
Valle                             financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de            Tourism          0.23   0.11       0.34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                  Tourism          0.80   0.25       1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de         Housing              -   0.46       0.46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.              Cement           1.50      -       1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.          Cement           3.60      -       3.60
1976       Las Brisas                        Mining            6.00      -       6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.            Utilities       13.00   2.00      15.00
1977       Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                                Construction
Material       2.43      -       2.43
Total Gross Commitments                           40.31  13.35      53.66
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            27.48   8.24      35.72
Total commitments now held by IFC                 12.83   5.11       17.94
Total undisbursed                                 _____



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
1.   Ln No. 680 Highways VI; US$32 million, June 1970.
Effective date: March 29, 1971
Closing date:    original - November 30, 1974
current - November 30, 1980
The largest component of the project, the paving program, has
experienced considerable cost increases and delays. As of this writing,
six sections in the program are still under construction, requiring about
190 km of paving. Project completion is now expected for end-1980. The other
components of the project were completed with much less delay. The new
Minister of Public Works has promised action to complete the program. As of
March 31, 1979, US$29.2 million (91% of the total) had been disbursed.
2.   Ln No. 738 Palmira Water Supply and Sewerage; US$2 million, May 1971.
Effective date: December 29, 1971
Closing Date:    original - March 1, 1975
current - December 31, 1979
As of March 31, 1979, about 85% of the loan amount was disbursed.
The original project works were completed at lower cost than originally esti-
mated. The savings in the loan of about US$450,000 are being used to finance
supplementary sewerage works which were already identified during project
appraisal.
3.   Ln No. 741 Water Supply (Bogota II); US$88 million, May 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1978
current - December 31, 1980
All works are progressing satisfactorily and expected to be completed
by the end of 1980. Completion of the Chuza-Ventana tunnel section, however, is
expected to be completed by mid-1981. Disbursements up to March 31, 1979,
amounted to about 93% of the loan amount.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
4.   Ln No. 849 Irrigation (Atlantico II); US$5 million, June 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    March 31, 1978
The project is the second phase of a scheme to develop about 17,000
ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production. At the request
of the Government, US$2.8 million of the loan of US$5.0 million were cancelled
in February 1977. Work is continuing on additional feeder roads, tertiary
canal drains, waterfronts, land clearing, subsoiling and leveling. Two
contractors defaulted delaying work on the main drainage canal though a new
contract was recently signed. Settlement of farmers within the project areas
and the provision of technical assistance and farm credit have been making
inadequate progress. The closing date would be extended once the Government
provides appropriate assurances that the above delays and problems will be
resolved.
5.   Ln No. 860 Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$9.1
million, October 1972.
Effective date: March 7, 1973
Closing Date:    original - September 30, 1976
current - September 30, 1980
As of March 31, 1979, about 70% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Management problems affected the initiation of the project, but progress has
since improved. Delay in receiving budgetary funds as a result of the
Government's economic stabilization measures also slowed down project execution.
INSFOPAL has prepared a new implementation program for each city and this should
accelerate completion of the works.
6.   Ln No. 874 Guatape II Hydroelectric Power Project; US$56 million,
January 1973.
Effective date: March 13, 1973
Closing Date:    original - December 31, 1978
current - December 31, 1979
The progress of the work has been generally satisfactory except for
delays in the resettlement of El Penol and Guatape villages because of the
villagers' reluctance to move into the new cities.  This problem is now re-
solved and filling of the Santa Rita reservoir was carried out in May 1978,
three years behind schedule. The revised project cost is substantially above
appraisal estimate, mainly occasioned by higher cost by the civil works. The
Borrower experienced financial problems but, since the start of 1978, adopted
substantial tariff increases and has been able to overcome them. Project
completion is now expected for June 1979. As of March 31, 1979, US$47.0 million
or 84% of the Loan amount had been disbursed.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
7.   Ln No. 903 Development Finance Companies V; US$60 million, May 1973.
Effective date: November 9, 1973
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - June 30, 1979
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are expected to be
completed within the next few months. As of March 31, 1979, only US$0.8
million equivalent remained undisbursed.
8. Ln No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 1973.
Effective date: January 10, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1981
The execution of the project had been suspended in mid-1975 pending
redefinition of sector priorities by the Government. Project execution resumed
in 1977 but suffered continuous delays. In June 1978, the Government submitted
a proposal to reduce the scope of the project and to cancel a large portion of
the Loan. However, the new administration, which came to office in August 1978,
retracted the proposal and decided to proceed with the project as originally
conceived. Project execution is expected to proceed normally and total
project cost is expected to remain close to the appraisal estimate.
9.   Ln. No. 926 Sixth Railway Project:  US$25 million, August 1973.
Effective date: December 6, 1973
Closing date:  original - June 30, 1976
current - August 31, 1979
The freight traffic in ton-km has increased by 6% in 1978 over 1977,
whereas pass-km of passenger traffic is likely to show a decrease of about 12%
due to the discontinuance of several uneconomic passenger train services.
Freight tariffs increased by 25% in 1979; passenger fares are expected to
increase by 25% shortly. CNR's operating ratio improved to 122.0 in 1978 from
147 in 1976. Average long-haul and train load have increased; staff has been
further reduced to 10,895 by September 1978 as against the last appraisal
target of 11,200 in 1976. Locomotive availability has deteriorated to an
all-time low of 55% due to engine failures in certain types of locomotives and
the shortage of urgently required spare parts. At the same time, an acute short-
of cash to buy spare parts, together with high debt service charges and in-
creasing operating costs aggravated the situation. The Government is assisting
the railways financially and is studying corrective measures. As of March 31,
1979 only about US$700,000 of the loan amount remained undisbursed.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
10. Ln No. 971 Preinvestment Studies Project; US$8 million, March 1974.
Effective date: June 27, 1974
Closing Date:    original - December 31, 1978
current - December 31, 1979
In spite of slow start, commitments are now proceeding at a satis-
factory rate. The Bank has approved 26 sub-projects and all sub-loans are now
underway. As of March 31, 1979, US$4.5 million or 56% of the loan had been
disbursed.
11. Ln No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$27
million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    June 30, 1980
There were substantial delays in making the eight subloans effective.
The last subloan (Barranquilla) was made effective on September 9, 1976.
After a slow start, project implementation is progressing satisfactorily in
most cities, although rapid project execution has been affected by the Govern-
ment's economic stabilization measures. Works under this loan are expected to
be completed by March 1980. As of March 31, 1979, US$10.4 million or 39% of
the Loan had been disbursed.
12. Ln No. 1073 Telecommunications III; US$15 million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    Original - December 31, 1978
Current - June 30, 1979
Contracts for all Bank-financed goods have been awarded, and work
is proceeding satisfactorily. Though many of the project works have been
.commissioned and are earning revenue, project completion is not expected until
June 1981 because of slow procurement and delays in building construction. As
of March 31, 1979, only US$1.2 million equivalent or 8% of the Loan remained
undisbursed.
13. Ln No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million, June 1975.
Effective date: April 1, 1976
Closing Date:    October 31, 1979
The loan became effective on April 1, 1976, after a six-month delay.
Project execution has proceeded rapidly and some of the lost time regained.
Road and bridge construction is well ahead of schedule (79 km have been
completed). School construction, however, is behind schedule, while the
credit program is lagging as a result of inadequate budgetary flows. As of
March 31, 1979, US$10.9 million or 56% of the loan remained undisbursed.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
14. Ln No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 million,
September 1975.
Effective Date:   March 30, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1981
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency.  This decision
delayed the initiation of the project. Implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily, but still behind schedule. As of March 31, 1979, US$3.9
million equivalent of the Loan amount had been disbursed.
15. Ln No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 million,
March 1976.
Effective Date:   September 1, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1980
The loan is proceeding satisfactorily and is virtually committed.
As of March 31, 1979, about 67% of the Loan had been disbursed.
16. Ln No. 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 1977.
Effective Date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is now in its third year of implementation and is fully
operational. The core components of credit, technical assistance and training
are exceeding targets and institutional coordination is effective. The
forestry and water supply components have suffered some delays. Administrative
procedures, such as procurement and disbursement, continue to present some
difficulties, but these are much less serious than in the first year. Control
and monitoring of the physical and financial progress of the project is
comprehensive, and a methodology for evaluating the impact of the project
has been prepared. As of March 31, 1979, only US$6.3 million equivalent, or
12%, of the Loan had been disbursed.
17. Ln No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million, February
1977.
Effective Date: September 6, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1981.
Nearly all the funds assigned to medium and large farmers have been
committed. The Borrower has recently taken steps to speed up the commitment
of funds to small farmers which should be fully committed in 1980. Concern



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
over possibilities of diversion and substitution of funds led the Borrower to
substantially increase its end-use supervision. Also, inflation has come
down and interest rates have been recently raised to levels at which real
interest rates are positive. About half of funds for credit to agroindustries
have been committed to 48 subloans.
18. Ln. No. 1450 Telecommunications IV; US$60 million, July 1977.
Effective Date: October 3, 1977.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982.
The project has been delayed as a result of a series of personnel
changes of the Borrower. Current activities are concentrated on the procure-
ment of project goods, the planning of cable networks, and design of buildings
to house equipment.
19. Ln. No. 1451 Second Small-Scale Industry Project; US$15 million,
September 1977.
Effective Date: February 14, 1978.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1980.
After initial delays in loan effectiveness due mainly to management
turnover, project implementation has gone smoothly and by March 1979 about
US$7.3 million of Bank funds had been committed. As of March 31, 1979,
US$3.7 million had been disbursed.
22. Ln. No. 1471 Highways VII; US$90 million, July 1977.
Effective Date: November 28, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The Project comprises three main programs: rehabilitation, main-
tenance, and vehicle weight control. The rehabilitation program has slipped
by about 18 months. Preliminary stabilization and drainage works are complete;
contracts for 14 of the 34 construction lots have been signed and some works
have commenced. The maintenance program has slipped 21 months and has yet to
commence. Proposals from consultants to assist MOPT in executing the program
are being evaluated. The vehicle weight control program has experienced
a 9-month delay but progress is now satisfactory. No disbursements have yet
been made but documentation to disburse about US$4.0 million are being
processed by the Ministry of Finance.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
21. Ln. No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
September 1977.
Effective Date: March 9, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Significant progress has been achieved in the major components of
health, nutrition education and water supply. Initial delays occurred in two
subsidiary components--home food production and food quality control--but
activities are now underway. Project management and coordination have been
sound, flexible and effective. Management and evaluation systems are operating
effectively.
22.       Ln. No. 1523 Second Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$13.8
million, June 1978.
Effective Date: January 31, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Progress in design and tendering is slow and project implementation
has been delayed one year. EMCALI's financial position deteriorated during
the second half of 1978; the recent tariff increase will not be sufficient to
cover the forecast cash deficit in 1979 and the 3% rate of return for water
supply and sewerage covenanted for 1979 may not be reached. EMCALI's manage-
ment is considering the action which should be taken to solve this problem.
23.       Ln. No. 1558 Urban Development Project; US$24.8 million, July 1978.
Effective Date: December 1, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
The 1978 changes in Government led to corresponding staff changes in
the executing agency and to slow project start; implementation is now running
about 12 months behind schedule. Work is under way in six out of the 23 cities
and is expected that ten more will come on stream this year.
24.       Ln. No. 1582 San Carlos I Hydro Power Project; US$126 million,
July 1978.
This loan was signed on July 14, 1978, and became effective on
April 5, 1979.
25.       Ln. No. 1583 500 kV Interconnection Project; US$50 million, July 1978.
Effective Date: October 17, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Project works have recently been initiated and are proceeding on
schedule.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
26.       Ln. No. 1593 Cartagena Industrial Export Processing Zone; US$15
million, August 1978.
Effective Date: January 30, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1983
Project implementation has been delayed because of procurement
problems; now that a number of contracts have been signed, work is expected
to proceed without delay.
27.       Ln. No. 1598 Seventh Development Finance Companies Project;
US$100 million, July 1978.
Effective Date: November 28, 1978
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
About US$7 million has already been committed for subproject
financing, and an additional US$30 million is presently being processed.
28.       Ln. No. 1624 Airports Project; US$61 million, October 1978.
This loan was signed on December 29, 1978 and is expected to become
effective shortly. Implementation is off to a good start.
29.       Ln. No. 1628 Mesitas Hydroelectric Power Project; US$84 million,
November 14, 1978.
This loan was signed on April 9, 1979, but has not yet become
effective.
May 1979



- 39 -                              ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT - INCORA
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:    9 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:    ISA
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:   September 1, 1975 (together
with San Carlos I)
(d)  First mission to review project:  October/November 1978
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:   January 18, 1979
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:          May 21, 1979
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:    September 30, 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
In view of the experience gained by ISA with the first two projects,
no special implementation actions are required.
Section III: Special Conditions
The following special assurances have been obtained:
(a) consultants would be engaged under satisfactory terms of
reference to carry out the studies and training provided
under the project (paragraphs 54 and 55);
(b) any change in ISA's bylaws would require prior Bank approval
(paragraph 61);
(c) EEEB, EPM and CVC would make necessary funds available to
cover their shares of project costs and the Government would
provide funds as and when needed to cover ICEL and CORELCA's
shares. Further, the Government would provide funds as
necessary to cover ICEL's energy purchases and transmission
charges from ISA (paragraph 62);



- 40 -                            ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) ISA would earn a rate of return on its revalued assets of
8% in 1979, 9% in 1980, 11% in 1981, and 9% in 1982 and
thereafter; EEEB would earn a minimum of 12% in 1979 and
thereafter; EPM would earn 6% in 1979 and 9% in 1980 and
thereafter; CVC would earn 9% in 1979 and thereafter, CORELCA
would earn 5% in 1979-80, 6% in 1981, 7% in 1982 and 9% from
1983 onwards (paragraphs 62 and 63);
(e)  ISA's shareholders would reinvest in ISA all payments due to
them from their shares and securities during the construction
period, and thereafter in any year that ISA would not achieve
a 1.5 debt service ratio (paragraph 64);
(f) during project execution, ISA will seek Bank concurrence before
undertaking any project costing in excess of 2.5% of its net
fixed assets in operation and before contracting any long-term
debt unless internal cash generation is more than 1.5 times
its maximum projected debt service requirements (paragraph 64);
(g) ISA and its shareholders would carry out, by June 30, 1981,
a study to define a uniform system of accounts (paragraph 65);
and
(h) ISA would take adequate environmental measures for the project
area (paragraph 71).
Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan would be:
(a) satisfactory arrangements by ISA for the financing of the
Jaquas Project (paragraph 59); and
(b) satisfactory arrangements by ISA for the balance of project
financing (paragraph 59).



IBRD-3638RI
76-             ~~~~~74-                72079                                                OCTOEti 1976
A     r    L    0            A       N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
00  ~~                                   6  BBdOBOBBO6  BA00BI~~~O- 0 by  ho
CO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~OT
I~~~~~OI
ANTBcoorANDE                A R A U.rC A
C H     A0    BCAASBODYACA,    YBBCASN
0    *8  UN0INAMARCA~)
- 0~~~~~~~~~Pore,ro -) ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~rd
~~0.o   B  s
V A L LE  ~    OLIMA   ~0~4
C A UC A         OHI
N A RI1 N                                                              V A UP ES
S  Mocog ~~~~~~~~   ~ ~ ~     AQUETA                      o~~~~~~~~o~~jai
97                                                                                                                               00~~~~~~~~~~~4
CeIltOLOM BInR~N tCBBIAMB                                                                                     coBBBIBM         
Etevotio81111 lIV bo ve14  Ite
DepartBeOT9 lntandem: a1 OmicI  /uara
P   E   R   u~~/              B
Mat a rivers ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                   /1
-4P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
60  160  ISO                                                              00/ ~~7  74)



