OFF iCIAL
0ý        ~LOAN NUMBER 1725 CO
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(San Carlos II Hydro Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INTERCONEXION ELECTRICA S.A.
Dated                     03       , 1979
1..


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1725 CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       e   A         , 1979, between INTERNA-
TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank) and INTERCONEXION ELECTRICA S.A. (hereinafter called the
Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of part of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as
hereinafter provided; and
(B) the Borrower will obtain from its shareholders and from
other sources assistance in the financing of the balance of the
cost of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
Section 11.03 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 11.03. Action on behalf of the Borrower
or Guarantor. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to
be executed, pursuant to the Loan Agreement or the
Guarantee Agreement, on behalf of the Borrower or the
Guarantor, may be taken or executed by the representa-
tive of the Borrower or the Guarantor designated in
the Loan Agreement or the Guarantee Agreement for


﻿I- 2 -
-2-
the purposes of this Section or any person thereunto
authorized in writing by him. Any modification or
amplification of the provisions'of the Loan Agreement or
the Guarantee Agreement may be agreed to on behalf of
the Borrower or the Guarantor by written instrument
executed on behalf of the Borrower or the Guarantor
by the representative so designated or any person
thereunto authorized in writing by him; provided that
such modification or amplification is reasonable in the
circumstances and will not substantially increase the
obligations of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement or
of the Guarantor under the Guarantee Agreement."
Section 1.02. Wherever fused in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "First Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for Loan
No. 575-CO (Power Interconnection Project) of December 2, 1968
between the Bank and the Borrower;
(b) "Second Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for
Loan No. 681-CO (Chivor Hydroelectric Project) of June 4, 1970
between the Bank and the Borrower;
(c) "Third Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement for Loan
No. 1582-CO (San Carlos I Hydro Power Project) of July 14, 1978
between the Bank and the Borrower;
(d) "Prior Project Agreement" means the project agreement
for Loan No. 1583-CO (500-kV Interconnection Project) of July 14,
1978 between the Bank and the Borrower;
(e) "Prior Shareholders' Agreement" means the shareholders'
agreement for Loan No. 1582-CO (San Carlos I Hydro Power Project)
of July 14, 1978 between the Bank and Empresa de Energia El'ctrica
de Bogota, Empresas Pfiblicas de Medellin, Corporaci6n Aut6noma
Regional del Cauca, Instituto Colombiano de Energia El4ctrica
and Corporaci6n El'ctrica de la Costa Atlantica;
(f) "Estatutos" means the estatutos of the Borrower dated
September 14, 1967, as amended as of the date of this Agreement
and as further amended from time to time, under which the Borrower
was established and operates;


﻿-3-
(g) "EEEB" means Empresa de Energla El'ctrica de Bogota;
(h) "EPM" means Empresas Pfiblicas de Medellin;
(i)  "CVC" means Corporaci6n Aut6noma Regional del Cauca;
(j) "ICEL" means Instituto Colombiano de Energia El'ctrica;
(k) "CORELCA" means Corporaci6n El'ctrica de la Costa
Atlantica;
(1) "Shareholders" means collectively the entities referred
to in paragraphs (g), (h), (i), (j) and (k) hereof;
(m) "Shareholders' Agreement" means the shareholders' agree-
ment (San Carlos II Hydro Power Project) of even date herewith
between the Bank and the Shareholders, as the same may be amended
from time to time;
(n) "Sales Arrangements" means the arrangements (as defined
in the Acuerdo Reglamentario de Compra y Venta a Largo Plazo de
Energia y Potencia, approved by the Junta Directiva of the
Borrower on April 13, 1978 (Acta No. 205), as amended by such
Junta Directiva on October 4, 1978 (Acta No. 215) and as further
-amended as of the date of this Agreement) existing between the
Borrower and the Shareholders for the sale by the Borrower to the
Shareholders of electricity generated by the Borrower;
(o) "bonds" means titulos issued by the Borrower pursuant to
paragraph (b) of Article 12 of the Estatutos;
(p) "Jaguas Project" means the Jaguas hydro-facilities of
about 170 megawatts to be constructed by the Borrower, diverting
waters from the Nara River to the Guatap6 River; and
(q) "pesos" and "Col.$" mean pesos in the currency of
the Guarantor.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy-two
million dollars ($72,000,000).


﻿-4-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
exlenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.90%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿-5-
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank to assist the Borrower in: (a)
the design of the Project and in the supervision of the carrying
out of the Project; and (b) the carrying out of the studies
included in Part D (a) and (b) of the Project; the consultants
referred tc in (b) hereof shall be employed by the Borrower not
later than December 31, 1979.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
to ensure that the Project is carried out with due regard to
ecological and environmental factors.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1980, carry
out a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the evacuation of the
areas where the works included in the Project will be carried out.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction, work and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as
IAt


﻿-6-
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) prepare quarterly reports on the
carrying out of the Project and the Borrower's financial condi-
tion, including detailed information on the status of payments
to the Borrower from the Guarantor and the Shareholders, and of
payments to the Shareholders from the Borrower including payment
of dividends on shares and interest on bonds, and a forecast of
such payments for the succeeding quarter; and (ii) furnish to the
Bank such reports promptly after their completion.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Guarantor, the Bank, the Borrower and
the Shareholders of their respective obligations under the Loan
Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement and the Shareholders' Agree-
ment, and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(e) The Borrower shall afford the Bank's representatives
a reasonable opportunity to examine all plants, installations,
sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of the Borrower
and any relevant records and documents.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire: (i) by December 31, 1980 all land
and rights in respect of land required for the carrying out of the
construction works included in Part B of the Project; and (ii) by
December 31, 1981, all other land and rights in respect of land
required for the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and carry on its operations in accordance with appropriate


﻿-7-
business, financial and public utility practices and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
adequate, experienced and competent staff.
(b) The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable oppor-
tunity to comment on any proposed reorganization of the Borrower
which may affect adversely the operations or financial condition
of the Borrower or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall take all steps necessary
to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary in the conduct of its business.
(b) The Borrower shall take all action, including the
provision of funds and resources, to ensure that its facilities,
equipment and property are adequately operated, maintained,
renewed and repaired.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of
its property or assets whic' shall be required for the efficient
operation of its business and undertaking, including the Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause its dams, reservoir
banks, associated structures, earthworks and waterways to be
continuously monitored and inspected at least once a year, by
qualified and experienced expert: in accordance with appropriate
engineering practices, in order to determine whether there are any
deficiencies or potential deficiencies in the condition of such
structures and earthworks, or in the quality and adequacy of
maintenance or methods of operation of such structures and earth-
works, which may endanger the safety of such structures and
earthworks.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall, jointly with the Share-
holders:
(a) prepare and furnish, by December 31, 1979, to the
Guarantor and the Bank for review and comments, the terms of
reference for a study for the establishment of a uniform system of


﻿-8
accounts and asset revaluation methodology for the Borrower and
the Shareholders;
(b) by December 31, 1980, carry out such study under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Guarantor and the Bank;
(c) by March 31, 1981, furnish to the Guarantor and the Bank
for review and comments, the draft report regarding such study;
and
(d) by June 30, 1981, furnish to the Guarantor and the
Bank the final report regarding such study.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
lit                                                                 -   :zL


﻿-9-
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on wh4-h it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall, jointly with the Share-
holders, prepare and furnish to the Guarantor and the Bank for
comments, not later than December 31, 1979, a sector development
master plan for power generation and transmission in Colombia for
the period 1980 through 2000, such plan to: (i) be part of the
power sector development master plan for Colombia; (ii) cover in
detail the years 1980 through 1990; and (iii) consolidate all
existing and future programs for power generation and transmis-
sion.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall, to the satisfaction of the
Bank: (a) by December 31, 1980, prepare a program for the rational
use of the Project basins, including reforestation; (b) establish
by December 31, 1981 and operate thereafter, a unit for the
carrying out of such program; and (c) provide the unit in (b)
hereof, promptly as needed, with such supporting staff, facili-
ties, funds and other resources as shall be required for the
:ficient operation thereof.
Section 5.06. Until the Project shall have been completed:
(a) The Borrower shall: (i) inform the Bank on any proposal
of the Borrower to make any capital expenditure (not required for
the Project or for other projects financed by the Bank) for
increasing its power generating capacity by more than two hundred
megawatts; (ii) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
comment on any such proposal; and (iii) not commit itself to any
such capital expenditure unless the proposed expenditure is
economically justified as part of the Borrower's national power
expansion program and the Borrower has obtained financing under
terms and conditions which will not affect its financial condi-
tion, and the carrying out of the Project or of any other project
financed by the Bank.


﻿-10-
(b) The Borrower shall obtain the concurrence of the Bank
before committing itself to any capital expenditure not included
in paragraph (a) above if the aggregate of such capital expendi-
ture and all such other capital expenditures made or to be made in
any one fiscal year exceed or will exceed an amount equivalent to
two and one-half per cent (2.5%) of the net current value of the
Borrower's fixed assets in operation, as defined in Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
Section 5.07. The Borrower shall, to the extent permitted
under the laws of the Guarantor, apply any payment made to it
by any of the Shareholders to the settlement of amounts owed by
the Shareholder to the Borrower in the following order of prior-
ity: first, accounts for energy sales and transmission and inter-
connection charges; second, accounts for equity subscriptions; and
third, accounts for bond subscriptions.
Section 5.08. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree:
(a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain tariffs for
the supply of electricity which will generate an annual return at
a rate of at least eight per cent (8%) in the year 1979, nine per
cent (9%) in the year 1980, eleven per cent (11%) in the year 1981
and, nine per cent (9%) in the year 1982 and thereafter, on the
average net current value of its assets in operation, calculated
in accordance with the method outlined in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall, within the first two months of
each calendar quarter, review the adequacy of its tariffs to
produce the annual return required under paragraph (a) and shall
furnish to the Bank the results of such review.
(c) If any such review shall show that the Borrower would
not earn the annual return required under paragraph (a) in the
course of the twelve-month period commencing with such calendar
quarter, the Borrower shall adjust its tariffs accordingly, and
the adjusted tariffs shall be brought into effect noL Later than
the end of the following calendar quarter.
Section 5.09. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any long-term debt unless its net
revenues for the fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or
for a later twelve-month period ended prior to such incurrence,


﻿- 11 -
whichever amount is the greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times
the maximum long-term debt service requirement for any succeeding
fiscal year on all long-term debt, including the long-term debt
proposed to be incurred.
(b) For purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "long-term debt" shall mean all debt of
the Borrower including debt for the service of
which the Borrower is responsible (excluding bonds
of the Borrower registered in the name of any
Shareholder), maturing by its terms more than one
year after the date on which it is originally
incurred.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
contract, loan agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment, on the date of such contract,
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee has been entered into but only to
the extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(iii) The term "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues
from all sources, adjusted to take account of the
Borrower's tariffs in effect at the time of the
incurrence of long-term debt even t1dough they were
not in effect during the fiscal year or twelve-
month period to which such revenues relate, less
all operating and administrative expenses and
provision for taxes, if any, but before provision
covering depreciation, interest and other charges
on debt.
(iv) The term "long-term debt service requirement" shall
mean the aggregate amount of amortization (includ-
ing sinking fund payments, if any), interest and
other charges on long-term debt, excluding any
interest and other charges payable by the Borrower
during construction of any project of the Borrower,
provided that such interest and other charges shall
be financed with the proceeds of any loan made to
the Borrower for the financing of works under such
project.


﻿- 12 -
(v) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Guarantor, debt payable in another currency
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt.
Section 5.10. The Borrower shall obtain reimbursement from
the pertinent Shareholder of all interest and other charges
payable by the Borrower on borrowings made by it to cover cash
shortfalls caused by the non-payment by such Shareholder of any of
its outstanding debts to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Amendment of the
First Loan Agreement,
the Second Loan Agreement,
the Third Loan Agreement and
the Prior Project Agreement
Section 6.01. The First Loan Agreement is hereby amended
by the deletion of the text of Section 5.09 and the substi-
tution therefor of the text of Section 5.08 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The Second Loan Agreement is hereby amended
by the deletion of the text of Section 5.13 and the substitution
therefor of the text of Section 5.08 of this Agreement.
Section 6.03. The Third Loan Agreement is hereby amended by
the deletion of the text of Section 5.08 and the substitution
therefor of the text of Section 5.08 of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. The Prior Project Agreement is hereby amended
by the deletion of the text of Sectlon 4.04 and the substitution
therefor of the text of Section 5.08 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Bank
Section 7.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:


﻿- 13 -
(a) the Estatutos, or any provision thereof, shall have been
amended, suspended or abrogated without the prior agreement of the
Bank;
(b) the Sales Arrangements, or any provision thereof,
shall have been amended, suspended or abrogated, in any material
respect, without the prior agreement of the Bank;
(c) a default shall have occurred in the performance by
any of the Shareholders of any obligation on its part under the
Shareholders' Agreement, under the Estatutos or under the Sales
Arrangements; and
(d) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan made to the Borrower for
the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms of the agree-
ment providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions con-
sistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
Section 7.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (d) (i) (B) of Section
7.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, have been made
for the financing of the Jaguas Project;
(b) arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank,. have been made
to provide the Borrower with the necessary foreign exchange
financing for the Project in addition to the Loan; and
(c) the execution and delivery of the Shareholders' Agree-
ment on behalf of the Shareholders have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 8.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank, namely, that the Shareholders' Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the Shareholders and that such Agreement constitutes
a valid and binding obligation of the Shareholders in accordance
with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date   ,AY' r          c             , is
hereby specified for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Addresses
Section 9.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 15 -
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Interconexi6n El'ctrica S.A.
Calle 50 No. 50-21 (Piso 13)
Medellfn
Colombia
Cable address:                       Telex:
ISA                               06559
Medellfn
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the city of
Bogota, Republic of Colombia, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
INTERCONEXION ELECTRICA S.A.
By lt     4ry-00
Authorized Representative


﻿A  I~
-16-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment and              40,900,000         100% of foreign
materials (in-                               expenditures or
cluding services                             94% of the ex-
for their in-                                factory cost of
stallation) for                              locally manu-
Parts A and B                                factured goods
of the Project
(excluding tur-
bines and alter-
nators for Part
A of the Project)
and equipment and
materials for
Part C of the
Project
(2) Civil works for             5,400,000         100% of foreign
Part B of the                                expenditures
Project
(3) Civil works and            11,500,000        100% of foreign
erection ser-                                expenditures
vices for Part C
of the Project
(4) Consultants' ser-           6,500,000        100% of foreign
vices (including                             expenditures and
equipment and                                50% of local ex-
vehicles there-                              penditures
for) and train-
ing


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(5) Surveys and dril-             600,000        50%
ling (Parts B and C
of the Project)
(6) Unallocated                 7,100,000
TOTAL      72,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Guarantor, and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of one million
dollars ($1,000,000) may be made in respect of Category (4)
on account of payments made for expenditures for engineering
services under Parts A, B and C of the Project before that date
but after October 1, 1978.


﻿I r
- 18 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in. the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably-ie*timiated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.
1j1~                                                          .,r


﻿-19-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's power development
program and consists of:
Part A:   San Carlos
(a) Construction of a penstock and the carrying out of works
ancillary thereto.
(b) Acquisition and installation of four turbine-alternator
and transformer groups aggregating about 620 megawatts, and the
carrying out of works ancillary thereto.
Part B:   Calderas
(a) Construction of a dam in the Calderas River and the
carrying out of works ancillary thereto.
(b) Construction of intake and discharge structures, intake
and discharge tunnels and a power station building for the power
station at Calderas, and the carrying out of works ancillary
thereto.
(c) Acquisition and installation of two turbine-alternator
and transformer groups totalling about 15 megawatts, and the
carrying out of works ancillary thereto.
Part C:   Transmission
(a) Construction of a 230-kilovolts transmission line, about
90 kilometers long, between San Carlos and Medellin, expansion of
the terminal substations and the carrying out of works ancillary
thereto.
(b) Construction of a 230-kilovolts transmission line, about
200 kilometers long, between Esmeralda and Yumbo, expansion of
the terminal substations and the carrying out of works ancillary
thereto.
Part D:   Studies and Training
(a) Carrying out, by December 31, 1981, of: (i) a study of
the dispatch functions of the Borrower and the Shareholders; and
J1


﻿- 20 -
(ii) a program, satisfactory to the Bank, for the training of the
Borrower's and the Shareholders' staff engaged in such functions.
(b) Carrying out, by June 30, 1980, of a study for assessing
the Borrower's manpower and training requirements.
(c) Carrying out, by June 30, 1983, of a program, satisfac-
tory to the Bank, for the training of the Borrower's professional
staff.
Parts A, B and C of the Project are expected to be completed
by June 30, 1984.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 1983
through   October 15, 1995                    2,770,000
On April 15, 1996                                  2,750,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.
r


﻿- 22 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant t( Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.40%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                    2.80%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             5.10%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                             6.95%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                             7.90%


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods and civil works shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
cclled the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   In addition to the requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the
Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to the Bank as
soon as possible, and in any event not later than sixty days prior
to the date of availability to the public of the first tender
documents, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail
and containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice
in order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of
the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. The
Borrower shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods or works remain to be pro-
cured.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
Goods manufactured in Colombia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid


﻿- 24 -
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Colombia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Colombia equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, *and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 25 -
With respect to all contracts for goods or civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the dalivery to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


﻿- 26 -
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 5
Method for Calculating Rate of Return
1.   The annual return specified in Section 5.08 of the Loan
Agreement will be calculated, in each calendar quarter in respect
of the twelve-mouth period beginning with such quarter and the
twelve-month period immediately preceding, by using as the denom-
inator the average between the net current, values of the respec-
tive fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at the end of
each such period and as numerator the operating income of the
Borrower for the same period.
2.   Any shortfall or overrun in the required annual return for
the twelve-month period immediately preceding the quarter in which
the calculation is to be made will be carried forward and sub-
tracted or added, as the case may be, to the numerator used for
the forthcoming twelve-month period.
3.   "Operating income" will be the difference between all reve-
nues from the sale of electricity and transmission charges, and
all administrative and operating costs relating thereto, including
maintenance and adequate provision for straight-line depreciation
*on the average gross value of revalued fixed assets in operation.
4.   The net current value of fixed assets in operation will be at
any given date their gross value less accumulated depreciation to
such date, as revalued and depreciated in accordance with para-
graphs 5 and 6 below.
5.   Until another method, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
maintenance of value of assets of public utilities shall have been
made applicable to the Borrower, the gross value of the Borrower's
fixed assets in operation and works in progress will be revalued
quarterly in accordance with the corresponding variations in the
Indice nacional de precios al consumidor - Obreros - published by
the Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadistica of the
Guarantor, or a similar index approved by the Bank, to the last
month preceding the quarter in which the calculation is to be
made. For the purposes of this calculation, as of December 31,
1976:
(a) the aggregate gross value of the Borrower's fixed
assets in operation will be fixed in one thousand eight hundred
thirty-three million pesos (Col.$1,833,000,000);


﻿- 28 -
(b) the aggregate gross value of the Borrower's fixed
assets in construction will be fixed in ten thousand four hundred
sixty-four million pesos (Col.$10,464,000,000); and
(c) the accumulated depreciation on the assets in (a)
hereof will be fixed in two hundred eleven million pesos
(Col.$211,000,000).
6.   The Borrower will furnish to the Bank during the first
quarter of each fiscal year a report on the revaluation of assets
through the end of the preceding fiscal year. The report for the
fiscal year 1978 will be furnished to the Bank by June 30, 1979.
7.   Depreciation will be charged on a straight-line basis over
the estimated useful life of the Borrower's fixed assets.
ik


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of i    -,1972.
FOR SECRETARY
I1


