Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4400-VE
Project Agreement
(Caracas Slum Upgrading Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
FUNDACION PARA EL DESARROLLO DE LA COMUNIDAD Y FOMENTO MUNICIPAL
Dated December 16, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4400-VE 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and FUNDACION PARA EL DESARROLLO DE LA 
COMUNIDAD Y FOMENTO MUNICIPAL (FUNDACOMUN). 
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Republic of 
Venezuela (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make a loan to the 
Borrower in the amount of sixty million seven hundred thousand Dollars ($60,700,000), 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition 
that FUNDACOMUN agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth 
in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS FUNDACOMUN, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Page  2
Section 2.01. (a) FUNDACOMUN declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with the assistance and collaboration of the Project Executing 
Entities, as provided in the agreements listed in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, all 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, technical, engineering and environmental practices and the provisions of 
the Project Implementation Manual, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project. 
(b)
FUNDACOMUN shall maintain the PMU with a structure, functions, and Key 
Personnel with experience and qualifications, all satisfactory to the Bank, such 
Personnel comprising (i) two coordinators, (ii) a procurement and contract 
administration specialist, (iii) an administration and finance specialist, (iv) a 
manager in charge of Project activities in La Vega, and (v) a manager in charge of 
Project activities in Petare Norte (all said six personnel positions referred to as 
the PMU Key Personnel), with the support of consulting firms in the areas referred to 
in (ii) through (v) above.  The PMU Key Personnel and such consulting firms shall be 
selected and employed as provided in Section II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(c)
FUNDACOMUN shall provide the PMU with the funds, facilities and other 
resources as shall be required to enable the PMU to carry out, in a timely manner, its 
responsibilities in respect of the Project.
(d)
FUNDACOMUN shall comply with its obligations and exercise its rights 
under the agreements listed in Schedule 1 to this Agreement in such manner as to 
protect the interests of FUNDACOMUN and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, FUNDACOMUN shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any of such agreements or any provision 
thereof. Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) FUNDACOMUN shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, FUNDACOMUN shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date 
or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Bank and FUNDACOMUN, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; 
and 
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
FUNDACOMUN on 
said plan. 
Section 2.04. (a) FUNDACOMUN shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan. 
(b)
FUNDACOMUN shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the objectives of the Project, or the performance by FUNDACOMUN of 
its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. FUNDACOMUN shall: 
(a)
before any invitation to bid is issued for contracts under any UDU 
Subproject or any UPF Subproject, put into effect guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank 
(the Environmental Management Guidelines), for the carrying out of the measures 
Page  3
required to mitigate any adverse environmental impacts to be caused by such 
Subprojects; 
(b)
before any invitation to bid is issued for contracts under any UDU 
Subproject or UPF Subproject referred to in Part A.5 (b) (i) of the Project: (i) 
obtain in the case of UDU Subprojects, the Bank’ s non-objection to the corresponding 
NIP, and each Site-Specific Resettlement Plan included therein; (ii) obtain in the 
case of UPF Subprojects referred to in Part A.5 (b) (i) of the Project, the Bank’s 
non-objection to the corresponding Site Specific Resettlement Plan; and (iii) enter 
into an LCG Agreement with the corresponding LCG; 
(c)
before any invitation to bid is issued for contracts under any UPF 
Subproject referred to in Part A.5 (b) (i) of the Project, enter into a Subloan 
Agreement and a Transfer of Funds Agreement with the corresponding Municipality, and 
also fiduciary in the former case; 
(d)
cause any UDU Subproject and any UPF Subproject to be carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Implementation Manual, including the 
Environmental Management Guidelines, and also in accordance with the corresponding 
NIP;
(e)
cause each UDU Subproject under Part A.3 (b) (iii) of the Project to be 
also carried out in accordance with the provisions of the RAP and the corresponding 
Site-Specific Resettlement Plan; and 
(f)
ensure that no work is initiated in a given area under any UDU Subproject 
or any UPF Subproject unless the resettlement of the affected families residing in 
such area has been completed, to the satisfaction of the Bank,  in accordance with the 
corresponding Site Specific Resettlement Plan.
Section 2.06. FUNDACOMUN shall furnish to the Bank: 
(a)
for comments, the study referred to in Part B.3 (a) of the Project, not 
later than one year after the Effective Date; 
(b)
for approval, the terms of reference for the study referred to in Part 
B.3 (b) of the Project, not later than three years from the Effective Date; and 
(c)
for comments, the study referred to in Part B.3 (b) of the Project, not 
later than four years from the Effective Date.
Section 2.07. FUNDACOMUN shall: 
(a)
furnish to the Bank, not later than January 1, April 1, July 1 and 
October 1 of each year during the execution of the Project, reports, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank may request, on the progress of the Project in the calendar 
quarter preceding the date of each such report; 
(b)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about March 31, 2001, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(d)
review with the Bank, in the month of June 2001, or such later date as 
the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
ARTICLE III 
Page  4
Financial Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) FUNDACOMUN shall establish and maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in 
accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition, and to register separately 
the operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out 
of the Project.
(b)
FUNDACOMUN shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statement 
of income and expenses and related statements) for 
each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, and a report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts 
and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably 
request. 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of FUNDACOMUN 
hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify FUNDACOMUN thereof. 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Page  5
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For FUNDACOMUN:
Fundación para el Desarrollo
  de la Comunidad y Fomento Municipal
Edificio FUNDACOMUN
Av. Abraham Lincoln
Chacaito, Caracas 1050
Apdo. 50218
Venezuela
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of FUNDACOMUN may 
be taken or executed by its President or such other person or persons as such 
President shall designate in writing, and FUNDACOMUN shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person. 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
FUNDACION PARA EL DESARROLLO DE LA
     COMUNIDAD Y FOMENTO MUNICIPAL
By /s/ Carlos Altimari
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Agreements with Project Executing Entities
1.
Agreement to be entered into, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, between FUNDACOMUN and the municipality of Libertador, providing for: (a) the 
carrying out, in La Vega, of UPF Subprojects and UDU Subprojects under Part A.5 (b) 
(i) and Part A.3 (b) (ii) of the Project, respectively, by the Municipality; (b) the 
delegation of authority by the Municipality to FUNDACOMUN for the carrying out of 
other UDU Subprojects and UPF Subprojects in La Vega; and (c) the acquisition or 
issuance or transfer of valid rights on, or titles to, land (as applicable) in La Vega 
by the Municipality, so as to enable the carrying out of Part A.5 of the Project in a 
manner which is consistent, when applicable, with the RAP and the corresponding Site 
Specific Resettlement Plan.
2.
Agreement to be entered into, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Page  6
Bank, between FUNDACOMUN and the municipality of Sucre, providing for: (a) the 
carrying out, in Petare Norte, of UPF Subprojects and UDU Subprojects under Part A.5 
(b) (i) and Part A.3 (b) (ii) of the Project, respectively, by the Municipality; (b) 
the delegation of authority by the Municipality to FUNDACOMUN for the carrying out of 
other UDU Subprojects and UPF Subprojects in Petare Norte; and (c) the acquisition or 
issuance or transfer of valid rights on, or titles to, land (as applicable) in Petare 
Norte by the Municipality, so as to enable the carrying out of Part A.5 of the Project 
in a manner which is consistent, when applicable, with the RAP and the corresponding 
Site Specific Resettlement Plan. 
3.
Agreement, dated September 17, 1998 between FUNDACOMUN and INAVI, providing for 
the carrying out by INAVI of UDU Subprojects under Part A.3 (b) (iii) of the Project. 
4.
Agreement to be entered into, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, between FUNDACOMUN and INAVI for the provision of assistance by INAVI to 
FUNDACOMUN in the issuance or transfer of valid rights on, or titles to, land in La 
Vega or Petare Norte, as the case may be, under Part A.4 of the Project.
5.
Agreement, dated September 14, 1998, between FUNDACOMUN and CONAVI, providing 
for the authorization of release of funds by CONAVI for the financing of UDU 
Subprojects under Part A.3 (b) (iii) of the Project.
6.
Agreement, dated September 23, 1998, between FUNDACOMUN and the State of 
Miranda, providing for: (a) the carrying out, in Petare Norte, of UDU Subprojects 
under Part A.3 (b) (iii) of the Project by such State; and (b) the acquisition or 
issuance or transfer of valid rights on, or titles to, such State’s land (as 
applicable) in Petare Norte, so as to enable the carrying out of  Part A.5 of the 
Project in a manner which is consistent, when applicable, with the RAP and the 
corresponding Site Specific Plan. 
7.
Agreement, dated September 23, 1998, between FUNDACOMUN and Hidrocapital, 
providing for the provision of funds by Hidrocapital for the financing of UDU 
Subprojects under Part A.3 (b) (iii) through (v) of the Project, and under UPF 
Subprojects under Part A.5 (b) (ii) and (iii) of the Project. 
8.
Agreements to be entered into between FUNDACOMUN and each LCG governing the 
participation of such LCG in respect of a UDU Subproject, in accordance with the model 
form for such agreements contained in the Project Implementation Manual.
9.
Agreements to be entered into between FUNDACOMUN and a Municipality providing 
for the transfer of funds, on a grant basis, from FUNDACOMUN to such Municipality for 
the financing of UPF Subprojects under Part A.5 (b) (i) of the Project, any such 
agreement to be in accordance with the model form contained in the Project 
Implementation Manual. 
10.
Agreements to be entered into among FUNDACOMUN, a fiduciary institution and a 
Municipality providing for the transfer, on a loan basis, of proceeds of the Loan for 
the financing of UPF Subprojects under Part A.5 (b) (i) of the Project, any such 
agreement to be in accordance with the model form contained in the Project 
Implementation Manual.
SCHEDULE 2 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Works
Part A:
General 
Works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
Except as provided in Part C below, works shall be procured under contracts 
Page  7
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Works estimated to cost less than $4,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $26,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the 
procurement of works pursuant to this paragraph, the Borrower shall use standard 
bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank. 
2.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to Part B above and the 
first six contracts to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 above, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The short list of consultants to be selected pursuant to paragraph 1 above, 
Page  8
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of (i) individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, and (ii) any of the 
PMU Key Personnel, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided, however, that the terms of reference for the respective assignments 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.
