Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4400-VE
Loan Agreement
(Caracas Slum Upgrading Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 16, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4400-VE 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 1998, between the REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Fundación para el Desarrollo de la 
Comunidad y Fomento Municipal (FUNDACOMUN) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part 
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to FUNDACOMUN the proceeds of the 
Loan as provided in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend to the Borrower the Loan upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
FUNDACOMUN (the Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Page  2
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“CONAVI” means Consejo Nacional de la Vivienda, the Borrower’s national 
housing council; 
(b)
“Environmental Management Guidelines” means the guidelines referred to in 
Section 2.05 (a) of the Project Agreement; 
(c)
“INAVI” means Instituto Nacional de la Vivienda, the Borrower’s national 
housing institute; 
(d)
“Hidrocapital” means Compañía Anónima Hidrológica de la Región Capital, a 
water and sanitation company indirectly controlled by the Borrower; 
(e)
“La Vega” means the slum of La Vega, located in the municipality of 
Libertador, in the MAC; 
(f)
“LCG” means any local community group which is established as a legal 
entity to represent the interests of a specific urban design unit in La Vega or Petare 
Norte; 
(g)
“LCG Agreement” means any of  the agreements referred to in paragraph 8 
of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; 
(h)
“MAC” means the metropolitan area of Caracas, which comprises the 
municipality of  Libertador, in the Federal District, and the municipalities of 
Chacao, Sucre, Baruta and El Hatillo, in the State of Miranda;
(i)
“Monitoring Indicators” means the indicators, shown in the letter from 
the  Pesident of FUNDACOMUN to the Bank, dated August 4, 1998, which will be used for 
purposes of monitoring and evaluation of the Project, as they may be revised from time 
to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
(j)
“Municipality” means the municipality of Sucre or the municipality of 
Libertador, in the MAC; and "Municipalities" means those municipalities collectively; 
(k)
“NIP” means any of the urban upgrading plans referred to in Part A.3 (b) 
of the Project; 
(l)
“Petare Norte” means the slum of Petare Norte, located in the 
municipality of Sucre, in the MAC; 
(m)
“PMU” means the unit, within FUNDACOMUN, created pursuant to the decision 
of FUNDACOMUN’s Board of Directors taken in its meeting No. 701 of June 25, 1998, for 
the purposes of managing, coordinating and supervising the Project; 
(n)
“PMU Key Personnel” means the persons referred to in Section 2.01 (b) (i) 
through (v) of the Project Agreement; 
(o)
“Project Executing Entity” means CONAVI, INAVI, Hidrocapital, any LCG, 
any of the Municipalities, or the State of Miranda; and “Project Executing Entities” 
means all such entities collectively;
(p)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 
6.01 (a) of this Agreement; 
(q)
“RAP” means the resettlement action plan, approved by FUNDACOMUN’s Board 
of Directors on its meeting No. 701, dated  June 25, 1998 which provides for a policy 
framework for the development of the Site-Specific Resettlement Plans, and a set of 
programs supporting and complementing the activities under UDU Subprojects and UPF 
Subprojects in order to ensure the appropriate handling of resettlement issues during 
Page  3
the execution of such Subprojects; 
(r)
“Site-Specific Resettlement Plan” means any plan for the resettlement of 
families affected by a UDU Subproject, to be prepared under a NIP, or for the 
resettlement of families affected by a UPF Subproject under Part A.5 (b) (i) of the 
Project; 
(s)
“Subloan Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in paragraph 
10 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; 
(t)
“Transfer of Funds Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
paragraph 9 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement;
(u)
“UDU” means Unidad de Diseño Urbano (Urban Design Unit), each of the 
smaller units, resulting form apportioning an UPF (as defined below) into smaller 
areas taking into account demographics, topography, functionality and the need of 
establishing manageable design units for the physical improvement of the smaller area 
in question, each of such smaller areas comprising one or more slums and corresponding 
to generally recognized informal neighborhood boundaries;
(v)
“UDU Subproject” means any of the projects referred to in Part A.3 (b) 
(i) through (vii) of the Project; 
(w)
“UPF” means Unidad de Planeación Física  (Physical Planning Unit), a 
contiguous agglomeration of slums which require solutions to similar physical 
problems; and  
(x)
“UPF Subproject” means any of the projects referred to in Part A.5 (b) 
(i) through (iv) of the Project. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to sixty 
million seven hundred thousand Dollars ($60,700,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
Page  4
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three 
fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six months’ notice to the Borrower of 
the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The President of FUNDACOMUN, and any other person or persons he or 
she may designate in writing, are designated as representatives of the Borrower for 
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause FUNDACOMUN to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of FUNDACOMUN therein set forth, shall take or cause to 
be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable FUNDACOMUN to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the Borrower 
shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to FUNDACOMUN, on a timely basis, 
through budgetary allocations. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement.
Page  5
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
FUNDACOMUN pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon 
to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning such 
auditors, as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
FUNDACOMUN shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that FUNDACOMUN will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
Any Project Executing Entity shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under its corresponding agreement with FUNDACOMUN listed in Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement, and such failure shall have materially and adversely affected, 
in the Bank’s opinion, the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of its 
objectives. 
Page  6
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraph 
(a) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a 
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower and FUNDACOMUN.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
A manual, satisfactory to the Bank (the Project Implementation Manual), 
containing, inter alia, the procedures to be followed in the carrying out of the 
Project, the parameters and conditions for the preparation of NIPs and the carrying 
out of UDU Subprojects and UPF Subprojects, and the model forms of LCG Agreements, 
Subloan Agreements and Transfer of Funds Agreement, shall have been issued by 
FUNDACOMUN in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
(b)
The PMU Key Personnel has been employed.
(c)
FUNDACOMUN has selected: (i) the consulting firms referred to in Section 
2.01 (b) of the Project Agreement; and (ii) the consultants who will assist FUNDACOMUN 
in the carrying out of the social services outreach program under Part A.1 of the 
Project. 
(d)
The urban master plans referred to in Part A.3 (a) of the Project have 
been completed in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
(e)
The agreements referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 4 of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement have been entered into between the respective parties thereto.  
(f)
The general Project design and the RAP have been discussed and approved 
by the communities of La Vega and Petare Norte in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
(g)
The financial management system referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of the 
Project Agreement has been established. 
(h)
FUNDACOMUN has furnished to the Bank a plan, acceptable to the Bank, for 
the carrying out of the program under Part A.1 (b) of the Project. 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by FUNDACOMUN, and is legally binding upon FUNDACOMUN in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date of March 16, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  7
Ministerio de Hacienda
Edificio Ramia
Avenida Urdaneta
Esquina de Carmelita
Piso 9
Caracas, 1010, Venezuela
Telex:
24215 HDACP
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
By /s/ Carlos Altimari
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
40,093,000
40%
(2)
Consultants’ services:
(a) under Part B.1 of
      the Project
 5,400,000
50%
Page  8
(b) under the other Parts
      of the Project
14,600,000
100%
(3)
Fee
Amount due
 under 
Section
2.04 of this
   607,000
Agreement
TOTAL
60,700,000
==========
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $4,000,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date, but after January 1, 
1998. 
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works under contracts costing 
less than $4,000,000 equivalent each, except those under the first six contracts to be 
awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 of Section I of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement; (b) consulting firms’ services under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; and (c) individual consultants’ services (other than those 
from any of the PMU Key Personnel) under contracts costing less than $50,000 each, all 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
and FUNDACOMUN.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality of life of the 
inhabitants of certain slums in the MAC (representing 15 % of the total slum 
population in such area), through the development and implementation of a community 
driven, sustainable and replicable infrastructure improvement program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Urban Upgrading
1.
Carrying out of: (a) a social services outreach program in connection with the 
carrying out of Parts A.2, A.3 and A.5 of the Project; and (b) environmental education 
programs for the population of the urban design units in La Vega and Petare Norte. 
2.
Establishment and strengthening of LCGs.
3.
Design of: 
(a)
urban master plans for each of La Vega and Petare Norte establishing a 
framework for the preparation of NIPs; and
(b)
plans for urban upgrading of certain urban design units in La Vega and 
Petare Norte (the NIPs), consisting of the following projects in such units (the UDU 
Subprojects): (i) construction and improvement of vehicular and pedestrian secondary 
accesses; (ii) installation of public lighting and improvement of the low tension 
electricity distribution system up to the household connections; (iii) resettlement of 
population, including construction of new housing for such population in the same 
urban design unit in which they live; (iv) drainage works in rear yards, including 
bank stabilization in natural drainage areas; (v) construction and improvement of the 
local water distribution networks, including household connections; (vi) installation 
of local sewerage networks; and (vii) construction of community service centers. 
4.
Acquisition or issuance or transfer of valid rights on, or titles to, land, as 
applicable, in La Vega and Petare Norte to enable the carrying out of Part A.5 of the 
Page  9
Project.
5.
Carrying out of: (a) UDU Subprojects; and (b) projects which will integrate and 
improve the general living conditions in La Vega and Petare Norte (the UPF 
Subprojects) consisting of: (i) construction and improvement of vehicular and 
pedestrian principal accesses; (ii) installation of potable water, through the 
construction and rehabilitation of pumping stations, transmission pipes, and storage 
and compensation tanks; (iii) installation of sewerage, through the rehabilitation and 
construction of collectors, including special collectors for wastewater required in 
areas of steep hillsides; and (iv) geotechnical risk mitigation, through the carrying 
out of works for stabilization of hillsides.
Part B:
Institutional Development 
1.
Provision of technical assistance for the operation of the PMU.
2.
Provision of technical assistance to the Municipalities for the development of: 
(a) a cadastral system to serve as a planning base and tool for future investment in 
Petare Norte and La Vega, and to incorporate such and other informal sectors into the 
planning cadastres of the Municipalities; (b) an updated and user-friendly fiscal 
cadastre which will increase the capacity of the Municipalities to collect taxes and 
lessen their dependence on intergovernmental transfers; and (c) general indicators of 
appropriate urban design standards to be used in urbanization projects in slums.
3.
Carrying out of urban planning studies for slums in the MAC, covering, inter 
alia: (a) cost recovery of the slum upgrading investments under the Project; (b) 
establishment of a legally and financially autonomous entity to be in charge of any 
investments in the MAC slums; and (c) housing and land market monitoring in the MAC 
slums. 
Part C:
Housing Improvement Credit Pilot Program 
Development and operation of a program for provision of market-based consumer 
credits to low-income householders residing in MAC slums to finance improvements to 
their housing units.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
   (Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
      Dollars)*
April 15, 2003
1,585,000.000 
October 15, 2003
1,635,000.000 
April 15, 2004
1,680,000.000 
October 15, 2004
1,730,000.000 
April 15, 2005
1,780,000.000 
October 15, 2005
1,835,000.000 
April 15, 2006
1,890,000.000 
October 15, 2006
1,945,000.000 
April 15, 2007
2,000,000.000 
October 15, 2007
2,060,000.000 
April 15, 2008
2,120,000.000 
October 15, 2008
2,185,000.000 
April 15, 2009
2,245,000.000 
October 15, 2009
2,315,000.000 
April 15, 2010
2,380,000.000 
October 15, 2010
2,450,000.000 
April 15, 2011
2,525,000.000 
October 15, 2011
2,600,000.000 
April 15, 2012
2,675,000.000 
Page  10
October 15, 2012
2,755,000.000 
April 15, 2013
2,835,000.000 
October 15, 2013
2,920,000.000 
April 15, 2014
3,005,000.000 
October 15, 2014
3,095,000.000 
April 15, 2015
3,185,000.000 
October 15, 2015
3,270,000.000 
_______________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
