CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 311 SU
Project Agreement
(Second Mechanized Farming Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
MECHANIZED FARMING CORPORATION
DATED JUNE 12, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 311 SU
Project Agreement
(Second Mechanized Farming Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
MECHANIZED FARMING CORPORATION
DATED JUNE 12, 1972


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 12, 1972, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and the
MECHANIZED FARMING CORPORATION (hereinafter called the Corporation).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Democratic Republic of the Sudan (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven million two hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($11,250,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Corporation agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS the Corporation, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Corporation shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with sound administrative, financial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist the Corporation in the execution of the
Project with respect to land development and farm layout, combine harvesting and
accounting, the Corporation shall employ the following consultants acceptable to
the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association:


﻿4
(i)         a land development consultant who shall visit the Project for
three months in each of the first three years of Project
implementation;
(ii)        a combine harvesting consultant who shall visit the Corporation
for three months during the first harvest, and one month during
each of the two succeeding harvests under the Project; and
(iii)       a firm  or firms of accounting consultants: (A) to study the
Corporation's accounting system and make recommendations for
its conversion to a commercial system, and (B) to provide regular
accounting advisory services.
(b)   In order to assist the Corporation in the preparation of a feasibility
study to identify further areas suitable for mechanized farming, the Corporation
shall employ agricultural consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. (a) The Corporation shall select farmers for participation in
the Project in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
(b)   The Corporation shall enter into an agreement with each farmer in
a form satisfactory to the Association and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive any such agreement or any provision thereof, without the prior consent of
the Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Corporation
shall in carrying out the Project make the following arrangement for clearance
of the land covered by the Project:
(a)   in the area of Umm     Seinat and in that part of Habila where the
Corporation is clearing land for farmers participating in the Project, it shall clear
for each farm included in the Project about 1,000 feddan before allocation of
the land, and about 500 feddan in time for cultivation in the third year after
said allocation and shall charge the cost of such clearance to each farmer to be
repaid with interest at eight per cent (8%) per annum in installments over a term
not exceeding twenty-five years; and
(b)   in the remaining area of Habila the Corporation shall extend credit
of ZSd 2 per feddan to farmers who undertake to clear at least 500 feddan per
year. The rate of interest shall be 8% per annum with a repayment term not
exceeding ten years; provided, however, that such credit shall be disbursed only
after at least a total of 250 feddan shall have been cleared by any such farmer.


﻿5
Section 2.05. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Corporation shall take all necessary action to ensure adequate harvesting of sorghum
produced under the Project, including as necessary (i) acquiring and operating
sufficient combine harvesters for the Project farmers; (ii) arranging for combine
harvesting by contractors; and (iii) for the aforementioned purposes, extending
suitable credit to farmers upon terms and conditions acceptable to the Association.
(b)   In order to assist the Corporation in the operation and maintenance
of its combine harvesters, the Corporation shall make arrangements with the
manufacturers therec for the secondment of (i) a mechanical engineer for the
servicing of the harvesters after harvesting, and (ii) a senior mechanic for routine
operational maintenance during the harvesting period.
Section 2.06. (a) The Corporation shall construct the roads included in the
Project with staff seconded from the Roads Department of the Borrower in
accordance with adequate standards acceptable to the Association.
(b)   The Corporation shall maintain and repair the above mentioned roads
in accordance with sound engineering and financial practices.
Section 2.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit (other than services of consultants and goods and services relating to office
equipment, buildings water supply, roads (excluding equipment), land clearing and
agricultural equipment and vehicles under Part C of the Project), shall be procured
on the basis of international competition under procedures consistent with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published
by the Bank in August 1969, as revised in May 197 1, and in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) The Corporation undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Corporation to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Corporation shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.09. (a) The Corporation shall furnish to the Association promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and


﻿6
work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   The Corporation: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the
Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation
upon the provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made available to it
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.10. The Corporation shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Corporation shall not take or concur in any action which would have the
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Corporation
Section 3.01. (a) The Corporation shall at all times take all steps necessary
on its part to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers and privileges which
are necessary or useful in its operations.
(b)   The Corporation shall at all times conduct its operations under
competent and experienced management, in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and agricultural practices and under the supervision of
experienced and competent management.
(c)   The Corporation shall at all times employ adequate and appropriately
qualified and experienced staff, including, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, a chief executive, a chief of the finance division, a project coordinator for
the Project and the First Project and managers for each of said Projects. The
experience and qualifications for such positions of the said officers shall be
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.


﻿7
(d)   The Corporation shall at all times operate, maintain, renew and repair
their facilities, plant, equipment and machinery in accordance with sound
engineering and management practices.
Section 3.02. The Corporation shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Corporation shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound commercial accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. (a) The Corporation shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets,   statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Corporation
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(b)   The Corporation shall keep separate accounts for its operations under
the Project.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and the Corporation shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Association and the Corporation shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views through their representatives with regard to the performance
of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Corporation and other matters relating to the purpose
of the Credit.


﻿8
Section 5.02. The Association and the Corporation shall promptly inform
each other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower
and the Corporation of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Corporation shall enable the Association's representatives
to inspect all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of the Corporation
and any relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of the Corporation thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two
dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify the Corporation of this event and, upon the
giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder
shall forthwith terminate.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under thi3 Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated


﻿9
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For the Corporation:
Mechanized Farming Corporation
P.O. Box 2482
Khartoum, Sudan
Cable address:
Mechfarm
Khartoum, Sudan
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of the Corporation may be taken or executed by the Corporation or such other
person or persons as the Corporation shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. The Corporation shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of the Corporation, take any action or execute
any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by the Corporation
pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President
MECHANIZED FARMING CORPORATION
By /s / Abdel Aziz Al Nasri Hamza
Authorized Representative


﻿1                                    11
SCHEDULE
Procurement
1.    For contracts for vehicles, machinery and equipment identical or similar items
shall be grouped together wherever practicable for the purpose of bidding and
procurement, and such grouping shall be subject to approval of the Association.
2.    With respect to any contract for vehicles, machinery and equipment estimated
to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more; and with respect to any other contract
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, the Corporation shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement
of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by the Corporation to the Association for its
comments before the applicants are notified and the Corporation shall make such
additions to or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   Before   bids are  invited, the   Corporation  shall furnish  to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Corporation shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name
of the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.07 of this
Agreement, promptly inform the Corporation and state the reasons for such
determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.


﻿12
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
3.    Other contracts shall be awarded following local competitive procedures, and
with respect to any such contract the Corporation shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Corporation and state
the reasons for such determination.
4.    Notwithstanding the above, the Corporation may construct the Project roads
and by force account make arrangement with the Borrower for the construction
(a) of such buildings at Habila and Umm Seinat for which no reasonable bid shall
have been received under paragraph 3. above, and (b) of the water supply facilities
included in the Project.
5.    For the purposes of evaluating bids for machinery, equipment and vehicles,
bid prices shall be determined and compared in accordance with the following
rules:
(a)   the term  "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a manufacturer
established in the territories of the Borrower for goods manufactured or processed
to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Association) in such
territories; any other bid shall be deemed to be a "Foreign Bid";
(b)   the bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of the following
amounts:
(i)         the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii)       inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such
goods to the place of their use or installation;
(c)   for the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid,
the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the following amounts:


﻿13
(i)         the c.i.f. port of entry price of such goods;
(ii)        the amount of any taxes on the importation of such goods into
the territories of the Borrower which generally apply to
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified in (i)
above, whichever shall be the lower; and
(iii)       inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such
goods to the place of their use or installation.


