CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 311 SU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Mechanized Farming Project)
BETWEEN
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 12, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 311 SU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Mechanized Farming Project)
BETWEEN
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 12, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 12, 1972, between THE DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (nereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by the Mechanized Farming Corporation
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to the Mechanized Farming Corporation the proceeds of the Credit
as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the Mechanized Farming Corporation;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i) as 6.02 (h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿4
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and the Mechanized Farming Corporation of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project
Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Mechanized Farming Corporation pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes any schedule to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   "Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement entered into on
Sentember 6, 1968 between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the
mechanized farming project (hereinafter called the First Project), as such agreement
may be amended from time to time;
(d)   "Corporation" means the Mechanized Farming Corporation established
by the Mechanized Farming Corporation Act;
(e)   "Mechanized  Farming Corporation Act" means the Borrower's
Mechanized Corporation Act, 1968 as subsequently amended; and
(f)   "'Umm Seinat" means the area comprising Umm Seinat, Saraf Seid
and Abu Sabika.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven million two hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($11,250,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.


﻿5
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree and subject
to paragraph (b) hereof, the goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured pursuant to the
provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the procurement of
agricultural equipment and vehicles required for Part C of the Project shall be
on the basis of negotiated contracts with manufacturers who have been successful
in international competitive bidding under the First Project and the Project.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1978 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service ch,.%es shall be payable semi-annually on January 1
and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January I and July 1 commencing
July 1, 1982 and ending January 1, 2022, each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall, through its Ministry of Agriculture,
carry out Part C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Corporation
to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the


﻿6
Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to enable the Corporation
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)   The Borrower shall:
(i)         under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Corporation
satisfactory to the Association, relend to the Corporation the
part of the proceeds of the Credit required for farm machinery
credit and land clearing loans by the Corporation pursuant to
Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement, at an interest rate of
five per cent (5%) per annum, with a repayment period of twenty
years, including a grace period of three years, or on such other
terms and conditions as the Borrower and the Association may
from time to time agree; and
(ii)        without restriction  or limitation  upon  the provisions of
paragraph (a) hereof, make available to the Corporation by way
of equity contribution (A) the part of the proceeds of the Credit
not relent under sub-paragraph (i) above and not required to
finance ex.enditures under Part C of the Project and (B) such
additional funds as shall be required to finance all expenditures
of the Corporation under the Project.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e)   The Borrower shall take, and shall cause all its agencies to take, all
action which shall be necessary on their part to enable the Corporation to perform
all its obligations under the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
including action enabling the Corporation's Board of Directors comprising the ex
officio, elected  and   appointed  members   (which   shall include  farmers'
representatives) to meet and exercise in accordance with the Mechanized Farming
Corporation Act the functions conferred upon said Board by the said Act, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which might interfere with such
performance.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall make arrangements satisfactory to the
Association to make available to the Corporation, promptly as needed, the funds,


﻿7
facilities, services and other resources required to maintain the roads included in
the Project and the First Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall make available to the Corporation by way
of annual budgetary allocations, the funds required to finance any technical services
required under the Project.
Section 3.04. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall in order to assist the Corporation in carrying out the
Project, through its Agricultural Research Corporation, continue and expand its
research into mechanized farming and prepare an annual research program for
mechanized farming which shall be agreed with the Corporation and sent to the
Association for comment together with an evaluation of the previous year's
program.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, in planning and developing increased
sorghum production, have due regard to the capacity of the markets as well as
transportation and storage facilities to absorb such increase.
Section 3.06. The Borrower zhall, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, make arrangements through the Rural Water Development Department of
its Ministry of Cooperation and Rural Affairs to provide the water required for
domestic consumption under the Project by construction of adequate water
reservoirs; to this end, the Borrower shall complete a detailed domestic water survey,
including cost estimates therefor.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to make available to the Corporation all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required to carry out the Project, including (i) a
definition by public notification of the boundaries of the areas included in the
Project, and (ii) gazetting an alottment of such land to the Corporation.
Section 3.08. In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall give
priority to the training of tractor drivers for the First Project, the Project and
the proposed Rahad irrigation project.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall send to the Association, not later than
six months after the date of this Agreement or such further period as the
Association may allow, details of the courses of training and instruction to be
given at the Farm Machinery Training Center at Tozi.
(b)   The Borrower shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Association
to provide at the Wad Medani Vocational Training Center courses of training and
instruction for at least 50 agricultural mechanics every year.


﻿8
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, not later than six months after the date
of this Agreement or such further period as the Association may allow, appoint
for Part C of the Project a Project Manager and two agricultural engineers (all
of whom shall be internationally recruited and acceptable to the Association) upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by the Corporation of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of the Corporation and, in respect of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part if the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditure of the Corporation and, in respect of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by the Corporation of its obligations under
the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿9
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The Corporation shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of the Corporation under the Project Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Corporation will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement.


﻿10
(c)   The Mechanized Farming Corporation Act of the Borrower shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to
materially and adversely affect the ability of the Corporation to carry out the
covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Corporation or
for the suspension of its operations.
(e)   A default shall occur in the performance of any covenant or agreement
on the part of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement or the Bonds provided
for therein.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraphs (a), (d) and (e) of Section 6.02 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
the Corporation have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and the Corporation, respectively, have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(c)   The Borrower has taken all action enabling the Board of Directors
of the Corporation to be reconstituted and to function in accordance with the
Mechanized Farming Corporation Act.


﻿1                                11
(d)   The domestic water survey specified in Section 3.06 of this Agreement
has been completed.
(e)   The boundaries of the areas included in the Project have been defined,
and the allotment to the Corporation of the land required for the Project has
been gazetted, pursuant to Section 3.07 of this Agreement.
(f)  The accounting firm specified in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement
has been appointed by the Corporation.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Corporation, and constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of the Corporation in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the
Corporation, respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the
Borrower and the Corporation in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03 The date September 15, 1972 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.04 of this
Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 6.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿12
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning
The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
P.O. Box 2092
Khartoum, Sudan
Cable address:
EIMAR
Khartoum, Sudan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
By /s/ Abdel Aziz Al Nasri Hamza
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                       Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
I.    Machinery and equipment             4,055,000
and vehicles for Parts
A and B of the Project:
(a)   directly imported                           100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)  Manufactured lo-                             70% of total ex-
cally                                        penditures
II.   (a)  Land clearance by     )
Corporation           )
(b)   Land clearance        )
credit to farmers     )        3,285,000     80% of total ex-
)                     penditures
(c)  Land survey and        )
demarcation           )
(d)   Water development     )
III.  Road construction and                 740,000     80% of total ex-
road survey                                       penditures
IV.   Buildings                             625,000     80% of total ex-
penditures
V.   Consultancy services,                  415,000     80% of total ex-
feasibility studies                               penditures
and soil survey


﻿14
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                       Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
VI.   Farm Machinery Training                750,000
Center at Tozi:
(a)   Agricultural ma-                             100% of foreign
chinery including                            expenditures
20% spares
(b)   Vehicles, furniture                          100% of foreign
and teaching material                        expenditures
(c)   Senior Staff and                             100% of foreign
consultants' services                        expenditures
VII. Unallocated                           1,380,000
TOTAL         11,250,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made on account of expenditures under Categories I and II
incurred after January 1, 1972 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivai,it of $300,000 under each such Category; and


﻿15
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined   that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category II, 111,
IV or V shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which is a continuation of the First Project, is designed to
promote the development over a period of five years of about 420,000 feddan
of uncultivated land and the creation of about 280 farms of 1,500 feddan
each - 180 at Umm Seinat in the Kassala Province and 100 at Habila in the
Kordofan Province - leased to entrepreneurs, companies and cooperatives for
mechanized cultivation of sorghum, sesame and other rainfed crops. The Project
also includes the following Parts:
(A)   land use planning and land clearing; construction and rehabilitation
of main and farm roads; provision of domestic water; selection of
farmers and land allocation; on-farm investment, mainly in equipment
and land clearing, financed by supervised credit; technical services and
project administration, together with provision of staff housing, offices
and workshops;
(B)   an expanded progiam of research for rainfed agriculture, a feasibility
study to identify further areas for mechanized rainfed farming,
consultancy services for the Corporation and a smallholder experiment;
and
(C)   the expansion of the Farm   Machinery Training Center at Tozi to
increase the output of operators trained in the maintenance, adjustment
and operation of commonly used farm equipment and in tractor driving
techniques from about 50 to about 250 a year. This Part will include
the services of three qualified experts for four years, procurement of
agricultural equipment for demonstration and training, and expansion
of dormitories, dining rooms, kitchens and other facilities needed for
students.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1978.


