Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3089 CM
(Structural Adjustment Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 17, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 3089 CM
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 17, 1989, between REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON (the  Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated May 17, 1989 from the Borrower 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter  called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution  of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently needed imports required during 
such execution; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
 
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed 
out of the 
proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 
1 to the Loan Agreement.";
(b)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution 
of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, 
the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the 
Loan 
Agreement and the complishment of the purposes of the Loan."; and
 
(c)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement  have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional  terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
34/Rev.3 (1986);
(b)
"CFA Franc" and "CFAF" mean the Franc de la Communaute Financiere 
Africaine, the currency of the Borrower;
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(d)
"BEAC" means Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale; and
 
(e)
"PE" means a public or parapublic sector enterprise, established and 
operating in the Borrower's territory.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of  one hundred fifty million 
dollars ($150,000,000) as the sum of withdrawals  of the proceeds of the Loan with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the  Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFA Francs a special account in the Yaounde branch of BEAC on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions  of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1991 or such later date as 
Page  3
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings  determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest  Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank  shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period 
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, 
of the outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 
30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as 
the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989  bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of this 
Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
(e)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
interest rate for the Interest Period commencing in the first Semester  of 1989 shall 
be seven and sixty-five hundredths percent (7.65%).
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Page  4
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in  carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank, for its review and comment, a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed  by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently  maintained sound 
accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to 
support the related withdrawals.
 
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has  arisen which 
Page  5
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
import license requirements for goods which are not subject to 
quantitative import restrictions have been eliminated;
(b)
quantitative import restrictions for a first group of goods determined in 
agreement with the Bank have been removed;
(c)
price controls ("homologation prealable") for goods and services have 
been eliminated, except for a limited number of basic goods and services and certain 
goods remaining subject to quantitative import restrictions, as determined in 
agreement with the Bank; and
(d)
the system for setting commercial margins for goods and services  which 
are no longer subject to quantitative import restrictions or price controls has been 
removed.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for planning and regional 
development is designated as representative of the Borrower for the  purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and
   Regional Development
Yaounde
Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINPAT
8203 KN
Yaounde
With copy to:
Ministry of Finance
Yaounde
Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINFI
8260 KN
Yaounde
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
Page  6
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Yaounde, Republic of Cameroon, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ Elisabeth Tankeu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ismail Serageldin
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account for expenditures made (or, 
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect  of the reasonable cost of goods 
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, 
as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
     Group                Sub-group         Description of Items
      112                     -             Alcoholic beverages
      121                     -             Tobacco, unmanu-
                                            factured, tobacco
                                            refuse
      122                     -             Tobacco, manufactured
                                            (whether or not con-
                                            taining tobacco sub-
                                            stitutes)
      525                     -             Radioactive and
                                            associated materials
Page  7
      667                     -             Pearls, precious and
                                            semi-precious stones,
                                            unworked or worked
      718                   718.7           Nuclear reactors, and
                                            parts thereof, fuel
                                            elements (cartridges),
                                            non-irradiated for
                                            nuclear reactors
      897                   897.3           Jewelry of gold,
                                            silver or platinum
                                            group metals (except
                                            watches and watch
                                            cases) and goldsmiths'
                                            or silversmiths' wares
                                            (including set gems)
      971                   -               Gold, non-monetary
                                            (excluding gold ores
                                            and concentrates)
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied  from 
the territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency  of the 
Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of which goods are 
supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods shall be eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$15,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for such  expenditures before that 
date but after March 31, 1989;
(d)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $20,000 
equivalent;
(e)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank shall have financed 
or agreed to finance;
(f)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military  purpose 
or for luxury consumption or for petroleum products; and
(g)
expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to $30,000,000 
for foodstuffs.
3.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan:
(a)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the  Loan 
Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached  the equivalent of 
$50,000,000 unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Bank:
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Program; 
and
 
(ii)
that the actions described in Part A of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement have been 
taken and are satisfactory to the Bank; 
and
(b)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the  Loan 
Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached  the equivalent of 
$100,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Page  8
Bank:
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Program; 
and
 
(ii)
that the actions described in Part B of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement have been 
taken and are satisfactory to the Bank.
 
4.
If, after any such exchange of views described in paragraph 3 above, the Bank 
shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved  and actions taken 
are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such  notice, the Borrower shall not 
have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, 
by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part 
thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each February 1 and August 1
beginning February 1, 1995
through August 1, 2006
6,250,000
