Report No. 1199-TA
Tanzania: Appraisal of
Urban Water Supply Project
November 30, 1976
Energy & Water Supply Division                                      FILE   COPY
Eastern Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TANZANIA
APPRAISAL OF URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit               5        Tanzanian Shilling (T Sh)
Tanzania Cents 100          =        T Sh 1
T Sh 1                              US$0.121
US$1                        =        T Sh 8.30
Measurement Equivalents and Abbreviations
1 meter (m)                 =        39.4 inches = 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)      2    =         0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km )   =         0.386 square mile
3
1 cubic meter (m3)                   35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 liter                     =        0.26 US gallon
1 culic meter per day
(m /day)                  =        35.3 cubic feet per day
lcd                         =        liters per capita per day
Other Abbreviations and Acronyms
Government                  =        Government of Tanzania
MWEM                        =        Ministry of Water,
Energy and Minerals
AfDB                        =        African Development Bank
EDF                         =        European Development Fund
WHO                         =        World Health Organization
Gibb                        =        Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners
Inbucon                     =        INBUCON International Limited
WRI                         =        Water Resources Insitute
Government's Fiscal Year:  July 1 - June 30



TANZANIA                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ............................                         i-.i
I.    INTRODUCTION  . ............. ........                 ..................         I
II.    THE SECTOR  ......... ... ...o.........*..............................            2
Background  ...............................       ......      .. . .          2
Water Resources  ........ .               ............... *    ..........     2
Legislation  .......................................... *..........           2
Organization and Finance                  ..........................          3
Urban Water Supply  ..... . ..........  ..............              .         4
Rural Water Supply  ......... ..   ................. .                        4
Sewerage  and Drainage  .............................                         5
Long-Term Programs  and Policy  .........   *...........                      5
III.    THE PROJECT          ...........................................                  6
Objectives  ........................................                          6
Description .              .          .6........                              6
Cost Estimates    ................................... .                       7
Customs Duties  and Taxes  ......              ....................           9
Loan Amounts  ....*  .................................                        9
Project Administration, Management
and Engineering Consultants  ........... .             ........ .          9
Procurement  ..........             .............................            10
Construction Schedule ......               .......................           10
Project Expenditures,  Loan Disburesment                    ...........      10
Ecological Aspects              ..................... *  ..........          11
This report was prepared by Messrs. D. Coyaud and N. Tin with assistance from
Messrs. J. Kozel and R. van Wagenen.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
IV.    THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY  ...................                 ..........           11
The Borrower  ......................................                          11
Existing Situation  ......            ..........................              12
Changes in Organization  ................ .          . ..........             12
Organizational set-up of the urban water
supply  fund  ......................................                        13
Morogoro Water Supply Unit  .....                 ...................         14
Senior Advisers  in MWEM's Headquarters  ...  . .........                     14
Accounting  and Audit  ..............................                         15
Billing and Collection  ...* ........................                         15
Project Monitoring System  .........             ................             15
Risks  ............................................                           16
V.    JUSTIFICATION  OF THE PROJECT  .....                  ...................         16
Institutional Objectives  . .                 ......................          16
Physical Objectives  ................... .............                        17
Comparison  of Alternatives  .....               ...................          18
Return  on Investment  ...........................  O..                       18
VI.    FINANCIAL ASPECTS  .......................   ..........  .                        18
Introduction  ..............          . .......................               18
Past Operating Results  and Financial Position    .....                       19
Water Tariffs  ......................................                         20
Financing Plan  . ..            ...... ..............................         21
Future Operations  and Financial  Position                    ..........      22
VII.    AGREEMENTS  REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  .....                      ..........     23



LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX
1. Existing facilities and new works in Morogoro
Diagrammatic representation of new works in Morogoro
Major data
Technical criteria used in the Project design
Morogoro - details of contract
2. Training - Terms of Reference of Senior Advisers.
3. Cost Estimates
Costs in T Sh
Costs in US$
Program of expenditures
Estimated Consultants fees
4. Construction schedule
5. Proposed allocation of Bank loan proceeds.
Estimated schedule for disbursements.
6. Organization charts
MWEM Headquarters
Regional Water Supply
7. Monitoring Indices
8. Return on Investment
9. Actual revenues and expenses accounts
10. Opening balance sheets as of July 1, 1976
11. Average incremental cost of water supply
12. Income statements
13. Funds flow statements
14. Balance sheets
15. Notes and assumptions on financial statements and projections.
Maps
IBRD 12254 R - Tanzania Urban Water Supply Project - Project Location
IBRD 12427   - Tanzania Morogoro Water Supply Project






TANZANIA
APPRAISAL OF URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for the construction of a water
supply system in the town of Morogoro, the provision of management advisory
services and the contribution to a training program for the water supply
sector for which an IBRD loan of US$15.0 million is proposed.
ii.       The project would increase by 25,400 m /day the existing peak water
production and transmission capacity of the water supply system of Morogoro
which has a population of 39,000. It would increase by more than seven-fold
the amount of water available to institutions and industry, including a major
directly productive industrial estate presently being considered for financ-
ing by the Bank. It would make up for the deficit in the current supply and
would provide adequate water to 27,000 additional people up to 1986. The
project would provide management advisory services in the headquarters of
the Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals (MWEM) to assist in improving the
management and the operation of urban water supply systems. It would also
expand the facilities of the Water Resource Institute operated by MWEM in
Dar es Salaam for the training of water technicians.
iii.      The estimated cost of the project is about T Sh 160 million (US$19
million equivalent) before commitment charges and interest during construc-
tion. The foreign exchange component would amount to about US$9.5 million
equivalent (49%). The proposed IBRD loan would finance 78% of the project
costs. The balance of the project expenditures would be financed by the
Government.
iv.       The project would be carried out by MWEM with the assistance of
engineering consultants and senior advisers. The new installations are
scheduled to be in operation by October 1979.
v.        Although one of the major constraints to the development of the
water supply sector is institutional, the Bank's ability to discuss broad
sectoral reform is limited as this project would finance water supply ex-
pansion in one town only. Yet, as a result of the Bank's concern with
regard to the existing revenue collection and accounting procedures in
the urban water sector, a number of major reforms in that area have been
proposed by MWEM and recently endorsed by the Government. An urban water
supply fund will be established at MWEM to receive water revenues from
Morogoro and all other towns, except Dar es Salaam. All operating costs,
debt service and minor capital expenditures would be met from the fund. An
urban water supply unit would be formally set up in Morogoro to be responsi-
ble for operation, maintenance, billing and accounting for the water supply
system in the town. The Bank also expects to improve the performance of



- ii -
the water supply sector as a whole by adding to the quality of technicians
trained at the Water Resources Institute and of the managers in MWEM's head-
quarters who would be trained on the job by the senior advisers funded under
the project.
vi.       All contracts over $100,000 for construction of new facilities to
be financed by the IBRD loan would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank/IDA guidelines on procurement,
allowing for the usual preference to domestic suppliers and contractors. It
is expected that most of the pipes would be manufactured locally but that
pumping and treatment equipment would come from abroad. Civil works contrac-
tors might be foreign or local.
vii.      The Government would be required to maintain water tariff at the
present level in real terms by adjusting the tariff at periodical intervals
when significant increases occur in general price indices. Water supplied
through public standpipes, which is presently free of charge, will be
metered and the urban water supply fund will recover the cost from the
Treasury. Projected financial results indicate that the Morogoro town
water supply would be financially viable.
viii.     If benefits are valued on the basis of the present water tariff
(T Sh 2.20/m ) and foreign exchange shadow-priced at 1.35, the return on the
project would be 7.9%. This return does not measure adequately the merit of
the Project as significant health benefits will result.
ix.       The project is suitable for IBRD finance of US$15.0 million equiva-
lent. The loan would be made to the Government and would be for 20 years
including a grace period of 4.5 years. It has been assumed in the financial
projections that the Government would pass on the proceeds of the proposed
IBRD loan to the Morogoro town water supply at interest rate of 8.7% per
annum over 20 years, including a grace period of 4.5 years.



TANZANIA
APPRAISAL OF URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Tanzania has requested a Loan from the Bank to
help finance a US$19 million project for developing the water supply system
in Morogoro, improving technical and managerial capabilities in MWEM's head-
quarters and assisting in the development of MWEM's training program. An
IBRD Loan of US$15 million is proposed to be made to the Government.
1.02      Originally, a scheme for expansion of the water supply in seven
towns (Iringa, Lindi, Mbeya, Morogoro, Mtwara, Mwanza, Shinyanga) was con-
sidered and prepared. It was appraised by the Bank for possible inclusion
in a project to be co-financed by the African Development Bank (AfDB) and
the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA). Subsequently,
AfDB chose to finance separately two towns (Lindi and Shinyanga) but BADEA
withdrew from this project. The Government therefore approached the European
Development Fund for the financing of three towns (Mbeya, Mtwara and Mwanza)
and this application is under review. No sources of funds have so far been
identified for financing the expansion of the water supply system in Iringa.
1.03      The Project would be the first Bank Group operation in the water
supply sector in Tanzania although a number of rural development and agri-
cultural projects financed by the Bank Group have water supply components.
Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners (Gibb), consulting engineers from the UK and
Kenya, prepared the final feasibility study for Morogoro which consisted of
an updating of a study previously completed by H. P. Gauff from Germany.
Organization studies, leading to recommendations for the creation of a central
parastatal covering the original seven towns, were made by the Consultant,
INBUCON International Limited from the UK. These recommendations were not en-
tirely accepted by the MWEM which has proposed new arrangements within the
Ministry. The studies by Gibb and Inbucon were financed by the Government and
by the Association with funds available under a National Sites and Services
project.
1.04      Preparation of the Project with the assistance of the Bank began in
1973 when the Government expressed interest in the possibility of a loan in
the sector. The Bank Group assisted in project preparation on a number of
occasions by field missions.
1.05      Field appraisal of the Project was carried out during December 1975
by a team which comprised Messrs. D. Coyaud, N. Tin, J. Kozel and J. Adams.
In February 1976, Mr. R. van Wagenen visited Tanzania to assist with deter-
mining the training component of the Project.



- 2 -
II. THE SECTOR
Background
2
2.01      Tanzania has a total area of about 940,000 km .  It has 800 km
of Indian Ocean shoreline of low and wet coastal plain rising in gradual
terraces up to the high plateau in the center of the country. A tropical
climate exists in the greater part of the country. In 1975, the popula-
tion was about 15 million with density highest in the coastal area, on the
shores of Lake Victoria, on the slopes of Kilimanjaro and Meru, and in the
area north of Lake Malawi. In contrast, the center and south are almost
empty. Most of the population (93%) live in rural areas, usually in small
isolated communities; the remaining population of about 1.1 million live
in 17 towns and 11 townships. The population is increasing at about 3%
annually with distinct migration to urban areas, which grow at about 7.5%
a year. Over 90% of the population is engaged in agriculture. Tanzania
is one of the 25 "least developed" countries; per capita GNP is estimated
at US$174 in 1975.
Water Resources
2.02      Tanzania is generally a dry country, poor in surface and ground-
water. The rivers belong to three drainage basins. The eastern basin,
which is drained into the Indian Ocean, includes a few small coastal rivers
of which the Pangani and Rufiji are the largest. The western basin is
drained into Lake Tanganyika and the Congo River. The northwest basin is
drained into Lake Victoria and the Nile. The driest regions are in the cen-
ter and in the Rift Valleys, where there are no rivers and groundwater is
scarce. The central plateau gets less than 1 m of rainfall and the Rift
Valleys, protected from the wet winds, are much drier. Springs and small
perennial rivers are found in the mountains around Kilimanjaro and north
of Lake Malawi, both areas having rainfall over 1.5 meters. The presence
of turbidity in surface water, salinity in many groundwater resources and
high fluoride content in some aquifers also creates problems of water quality.
2.03      The hydrological and hydrogeological information concerning avail-
able water resources is scarce and confined ususally to a few sporadic
observations. In 1969, the Government decided to investigate and prepare an
inventory of the water resources in each region. At present, the work has
been completed in two regions and is underway in several other regions by
consultants working under different bilateral assistance programs.
Legislation
2.04      The major legal document dealing with water resources is the
Water Utilization Act (1974), which states that all water rights are vested
in the government, sets conditions for the use of water, and establishes a



- 3 -
Principal Water Officer and a Central Advisory Board resposible for apportion-
ment of national water resources. The Act is complemented by two subsidiary
laws: the Water Utilization Regulation specifies the procedures for the
Advisory board and lists rivers designated as national water supply sources
which are under regulation; the Water Works Ordinance deals with urban water
supplies, defines water supply areas and rights to supply water in these
areas, and sets countrywide water rates for the different types of consumers.
The legislation on the sewerage sub-sector covers only the construction
of sewers and particularly the quality of workmanship and materials.
2.05      For the purpose of the project, no further legislation would be
required.
Organization and Finance
2.06      Several years ago, the activities in the sector were administra-
tively divided among the Ministry of Works, responsible for urban water
supplies, the Ministry of Local Government, for sewerage, and the Ministry
of Agriculture, for water resources and rural water supplies. In 1969,
the Ministry of Water Development and Power was established to consolidate
within one ministry all activities in the water and power sectors. In 1975,
the Ministry's responsibility was extended to the field of mineral resources
and their exploitation and the name changed to the present Ministry of Water,
Energy and Minerals (MWEM).
2.07      Under the decentralization policy adopted by the Government in
1972, the role of MWEM in the water supply sector has changed from one of
managing and controlling the entire water program to one of providing policy
direction, technical assitance to the regions, procurement, manpower train-
ing and disposition, and initiating and executing "national water projects"
including those in major urban areas. Each region's water department is
headed by a Regional Water Engineer, who is responsible for operation and
maintenance and for the design and implementation of extensions and improve-
ments to the water supply systems within his region. The Regional Water
Engineer is responsible to the Regional Development Director for administra-
tive and financial matters and to MWEM for technical matters.
2.08      MWEM is presently in the process of reorganizing due to its added
responsibility for mineral resources. It would consist of four technical
divisions and three administrative units responsible to the Principal Secre-
tary (organizational chart shown in Annex 6, page 1). The technical divisions
would be oriented for central as well as for regional needs. The planning
division would concentrate on overall sector statistics and planning. The
project preparation division would include sections for hydrology, geology
and research working on national basis. The manpower division would recruit
and train manpower for the whole sector. Finally, the construction and main-
tenance division would control several construction and drilling units avail-
able for hire by the regions. Two units, administration and finance, would
act for matters inside the Ministry. A supply section would arrange procure-
ments for central as well as regional projects.



- 4 -
2.09      The regional water organization differs from region to region,
depending on regional conditions, but it has usually an administration and
accounting section, an engineering section responsible for planning and
design, a construction section, an operation section and maintenance work-
shops. Each regional water organization averages about 300 to 500 persons.
2.10      Capital and running expenditures for the sector are financed through
the Government's budget with allocations to the MWEM and the regions. Annual
capital expenditures for the entire sector reached over T Sh 400 million in
the last few years representing about 2% of the national development budget.
The main expansions of urban water supplies in Dar es Salaam, Tanga and Tabora
and the entire rural water supply development have been largely financed from
bilateral assistance programs channeled through the central budget. Total
operating expenditures for the entire sector (urban and rural) reached over
T Sh 55 million in 1975. Water revenues are paid into the national treasury.
Total revenues for the urban water supply sub-sector in 1975 were T Sh 42 mil-
lion. The present accounting system does not permit any firm conclusions as
to the financial performance of individual urban water schemes.
Urban Water Supply
2.11      It is estimated that about 85% of the urban population has access
to water, but the level of service varies in both quality and quantity. In
general, the water supplies are piped systems, supplying about 20% of the con-
sumers through private connections and 80% through public standpipes. Water
is usually treated and chlorinated. Water supplied through p5ivate connec-
tions is metered and charged at a uniform rate of T Sh 2.20/m ; water supplied
through public standpipes is free of charge. Industry is limited and located
in only a few towns. Its share is on average about 10 to 15% of the total
urban water consumption.
2.12      During recent years, expansion of urban water supplies fell notice-
ably behind the growth of urban population and industrial needs due to the
scarcity of funds. Water systems have been operated to their maximum capaci-
ties with no production reserves and water shortages have occurred periodi-
cally at times of peak consumption. Standards of operation and maintenance
have suffered from inadequate funds for recurring expenditures. Water quality
has also deteriorated. Extensions of distribution systems to new housing
estates have been stopped for lack of water. Non-availability of reliable
water supply for industrial use is starting to be an important inhibiting
factor for future development of industry in Tanzania.
Rural Water Supply
2.13      At present, about 22% of the rural population draw water from vil-
lage water systems under the responsibility of MWEM. The level of service
provided ranges from a single protected spring or well with a hand pump to
a distribution system serving consumers through public standpipes. Water
is free of charge; house connections and water billing are not used. It is
estimated that in addition to MWEM's supplies, 10% of the rural population
draw water from private and community supplies and from acceptable traditional
sources (streams, rivers, lakes).



- 5 -
2.14      Capital expenditures on rural water supply have been mainly funded
by Sweden. The Swedish aid program started in 1962 and represented T Sh 55
to 65 million yearly to which the Tanzanian Government added 20-30% except
for the last two years when the Swedish contribution was the only develop-
ment allocation. Selection of villages within the rural water supply construc-
tion program is fully decentralized and is made by the regional administration.
The program is implemented by the Regional Water Engineer with funds supplied
through the Central Government. Water systems are run and maintained by
the regional organization and are funded centrally. Recurrent cost require-
ments for currently existing systems are estimated to be T Sh 43 million while
budget allocation in 1975/76 was only T Sh 18 million, less than half that
which is necessary.
2.15      In spite of systematic effort, progress in rural water supply devel-
opment has been held back mainly by lack of technical manpower, lack of hydro-
geological surveys and inadequate institutional arrangements.
Sewerage and Drainage
2.16      There are only six towns with partial water-born sewerage services:
Arusha, Dar es Salaam, Moshi, Mwanza, Tabora and Tanga; the population served
totals about 200,000. Various governmental institutions like boarding
schools, hospitals, prisons, police or army camps near towns are served by
separate sewerage systems, which usually have oxidation ponds for treatment.
Expansion of water-born sewerage systems has low priority; public sewerage
is not essential where density is low and disposal of wastes by means of pri-
vate systems is possible.
2.17      The sewerage systems are always separated from storm water drainage,
which is generally carried out in conjunction with road construction. Both
sewerage and storm water drainage systems are operated and maintained by local
authorities, but to very low standards.
Long-Term Programs and Policy
2.18      The long-term program of rural water supply, which was prepared in
1971, planned that all rural population would be provided with reasonably
accessible water by 1991. Towards the end of 1974, the Government decided to
accelerate the program to provide a permanent water source in every village
by 1980. However, the financial implication of this decision seems enormous
and may force the Government to decide to postpone the target year.
2.19      The long-term program for urban water supply is considered separately
for each town depending on its condition, stressing the needs for securing
adequate services to the growing urban population and industry by timely ex-
tensions of existing water systems. However, due to the country's difficult
economic situation in the last few years, the expansion program has been
implemented in only three towns (Dar es Salaam, Tabora, Tanga) where ex-
ternal finances were available. Implementation of the remaining part of
the program depends on availability of further external funds. The most



- 6 -
acute current sector problem that could be resolved with new outside fi-
nancial assistance are in the seven urban water supply centers which were
appraised: Shinyanga, Lindi, Morogoro, Mbeya, Mtwara, Mwanza and Iringa.
AfDB agreed to assist in financing Shinyanga and Lindi water supplies, and
the European Development Fund is considering financing Mbeya, Mtwara and
Mwanza. Morogoro water supply would be financed through the present proj-
ect. Up to now, no funds have been found to finance Iringa water supply.
2.20      The aim of the Government is to make the urban water supply sub-
sector financially self-supporting. However, it is the Tanzanian policy,
for water supplied through public standpipes not to charge directly the
consumers at the standpipe. It is the MWEM's intention to phase out the
existing standpipes and to install only house connections but this will be
practically possible only over a long period of time and in the meantime
an alternative mechanism for financing standpipe service will be developed
(para. 6.07). In rural areas, the Government hopes that village coopera-
tives would generate enough income in the near future to meet the expenses
of operating their water supply systems.
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives
3.01      The project would contribute to the investment program of the
urban water supply sector. It would develop the production and distribu-
tion capacity of Morogoro water supply system to make up for deficits in
current supply and to meet future demand up to 1986. The project would
also improve management and technical capabilities in MWEM, and assist
in the development of MWEM's training facilities.
Description
3.02      The principal project components are as follows:
a)   Construction of an 1,650 m long, 12 m high earth dam
across the Ngerengere river near Morogoro with tower
intake, culvsrt and spillway. This dam would retain
10 million m of water at full capacity.
b)   Construction of production facilities including
transmission pipelines, treatment and pumping sta-
tions, storage reservoirs and reticulation exten-
sions in Morogsro.  The project would increase by
about 25,400 m /day the existing peak water produc-
tion and transmission capacities to satisfy the water
demand up to 1986 (water supply requirements are de-
tailed in Sara. 5.07 to 5.09). It would also increase
by 5,450 m the storage capacity and amend and extend



the existing distribution networks up to an efficient
state by early 1979. It would involve the laying of
about 13.5 km transmission mains with diameter 400 and
450 mm and about 14 km pipes with diameter 150 mm or
less.
c)   Supply of new vehicles for the urban water supply unit
in Morogoro (4 four-wheel drive and 2 seven-ton lorries).
d)   Management advisory services in MWEM's headquarters.
This would provide for three senior advisers, including
a technical expert, a financial expert, and a personnel
and training expert, who, over about two to three years,
would assist the MWEM in improving the management and the
operation of urban water supply systems (see para. 4.11).
e)   A contribution to the MWEM's training program for the
whole sector, consisting mainly in the expansion and
diversification of the Water Resources Institute (WRI)
which is responsible for pre-service training of water
technicians in the sector.
3.03      Existing facilities and details of the proposed development in
Morogoro are described in Annex 1; essential data are also shown on maps.
The existing training program and the training component of this Project
are detailed in Annex 2.
Cost Estimates
3.04      The estimated total cost of the project is about T Sh 160 million
(US$19.2 million). Foreign exchange costs would be equivalent to about
US$9.5 million (49%). The cost estimates are detailed in Annex 3 and sum-
marized below:



- 8-
TSh Million       US$ Million (Equivalent)
Local Foreign Total    Local Foreign Total    %
I.    New Works in Morogoro
Dam                      21.23  17.00  38.22    2.56   2.05   4.60   23.9
Civil Works              13.92  12.55  26.47    1.68   1.51   3.19   16.6
Pipes and Fittings,
Supply                  2.02   4.70   6.72    0.24   0.57   0.81    4.2
Pumping Equipment         0.45   2.03   2.48    0.05   0.24   0.30    1.6
Treatment Equipment       0.80   4.23   5.04    0.10   0.51   0.61    3.2
II.   Vehicles for Morogoro    0.39   0.39   0.78    0.05   0.05   0.09    0.5
III.  Engineering Consultant   3.33   5.51   8.84    0.40   0.66   1.06    5.5
IV.   Technical Assistance
and Training
Management Advisory
Services                2.15   3.28   5.43    0.26   0.39   0.65    3.4
Training Program         12.07   5.17  17.24    1.46   0.62   2.08   10.8
V.    S/total Base Cost
Estimates              56.36  54.86 111.22    6.79   6.61  13.40   69.7
VI.   Contingencies
- Physical              9.51   9.08  18.59    1.15   1.09   2.24   11.6
- Price Increase       15.28  14.52  29.80    1.84   1.75   3.59   18.7
Total Cost of Project   81.15  78.46 159.61    9.78   9.45  19.23  100.0
3.05      These cost estimates are expressed in December 30, 1976 prices.
They are based on data provided by the engineering consultants who carried out
the feasibility studies. The unit prices used are based on suppliers' quota-
tions and on tenders received for similar projects in Botswana, Malawi and
Tanzania. The engineering costs for the new works are about 10% of construc-
tion costs and cover design and supervision fees, the cost of site supervisory
staff and general reimbursable expenses. Engineering services would involve
about 293 man-months and the fees for management advisory services correspond
to 100 man-months (see Annex 3, page 4).
3.06      Physical contingencies of 15% have been added, except for the con-
struction costs of Morogoro dam where 20% have been added because rock excava-
tions could be higher than in the base estimates. Price contingencies allow-
ances totalling 18.7% of the total cost of the Project have been added to base
costs and physical contingencies (see Annex 3, page 3). They are based on
following annual rates in accordance with Bank guidelines.



1977     1978      1979     1980      1981
Equipment and Services             8%        8%       8%        7%       7%
Civil Works                       12%       12%      12%       10%      10%
3.07      The foreign exchange cost of the project ($9.5 million) is the sum
of direct payments made in foreign currencies for equipment, materials, con-
sulting services and contractors ($7.5 million) and of cost estimates for im-
ported items used to manufacture local materials (cement, steel reinforcement,
PVC pipes, etc.) that are paid for in local currency ($2.0 million).
Customs Duties and Taxes
3.08      Equipment imported directly for the project is assumed as exempt
from customs duties and taxes. However, it is assumed that some would be
purchased by contractors in the local market and hence would be taxed. The
local costs of the project include allowances for import duties and sales
taxes on these materials, which are estimated to be about $0.7 million or
3.6% of the total project cost.
Loan Amounts
3.09      The project is intended to be financed as follows:
TSh Million      US$ Million
IBRD Loan                            124.5             15.0
Government contribution               35.5              4.2
Total                            160.0             19.2
Project Administration, Management and Engineering Consultants
3.10      MWEM would have the responsibility for project administration.
MWEM for that purpose would be assisted by the three senior advisers financed
under the project through management advisory services (para. 4.11 and 4.12).
3.11      To carry out the detailed design and supervise the construction of
new works in Morogoro, MWEM appointed Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners (Gibb)
as engineering consultants; this firm which has updated the feasibility studies
for this project, is acceptable to the Bank. To carry out design and supervise
construction of new training facilities which would be funded under this proj-
ect, MWEM has appointed an engineering consultant NEDECO of the Netherlands
already working and financed by local funds.



- 10 -
3.12      Details of estimates for engineering consultant fees and cost
of senior advisers are given in Annex 3, page 4. Retroactive financing
of $500,000 from the loan is proposed for expenditures to be spent for in-
vestigations of the Mindu-dam site and for fees to be spent from the date
of the consultants' appointment (July 76) to the date of loan signing.
3.13      Agreement was reached that senior advisers would be appointed by
June 30, 1977 and engineering consultants acceptable to the Bank would con-
tinue to be employed to assist MWEM in carrying out the project.
Procurement
3.14      Construction of new facilities in Morogoro would involve a total of
5 main contracts including 2 contracts for civil works (Mindu dam and other
civil works contract) and 3 contracts for equipment supply. Construction
of new facilities included in the training component would involve one civil
works contract and several contracts for equipment supply.
3.15      Contracts under $100,000 would be awarded in accordance with local
procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. Total expenditures under
such contracts would not exceed $500,000. All contracts over $100,000 to
be financed by the Bank Loan would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank guidelines on procurement.
A preference of 15%, or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower,
would be applied to the bids of local manufacturers of equipment. A pref-
erence of 7.5% would be applied to bids from local civil works contractors.
It is expected that most of the pipes will be manufactured locally but that
pumping and treatment equipment will come from abroad; civil works contrac-
tors might be foreign or local.
Construction Schedule
3.16      Tenders for civil works would be called for in June 1977 for
Morogoro. Tenders for supply contracts would be called for in February
1977 for treatment equipment and in July 1977 for pumping equipment. If
the proposed schedule is adhered to, the new installations would be in
operation by early July 1979. However, various kinds of problems (delivery,
transportation, etc.) may lengthen the construction period and an allowance
has been made for a delay of three months in the commissioning date of the
new facilities. This extended construction period has been taken into
account in the cost estimates, disbursement schedule and financial projec-
tions. The schedule for design, procurement and construction of the project
is shown in Annex 4.
Project Expenditures, Loan Disbursement
3.17      The forecasts of annual project expenditures are shown in Annex 3,
page 3. These forecasts are derived from the construction schedule given in
Annex 4.



- 11 -
3.18      The proposed allocation of the proceeds of the Bank loan is given
in Annex 5 page 1.
3.19      The estimated disbursement schedule for the proposed loan is shown
in Annex 5 page 2. The proposed Closing Date would be June 30, 1981. Any
unused balance of the loan after completion of the project could be used,
subject to Bank approval, for extension of distribution systems, further
improvement of production or transmission facilities in Morogoro, for MWEM
training program, or feasibility studies for subsequent projects in the
sector.
Ecological Aspects
3.20      The project is intended to provide sufficient piped water to people
in Morogoro who do not have adequate amount of safe water now and to satisfy
reasonable needs up to 1986, Thus, it is expected that the incidence and risk
of diseases attributable to the lack of safe and adequate water supply would
be reduced during the next decade in spite of the population increase.
3.21      Water rights of existing riparian estates below the Mindu reservoir
have been taken into account by allowing water to be constantly relsased from
the reservoir to the Ngerengere river at a minimum rate of 16,000 m /day.
Actually, water downstream of the future reservoir would be available with
increased reliability.
3.22      Sludge from the water treatment plant constructed under the project
would be returned to the river below the intake of raw water. The effect on
the characteristics of the river water would be slightly negative but quite
acceptable.
3.23      The increase of water supply would lead to an increase of waste
water. This would be no particular problem in the project area where popula-
tion density is low.
IV. THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
The Borrower
4.01      The Government of Tanzania would be the borrower.  The proceeds
of the proposed loan would be applied to expenditures on the Project through
the Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals (MWEM).



- 12 -
Existing Situation
4.02      The existing institutional framework of the water supply sector is
described in paragraphs 2.04 to 2.10. The standards of administration, tech-
nical operations and financial control in the sector are generally poor. This
stems mainly from:
i)   the shortage of trained personnel at all levels;
ii)   the lack of funds required for proper operation
and maintenance of the water supply systems; and
iii)   the limited usefulness of the accounting and fi-
nancial information presently provided for man-
agement control purposes.
4.03      In view of these problems, the Government recognizes the need to
strengthen the existing institutional arrangement and to embark on a training
program for the entire water supply sector. As a result, the Government
engaged joint engineering/management consultants (Gibb-Inbucon) in January
1975 to review the situation and propose suitable institutional arrangements
for the water supply sector.
Changes in Organization
4.04      In their final reports, which were completed in February 1976,
Gibb-Inbucon contended that the best institutional arrangement in the long
run would be a water supply and sewerage corporation answerable to MWEM for
all matters pertaining to the sector. Since the immediate creation of such
a wide-ranging body would be too costly in terms of money and manpower, the
consultants recommended that the water supply and sewerage utility so con-
ceived should be started by establishing a nucleus of water supply systems
in the form of a corporation directly responsible for the operation of the
seven towns under the general supervision of MWEM. It was intended that
this nucleus would provide the opportunity to develop, test and modify sys-
tems, practices and procedures before embarking on progressive expansion
towards a fully comprehensive and nation-wide utility.
4.05      Gibb-Inbucon's recommendation was not entirely accepted by the Gov-
ernment, which considered the setting up of such a new parastatal undesirable
at the present time when the political mood in Tanzania appears unfavorable
towards parastatals and the Government is engaged in a major campaign to
streamline and revitalize the operations of these organizations.
4.06      MWEM submitted instead its own proposal, which is summarized as
follows:



- 13 -
an urban water supply fund (hereinafter referred to as
the Fund) would be set up for 95 urban water supply
systems excluding Dar es Salaam, which would have its
own fund. The Fund would contain recurrent accounts.
It would collect water revenues from all the urban water
systems from which operating and maintenance expenses,
debt service and expenditures for routine extensions
would be met. In the long run the recurrent budget
would be expected to operate on an overall no profit
no loss basis but in the interim Government subsidies
would meet any shortfall. Capital accounts for major
expansions would remain in MWEM's government budget.
Assets and debt obligations would be transferred to
the Fund when the major expansions are completed.
This proposal was recently approved in concept by
the Tanzanian Cabinet.
an urban water supply unit would be set up in Morogoro
and other towns to be responsible to the respective
Regional Water Engineer for operation, maintenance,
billing and accounting for water supply system in the
town.
-    three temporary senior advisers would be attached to
MWEM's headquarters to strengthen MWEM's technical and
managerial capabilities.
4.07      While these new arrangements do not go as far toward establishing
the commercial independence of the water sector as the Bank had originally
hoped, it is clear that they represent a significant step forward from the
existing system and they are acceptable to the Bank. It is expected that
with experience under the new system, the full potential of a commercially
independent water sector will be the focus of extensive discussion between
Government and the Bank. It was agreed that the new arrangements would be
reviewed from time to time with the Bank to identify any problems which
may arise so that appropriate adjustments or changes could be quickly ini-
tiated.
Organizational set-up of the urban water supply fund
4.08      The Fund would be administered by MWEM advised by a Board of Advisers
consisting of, among others, the Regional Development Directors. An officer
responsible directly to the Principal Secretary of MWEM would be assisted by
a number of staff tc (i) ensure that water revenue would be collected and
channeled to the Fu:._; (ii) coordinate preparation of annual budgets for
individual _ st -i ,-.resent budgets for review by the Principal Secretary
and the Board c^ Advisors; and disburse the funds to the systems as approved;



- 14 -
and (iii) review water rates periodically and advise the Principal Secretary
on appropriate rate changes. The Officer of the Fund would be appointed as
soon as possible in order to initiate implementation of the Fund on July 1,
1977.
Morogoro Water Supply Unit
4.09      The organizational structure of the future Morogoro urban water
supply unit is shown in Annex 6, page 2. The unit would be headed by a
manager responsible to his Regional Water Engineer. The manager would be
assisted by two assistant managers: one for operations, the other for
accounts and administration. It is expected that all the positions of
manager and assistant manager for operations and the staff for the Morogoro
urban water supply unit will be filled with personnel existing in Morogoro.
The positions of assistant manager for accounts and administration, however,
would have to come from outside the region.
4.10      In each urban water supply unit, the Regional Water Engineer would
be responsible to MWEM for:
-    the preparation of annual recurrent budgets for their
respective systems;
-    the maintenance of the accounts referred to above in
accordance with established procedures;
-    the billing and collection of water revenues and keeping
of arrears under control; and
-    the efficient operation, maintenance and routine expansion
of their respective system.
Senior Advisers in MWEM's Headquarters
4.11      Management advisory services to be financed under the proposed
project would provide for three senior advisors to be attached to MWEM's
headquarters, including a technical expert, a financial expert and a per-
sonnel and training expert. MWEM's organization in headquarters is shown
in Annex 5 page 1. The technical expert would be attached to the MWEM's
Construction and Maintenance Division for a minimum of two years. He would
primarily advise and assist the heads of the Construction and Maintenance
sections in the Ministry and the assistant managers for operation of the urban
water supply units in the regions. He would pay particular attention to the
training of the staff in these units. The financial expert would be attached
to the Fund for a minimum of three years. He would primarily advise and
assist the heads of the accounts and budgeting sections in the Ministry and
the assistant managers for account and administration of the urban units in
the regions. He would pay particular attention in the design and implementa-
tion of the billing, accounting and financial control systems, preparation of
budgets and training of the staff. The personnel and training expert would
assist the Director for Manpower Development of MWEM for a minimum of one and



- 15 -
a half years in assessing the training needs for the entire sector and esta-
blishing training programs, not only for Morogoro, but also for the rest of
the sector. He would also work closely with managements of the urban water
supply units to develop detailed organizational structures and staff estab-
lishments, prepare job descriptions and identify training requirements. The
terms of reference of the three senior advisers are detailed in Annexes 2,
pages 12 to 15.
Accounting and Audit
4.12      As the financial information which could be provided by the cash
basis accounting system would be of limited use to management, MWEM intends
to introduce commercial accounting in the urban water supply sector. Assisted
by the senior financial adviser, MWEM would implement appropriate procedures
as rapidly as proves feasible. The senior financial adviser would have a
central role in setting up procedures for the Fund. He would be appointed
by June 30, 1977 and would be responsible for developing an appropriate
uniform system of commercial accounts and accounting procedures (manuals,
forms, etc.) to be applied by each water supply unit and by the Fund. Among
other matters, the accounting system should cover billing and collection,
fixed asset accounting, internal financial controls and internal auditing,
inventory control and budget preparation. Agreement was reached that the
annual accounts of the urban water supply units and the urban water supply
fund, will be audited by the Auditor General or by other independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and that such accounts, together with the auditor's
report, will be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the
close of each fiscal year.
Billing and Collection
4.13      As far as private connections are concerned, water meters are
presently read monthly. Bills are prepared at town level by hand and issued
direct to the consumers. Revenues are collected by the Treasury through local
Revenue Offices. Thus, the responsibility for billing and collection is split
between two Ministries. Once the urban water supply fund is established, the
urban water supply units of Morogoro and other towns would be responsible for
billing, collecLion of revenues and keeping arrears under control. The reve-
nues collected will go to the Fund. For public standpipes, water would be
metered and the bills sent to the Treasury for payment (see para. 6.07).
Project Monitoring System
4.14      It was agreed that MWEM will establish and apply, in consultation
with the Bank, suitable indices for monitoring the Project and for measuring
the achievement of the staffing, training, financial and water supply goals
of the Project. MWEM would be assisted in this regard by the three senior
advisers financed under the Project. Proposed guidelines for a project
monitoring system are shown in Annex 7.



- 16 -
Risks
4.15      There are no undue risks with regard to the physical construction
of the expansion of the water supply system in Morogoro. Nevertheless,
because of staff shortages and poor motivation of the existing staff, it
is possible to encounter delays in the execution of the Project. The three
senior advisers should play an important role in avoiding such delays. The
Project will require close supervision to correct timely any situation before
it seriously affects its implementation.
V. JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT
Institutional Objectives
5.01      As mentioned earlier in Section IV, the problems which have con-
strained the development of the Water Supply Sector in Tanzania are mainly
institutional in character. When the Bank was originally hoping to finance
water supply expansion in seven towns, it expected to improve the performance
in water supply sector by including substantial change in the existing organi-
zational arrangements. Now, even though the Bank is directly responsible
for financing only one town, it appears that the first step has been achieved
in the direction of establishing commercial operations in the sector. With
the establishment of an urban water supply fund, water revenues and expenses
will now be separate from general revenues and expenditures, therefore provid-
ing a basis for ensuring financial self-sufficiency and the availability of
adequate resources for operation, maintenance and minor capital investment.
While this institutional change had not gone as far toward establishing the
independence of the sector as might be preferred, it is properly viewed as
the beginning of a dialogue which it is hoped will lead to subsequent improve-
ments in the sector's organization.
5.02      The project also involves significant investment in manpower devel-
opment, a major constraint to improvement in sectoral performance. This in-
vestment would focus on the training of technicians and craftsmen (substan-
tial high level professionals are presently in training) and on improving
management and technical capabilities in MWEM's headquarters and the regions.
5.03      Water technicians specializing in civil works, hydrology and hydro-
geology are trained in the Water Resources Institute. This Institute would
be expanded to allow training of an increased number of water technicians
to meet the minimum estimated number needed by 1980. Technicians specializ-
ing in mechanical and electrical work are being produced by the Dar-es-
Salaam Technical College but they need some up-grading to be really useful
to MWEM. The WRI would provide short up-grading courses to this category
of technicians. In order to improve the quality of all the trainees the
project would include the construction and equipping of a workshop, a labo-
ratory and a library at the WRI. It would also provide expatriate staff
for the WRI expansion to the extent that bilateral aid funds may not become
available.



- 17 -
5.04      Craftsmen such as mechanics, plumbers and rural pump attendants are
trained on the job in some of the Regional Water Engineers' offices after a
year at the National Vocational Training Center in Dar es Salaam, but there
is a need for greatly increased number of them. A well-conceived British aid
program for the training of water mechanics is now being considered. If this
offer of aid is not made or not accepted, the program would be financed by
the project through the unallocated training expenditures.
5.05      The project will help improve MWEM's training arrangements by the
provision of a training adviser in the management advisory services component.
This adviser would assist the Director for Manpower Development in assessing
the training needs for the entire sector and establishing training programs
not only for Morogoro but also for the rest of the sector. He would also work
closely with managements of the urban water supply units to develop detailed
organizational structures and staff establishments, prepare job descriptions
and identify training requirements.
5.06      To improve management and technical capabilities in MWEM's head-
quarters and in the urban water supply units in the regions, the management
advisory services to be financed under the proposed project (para. 4.11)
would also provide for two additional advisers to be attached to MWEM's
headquarters: a technical expert and a financial expert.
Physical Obiectives
5.07      The existing water suppiy system of Morogoro is quite inadequate.
The present water demand (4,300 m /ay in 1975/76) greatly exceeds the safe
output of the river source (2,300 m /day) and storage reservoir capacities are
insufficient, as a result there are water shortages and low pressure in the
distribution system during the dry season. The population is served through
either private connections or public standpipes but the average per capita
consumption is low (76 lcd for domestic consumption). The project would
provide an increased supply to the present domestic consumers totaling
39,000 and would provide adequate water for the 27,000 additional domestic
consumers which are expected by 1986. The average domestic consumption
per capita would be increased from 76 lcd to 120 lcd. The project would
provide the general water supply infrastructure necessary to supply safe
water to urban poor living in squatter areas (Msamvu and Kichangani) 1/.
It is also expected that the incidence of mortality and disease caused by
water-borne agents would be reduced.
5.08      The project is essential to meet the needs of the substantial
industrial development which is planned for Morogoro with IDA assistance
(the Morogoro industrial p5oject). Industrial and commercial average
water consumption (1,300 m /day at present) is expected to increase 7-fold
1/   Pipe reticulation in these squatter areas is expected to be funded by
the Bank under a Second Urban Sites and Services Project.



- 18 -
to reach 10,500 m /day in 1986. By that date, industrial and commercial water
consumption is expected to account for about 59% of the total.
5.09      The overall per capita consumption (domestic, industrial and
commercial) is expected to increase gradually from 110 to 268 lcd by 1986.
To size the facilities according to the 1986 water demand, reasonably modest
design criteria (Annex 1 page 5) have been chosen due to the scarcity of funds
available for investment (See Annex 1 page 4).
5.10      The investment cost of the Project in December 30, 1976 prices is
about $492 per additional m /day of production capacity, which is reasonable.
Comparison of Alternatives
5.11      The consultants have selected the most economical alternatives to
meet the water demand. Various possible sources of water around Morogoro
other than a storage basin on the Ngerengere river at Mindu (dams on Morogoro
river lower valley, catchment on Mzinga, a tributary of the Ngerengere river,
draw-off from the Ngerengere river at Konga), several potential sites for the
new treatment plant and various construction phases of Mindu dam have been
examined and discussed before the final alternative was chosen.
Return on Investment
5.12      The return on investment is taken to be the discount rate at which
the present worth of all capital and operating and maintenance costs (exclud-
ing taxes) equals the present worth of all revenues associated with the
investment over iti lifetime. With benefits measured at the present water
rate of TSh 2.20/m   and assuming that all consumption of water will be paid
for and if foreign exchange is shadow-priced at 1.35 (i.e. TSh 11.0 = US$1.0),
the return on the Project would be 7.9% (Annex 8). This rather low rate of
return partially indicates that tariffs are currently set at a level below
the average incremental cost of water in Morogoro, and is partially a result
of the fact that it is not possible to adequately quantify benefits relating
to health and other environmental and social factors.
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Introduction
6.01      Examination of the finances of the water supply operations in the
seven towns appraised by the mission has been seriously constrained by the
lack of reliable basic data. The financial information and projections
presented in this report have been based on Gibb-Inbucon's best estimates
and many assumptions, and will have to be closely monitored and revised as
the Project develops.



- 19 -
Past Operating Results and Financial Position
6.02      Actual revenues and expenses accounts for the seven town water
supplies appraised have been extracted from the Government's published
annual accounts, the most recent of which are for fiscal year 1973/74.
With these accounts, proforma income statements have been constructed for
each individual town for the two years ending June 30, 1974 as shown in
Annex 9. The operating results of the seven towns consolidated and of
Morogoro are summarized as follows:
T Sh Thousand
Seven Towns             Morogoro
Year Ending June 30                      1973         1974        1973       1974
Revenues /1                             6,522        7,245       1,263      1,306
Expenses                                4,122        5,518         737        870
Operating Income
Before Depreciation                   2,400        1,727         526        436
Estimated Depreciation                  3,529        3,529         383        383
Net Income (Loss)                       (1,129)     (1,802)        143         53
/1   At then prevailing water rate of T Sh 1.32/mr  (T Sh 6.0/1000 Ig).
A close study of these proforma income statements reveals certain discrepan-
cies in the accounts of 1972/73 and those of 1973/74, which inevitably raise
questions as regards the validity of the recorded figures. Nevertheless,
these statements should give some indications as to the financial performance
of the town water supplies.
6.03      The above consolidated operating results indicated that the com-
bined seven town water supplies gained a total of T Sh 4.1 million in cash
over the two-year period 1972/74, but lost almost T Sh 3.0 million after
allowing for depreciation. During the same two-year period, Morogoro gained
almost T Sh 1.0 million in cash and a net income after depreciation of about
T Sh 0.2 million. While Morogoro appeared to be more profitable than other
towns, thanks to its relatively larger size, it was apparent that its overall
financial performance was generally deteriorating. Its overall financial
performance is expected to further deteriorate in 1974/75, but shoulq improve
markedly in 1975/76 as water tariff was raised by 67% to T Sh 2.20/m
(T Sh 10.0/1000 Ig) effective July 1, 1975.
6.04      Since the capital accounts have not been kept on an annual basis,
it has not been possible to construct true balance sheets for the town water
supplies. Nevertheless, Gibb-Inbucon has assessed the replacement costs of
the existing assets in each of the towns, which constitute the basis of the



- 20 -
estimated balance sheets as of July 1, 1976. These balance sheets are con-
sidered acceptable as opening balance sheets for the town water supplies.
The opening balance sheet for the Morogoro town water supply as of July 1,
1976 is shown in Annex 10.
Water Tariffs
6.05      Stated Government policy with regard to water tariffs is one of
non-subsidization for the urban water supply sector as a whole, meaning
that tariffs should be sufficient to cover capital, operating and mainte-
nance costs. To promote efficient resource allocation, tariffs should
at least reflect the long-run marginal cost of water, which can be taken,
for all practical purposes, to equal the average incremental cost of water
to be supplied from expansion schemes.
6.06      Calculations of the average incrtz_-ntal cost of water in each of
the towns which were appraised indicate that, with opportunity cost of
capital of 10-12% assumed for Tanzania, the average incremental costs of
water in the towns range from T Sh 1.60-1.90/m  (T Sh 7.3-8.6/1000 Ig) in
Lindi to T Sh 2.75-3.15/mr (T Sh 12.5-14.5/1000 Ig) in Mtwara (Annex 11).
The overall averige incremental cost of water amounts to approximately
T Sh 2.20-2.64/m (T $h 10.0-12.0/1000 Ig), as compared to the present
tariff of T Sh 2.20/m (T Sh 10.0/1000 Ig). These variations in the aver-
age incremental costs of water in the towns suggest that it would be appro-
priate to charge differential tariffs to reflect the different costs of water
supplied to the towns. However, the Government has decided to maintain its
present policy of charging uniform tariffs for all urban water supply sys-
tems. Agreement was therefore reached that the national water tariff would
be reviewed and adjusted periodically to maintain the present level in real
terms. As recorded in minutes of negotiations between the Government repre-
sentatives and the Bank, such tariff adjustments would be made whenever
significant price increases occur and at intervals not exceeding two years
beginning in July 1977 1/ based on the changes of an index taken to be the
average of the "Retail Price Index-Wage Earners" and the "Cost of Living
Index-Middle Grade Civil Servants" for non-food items, both of which are
published on a current basis by the Bank of Tanzania in its Quarterly Eco-
nomic Bulletins.
6.07      Present Government policy does not allow the collection of any
charge directly from consumers for water supplied through public standpipes.
This apparently reflects both equity considerations and the fact that in the
past charges collected by standpipe attendants could not meet their wage bills.
Since only about 14% of Morogoro's water will be distributed through standpipes,
this is not a major project issue. However, because the percentage of urban
-~~~~~~~
1/   Estimated to increase to about T Sh 2.64/mr  (T Sh 12.0/1000 Ig) at
mid-1977 prices, assuming inflation rates in paragraph 6.12.



- 21 -
water consumed nationally through standpipes is almost 50 percent, the
present Government policy of not charging for standpipe water would make it
impossible for the urban water supply fund to be financially viable if
there is no payment from any source for standpipe water. It was agreed,
therefore, that the Government would compensate the Fund for water con-
sumed through standpipes.
Financing Plan
6.08      The financing plan for the proposed Morogoro water supply project
over the period 1976/77 through 1979/80, which is extracted from the detailed
cash flow projections shown in Annex 13, is as follows:
1976/77 - 1979/80
T Sh Million      US$ Million      %
Application of Funds
Proposed Project                               160.0 /1           19.2 /L       88
Interest during Construction                    12.0               1.5           7
172.0             20.7          95
Other Construction                               1.0               0.1           1
Total Construction Expenditures             173.0             20.8          96
Increase in Working Capital                      7.6               1.0           4
Total Application of Funds                  180.6             21.8         100
Source of Funds
Internal Cash Generation                        12.3               1.5           7
Less:  Debt Service                             (3.7)             (0.4)         (2)
Net Internal Cash Generation                     8.6               1.1           5
Proposed IBRD Loan                             124.5 /2           15.0 /2       69
Proposed Contribution by Government             47.5 /3           5.7 /3       26
Total Sources of Funds                      180.6             21.8         100
A    Including provision of T Sh 33.8 million (US$4.1 million) for training
and advisory services assumed not chargeable to Morogoro town water supply.
/2   Including provision of Tsh 24.9 million (US$3.0 million) for training
and advisory services assumed not chargeable to Morogoro town water supply.
/3   Including provision of Tsh 8.9 million (US$1.1 million) for training and
advisory services not to be credited to the accounts of Morogoro town
water supply.



- 22 -
6.09      Under the proposed financing plan, the Project would be entirely
financed by the IBRD loan and Government contribution. The proposed IBRD
loan of US$15 million equivalent would finance 78% of the total Project cost
of US$19.2 million equivalent. The balance of the Project cost, amounting
to US$4.2 million equivalent, and the interest during construction estimated
at US$1.5 million equivalent would be met by the Government.
6.10      The above financing plan indicates that borrowing from IBRD and
Government's contribution would provide about 69% and 26%, respectively,
of the financing required. The remaining 5%, which amounts to US$1.1 million
equivalent, would be provided from the surpluses of the Morogoro town water
supply operations.
6.11      It has been assumed for financial projections that the Government
would pass on the proceeds of the proposed IBRD loan to the Morogoro town
water supply at interest rate of 8.7% per annum over 20 years, including a
grace period of four-and-a-half years.
Future Operations and Financial Position
6.12      The projected Income Statements and Balance Sheets for the Morogoro
town water supply for the years 1976/77 through 1983/84 are shown in Annexes
12 and 14. The assumptions for these financial projections are given in Annex
15. It should be noted that prices in the projections have been assumed to
escalate by 18% in 1976/77, 15% in 1977/78, 12% in 1978/79 and 1979/80.
Thereafter, constant 1979/80 price terms are assumed.
6.13      The income projections in Annex 12 indicate that, with water tariff
adjusted every two years beginning July 1977 to maintain the present level of
T Sh 2.20/mi  (T Sh 10/1000 Ig) in real terms as mentioned in paragraph 6.07,
the cash generated by the Morogoro town water supply operations would increase
from T Sh 1.3 million in 1976/77 to T Sh 8.2 million in 1979/80 when the
Project is scheduled to come onstream, which should be more than sufficient
for the Morogoro Town Water Supply to meet its financial needs during that
four-year period.
6.14      The projections for the post-construction period indicate that
the Morogoro town water supply operations would generate sufficient revenues
to meet their operating requirements and debt services. The Morogoro town
water supply operations would have a rate of return on net operating assets
improving from 3.8% in 1980/81 to 8.5% in 1983/84. The debt service coverage
would decline from 1.2 in 1980/81 to 0.9 in 1981/82 when Morogoro begins to
repay the proposed loan, but should improve steadily in subsequent years,
reaching 1.2 in 1983/84, as the project becomes more fully utilized.



- 23 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      The following agreements have been reached with the Government:
(a) MWEM will employ consultants and senior advisers acceptable
to the Bank to assist in carrying out the project (para.
3.13 and 4.11);
(b)  The Government will establish an urban water supply fund
to be administered by MWEM to receive all revenues earned
from the supply of water in Morogoro and other towns.
Disbursements from this fund with respect to operating and
maintenance costs, debt service and minor extensions for
Morogoro will be made in accordance with budgets prepared by
the urban water supply unit and approved by MWEM (para. 4.06,
4.08 and 4.10);
(c) MWEM will organize and maintain an urban water supply unit in
Morogoro for the operation, maintenance, billing and account-
ing for water supply in Morogoro (para. 4.06, 4.09 and 4.10);
(d) MWEM will, from time to time, discuss with the Bank the opera-
tions and activities of the urban water supply unit and the
urban water supply fund, to identify and correct any diffi-
culties in such operation or activities (para. 4.07);
(e) Annual financial accounts of the Morogoro urban water supply
unit and the urban water supply fund would be audited by
the Auditor General or by other independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, and the audited accounts would be
submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the
close of the year (para. 4.12);
(f) MWEM will establish and apply in consultation with the Bank,
suitable indices for monitoring the Project and for measur-
ing the achievement of the staffing, training, financial and
water supply goals of the Project (para. 4.14);
(g) water tariffs would be reviewed and adjusted periodically to
maintain the present level in real terms (para. 6.06);
(h) The Government would compensate the urban water supply fund
for water consumed through standpipes (para. 6.07); and
(i) MWEM will appoint a second full-time Training Officer to
assist in carrying out the proposed improvements in training
(Annex 2, para. 25).
7.02      With the above agreements, the Project is suitable for a Bank Loan
of US$15 million, for a term of 20 years including a 4-1/2 year grace period.
November 30, 1976






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 7
TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Existing Facilities and New Works in Morogoro
1.   Background
Morogoro, 180 km west from Dar es Salaam, is a communication
and trading center surrounded by an agricultural area and the location of
a future major industrial estate, whose construction is underway. It is
estimated that the present 38,800 population will grow at a yearly rate
of 5.5% to reach 66,200 in 1986.
2.   Existing Facilities
The existing source of urban water supply is the Morogoro River,
whose low flow (2,300 m3/day) is less than current demand. A treatment plant
enables full treatment of 3,600 m3/day when flow in the river permits this
level of abstraction. Domestic consumption accounts for 69% of the total
consumption and corresponds to 76 lcd on average. Short-term failures of
the Morogoro River source have caused water shortages during some weeks
which unfortunately coincided with the peak demand.
3.   Project description
Under this project, the Ngerengere River would be impounded by
the construction of the Mindu Dam. This earth dam, 1650 m long, 12 m maximum
height would retain 10 million m3 of water at full capacity, which would cover
an area of 3 km2. Taking into account future siltation the reservoir would
safely yield more than 52,000 m3/day up to 1986. In 1986 the average yearly
demand of the urban water supply would be 17,800 m3/day of which 9,700 m3/day
would be attributed to the industrial estate. Taking into account the losses
in the networks, the peak day factor and the production of the existing facili-
ties, the peak day production frotm llindu dam would be 26,900 m3/day just for
urban water supply. In addition, the reservoir would release a minimum of
16,000 m3/day to the river to allow downstream abstraction of water by estates
owning water rights. The reservoir yield would be more than adequate for the
urban and compensation water requirements up to 1986. It has the minimum
economic height. Reducing the spillway crest level would involve dispropor-
tionately high costs in rock excavation. The embankment would allow for future
heightening by 2.5 meters to meet increased demand from the urban water supply
and possibly from riparian estates downstream the river.
The dam would include a 100 m long spillway sited on its left rock
abutment and draw-off arrangements (concrete access culvert and draw-off
tower, pipe outlets for compensation water and urban water supply). Raw
water would flow by gravity through two 450 mm diameter, 3.7 km long pipelines



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 7
to a 24,700 m3/day capacity treatment plant. There, treated water would be
pumped through a 400 mm diameter, 3.6 km long pipeline to a 5,000 m3 reservoir.
From the reservoir, one 400 mm diameter, 2.5 km long gravity main would supply
the new industrial area. A second outlet would be connected to a booster
station which would pump the water through a 150 mm diameter, 1.6 km long pipe-
line to a 450 m3 elevated tank connected to the existing distribution system.
Replacement and extension of the reticulation system would involve the laying
of 12.5 km of pipes with diameters of 100 mm or less.



TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
DIAGRAMMATIC REPRESENTATION OF NEW WORKS
IN MOROGORO
MINDU DAM                                                     TREATMENT WORKS
1650 m long                                                   24700 m3/day
12 - h,gh                       l
I10 m l!or. m /  .l50 
3 km' area              (           2r3450- 3.7 km     l.                                                          PUMPING         l       r4000-3.6km
Clarification      Filtration        Chlori-         STATION
_  Raw water     I                                           nation          3 X 500 m3/h             Pumpin main.
9eren9e ea - ~~~~~~~~gravity mains                                                                                                                                                Boos to 6pr
with reticulation
World Bank.-16407
m1j9
w -ii
0f-s2



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 7
TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Major Data
Morogoro
Year                                 Units                1971   1975/76    1986
Population
Number                           No                29,657   38,800    66,200
Average yearly growth            %                                 5.5%
Increase population              No                               27,400
Water Production
Peak capacity (raw water)        m3/day           2,300    2,300       27,700
Increase peak capacity          m3/day                            25,400
Daily average (raw water)        m3/day           2,950                22,200
Loss % of raw water Production %                      9                     20
Water Consumption
Overall average consumption    m3/day             2,680    4,2651/    17,800
Overall consumption per
capita of total
population                 lcd                  86      110          268
Domestic consumption             m3/day           1,840    2,9651/       7,300
Domestic consumption per
capita                     lcd                  59       76          120
Consumption in industry
and institutions
- Volume                   m3/day              840    1,3003/    10,500
- % of total consumption  %                     31                    56
Storage capacity                 m3                         2,330        7,780
Increase of capacity                                               5,450
% people served thru
connections                                     77
% served thru standpipes        m3                   23
Project Capital Cost2/
Per additional consumer          $/capita                            456
Per additional capacity          $/m3/day                            492
1/   Production in excess of Morogoro works safe output.
2!   Price based on December 30, 1976 with physical contingencies and
engineering.
3/   Estimated.



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 7
TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Technical Criteria Used in the Project Design of
New Works in Morogoro
1.   Domestic Water Consumptions in 1986
Consumption %
lcd
- Population served thru                                 143       75
house connections
- Population served thru
standpipes                                          50       25
Total Population                                    120     100
2.   Water Losses
% of Production % of Consumption
Losses in distribution system               17                 21
Losses in treatment plant                    3                 4
Total                                       20                25
3.   Peak factors
Peak month/average month          1.05
Peak week/average week            1.10
Peak day/average day              1.25
Peak hour/average hour            2.5
Average being yearly average
4.   Storage
Storage in the distribution system = 30% of average daily treated
water production.
5.   Water treatment standards
The treatment processes were designed to satisfy not the "recommended"
but the "acceptable" WHO international standards for quality of drinking
water.



ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 7
TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Morogoro - Details of Contract
Contract 1 - Mindu Dam
Earth - Dam 1,650 m long, 12 m maximum height
Water reservoir - 10 million m3 maximal capacity, 3 km2 maximal area.
-    Excavation and stripping
-    Core (clay or clayed sand) and supporting fill (sand and random)
-    Slope protection (riprap, gravel for drainage filter and
protection)
-    Concrete draw-off tower founded in rock with multi-level piped
intakes for urban water supply and piped compensation/scour outlet
-    Concrete culvert founded on rock, between tower and embankment,
for pipe laying and personnel access
-    Spillway, 100 m long, sited on rock at the left abutment of the
dam will be able to discharge 225 m3/sec of flood water
-    Instrumentation, drainage and ancillary structures
-    Rerouting 132 kV power line
Contract 2 - Other Civil Works
-    Laying of two No. raw water gravity pipeline 450 mm diameter,
3.7 km long each and valves, fittings etc.
-    Civil works for a 24,700 m3/day capacity treatment plant with
flocculation, sedimentation, rapid sand gravity filtration and
chlorination
-    Treated water pump
-    Ancillary structures
Civil works for main pumping station to house three pumps
Laying of pumping main (400 mm diameter, 3.6 km long) to reservoir
and valves, fittings etc.
Ground-level Reservoir 5,000 m3 capacity.



ANNEX I
Page 7 of 7
-    Elevated tank 450 m  capacity
-    Booster pumping station
-    Laying of main (400 mm diameter, 2.5 km long) to industrial
estate and valves and fittings
-    Repair (refurbushing of existing assets)
-    Modifications and extensions to existing distribution system
and reticulation extension (laying of 12.5 km pipes with
diameter 100 m or less)
Contract 3 - Pumping Equipment
-    Three No. 12,000 m3/day centrifugal pumps (two No. normal duty
and one No. standby) for main water pumping station
-    Pumping equipment for booster pumping station and piping with
valves and fitting
-    Repair and refurbushing of existing pumping equipment
Contract 4 - Water Treatment Equipment
-    Equipment for a 24,700 m3/day capacity treatment plant including
flocculation, sedimentation, rapid sand gravity filtration and
chlorination.
Contract 5 - Supply of pipes and fittings
-    Supply of pipes and fittings for pipelines with total length
27.6 km and diameter 450 mm or less with breakdown as follows:
Diameter mm            Lengths in meters
450                     7,400
400                     6,100
150                     1,600
100 and less                12,500
TOTAL                    27,600
Contract 6 - Supply of vehicles for Morogoro
Four wheel drive              4
Seven ton lorry               2
TOTAL                     6



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 16
TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TRAINING - TERMS OF REFERENCE OF SENIOR ADVISERS
I.   Training
Summary
The training component of the Project would assist in improving
water supply throughout the country by adding to the quality of trained
personnel and the town of Morogoro would benefit both indirectly and directly.
Substantial numbers of civil engineering candidates are study-
ing abroad toward degrees, to supplement Tanzanian graduates. Geologists,
hydrologists and chemists are studying abroad in small numbers and coming
from the national educational system in larger but insufficient numbers.
Water Technicians (civil, hydrology and hydrogeology) are given
pre-service training in MWEM's Water Resources Institute. Water Technicians
specialized in mechanical and electrical work are being produced in small
numbers by the College of Technology. Drilling Technicians are being trained
at a MWEM installation at Dodoma, but the production figures are not clear
at present.
Craftsmen in the categories such as mechanics, plumbers, and
surveyors, are trained on the job in some of the Regional Water Engineer's
offices for three years after a year at the National Vocational Training
Center. It is in this category that the largest numbers are needed. For
these, present planning appears more hopeful than realistic unless prospective
British bilateral aid is promptly brought to bear. An important gap is train-
ing in maintenance for rural pump attendants on a systematic basis.
As Professionals are much less of a problem than sub-professionals,
the training component of the Project would focus on the sub-professional
levels.
The Water Resources Institute (WRI) would be expanded and divers-
ified. No funds have been secured for construction of high priorities:
workshop, laboratory and library. The project would finance the construction
of these facilities (civil works and equipment); total base cost is estimated
to be $1.5 million equivalent. It will also help to diversify the courses
by adding an urban oriented (mechanical/electrical) option to the present
rural (civil) emphasis.
To provide flexibility as training opportunities arise or priori-
ties change, $0.5 million is included for unallocated training expenditures.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 16
The three senior advisers to be attached to the MWEM's head-
quarters will have training specified as one of their main concerns. These
will be financed as a portion of the $0.65 million designated for "manage-
ment advisory services".
Introduction
1.        The Bank's aim is to assist the entire water supply sector through
the training provisions of this Loan. Both manpower estimates and the
training proposals are based upon sector-wide information, although the
Morogoro water supply unit will benefit indirectly. It is expected that a
Senior Adviser on Personnel and Training will be one of three experts ap-
pointed to advise MWEM's headquarters. In addition to working with the
Morogoro urban water supply unit, he would assist the Director of Manpower
Development of MWEM to assess the training needs for the entire sector and
to establish training programs. The Government has not drafted a detailed
training program for the future, but a significant amount of training is
being continuously conducted.
Manpower Requirement
2.        Although the Government's estimate of manpower requirements is
detailed, it is based upon an unrealistic crash program for supplying a
source of potable water to all villages by 1980. Nevertheless, it is
generally agreed that the supply of trained technical manpower is insuf-
ficient and that training in almost every technical category should be
given a high priority if a substantial improvement in water supply is to
be made.
3.        A summary of the estimated manpower requirements to meet the
crash program stated above is given in Table 1. It is based mainly upon
reliable WHO and SIDA research estimates but has two defects for purposes
of this report, apart from its unrealistic goal: a) it covers only tech-
nical categories which admittedly form the bulk of the requirement, and
b) it does not appear to take account of attrition. Furthermore, most
of this manpower would be needed well before 1980, according to the
estimates. Although the goal is considered unrealistic, the estimates
provide perspective on the proportions of each category making up the
total.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 16
Table 1
Summary of Estimated Manpower Requirements to Meet
Government's Crash Water Supply Program
Requirement   In position at   Additional Needed
by 1980       end of 1975           by 1980
Professionals
(Expatriates)
Engineers (managerial)            24         8         (2)             16
Engineers (civil)                139        76        (51)             63
Engineers (mech/elect)            30        13        (11)             17
Geologists                        38        11         (5)             27
Hydrologists                      42        17         (0)             25
Chemists                           7         3         (1)              4
Others                             6         0         (0)              6
286       128        (70)           158
Technicians
Water Technicians 1/
civil                         784       358         (0)            426
Mech./Elect.                  224        52        (21)            172
Drilling Technicians (Sr.)       106        52        (16)             54*
1,114       462        (37)           652
Craftsmen
"Water Technicians"
Civil specialties          2,277        354         (0)         1,923
Mech./Elect. specialties   672           43         (0)            629
Drillers                         104        52         (0)             52
3,053       449         (0)         2,604
Semi-Skilled
Drilling crew members            416       172          (0)           244
Heavy truck and equipment
drivers                       213        40         (0)            173
Pump attendants                2,700(?)      ?          (0)             ?
3,329
* As all 16 expatriates will have departed in 1976, the requirement is actually 70.
1/   Called Senior Water Technicians in Tanzania



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 16
Present Sources of Trained Manpower
4.        While no thorough survey of sources has been made, the situation
is likely to be as follows:
Professionals
5.        Newly-educated Tanzanian Engineers are allocated to MWEM in very
small numbers--about half a dozen per year, almost all Civil Engineers. This
source would provide only 15 to 25 by 1980. Meanwhile, the very large pro-
portion of expatriates now in place could be maintained until at least 1979.
In that year over 100 Tanzanian Civil Engineers will return from Roorkie
University (India), having completed the regular four-year course; 129 were
enrolled but attrition may reduce this figure. In addition, a dozen students
taking Engineering degrees in five other countries are due to return in 1977,
1978, and 1979.
6.        In view of the shortage of Mechanical and Electrical Engineers,
MWEM should consider not only recruiting more expatriates in this category
but also diverting a number of the Roorkie students from Civil to Mechanical
and Electrical courses, beginning with their second year in Summer 1976.
Taking all categories together, it is expected that about 140 new Engineers
will be available by 1980, most of them by mid-1979.
7.        The present plan is to send another group of 80 to Roorkie in Summer
1976. While it would be highly desirable to reduce the number of expatriate
engineers, it may be unwise to do this on a large scale in the near future
because their replacements would be produced by depleting the existing stock
of technicians.
8.        Eighteen MWEM-designated Geologists, Hydrologists, and Chemists
are currently studying for degrees at the University of Dar-es-Salaam and
five more are studying in three other countries. These could be supplemented
by recruitment of expatriates until the University is able to catch up with
the demand or until more training abroad can be arranged and completed.
Technicians
9.        Water Technicians (Civil, hydrology, and hydrogeology).  The only
sources of technicians are the Dar-es-Salaam Technical College and the
Ministry's Water Resources Institute (WRI) at Ubungo (Dar-es-Salaam). MWEM
exDects to be allocated only about 25 from the Technical College by 1980.
The WRI is now, and will remain, the chief source of technicians. The WRI
lacks facilities for sound practical training (such as workshops) on the
premises and it produces an insufficient number of graduates. Expansion
is already under way, according to the following plan:



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 16
1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  TOTAL
Number of WRI graduates (FTC)         19   61    80    120   120   400
Additional from Technical College                                     25
TOTAL                                                      425
10.       Water Technicians (Mechanical and Electrical) are produced by
the Technical College only. MWEM is allocated five to ten annually but they
need some up-grading to be really useful to MWEM. There is a small possibility
that the Tanzania Electric Supply Co. (TANESCO) would accept a limited number
of MWEM technician trainees, but the present curriculum is not really suitable.
11.       Drilling Technicians.  All the expatriates now in post were
expected to leave by mid-1976 without having completely trained local
technicians to take over a drilling team. However, 36 Tanzanian Drilling
Technicians are completing a year's training in Dodoma. MWEM plans to
train a second group in Dodoma, but numbers and timing are not known.
The bulge in requirements should deflate somewhat after 1980, but there
will be a recurring demand for more boreholes for many years to come.
Craftsmen
12.       Craftsmen of all categories are trained in the National Vocational
Training Center at Changambo (Dar-es-Salaam) for one year, after which they
join MWEM for three years of on-the-job training before taking appropriate
Trade Tests. In the case of mechanics there is a section of the WRI in which
about 250 have prepared successfully over the past four years for the Trade
Tests in auto (including diesel) mechanics. This course could be expanded and
others established, but the mission agreed with MWEM that the bulk of the
training should instead be done in the regions under direction of each Regional
Water Engineer.
13.       At present 160 water-related craftsman candidates are being trained
in 11 of the regions. These are mechanics, surveyors, and plumbers mainly,
but also include masons, carpenters, tracers, and a negligible number of
pipe-fitters and pump attendants. The length and quality of this training
is unclear except in regard to mechanics, for whom there are no systematic
training schemes even for existing mechanics in the regional maintenance
depots, and current training is largely ineffective.
14.       It is expected that a British bilateral aid program will be
proposed and accepted which would provide (in the UK) skill upgrading and
instructing techniques to 20 experienced mechanics. These mechanics would
return to train in-service mechanics and apprentices in each region, begin-
ning in 1977.  The numbers to be produced have not been estimated, but this
program could reduce tiip &. --'- ;' - eehanics very substantially by 1980.



ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 16
15.       The Ministry of Works trains about 100 mechanics per year at
its center in Morogoro, but has not yet opened its facilities to staff
of other Ministries. The output may be greatly increased by 1978, under
a possible expansion made possible through the same British aid package.
The Ministry of Works also has a training school at Mgulani (Dar-es-Salaam)
which at present is unsuitable for meeting any of MWEM's training needs.
The buildings could, however, be remodelled and equipped at considerable
expense.
Additional Training Needed
Professionals
16.       No new training program is possible which would affect the short
term. Whatever gains can be made, apart from possible recruitment of about
a dozen new University graduates, will have to be by transfer from other
agencies or appointment of more expatriates.
17.       In the longer terms the University, strengthened by faculty members
who are now training abroad, will probably be able to supply enough graduates
to meet growth needs beyond 1979 (when the 100 or more new engineers return
from India). The emphasis at the University should be on hydrologists and
geologists, where no such infusion of new students is now planned.
18.       Adjustments in the engineer training program were suggested in
paras. 6 and 7 above.
Technicians
19.       This is the level at which IDA can make the most rapid significant
contribution.
Water Technicians
20.       The technicians of this key category, are those qualified for the
full technician certificate. At present, only the civil (including also
hydrology and hydrogeology) technician is trained at WRI. In order to pro-
duce greater numbers of this category and a substantial number of up-graded
mechanical/electrical technicians, the following changes will be required at
the WRI:
a)   new physical facilties;
b)   expanded and diversified staff;
c)   addition of short up-grading courses for mechanics
and electricians to the existing training program.
The third change involves the other two and is to be financed through them, as
described below. The second is to be financed through local and bilateral
funds. The first is the point at which the Bank can most usefully speed the
process of expansion. The number of graduates projected (see para. 9) is
reasonable, provided a substantial number of mechanical/electrical technicians
is included in the total.



ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 16
21.       To meet the projected intake of 120 trainees annually, begin-
ning in 1977, implies 360 under training simultaneously. Allowing for
the fact that 44 weeks of the three-year period (excluding vacation time)
is spent on practical work in the Regions, however, only about 280
training places will be required.
22.       Hostel space will be adequate, as two more hostels and a dining
facility addition will soon be available, able to accommodate a total of
274 trainees. Instructional and administrative space must be roughly
doubled in order to provide for the 280 places. Since construction is not
yet approved or funded, the need for places, as it increases heavily in
1977, will have to be met by double-shifting at peak periods.
23.       Instructional staff varies between 9 and 12, of whom 7 are
currently expatriates.  This should be increased to 18 by early 1977 in
order to meet the increased trainee intake. It should also be diversified
to include mechanical and electrical training, with emphasis on urban supply.
Expatriates are expected through bilateral foreign aid, with Tanzanians
added through the budget. The Principal is an expatriate; support staff is
both local and expatriate. Expatriates will be expected to train counter-
part instructors.
24.       The present Water Technician (Civil) curriculum has three options
in the third year: Water Supply Works (Construction), Ground Water/Hydro-
geology, and Surface Water/Hydrology. These are designed for rural water
supply exploration and provision, with emphasis upon construction. To help
meet the need for constructing and operating urban systems and for mainte-
nance of rural supplies, short Mechanical/Electrical courses should be added.
Its design should take account of the quantity and quality of the present
water-oriented training courses at the Dar-es-Salaam Technical College and
the possibility of changes taking place in that institution to make it more
productive.
25.       One aspect of the curriculum which could be substantially improved
is the "practical work" in the field. The information obtained raises
serious doubts about its effectiveness, yet it consumes altogether about
44 weeks of the total training time. This work seemed to be unplanned
and unsupervised from WRI, with implications that it was also sometimes
neglected altogether. The Bank recommends that a Training Officer responsi-
ble to WRI should be added to the staff to assist in expanding and diversify-
ing the training program and in particular to augment the efforts of the
present MWEM Training Officer in planning and supervising practical work
in the field.



ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 16
26.       Physical expansion needs have been estimated as follows by MWEM:
T Sh. million   $US million
* Workshop building                4.0             0.50
Lecture and assembly building  4.0               0.50
* Laboratory building              2.0             0.25
Administrative block             1.5             0.18
* Library building                 1.5             0.18
Staff quarters                   1.5             0.18
* Equipment for
workshop                 2.0             0.25
laboratories             1.5             0.18
* Books for library                0.5             0.06
Furniture
* for priority structures   0.5               0.06
for other structures       1.0             0.18
Total                 20.0             2.52
There are no land acquisition costs. Operation and maintenance would be
the responsibility of MWEM, paid in local currency.
27.       The project would provide $1.5 million (plus contingency) for
the priority items designated by asterisks. The Bank funds would enable
construction to begin promptly and assure that the priority elements are
completed.
28.       Drilling Technicians are badly in need of training.  The MWEM
training program states that arrangements have been made to train these
technicians at Dodoma but that this is just beginning and much improvement
is needed. Apart from this, nothing is known about the program at Dodoma.
This is a category in which a few expatriate Master Drillers could be
brought in quickly to take over the work of the departing expatriates and
assist the Ministry with the training course at Dodoma, unless other
satisfactory arrangements can be made.
29.       Craftsmen and Semi-Skilled Workers.  Small numbers of craftsmen
in several relevant fields are now being trained at the WRI in a series of
courses separate from those of the technicians, but the expansion program



ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 16
outlined above does not contemplate an increase in numbers. Rather, the
chief training for craftsmen is to be done in the Regional Engineers'
offices. This is as it should be, provided MWEM headquarters offers
some support. Little is known about the regional training now taking
place or the program planned. MWEM states only that it needs funds,
engineering equipment and instructors. The program for training mechanics
with British aid which is now under consideration in Britain has been
mentioned in para. 14; this would be a very promising input and should
be strongly encouraged.
30.       The only training need identified for semi-skilled workers
was for some elementary training in basic maintenance for pump attendants
on a systematic basis. A great deal of time and travel is wasted by
mechanics from District Headquarters when they have to go to village
wells to make minor repairs, many of which could be avoided by basic
preventative maintenance and others made by simple adjustment or repair
by the pump attendant. The absence of telephones and reliable transport
means that minor difficulties cause long interruptions in village supply.
Such training should be done by mobile teams rather than in groups.
Sector Survey
31.       A Water Supply Sector Survey in August 1976 (under the WHO/IBRD
Cooperative Program) has explored the training problem with special attention
to non-professional personnel. The report will be finalized early '77. The
Bank should study the results as early as possible.
Impact of Proposed Training Upon Morogoro
32.       The Morogoro water supply unit would benefit in three ways
from the training proposed: (a) generally, from increased manpower
development throughout the water supply sector; (b) more directly, from
the addition of an urban-oriented option to the curriculum of the WRI,
and (c) specifically, from the training proposed for the Urban Water
Supply Unit by the consultants Gibb/Inbucon if adopted in modified form.
("Preliminary Engineering and Management Study for the Water Supply and
Sewerage Sector: Final Report: Volume 2: Management Study", February 1976).
33.       In brief, the training outlined in Chapter 10 of that Report
should be adapted to the final organizational arrangement set up for
Morogoro (see Section IV of this appraisal report). Two of the three
senior advisers who would under this loan be attached to MWEM head-
quarters would assist the appropriate Assistant Managers in the Morogoro
Urban Water Supply Unit, including the training of its staff. The third
senior adviser (Personnel and Training) would work with the management
of this unit to help develop detailed organizational structure and
staffing tables and to identify training needs after preparing job
descriptions.



ANNEX 2
Page 10 of 16
34.       The project staff for Morogoro urban water supply has been
estimated at 86, of which about 27 are laborers requiring no training.
The immediate training job, therefore, from managers to drivers, would
not be more than about 60 persons. This reduction in size and scope of
the undertaking does not mean, keeping in mind the eventual needs of all
towns, that the training program proposed in Chapter 10 of the Gibb/Inbucon
report should be abandoned. For the most part it can be scaled down and
remain essentially sound. For example:
a)   The proposed senior adviser for Personnel and Training
should be appointed, to assist MWDEM in designing a
detailed training program for Morogoro after assessing
its specific needs.
b)   Attention has been drawn strongly to management and
commercial training, as contrasted to technical
training, and some promising methods have been
proposed which should be taken seriously.
35.       At other points the proposed Gibb/Inbucon program will need
modification. For example:
The short courses proposed for urban water supply
craftsmen should be conducted not separately but
jointly with the training of craftsmen in the Regional
Water Engineer offices (see para. 12 above). To do
this would help build up craftsman training for the
whole sector and yet allow a certain number to focus
on urban specialties.
36.       The senior advisers would be funded from the $0.63 million
designated as "Management Advisory Services".
Unallocated Costs
37.       In addition to the $1.5 million allocated for priority physical
expansion at WRI (paras. 26 and 27 above), $500,000 should be included in
the project for training opportunities that may arise at several points
as the project progresses, costs such as the following could be funded
from this unallocated amount if needed:
a)   assisting the expansion of WRI beyond the items funded
above (para. 26), such as commencing second priority
items after first priority items are well under way and
providing a.1y expatr4-to faculty members for whom expected
bilateral aid funds ma- -irn out to be unavailable;



ANNEX 2
Page 11 of 16
b)   training of Water Mechanics along the lines of a
possible British aid program being considered (para.
14 above) if the offer is not made;
c)   importation of "Master Drillers" to assist in training
Drilling Technicians (para. 28 above) if considered
practical;
d)   funding of any new training proposals which may arise
from the Water Supply Sector Survey being conducted by
WHO and which may be considered to be of high priority.
Summary of Recommendations
38.       The project should provide for:
a)   Physical expansion at WRI (paras. 20, 26, 27), with agree-
ments by MWEM to (i) increase and diversify faculty (para. 23)
and (ii) add mechanical/electrical short courses to the training
program (para. 24) ($1.5 million).
b)   Unforeseen training needs of the sector (para. 37)
($0.5 million).
c)   Training indirectly for all categories, assisted by
three senior advisers financed with the $0.63 million
estimated for management advisory services (paras. 33-36).
39.       MWDEM should be urged to:
a)   Adopt in principle the Gibb/Inbucon training program and
adapt it to the new circumstances; this does not, of course,
imply employment of this particular consultant for imple-
mentation (paras. 33-35).
b)   Appoint a second Training Officer in MWEM to perform
specified duties (para. 25).
c)   Strengthen the training of craftsmen at the Regional
Engineers' headquarters, including acceptance of a British
program under bilateral aid, if offered (para. 14).
d)   Consider importation of a few Master Drillers to help
train drilling technicians (para. 28).



ANNEX 2
Page 12 of 16
e)   Re-examine the decision to send 80 additional engineering
degree candidates abroad at this time (para. 7). This has
already been suggested to MWDEM by Bank staff.
f)   Consider diverting a number of civil engineering degree
candidates now studying in India to mechanical and electrical
engineering degree candidacy and consider instead recruiting
more expatriate water-oriented mechanical and electrical
engineers (para. 6). This has already been suggested to
MWEM by Bank staff.
40.       The entire training program should be adjusted in light of the
findings of the Water Supply Sector Survey being conducted by the WHO/IBRD
Cooperative Program in August 1976.
II. TERMS OF REFERENCE OF SENIOR ADVISERS
A.   Terms of Reference of the Technical Senior Adviser
1.        The Technical Senior Adviser will be attached to MWEM's Construction
and Maintenance Division for a minimum of two years. He will primarily advise
and assist the Heads of the Construction and Maintenance sections in Maji
Headquarters and the assistant managers for operation and maintenance of the
urban water supply units in the regions. He will take an active part in
the training of the staff in these units.
2.        He will particularly assist in the following tasks:
(a) becoming fully conversant with all aspects of the
agreed proposals for the project financed by IBRD;
(b) liaison with consulting engineers, contractors and
other parties engaged on the project and initiation
of all approvals, progress payments or such other
administrative actions as may be necessary to secure
expeditious completion of the project financed by IBRD;
(c) establishment of technical monitoring indices for the
project along the lines set in the IBRD appraisal
report;
(d) preparation of the quarterly reports for the progress
of the project financed by IBRD;
(e) preparation of detailed proposals for the organization
and staff establishment of the operating and mainte-
nance function in the Morogoro urban water supply
unit and other urban water supply units. This includes
the preparation of job descriptions of the key personnel;



ANNEX 2
Page 13 of 16
(f) advise on selection and proposal for appointment of staff
in the operating and maintenance function, in Morogoro
urban water supply unit (with advice from the regional
water engineer) and in other urban water supply units;
(g) preparation of instructions for the operating and
maintenance function in Morogoro water supply unit and
other urban water supply units;
(h)  specification of standards for efficient operation and
maintenance of the water supply system and of water
quality and service to be provided in Morogoro and
other towns;
(i) determination of the required levels of operating and
reserve stocks of supplies, chemicals, spares and other
materials necessary for the effective operation of the
urban water supply systems;
(j) in consultation with the Chief Supplies Officer design
of store-keeping systems and procedures including adequate
methods of stocktaking and storage audit;
(k) design of procedures for the requisitioning and procure-
ment of supplies and services necessary for the effective
operation of the urban water supply units;
(1) design and specify the format and frequency of operating
and maintenance reports to be submitted by the Managers
of the urban water supply units;.
(m)  supervision of the management of urban water supply
systems so that safe potable water is provided to
specified standards of quality and quantity;
(n) examination and approbation of plans for extensions to
existing water supply system;
(o) supervision of the preparation of capital and recurrent
budgets for urban water supply systems and reporting
on the achievements of these budgets; and
(p) consultation with Director for Manpower Development on
staff development necessary for effective performance
of the operating and maintenance function in the urban
water supply units and participation in the development
and training of key personnel in this function.
B.   Terms of Reference of the Personnel and Training Adviser
3.        The Personnel and Training Adviser will assist the Director for
Manpower Development for a minimum of one and one-half years in assessing



ANNEX 2
Page 14 of 16
the training needs for the entire water supply sector and in establishing
training programs. He will work closely with the management of the urban
water supply units to develop detailed organizational structure and staff
establishment, prepare job descriptions and identify training requirements.
4.        He will pay particular attention to assist the Director for
Manpower Development in performing the following tasks:
(a) to develop and submit to the MWEM Principal Secretary
any amendment for the organization and staff establishment
of the personnel and training function;
(b) to participate in the updating of job description
for various posts in the Ministry;
(c) to advise on the selection and appointment of new staff
to posts in the personnel and training function;
(d) to review and where necessary advise on the standing
instructions for the personnel and training function;
(e) to assist management in the preparation of job des-
criptions for all posts;
(f) advise on the recruitment of candidates and assist
Heads of functions to select and propose staff
appointment;
(g) to make a detailed appraisal of educational and training
facilities available from external bodies; and to assess
the training capacity and capability which must be
provided by the Ministry;
(h) to prepare detailed management development and training
programs and to determine the necessary training materials
and equipment and to arrange for instructors to conduct
programs which cannot be provided by external sources;
(i) to maintain and revise the manpower plant to reflect
the effects of its expansion program;
(j) to study the civil service's employment policy and
code of practice in order to make any recommendations
which could improve the efficiency of MWEM;
(k) to monitor the quality of instruction given and the
short and long-term results achieved; and
(1) to contribute to the preparations of capital and
revenue expenditure budgets for the personnel and
training function and to report on the achievement
of these budgets.



ANNEX 2
Page 15 of 16
C.   Terms of Reference of the Financial Senior Adviser
5.        The Financial Adviser will be attached to the Urban Water Supply
Fund for a minimum of three years. He will be primarily responsible for
developing appropriate operating and accounting procedures for the Fund
and the water supply units and will advise and assist the Officer of the
Fund and the assistant managers for finance and administration of the
water supply units in discharging their respective responsibilities:
He will, in particular:
(a) work closely with the Officer to develop detailed
organization and staff establishment of the Fund,
prepare job descriptions and advise on the selection
of staff;
(b) work closely with each water supply unit to set up its
finance and administration section, assist in the re-
cruitment of an assistant manager to head this section
and advise on the preparation of job descriptions and
the appointment of the staff;
(c) develop a uniform commercial accounting system and
accounting procedures (manuals, forms, etc.) to be
applied by the Fund and by water supply unit, which
should include, among others, billing and collection,
fixed assets accounting, internal financial controls
and reporting, internal auditing, inventory control
and budgetary preparation;
(d) ensure proper keeping of the accounts of the Fund and
the water supply units; maintain the agreed level and
frequency of management accounting reports and provide
commentary on, and interpretation of, these reports;
and ensure timely preparation of all financial and
accounting reports required by external bodies;
(e) devise satisfactory procedures for the recovery of
consumer accounts;
(f) coordinate preparation of annual budgets for individual
water supply units, assist the Officer in preparing annual
budgets for the Fund and assessing any Government contri-
butions required to balance such overall budgets;
(g)  conduct periodic review (not less than quarterly) of the
financial status of the Fund and the water supply units
and ensure that sufficient funds are available at all times
to meet the Fund's requirements;
(h)  recommend an adequate cash imprest system for the water
supply units;



ANNEX 2
Page 16 of 16
(i) advise an overall tariff policy and the need for changes
in tariffs (including the effects of such changes);
(j) ensure that all cash receipts are channeled to the Fund
promptly and that funds are disbursed to the water supply
units to meet their requirements in a timely fashion; and
(k) assist in the training of the staff of the Fund and
the finance and administration staff of the water
supply units and consult with the Personnel and
Training Advisor on staff development necessary for
the effective performance of the finance and adminis-
trative function's duties.



TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Cost Estimates
(T Sh Million)
Morogoro                    Headquarters                          Total
Local    Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign    Total
I.    New Works, Construction
Dam                                    21.23      17.00      38.22                                     21.23      17.00       38.22
Civil Works                            13.92      12.55      26.47                                    13.92       12.55       26.47
Pipes and Fittings, Supply              2.02       4.70       6.72                                      2.02       4.70        6.72
Pumping Equipment                       0.45       2.03       2.48                                      0.45       2.03        2.48
Treatment Equipment                     0.80       4.23       5.04                                     0.80        4.23        5.04
II.   Vehicles                                 0.39      0.39       0.78                                      0.39       0.39        0.78
III.  Engineering Consultants                  3.33       5.51      8.84                                      3.33       5.51        8.84
IV.   Management Advisory Services                                           2.15       3.28        5.43      2.15       3.28         5.43
V.    Training Program                                                      12.07       5.17       17.24    12.07         5.17       17.24
VI.   Base Cost Estimates 1/                  42.14     46.41      88.55   14.22        8.45       22.67   56.36        54.86       111.22
VII. Contingencies
Physical                                7.38       7.81      15.19    2.13        1.27        3.40    9.51         9.08       18.59
Price Increase                         10.72      11.81      22.53    4.56        2.71        7.27   15.28        14.52       29.80
VIIL  Total Cost of Project                   60.24      66.03    126.27   20.91       12.43        33.34   81.15        78.46      159.61
1/  Price based on December 30, 1976                                                                                                                X
0



TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Cost Estimates
(US $ Thousands)
Morogoro                     Headquarters                         Total
Local    Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign    Total
I.    New Works, Construction
Dam                             2,558       2,048     4,605                                    2,557      2,048      4,605
Civil Works                     1,677       1,511     3,189                                    1,677      1,511      3,189
Pipes and Fittings, Supply        243         566       810                                       243       566        810
Pumping Equipment                  54         245       299                                        54       245        299
Treatment Equipment                97         510       607                                        97       510        607
II.   Vehicles                           47          47         94                                       47         47         94
III.  Engineering Consultants           401         664      1,065                                      401        664      1,065
IV.   Management Advisory Services                                       259       395        655       259        395        655
V.    Training Program                                                 1,455       623      2,077    1,455         623      2,077
VI.   Base Cost Estimates 1/          5,076       5,596    10,668    1,714       1,018      2,732    6,790       6,614    13,400
VII. Contingencies
Physical                          889         941     1,830       257        153        410    1,146       1,094      2,240
Price Increase                  1,292       1,423     2,714       549        327        876    1,841       1,749     3,590      m
VIIL  Total Cost of Project           7,258       7,955    15,213    2,519       1,498      4,017    9,777       9,453    19,230       0
1-h
1/   Price based on December 30, 1976



TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Program of Expenditures
(T Sh Million)
MOROGORO                                           76/77      77/78       78/79       79/80       80/81       Total
1.   Dam                                                      15.29       15.29        3.82        3.82       38.22
Other Civil Works                                       10.59       10.59        2.65        2.65       26.47
Total Base Cost Civil Works                             25.88       25.88        6.47        6.47       64.69
Base Cost and Physical Contingencies                    30.52       30.52        7.64        7.64       76.32
Price Increase on Civil Works                            3.74        7.87        3.08        4.20       18.89
Total                                                   34.26       38.39       10.72       11.84       95.21
2.   Pipes and Fittings Supply                                 2.69        2.69        0.67        0.67        6.72
Pumping and Treatment Equipment                          3.00        3.00        0.75        0.75        7.52
Vehicles                                      0.78                                                       0.78
Engineering Consultants                       2.82       2.82        2.82        0.38                    8.84
Total Base Costs                              3.59       8.51        8.53        1.80        1.42       23.85
Base Costs and Physical Contingencies         4.14       9.78        9.80        2.07        1.63       27.42
Price Increase                                0.08       0.80        1.65        0.54        0.57        3.64
Total                                         4.22      10.58       11.45        2.61        2.20       31.06
Management Advisory Services
Base Cost                                     0.64       1.60        1.60        1.60                    5.43
Base Cost and Physical Contingencies          0.73       1.84        1.84        1.84                     6.25
Price Increase                                0.01       0.15        0.31        0.48                    0.95
Total                                         0.74       1.99        2.15        2.32                    7.20
Training Program
Base Cost                                                3.45        6.90        3.45         3.45       17.24
Base Cost and Physical Contingencies                     3.97        7.93        3.97         3.97      19.84
Price Increase                                           0.49        2.05        1.60         2.18        6.32
Total                                                    4.46        9.98        5.57         6.15      26.16  
Escalation Factors
Civil Works                                  0.030      0.124       0.258       0.403       0.550                  0
Equipment, Services                          0.020      0.082       0.168       0.259       0.350



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 4
TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Estimated Consultant Fees
1.   Engineering Consultant
Costs $(100)        Average
Man-months               Based December 1976       Cost
Detailed                                                      $ per
Town       Design 1/ Supervision 2/ Total  Fee 3/  Project 4/  %    man-month
Morogoro      112          181         293   1,065   10,668       10     3,635
1/   The number of man-months for design covers all categories of staff
from professionals to draftsmen.
2/   The number of man-months for supervision covers engineers, assistant
engineers and clerk of works.
3/   Fees include reimbursable.
4/   These project costs exclude contingencies (physical and price).
2.   Management Advisory Services
Average Cost ($)
Man-months        Fees ($)          per man-month
Experts              100            655,000               6,550
These fees based December 30, 1976 include reimbursable (travel, subsistance,
accommodation, holidays, etc.).






TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Construction Schedule
Construction Works                      1976                                    1977                                          1978                                          1979                                         1980
in Morogoro------ -- --
Imo Jing
:P                 S                             CP
DAM WORKS                                        lIs IIl 11of tender dcmn      I         =  Invitatio   t tenderm
CIVILcesdt WORK                      erectio                             TP        =CedePero
A
TP                   S                                 CM IpIIio
Th                                   Shhppn
A
PUPIPES SUPPLY    ENTu I  ITP                                                                         SM &            MTIPIEr
A    AI
TREATMENT EQUIPMENT           is oil                                             MTTP           MT&PP                                             Er
I . Sh~
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
LEGEND:                                               rS
lilililillll Design,preparatio  of tenderdocumentsInvitution to tender
Access date for erection                           TP           Tender period
****guu.gp'S17   Information crossfeed                            Tr           Tender evaluation and report
Durafion of period uncertai n                            At           Tende r award
S           Start of construction or manufacture
CP          Constructi an period
MT&P    =Manufacture testing and packing
ShE          Shipping
Er          Erection                                                                                                                                 World Bank-16406






TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of IBRD Loan Proceeds
.IBRD Allocation   Z of Expenditures
Category                                          USs million                   US$ million   UsS million          to be financed
1. Civil Works
- Mindu dam, other civil works       Total base               Total cost with
in Morogoro                     cost estimates   7.79   price contingencies  9.69             7.7          80% of total cost
- For Training (WRI and              Base cost                Cost with price
miscellaneous)                 estimates          1.21   contingencies         1.59           1.2         80% of total cost
2. Supply of Equipment
- For Morogoro
including pipes and fittings,    Total base                 Total cost with
pumping and treatment equip-       cost estimates   1.81   price contingencies  2.06
ment vehicles
a) directly imported               foreign expendi-         Foreign expenditures
tures base cost          with price contin-
estimates         1.42   gencies                1.62          1.7          100% of foreign
expenditures
b) locally manufactured                                                                                       100% of ex-factory
costs
c) locally procured but                                                                                       80% of total costs
imported
- For Training (WRI and              Base cost                Cost with price
miscellaneous)                 estimates         0.67   contingencies          0.90          0.7          80% of total costs
3. Engineering Consultant
Services for Morogoro              foreign expendi-         foreign expenditures
tures base cost          with price contin-
estimates         0.66   gencies                0.75          0.8          100% of foreign
expenditures
IBRD Allocation   % of Expenditures
Category                                          US$ million                   USS million   US$ million          to be financed
4. Management Advisory Services       foreign expendi-         foreign expenditures
tures base cost          with price contin-
estimates         0.40   gencies                0.46          0.5          100% of foreign
expenditures
5. Miscellaneous Training             total base cost          total cost with                                   100% of foreign
expenditures other than            estimates         0.23   price contingencies  0.31            0.2          expenditures
civil works and equipment
6. Unallocated                                                                                      2.2
TOTAL                                                                                     15.0
0



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements from IBRD Loan
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year              Disbursement         Accumulated
Quarter ending               During quarter         Disbursement       % of Total
FY 1978
June 30, 78                    1.50                1.50               10
FY 1979
September 30, 78             1.50                3.00                20
December 31, 78               1.50               4.50                30
March 31, 79                  1.50                6.00               40
June 30, 79                   1.50                7.50               50
FY 1980
September 30, 79             1.50                9.00                60
December 31, 79               1.50              10.50                70
March 31, 80                  0.75              11.25                 75
June 30, 80                   0.75              12.00                80
FY 1981
September 30, 80             0.75               12.75                85
December 31, 80              0.75               13.50                90
March 31, 81                  0.75               14.25               95
June 30, 81                   0.75              15.00               100
TOTAL                15.00
Assumptions: That the loan becomes effective by March 1, 1977; that about
$500,000 of consulting costs from July 1, 1976 are reimbursed retroactively
and that final disbursements are made about 18 months after commissioning of
the works.



S                       W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
0 X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<~
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>P
X  mP                                WY!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c






TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Urban Water Supply Unit - Organization Chart
Regional Development Director             Principal Secretary Ministry Water Development,
Energy, Minerals
Regi onal Water Engineer
Water Supply Manager                 Divisions for Smaller Urban Water Supplies and
of Town in the Project               Rural Water Supply
- Planning
; - Construction
-Operation and Maintenance
|  - Administrative
Assistant Manager          Assistant Manager
Operations                 Accounts and Administration
Sources
Treatment                         Accounting
Distribution                      Administration
Transport                         Personnel
Maintenance and
Stores                                                                                                                  1
World Bank-16174          ON
o a






ANNEX 7
TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Monitoring Indices
The following indices would be monitored during the execution of the
project to measure the achievements of the staffing and training, technical
and financial goals set for the proposed project. They would be included in
requirements for periodic reports to the Bank.
Staffing and Training
-    number of permanent employoees;
-    number of permanent employees per 1000 m3/day sold;
man-months of urban water technicians trained in
Water Resources Institute;
-    man-months of expert advisory services provided to
MWDEM during period.
System Operations in Morogoro Urban Water Supply Unit
-    m3 of raw water abstracted per day (quarterly average);
-    m3 of water consumed per day (quarterly average);
-    total water losses in % of raw water abstracted;
-    % of population served by water from public system;
-    number of private house connections and % metered;
-    number of public standpipes connections and % metered;
-    average daily domestic consumption per capita;
-    m3 of water consumed per day by non-domestic consumers;
-    minimum pressures at selected points on distribution system;
-    laboratory data on quality of water going into distribution
system and at selected points on the system.
Financial Indicators for Morogoro Urban Water Supply Unit
-    revenue in T Sh/m3;
-    % billings collected from Government;
from communities using public standpipes;
from other consumers
-    consumer arrears in month's sales
Project Implementation
Quarterly forecast of expenditures to be prepared for each contract
within three months of signature of contract; quarterly reports to indicate
percentage completion of original forecast and revised forecast of expendi-
tures for remainder of contract.



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Return on Investment
1.        The return on investment (ROI) is taken to be the discount rate
at which the present worth of the estimated capital and operations and
maintenance costs of the scheme over its life equals the present worth of
the benefits attributable to it.
2.        The benefits attributable to a scheme have been taken to be the
amount of water consumed and supplied from such scheme, valued at present
rate of T Sh 2.20/m3. The stream of benefits for the Morogoro project
is shown on page 2 of this Annex.
3.        Capital costs, which are given in Annex 11, include proposed
project costs as well as estimated expenditures for additional reticulation
up through 1985/86 when the schemes are expected to reach their capacities.
Furthermore, since we have assumed 30-year life for treatment works and
pumping structures and pipelines and 15-year life for treatment works plant
and pumping equipment, as compared to 40-year life for the schemes, replace-
ment costs for such items have also been prorated and included in the
capital costs. Operating costs are also given in Annex 11.
4.        The return for the Morogoro water supply project is 9.2%; or
7.9% if foreign exchange is shadow priced at 1.35 (i.e., T Sh 11.0 = US$1.0).
5.        Sensitivity analyses indicated that the return on investment would
be lowered by an average of about 1.5% for each 10% increase in costs and
by an average of about 1.3% for each 10% decrease in benefits.
November 1976



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Return on Investment
Benefits Stream
(T Sh Thousand)
Year Ending
June 30                              Morogoro
1977-1979                                   0
1980                                    5,680
1981                                    6,646
1982                                    7,565
1983                                    8,686
1984                                    9,735
1985                                   10,800
1986-2020                              11,895
I/   Valued at present water rate of T Sh 2.20/m3
November 1976



TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Actual Revenues and Expenses Accountsi/
(T Sh Thousand)
Year Ending_June 30, 1973        Iringa    Lindi       Mbeya    Morogoro    Mtwara    Mwanza    Shinyanga    Total
Revenues                           873       180        692        1,263        446       2,468          600       6,522
Expenses
Personal Emoluments               -         -          63          134         62         -             61         320
Travelling                        32        20         14           17         39          28           30         180
Office Expenses                   40         3          1           62          8            2          10         126
Maintenance & Running            581       542        200          524        307         945          397       3,496
653      565        278           737        416         975          498       4,122
Cash Gains (Losses)                220      (385)       414          526         30       1,493          102       2,400
Estimated Depreciation           416      206         336          383        529       1,336          323       3,529
Operating Income                  (196)    (591)         78          143       (499)        157         (221)     (1,129)
Year Ending June 30, 1974
Revenues                           139       359        720        1,306        374       3,742          605       7,245
Expenses
Personal Emoluments               21      102          65           15         66         -             44         313
Travelling                         8        25         24           24         32          37           20         170
Office Expenses                   81      292          15           89         26          24           51         578
Maintenance & Running            575       584        486          742        666         986          418       4,457
685    1,003        590           870        790       1,047         533        5,318
Cash Gains (Losses)               (546)    (644)        130          436       (416)      2,695           72       1,727
Estimated Depreciation           416       206        336          383        529       1,336          323       3,529
Operating Income                  (962)    (850)       (206)          53       (945)      1,359         (251)     (1,802)    z
1/ Extracted from Government accounts.
September 1976



ANNEX 10
TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Opening Balance Sheets as of July 1, 1976
(T Sh Thousand)
Morogoro
Current Assets
Accounts Receivable                       212
Fixed Assets
Assets in Operation at
Depreciated Replacement cost         4,110
TOTAL ASSETS                                 4,322
Equity                                       4,322
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES                 4,322
November 1976



ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 6
TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Calculations of Average Incremental Cost of Water Suply
Notes and Assumptions
1.        Since the Government will continue its uniform tariff policy
with regard to the water supply sector, attempts have been made to cal-
culate the average incremental costs of water supply not only for the
three towns included in the project (Mbeya, Morogoro, Mtwara), but also
for the other four towns which have been appraised by the Association
(Iringa, Lindi, Mwanza, Shinyanga). As these seven towns are considered
collectively to be representative of the urban water supply sector, the
average incremental cost of water for the seven towns combined should
reasonably reflect the average incremental cost of urban water supply in
Tanzania.
2.        The average incremental cost of water is computed by dividing
the "present worth" of the water volume stream into the present worth of
the cost stream, the latter includes capital costs as well as operating
and maintenance costs. The discount rate should equal the opportunity
cost of capital; nevertheless, other rates have also been used for
comparison purpose.
3.        All water supply schemes have been assumed to have forty-year
life. Furthermore, all cost figures have been expressed in 1976 prices.
4.        The water volume streams for the seven towns are shown on page 2
of this Annex. They represent the amount of water consumed and supplied
from the respective proposed water schemes.
5.        Breakdowns of the cost streams are given on pages 3 and 4 of
this Annex. It should be noted that all costs are exclusive of custom
duties and taxes and that foreign exchange costs have been shadow-priced
at 1.35 (i.e., T Sh 11.0 = US$1.0).
6.        Results of these calculations are shown on pages 5 and 6 of
this Annex.
November 1976



TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Water Volume Streams 1!
(Thousand m3)
Year Ending                                                                                                         Total
June 30          Iringa      Lindi        Mbeya       Morogoro       Mtwara        Mwanza      Shinyanga        Seven towns
1977-1979               0          0           0            0              0            0               0               0
1980            760        351         479        2,582            285        2,410             676           7,543
1981            988        404         671        3,021            362        2,822           1,113           9,381
1982          1,238        463         863        3,481            448        3,198           1,578          11,269
1983          1,511        525       1,078        3,948            543        3,602           1,642          12,849
1984          1,810        596       1,317        4,425            649        4,033           1,740          14,570
1985          2,137        674       1,583         4,911           766         4,494          1,829          16,394
1986-2020          2,493         758       1,878        5,407            897        4,986           1,923          18,342
1/   Accrued from proposed water schemes.
rDX
N) 
o 
h



TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Cost Streams
(T Sh Thousand)
IRINGA                         LINDI                         MBEYA                       MOROGORO
Year Ending       Capital  0 & M   Total    Capital   0 & M   Total    Capital    0 & M   Total    Capital    0 & M   Total
June 30 _
1977            1,440       -    1,440         485        -       485        874        -        874       4,717       -       4,717
1978           11,526        -   11,526    2,968          -    2,968       7,281        -      7,281      39,308       -      39,308
1979            8,645        -    8,645    2,120          -    2,120       4,805        -      4,805      26,730       -      26,730
1980            3,092    458    3,550          678      103       781      2,616      212      2,828       8,431     1,475    9,906
1981               730    509    1,239         202      113       315      1,075      263      1,338         600     1,556    2,156
1982               775    562     1,337        211      121       332      1,138      315      1,453         633    1,639    2,272
1983               820    625     1,445        218      130       348      1,208      407       1,615        668    1,724    2,392
1984               870    693     1,563        227      139       366      1,280      476      1,756         704    1,811      2,515
1985               920    767    1,687         236      148       384      1,356      558       1,914        743    1,936    2,679
1986               975    848     1,823        245      157       402      1,438      646      2,084         784    2,029    2,813
1987-1994            -    848       848          -      157       157          -      646         646          -    2,029    2,029
1995            4,702    848    5,550          193      157       350      2,652      646       3,298      7,918    2,029    9,947
1996-2009            -    848       848          -      157       157          -      646         646          -    2,029    2,029
2010            6,414    848    7,262          993      157    1,150       3,680      646       4,326     11,198    2,029   13,227
2011-2020            -    848        848         -      157       157           -     646         646          -    2,029    2,029
o



TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Cost Streams
(T Sh Thousand)
Mtwara                        Mwanza                     Shinyanga                    Seven Towns
Year Ending      Capital  0 & M   Total    Capital   0 & M   Total    Capital    0 & M   Total    Capital    0 & M   Total
June 30
1977              602       -       602    1,336        -    1,336         725        -        725    10,179        -      10,179
1978            5,320       -    5,320   17,378         -   17,378    12,559          -    12,559    96,340         -      96,340
1979            3,212       -    3,212   11,362         -   11,362       8,453        -      8,453    65,327        -      65,327
1980            1,227    139    1,366    4,784   1,026    5,810          2,594      422      3,016    23,422    3,835   27,257
1981              338    154        492    1,540   1,102    2,642          212      501        713      4,697    4,198    8,895
1982              354    171        525    1,640   1,183    2,823          225      584        809      4,976    4,575    9,551
1983              372    190        562    1,740   1,271    3,011          238      602        840      5,264    4,949   10,213
1984              390    213        603    1,850   1,366    3,216          252      652        877      5,573    5,323   10,896
1985              410    236        646    1,970   1,471    6,657          267      648        915      5,902    8,980   14,882
1986              431    662    1,093    2,100   1,583    3,683            283      671        954      6,256    6,596   12,852
1987-1994           -    662        662         -   1,583    1,583           -      671        671           -    6,596    6,596
1995            1,350    662    2,012    6,398   1,583    7,981          3,265      671      3,936    26,478    6,596   33,074
1996-2009           -    662        662         -   1,583    1,583           -      671        671           -    6,596    6,596
2010            1,917    662    2,579    9,837   1,583   11,420          5,954      671      6,625   39,993       6,596   46,589
2011-2020           -    662        662         -   1,583    1,583            -     671         671          -    6,596    6,596
OQ Z
(Do
x
4o
a



TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Average Incremental Cost of Water Supply 1!
(1976 prices)
Seven Towns
Discount Rate (%)     Iringa     Lindi      Mbeya      Morogoro      Mtwara       Mwanza     Shinyanga     Combined
-------------___-------------------T Sh per m3-----------------------------------------
6.0              1.55       1.08      1.50        1.83         2.01         1.25        1.61         1.56
8.0              1.85       1.33      1.80        2.22         2.36         1.47        1.94         1.86
10.0              2.21       1.60      2.14        2.66         2.74         1.70        2.30         2.20
12.0              2.59       1.90      2.50        3.15         3.18         1.96        2.70         2.60
14.0              3.03       2.20      2.90        3.67         3.65         2.24        3.11         3.00
1/  Foreign exchange shadow-priced at 1.35 (i.e. T Sh 11.0 = US$1.0)
>
P z
o 
I-ti



ANNEX 11
Page 6 of 6
TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Average Incremental Cost of Water Supply-'
(1976 Prices)
4
Morogoro
twara
_15
Shinyanga
Hc                                               Ir inga
X/a
oH                 X          / X     t ~~~~~~~~ya
mn                          / /        / / /Seven Towns
E-4                      / /        / / /              Combined
Present Tariff
Mwanza
210                                                    Lindi
2
1-               I         I         I         I         I
6        8         10        12        14
Discount Rate (%)
1/ Foreign Exchange Shadow-priced at 1.35 (i.e. T Sh 11.0 = US$1.0).
IBRD
November 1976



ANNEX 12
TANZANIA
URB5N WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
M1OR OG.OR 
ESTIMATED INCOME STATEMENTS
(T Sh Thousand)
YEAR ENDING JUNE 30                 1977     1978      1979     1980     1981     1982      1983     1984
INC(>iE STATFMENT
VOLUME SALES (THOUSAND M3)          933      9;3       933     3567      3993     4439      4R92     9354
AVERAGE PRICE TSH/M3               2.20      2.64     2.64      3.40    3.40       3.80    3.80       3.80
(lPFRATINr, REVENUIES
NET SALES                          2093      ?1163    2?I63    12128    13576    16868    185Q      20345
T(TAL                        2093     2/163     ?463    12128    13576    16868    18990)   20345
nPFRAT1er, FYPENSES
SAlARIlk                            1134     1;71      657       736      983       618      655       694
mATNtE\jANCF                        125       1/17     169      1742     1753      17611    1776      1789
(tV-F HvAls                          56        76       87        97        74       78        8S       88
FLECT1TCTTY                            7        8       10       423      452       481      5tl       542
CHF1TCALC                            88       103      119       859      967      1078     1191      1306
VEHI1CLES                            S8        69       79        88       88        88       F8        88
IOFPRFCTATTnN                       1//1      14'!     144      2310     4747      S035     9074      9116
T rAL-                          912      1118     1265      6255     8664      9142     9378      9623
)lPFFtATT;Ji  INCOME               1141      1345     1198      9873    4t912      7726     9212    10722
TNT 1H4RnF-nP p                                 0         0    3673      8214     8386      7827      7268
NiET TNCNfJF                        1141    1345     1198      2200   -3302       -6bo     138$      3454
z==:==== ===z===  ======_ ======= ====::= ===::_= =_====-= =======
RATE OF RETURN                     ? .3     3115     31t9        9.1      3.8       5 8      7.1       8,9
npERAJTNc, WATII1 X                   44       45       5t        92       64        54       9i        47
flEPkFC/GPFlS PLANT                I.S1     3.-')    3.50      3.        3.  3.501     3.Si           3.5n
NOVEMBER 1976



ANNEX 13
TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
MOROGORO
ESTIMATED FUNDS FLOW STATEMENTS
(T Sh Thousand)
4 - YEAR
YEAR ENDING JUNF 30                   1977      1978      107Q      190n   SUMMARY        1981      19R?      19R3       19R4
SO0!PCF Amin r'SFS
rlF  FtI)4rL
JNTFPNAI  lqnlQCES
-NFT TIrnmF RFF IN                   t1l1l      13159    1198       9873        9557     49t2       7726      921?    10722
-DFPRrCTArTTn                          144       10J4       144     23t1        2742     4747      9035       S(J74     9116
TnTAl                             1289      1489      1342       8183      12299     Q659    12761    142A6    15838
npFPATTnrAlA PF_
0llTP7FMFMIT,q
-WnPKTNr raPITA!                        92         48        -1     2390       2489        273       920       286       29S
-OFPT IFRvTrF                          503      211(9     937?      7346      15630      8210    t48II       14292    13 693
_______ -------         ------ _    -------  -------     -------     -------     -------     -------
TflTAl                             999      2$97      9371       9696      18119     8487    19331    14938    i3988
_______ -------     -------    -------    --- ---     -------     -------    -------    -------
N T AVATI ARI F
FpnM nPFPATTnlc                       6h40     _968    -4029    -IS13        -5820      1172    -2970        -25?      1890
t 0 n STRI lr T 7 C
R?FQr' P FMr,TS 
-OTHER WORKS                              a         p)        0      1037       1037     109941        I14    121A      1284
-PPrlPnSFn PPnFrT                     1ll30    011474)    49710    13270    126210/   1 1360           0          u 
_______ _______ __.____ _~~~~~~~~~-___ -------               -------    -------___ ____
TrnTl                             40 1s       Li7it   /497t0    11317    127247    19490        11911     121R      i28t
_______ -------    ------_  -------       -------      -------     -------    -------     -------
P&LtANCE Tn FTNANCF                   3/1410   /497o8    93739    19A20    133067    14282          3724      10471     -966
FTNA!rCFr py-
-PROPOSED IBRD LOAN                   3260    39300    3922??      1070        9960QLZ  I1350          ()                   0
-GOVT CONTRIBUTION                    1373    11849    IS862        6473      3856711   3010           u          l         0
TnTAl                              4633    47109    991182    169q13    138167    14360                      i         0
TRANSFER OF CASE FROM MOROGORO
TO URBAN WATER SUPPLY FUND
- DURING YEAR                      1193      11141     1113       11 23                  78    -3721     -1 470       566
- ACCUMULATED                      1193      26130     3Q77    S91)                   95178      194S       -16       5910
DEBT  SERVICE COVERAGE                 2.6        0.6       I).?      1.1                  1.2       0.9       1.o        1.2
11  IncLuding expenditures in 1980/81 but not incLuding provision of T Sh 33.8 milLion (US$4.1 million) for
training and advisory services assumed not chargeabLe to the urban water sup)ly units.
La  IncLuding disbursements in 1980/81 but not incLuding T Sh 24. 9 milLion (US$3. 0 miLLion) from proposed IBRD
Loan, which would be used by the Government to finance training and advisory services mentioned in footnote 1.
Li  IncLuding contribution in 1980/81 but not incLuding T Sh 8.9 miLLion (US$1.1 miLLion equivaLent) which the
Government wouLd contribute toward financing of training and advisory services mentioned in footnote 1.
NOVEMBER 1976



ANNEX 14
TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
MOROGORO
ESTIMATED BALANCE SHEETS
(T SH THOUSAND)
YEAR ENDING JUN  30       1976      1977    1978      1979    1980       1981      1982    1983      1984
Rh(.A.A\CF OwFFTS
ASSFT3
PLANT TN IIPFRATTflN    /11 I1      I 'I 0    4110   4I110   127417   1433114  144041)8  1'45562  146780
LESS!   FPPRFr.TATInN        I      11114    288       (13?    2742     7489    I?5?4    17S98    22714
NFT PLA'NT               'hh/1     3966     3R22     3678  125175   135825   131884   12796a  120066
WOPK IJ  PnCnPESS            "    '1633   51782  10686/1    1n37        1094      It54I    1?1A      12)8/1
CUPIQENT ASSFTS
- CASH                       C        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0
- ACCUMULATED CASH TRANSFER-1 ii   1193     2634     3977    5910(    5178        1454       -16      550
-ACCnUNTs PFr             212       3(8      369       369     1819     2036      253(     27AA      3052
-INVFNTnRTFS                 0      lII      129       150     1470     1524      1574     1625      1680
TnTAL                  212     1612     3132    l'i96       39 3     8738      558      4397     5282
T(1TAI            -13?2    10211    58736  l15o8   134605   1'5657  138596   133579   130632
LIARILTT FIS
Er41ITTY
-CAPTTAI                 '1322    '1322    4322    '43?2    '1322       4322      03??2     322      4322
-RFTAINFn FARNTNGS           t     I 1/fl    2'486  36841    9884      2582      1922     3307      6761
-GOVT CONTRIBUTION          ji    1373    13222   p9o8I 4      55597   38567   38567    38567    38567
TOrAl               "1322     6836   21'030    S7090   45763   '45471    44811    46196    49h'0
LOUG TFRM OFRT                     3?60   38l()   77780   88250    99600    93175    8679(0   8n3?5
rUu  NT IIARTIITIES
-ACCOUINTS PAYARLF           "1     115     1I46       168      592      586       610      633       697
TnlTAI                   0       115     4116      168      592       586      610       633      657
TnTAL                 4i322    10211   58736  115038  134605  145657   138596   133579  130f632
PEPTT/DERT t FOITTY          t       32       66        68       66       69        68        65       62
CUPRENT PATTn             0.0    14.0      21.5     26.8      14.2     14.9       9.1      6,A       P.0
PECFIVARLFS/REV %                    I ,5     15        15       1S        15      1I         tF       15
!  from Morogoro to the Urban Water Supply Fund if positive; vice versa if negative.
NOVEMBER 1976



ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 5
TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Morogoro
Notes and Assumptions on Proforma Financial Statements and Projections
Balance Sheets
Assets
1.        Values of assets in operation for the Morogoro Urban Water
Supply Unit have been assessed by the engineering and management consultants
(Gibb-Inbucon). They represent the depreciated replacement costs of these
assets as of July 1, 1976, which constitute the opening balance sheet as of
the same date for the towns shown in Annex 10.
Depreciation
2.        Depreciation has been calculated on a straight-line basis at an
average annual rate of 3.5%.
Construction Programs
3.        Construction program for the Morogoro town is given on page 3 of
this Annex.
Work in Progress
4.        Work in progress has been transferred to assets in operation in
the year of completion.
Inventories
5.        Inventories mainly consist of chemicals, plant spares, pipes and
fittings. Stocks of chemicals have been set at approximately three months'
consumption. Stocks of plant spares, pipes and fittings have been based
on Gibb-Inbucon's assessment of requirements.
Accounts Receivable
6.        Accounts receivable at July 1, 1976 are assumed to be as shown in
Annex 10. From there onward, accounts receivable at the end of each year
have been assumed to be 15% of the gross billings for that year.
Accounts Payable
7.        Accounts payable at the end of each year have been assumed to be
about 15% of the operating expenses for that year.



ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 5
Borrowings
8.        Details for annual drawings and debt service for the proposed
IBRD loan are shown on page 4 of this Annex. It has been assumed that the
Government will pass on to the Morogoro Urban Water Supply Unit the proceeds
of the $15 million IBRD loan at 8.7% interest per annum for 20 years including
4-1/2-year grace and repayable through equal annual (or semi-annual) level
payments of principal commencing in 1981/82.
Government Contribution
9.        It has been assumed that the Government would finance the balance
of the Project cost including interest during construction in the form of
contribution.
Income Statements
10.       Water consumption projections are given on page 5 of this Annex.
Uncollectibles have been assumed to be approximately 3% of gross consumption.
Average tariff has been assumed to increase to T Sh 2.64/m3 effective July 1,
1977, T Sh 3.40/m3 effective July 1, 1979, and T Sh 3.80/m3 effective July 1,
1981 to reflect mainly the price escalations detailed in paragraph 11.
Operating Expenses
11.       Operating expenses have been estimated by the consultants, where
salaries are based on present civil service salary scales and the proposed
establishments of the Morogoro Urban Water Supply Unit; electricity costs
on projected power demands and kWh consumption at each separate installation
within the towns; and chemical, maintenance and vehicle running costs on an
engineering estimate. Maintenance costs are inclusive of materials, labor
and transportation. Price escalations have been assumed to be 18% in 1976/77,
15% in 1977/78, and 12% in 1978/79 and 1979/80. From 1980/81 onward, prices
have been assumed to remain at 1979/80 price terms.
November 1976



TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Capital Expenditures Schedule 1/
(T Sh Thousand)
4-Year
Year Ending June 30                1977     1978      1979      1980    Summary    1981        1982       1983       1984
Morogoro
Proposed Project                 4,130    44,740    49,710   13,270  126,2101/ 14,3601/         -          -           -
Other                                -         -          -    1,037    1,037    1,094         1,154    1,218    1,284
TOTAL                        4,130      44,740    49,710  14,307  127,247   15,454          1,154    1,218    1,284
1/   Transpose to Annex 13.
2/   Including retention funds paid in 1980/81.
3/   Retention funds.
November 1976
e >E
(DX
F-h
U9



ANNEX 15
Page 4 of 5
TANZANIA
UtN WATEE SUPPLY PROJECT
e   -    v  " o  eree  -----------
ESTIMATED DEBT STATEMENTS
CT SH THOUSAND)
YEAR ENDING JUNE 30       1977     1978      1979      1980      1981     1982       1983     1984
DERT STATFMFWT
PRflPnf-sFr I nAs (IBRD)
_8nPRn4TKr-S              3260    3;3oo    39220    101171   1135o             0        0         0
-AmflTT7ATTnN                 0)        0        0         0         0     6425      6425     642p
-BALANrF                  3260    38560    77780    88250    99600    93175    86750    80325
-INTrPFST                   142     181t      9061     7222      R171      8386      7827     7268
-CnlMITMFK:T CHrF          361       590       311       124        143        0        0 
-1r)C-%                     I0t)     100       o00        50         0         0        0         0
-Inc                       Ci ()93  2joJ9    5372      3673          0        0         0         0
NOVEMBER 1976



TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Water Consumption Forecast
(Thousand m3)
Year Ending June 30                 1977       1978       1979       1980      1981        1982       1983       1984
Morogoro
Gross Consumption                   962       962        962       3,677      4,116      4,576       5,043      5,520
Less Uncollectibles                 29        29         29         110        123         137        151        166
NET SALES                          933       933        933       3,567      3,993      4,439       4,892      5,354
November 1976
o z
CD m
U,
Ln






1          I 
t, \ .%t\ o   t N   D   I   A   N    g              0    C   E    A    N                       5t,     
3 C, ~ ~       ~        ~        ~       - 






IBRD 12427
- ok < S-                                                                  EPTEM iER 19> !
f U      t ^ 1S o 
:;   I ,'L ,  0 X q g~~~~~~~~0 
O~~~~~a ~~
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
.,            o-,ojo     (,                                                               ,
To                                                                                           0  ,  
s   b   i   \   )                         a                     V       ,/~~~~
A  <   , 8 2 >   <  - \  t\ '   /  2                     \~~~~~~~~(
|b.~~~~N3'   i   VVh7Ni ,! >\q,, s  
,-2                       , /L>E                            E<



