Document of
FILE Copy                          The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1928a-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR AN
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
December 7, 1976
This document bas a restricted distribtion and may be usd by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not oterwise be islosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Tanzania Sh   =    US$0.12
US$1.00       =    TSh8.30
(As the Tanzania Shilling is officially
vaLued at a fixed rate of 9.66 TSh to
the SDR, the US Dollar/Tanzania Shilling
exchange rate is subject to change. Con-
versions in this report were made at
US$1.00 to TSh8.30 which is cLose to the
short-term average exchange rate.)
Government   -    Government of Tanzania
MWEM         -    Ministry of Water, Energy
and Minerals
WRI          -    Water Resources Institute



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR AN URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the folLowing report and recommendation on a
proposed loan to the United Republic of Tanzania for the equivalent
of US$15.0 million to help finance the construction of an urban
water supply project in Morogoro, Tanzania.   The proposed loan
will be for 20 years including 4.5 years of grace with interest at
8.70 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Background
2.        Although it has been some time since the last full economic
and updating reports on Tanzania were finalized in May and December
1972, respectively, considerable staff economic work has focused on the
country since that time. An agricultural sector report was issued in
December 1974. The report of an industry and mining mission was dis-
tributed in April 1975 and a study of the fiscal aspects of Tanzania's
recent decentralization was completed in ApriL 1975. In March 1976,
at the request of the Government, the Bank mounted a special mission
which analyzed the fiscal implications of the Government's programs
for Universal Primary Education and Universal Rural Water Supply.
The work of this mission has provided substantiaL input to the work
of the basic economic mission which visited Tanzania in July/August
1976.   Throughout the last two years or so Bank staff    have engaged
in a continuous economic diaLogue with the Government on the
serious balance of payments difficuLties which have been encoun-
tered by the country and the Govern,ment's policies and programs
designed to close the external gap. These policies and programs
were reviewed in the Program Loan President's Report No. P-1517a-TA,
dated November 25, 1974 and in a memorandum (M75-687) from the Secret-
ary dated September 25, 1975. The Consultative Group for East Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
met in April 1975 to discuss the progress and prospects of the
Tanzania economy and the need for 3dditionaL resources to support
the Government's development progr3m.
3.        The TANU Party, under the leadership of President Nyerere,
has been the guiding force in Tanzania's political evolution since
the 1950's. Over the years following independence the political
Leadership has deveLoped a phiLosoahy of egaLitarian sociaLism which
has been articulated in many documents, most central of which is the
Arusha Declaration of 1967. In restructuring the politicaL, economic
and sociaL Life of the country the Leadership has introduced an
impressive series of far-reaching institutionaL reforms. For the
past decade Tanzania's sociaL and economic poLicy has been guided
by three fundamental objectives: (a) the achievement of a partici-
patory, decentralized socialist economic order; (b) the eradication
of absoLute poverty and progress toward greater income equality; and
(c) more rapid long-term economic growth with full participation of
all regions and population groups in the development process.
Reflecting this philosophy some of the Government's most significant
decisions have been in the area of incomes poLicy. The tax structure
is highly progressive and middle and upper incomes have been restrained
while lower income wages have been increased. In the provision of
social infrastructure services, poorer areas have been favored. As
a result of these and related policies, differentials in living
standards between upper and Lower income urban dweLLers have been
narrowed and some impact has been made on urban/rural differentials
and regionaL disparities of income.
/e,        Thp nverridino aoal is to develop a socialist economic system.
An important consequence of this has been a series of nationalization
measures and the accompanying proliferation of government parastatal
enterprises. The state has increasingly intervened in the price
mechanism; prices of domestic factors and products and imports are con-
trolLed directLy or by such indirect methods as import licensing. These
structural changes have resulted in implementatior and operation prob-
lems. In addition, scarce manageriaL manpower has been spread thinLy,
exacerbating aLready serious shortages of top and middle-level staff.
Some of these confLicts shouLd be seen, however, as the inevitabLe
consequences of a "frontaL" attack on poverty and underdeveLopment.
5.        With a per capita income of $170 in 1975, Tanzania is cLas-
sified as one of the 25 least developed countries as defined by the
United Nations (couintry data are provided in Annex I). Between 1968 and
1973, Tanzania's GDP grew at 4.6 percent per annum. Domestic savings
averaged 17 percent of GDP, while gross investment averaged 21 percent --
extremely high rates for a country at Tanzania's low level of per capita
income. However, the growth rate of GDP was not commensurate with the



magnitude of the investment effort. The major reasons for this
include the high proportion of investment which was directed into
social service projects and infrastructure (such as the transportation
links with Zambia),the sluggish growth in the agricultural sector
and the stagnant or declining productivity in parastatal enterprises.
During this period the balance of payments position of Tanzania was
generally satisfactory despite the disappointingly slow growth of
exports (overall export volume grew at only three percent per year
from 1968 to 1972 and in 1973 export volume fell back to the 1968
level). With the sharp increase in capital inflows, the overall
balance of payments was in surplus from 1971 to 1973, and there was
a modest build-up in foreign exchange reserves.    As a result of prudent
financial management, net reserves were increased to approximately
$145 million by the end of 1973, the equivalent of four months
imports.
The Economic Crisis of 1973-74
6.         Events then occurred which resulted in a drastic change
in the overall balance of payments of Tanzania.     In 1973 and 1974
rains failed in many parts of the country necessitating substantial
increases in imports of basic food items beginning in mid-1974.
The drought also affected cash crops, leading to declines
in the export volumes of coffee, cotton and sisal. The outcome of
these forces was the rapid depletion of net reserves to $50 million
at the end of 1974, equivalent to only three weeks of imports.
Industrial production also leveled off, due in part to shortages of
imported raw materials and spare parts stemming from the growing
foreign exchange constraint. As both agriculturaL and industrial
production stagnated, domestic demand increased rapidly due to
expansionary fiscal, monetary and wage policies, causing severe
pressure on the domestic price level.
7.         During 1975, food product;ion recovered from the previous
year's 30 percent shortfall, but grain imports were still required
and the balance of payments situation continued to deteriorate due
to falling export prices and production difficulties in the tradi-
tional export crops. The resulting trade deficit rose from the
1974 level of $300 million to $325 million in 1975. Tanzania was
able to cover the 1975 resources gap by curtailing imports to the
bare minimum and by securing substantial program type assistance
in addition to project related foreign aid, including a $30 million
Program Loan (No. 1063-TA) from the Bank and funds from the IMF
special oil facility. The outlook is for an improvement in 1976
due to good harvests of traditional export crops and it is expected



-4-
that the trade deficit wilL drop to approximateLy $270 million.
There has also been a gradual slackening in inflationary pressure.
As measured by the wage earner's cost of living index, inflation
was cut from 61 percent in 1974 to 32 percent in 1975. The rate
of increase is expected to moderate further in 1976.
8.        However, Tanzania' s present economic problems have not been
exclusively caused by drought-related crop failures and import
price escalation. The most disturbing aspect of Tanzania's
recent economic performance has been the declining growth rate
of output from the agricultural, industrial and mining sectors.
The growth rate of agricultural output had been running slightly
behind the rate of growth of population for six years prior to
the harvest failure of 1974. Inadequate producer price incentives,
inefficiencies in the transport and distribution systems for inputs
and marketed production, and the effects of inadequately planned
villagization contributed to this clisappointing performance. In
the industrial sector many enterpr;ses have experienced declining
labor productivity which has been cttributed to lack of incentives,
poor discipline and ineffective management. Furthermore, while
the ratio of domestic savings to GDP rose during the 1960'{,, jt
began to decline in 1973 and feLL drastically to 8 percent-    in
1974 as a direct outcome of the balance of payments crisis.
ever, a slow recovery in the savings ratio to abou' 9 percent. 1ITw-
occured in 1975 and further improvement is expected in 1976.
The Government Response
In late 197A, the Tanzanian r,overnment formulated a comore-
hensive program of poLicy actions to bring the balance of payments
problem under control and to restore the growth rate of output.
The principal elements of the program included reallocation of invest-
ment in favor of directly Droductive sectors, measures to raise agri-
cultural output, steps to improve incentives in industry and mining
and to increase the export orientation of these sectors, and constraints
on public and private consumption demand. Imports were cut through
direct controls and measures were introduced to slow down the rate
of growth of private consumption. Indirect taxes were increased in
1974 and further increased in the 1975/76 budget. User charges
for water and electricity were also raised and an extremely res-
trictive wage and salary policy has been followed.    In addition,
cuts of about 7 percent in the civil service were made in March 1976.
The Government has also raised agricultural producer prices to levels
approaching world parity as an incentive to increase output. The
overall planning capability of the Ministry of Agriculture was
strengthened and a project coordination unit to improve project
1/  Current prices;not exactly comparable to data on paae 3 of
Annex 1, which are in constant 1973 prices.



-5-
implementation has been established in the Ministry. Furthermore,
significant progress has been made in reallocating public invest-
ment in favor of the directly productive sectors of agriculture,
industry and mining. Finally in October 1975 Tanzania, in con-
junction with Kenya and Uganda, devalued the shilling by approximately
14 percent as an incentive for increasing exports.
10.       The Government's progress in implementing policies and
programs designed to close the balance of payments gap in accordance
with understandings relating to the program loan was the subject of
a memorandum (M75-687) from the Secretary to the Executive Directors
'paragraph 2 above). The most encouraging aspect of the Government's
response to the balance of payments crisis was the demonstration that
Tanzania retains the ability to push through necessary but unpopular
measures over a wide front. Tanzania's prospects for bringing the
balance of payments deficit under control in the medium term clearly
depend upon the effectiveness of the program of poLicy actions out-
lined above. While it is too early to measure the full effect of all
the policy measures introduced in 1974 and 1975, they have already had
an impact on imports and domestic consumption, and the recovery of
food production has clearly helped to alleviate the food deficit.
In only one rmajcr problem area has the Government been unabLe to make
major inroads: the rate of growth of public consumption expenditures.
While the Government proposed no increase in nominal recurrent expend-
iture in 1975/76 (implying a cut in real expenditure), actual recurrent
expenditure appears to have increased by a substantial amount. Both
budget control problems and actual spending overcommitment were con-
tributing factors. This difficulty is receiving increased attention
by the Government in cooperation with both the IMF and the Bank.
11.       Since this basic program o' economic restructurinr will renuire
more time before its full effects can be realized, the balance of pay-
ments can be expected to remain weak in the short run. Still, Tanzania
should have a stronger economy at the end of the restructuring process.
The central focus of the assistance efforts should be, therefore, to
ensure that the balance of payments gaps arising over the next few years
do not prevent Tanzania from implementing a development prcgram designed
to incorporate the required poLicy changes. In this connection, nego-
tiations for a proposed second program credit were recently held in Dar
es Salaam but have not been completed pending the successful outcome of
discussions between the IMF and Tanzania regarding the terms of a proposed
standby agreement, and the subsequent preparation of a satisfactory state-
ment by the Tanzanian Government to the Bank regarding its economic program
and policies.    A Fund mission is presently in the field negotiating a
standby agreement.    In addition, and despite Tanzania's impressive domestic
savings performance, a continued capital inflow in excess of the foreign
exchange component of high priority projects will also be required.
Financing of some local expenditures will, therefore, remain justified.



-6-
12.      In terms of debt outstanding and disbursed, the Bank Group
is Tanzania's second largest creditor after the PeopLe's Republic
of China. Other major lenders are Sweden, Canada, Denmark, the
NetherLands and the FederaL RepubLic of Germany. The current Low
overaLL debt service ratio of about 8 percent (incLuding a notionaL
40 percent share of the debt of the East African Community Corporations)
is expected to rise to about 12 percent by 1985. IncLuding a notionaL
share of EAC debt, the IBRD is presentLy hoLding 15 percent of Tan-
zania's outstanding externaL debt aid IDA 10.8 percent; the IBRD share
is expected to faLL to about 10 percent by 1985 and the IDA share to
rise to about 13.1 percent. Debt service payments to the Bank are
about 30.9 percent of totaL debt service payments; the corresponding
share for IDA is 2.2 percent. These two figures are projected to
become 30.6 percent and 3.5 percent, respectiveLy, by 1985. The Bank's
exposure is high because severaL major donors are now making their aid
avaiLabLe either on grant basis or ',ery concessionaL terms and because,
as a resuLt of prudent debt management, suppLiers' credits have been
kept to a minimum. The average interest rate on Loans to Tanzania
outstanding at December 31, 1975 amounted to onLy 3.5 percent and the
average final maturity was 42 years.
East African Community
13.      The East African Community Corporations have experienced
difficulties in recent years. While the 1967 Treaty for East
African Cooperation is one of the most far-reaching and comprehensive
economic cooperation agreements in existence among sovereign states
in the developing world, in practice, the degree of economic integ-
ration and cooperation among the Partner States is much less than what
was envisaged in the Treaty. Polit-ical developments in the Partner
States have created tension within the Community and impaired the
growth of interstate trade. These difficulties have been compounded
by the balance of payments constraints which alL three Partner States
experienced.
14.      During 1975, the Partner States recognized that because of
their fundamental political and economic differences, a review of
the 1967 Treaty was called for. For this purpose a Commission was
established consisting of three Cabinet level officials from each
country, with Mr. Demas, President of the Caribbean Development Bank,
as Chairman. This Commission is expected to submit its report by
the end of 1976. While there is hope that the Commission may
recommend measures to deaL with the structuraL differences in the
Long run, the Corporations are stiLL facing a difficuLt period.



-7-
This was refLected in the significant deterioration in the relation-
ships between Partner States in earLy 1976. Arrangements for debt
service payments were again disrupted resulting in delays in making
Bank service payments. As a result, disbursements to the East African
Railways Corporation, the East African Harbours Corporation, the East
African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation and the East African
Development Bank were suspended by the Bank on ApriL 28, 1976 and, as
the Executive Directors were informed on May 25, 1976 (SecM76-383), a
mission visited East Africa to discuss with the Presidents and Finance
Ministers the debt service probLems which were endangering both the
Bank's operations in East Africa and the credit standing of the Com-
munity and the Partner States (being jointly and severally responsible).
Agreement was reached on May 28, 1976 to ensure remittances from the
Regional Offices of the Corporations to complete all over-due payments
and, as these were made by June 1, 1976, the suspension was lifted.
Since then debt service payments have been made on time. Regarding
future debt service payments, the agreement (i) specifies fixed contri-
butions by each Partner State to meet external debt obligations, (ii)
commits the Governments to ensure remittances from the Regional Offices
of the Corporations, (iii) establishes a mechanism and procedure for
timely payments, and (iv) provide:; automatic foreign exchange cover
to debt service remittances.
PART II - BAL4K-GRQUP-QPERAIIQNS-I_-ITNZ6NlA
15.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.     Beginning
with an IDA credit for education in 1962, 25 IDA credits and 11 Bank
loans amounting to $403.8 million have so far been approved for Tanzania.
In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 10 loans totalling
$244.8 million which have been extended for the development of the
common services and development bank operated regionally by Tanzania,
Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African Community.
The only IFC investments in Tanzania to dat, totalling $4.7 million,
were made to the Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company
encountered financiaL difficulties and in 1969 IFC and other investors
sold their interest in the Company to the Government. Annex II contains
summary statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Tanzania and the East
African Community organizations as of October 31, 1976 and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
16.        In keeping with Tanzania's overall development strategy Bank
Lending operations are increasingLy focusing on the rural sector and



-8-
directly productive projects. Up to the end of FY72, 10 out of
15 Loans and credits made individually to Tanzania had been for
infrastructure. Of the 21 Tanzania operations approved since then
all but six were for directly productive projects. The directly
productive projects are supporting both the agricultural and indus-
trial sectors, including the Kigoma Integrated Rural Development
Project (Credit No. 508-TA), the NationaL Maize Program (Credit
No. 606-TA), the Fisheries Development Project (Credit No. 658-TA),
the Tanzania Investment Bank Project (Loan No. 1172-TA), and the
Mwanza Textile Project (Loan No. 1128-TA). The first Bank Group
assisted project in the forestry sector, the Sao HiLCl Forestry
Project (Loan No. 1307-TA), was recently approved and will provide
the raw material for Tanzania's first paper and pulp plant, also
under preparation for consideration by the Bark Crcup for financing.
We plan to continue assistance for productive projects in the indus-
trial and agricultural sectors: a project to support selected
industries at Morogoro is expected to be ready for consideration
by the Executive Directors in the near future, a proposed second
rural deveLopment proiect in Tabora Region has been aopraised
and a third regional rural development project is under preparation
for Mwanza and Shinyanga Regions. In addition, the agricultural stra-
tegy recommended in the sector report (paragraph 2) is providina the
basis for the first project in the National Agricultural Develop-
ment Program (NADPi presently under preparation. Other projects
under preparation included a second urban prcject and a trucking
project.
CART III - THE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR IN TANZANIA
UarkgrQund
17.       Tanzania is gnerally an arid country, poor in surface and
ground water. The rivers belong to three drainage basins: the
eastern basin drains into the Indian Ocean, the western basin drains
into Lake Tanganyika and the Congo River, and the northwest basin
drains into Lake Victoria and the Nile. The driest regions are in
the center of the country, where there are no rivers and ground water
is scarce. The presence of turbidity in surface water, salinity in
many ground water resources and high fLuoride content in some aquifers
also creates problems in water quality.



-9-
18.       Until recently, hydrological and hydrogeological informa-
tion concerning available water resources in Tanzania was almost
nonexistent. However, since the Government decided in 1969 to
prepare an inventory of the water resources in each region, consider-
able work in this area has been initiated. At present, the work has
been completed in two regions and is underway in the remaining important
regions.
Sectoral Organization and Development
19.       The organization of the water supply sector has gone through
many changes over the past decade. Until several years ago, the
activities in the sector were administratively divided between the
Ministry of Works (responsible for urban water supplies), the Ministry
of Local Government (for sewerage) and the Ministry of Agriculture (for
water resources and rural water supplies). In 1969, the Ministry of
Water Development and Power was established to consolidate within one
ministry all activities in the water and power sectors. In 1975 the
Ministry's responsibilities were expanded to include mineral resources
and its name changed to Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals CMWEM).
20.        Under the decentralization policy adopted by the Government
in 1972, the role of what was then the Ministry of Water DeveLopment
and Power was changed from one of managing and controlling the entire
water program to one of providing policy direction, technical assist-
ance to the regions, procurement, manpower training and disposition,
and initiating and executing "national water projects" (including
those in major urban areas). Since that time each region's water
department has been headed by a Regional Water Engineer, who is
responsible for operation and maintenance and for the design and
implementation of extensions and improvements to the water supply
systems within his region. The Regional Water Engineer is responsible
to the Regional Development Director for administrative and financial
matters and to the central ministry for technical matters.
21.        Urban Water Supply:   About 85 percent of Tanzania's urban
population has access to water, but the level of service varies widely
in both quality and quantity. About 20 percent of the consumers are
served through private connections and account for approximately
50 percent of total consumption. The remaining domestic consumers
are served through public standpipes. Water is usually treated and
chlorinated. At present water supplied through private connections
is metered and charged at a uniform rate of TSh2.20/m3      Water
supplied through public standpipes is free of charge. Industry's
share averages approximately 10 to 15 percent of the total urban
water consumption.



-10-
22.       During recent years, the expansion of urban water supplies
has fallen noticeably behind the growth of domestic and industrial
needs due to the shortage of budgetary funds and the emphasis on ex-
panding rural water supplies. Many urban systems are operating over
or at their maximum capacities with no production reserves. Water
shortages are common during periods of peak consumption and water
quality has deteriorated. Extensions of distribution systems to
new housing estates have been halted    for lack of water and the non-
availability of a reliable water supply has become a bottleneck to
the implementation and/or operation of a number of industrial and
agro-industriaL projects.
23.        Rural Water Supply:   Capital expenditures for the rural
water supply sector have been mainly funded by Sweden since the
Swedish aid program commenced in 1962. These funds have reached
TSh55 - 65 million (US$6.6 - 7.8 million) yearly to which the
Tanzanian Government used to add 20 - 30 percent. However, during
the past two years the Swedish contribution has been the only
development allocation. As of June 1976 it was estimated that
approximately 22 percent of the total rural population of 13.7
million were served with water systems developed by MWEM.     It is also
estimated that an additional 10 percent of the rural population is
served through non-MWEM systems or acceptabLe traditional sources
(stream, lake, etc.). The level of service provided by MWEM systems
ranges from a single protected spring or well with a hand pump to a
distribution system serving consumers through public standpipes.
Water is free of charge; house connections and water billing are
not used.
24.        Selection of villages within the rural water supply cons-
truction program is fully decentralized to the regional administration.
The program is implemented by the Regional Water Engineer with funds
supplied through the Central Government. Water systems are run and
maintained by the regional organization but are funded centrally.
Budgetary allocations for recurrent cost requirements of the existing
systems are inadequate -- in some cases lower than required to
supply fuel needed to keep them running, let alone maintain them
properly.     Other important issues in the rural water sector include
identifying how the limited available funds could be most effectively
utilized (in particular how village priority could be related to least
cost technology) and the role   a    system of charging for rural water
could play in mobilizing additional resources for water deveLopment and
in ensuring the efficient use of available supplies. The Bank has been
involved in these policy issues through its discussions with the
Government on the implications of the Universal Rural Water Supply
Program (para. 2). Both the needs and problems of the rural water



-11-
systems are being focused on in the Bank regional project under imple-
mentation in Kigoma and those being prepared in Mwanza/Shinyanga,
Tabora and Mara.
QrgaonitiQnal_EzegbJlma
25.       The standards of administration and technical and financial
control in this sector are weak. These difficulties reflect the
shortage of trained personnel at all levels and problems in organi-
zational structure. The training and technical assistance components
of the proposed Project were specifically designed to address the
manpower problems (paragraphs 35 and 36).   Extensive Government/Bank
discussions have focused on the organizational issue and these resulted
in the Government hiring a consultant to review existing institutional
arrangements. While the recommendations which resulted from this
review were not fully accepted by MWEM, the Ministry followed up the
study with its own proposals, the most important of which relate to
financial operations.
26.       At present all capital and recurrent expenditures in the
water sector are financed through the Government's budget and all
revenues are paid directly into the national treasury. With the
recent national resource constraint this has resulted in severe re-
ductions in oDerations and maintenance funds and subsequent deterioration
of individual systems. In addition, it has prevented the collection
of any surplus in the sector and made it impossible for MWEM to enforce
discipline in the cotlection of water bills (as it is not directly res-
ponsible). In the MWEM's reform proposal, which was recently approved
by the Cabinet, Dar es Salaam would be serviced by a separate corpo-
ration and an urban water supply fund would be established for Morogoro
and other towns. This fund would receive water revenues from these
cities and disburse against operating costs, debt service and expend-
itures on routine system expansions. As a long term objective the fund
should be self-sufficient but in the interim Government subsidies would
meet any shortfalL. This fund wouLd be administered by MWEM and dis-
bursements would be made in accordance with budgets for each urban water
system prepared by the local water officials and approved by MWEM. The
financial advisor financed under the Project (paragraph 35) would be
attached to the fund and would play an important part in setting up its
procedures. Commercial accounting has been accepted in principle by the
Government and it would be implemented as soon as feasible in the sector.
Although these changes do not go as far toward establishing an independent
and commercially oriented sector as might be desired, they specifically
address a number of the most pressing problems with the present arrange-
ments and represent the Government's initial positive reaction to issues
raised by Bank work in the sector.



-12-
Sewerage and Drainage
27.       There are only six towns with partial water-born sewerage
services: Arusha, Dar es SaLaam, Moshi, Mwanza, Tabora and Tanga.
The population served totals about 200,000. In addition, various
governmental institutions near towns are served by separate sewerage
systems which usually have oxidation ponds for treatment. Expansion
of water-born sewerage systems has low priority; public sewerage is
not essential where density is low and disposal of wastes by other
means is possible. The sewerage systems are always separated from
storm water drainage, which is generally carried out in conjunction
with road construction. Both sewerage and storm water drainage
systems are operated and maintained by local authorities, but to
very low standards.
Long Term Sectoral Development Programs
28.       The long term program for urban water supply is considered
separately for each town, stressing the need for securing adequate
services to the growing urban population and industry by timely
extensions of existing water systems. However, due to the country's
economic problems in the last few years, the expansion program has
been implemented in only the three towns where external finances were
available (Dar es SaLaam, Tabora, and Tanga). Implementation of the
remaining part of the program depends on availability of further
external funds and Government decisions on the priority of the systems
involved. The most acute current shortages which could be resolved
with additional outside financial assistance are in the seven urban
water systems which were reviewed in the Bank Group financed
feasibility study (Shinyanga, Lindi, Morogoro, Mbeya, Mtwara, Mwanza
and Iringa). The African Development Bank has agreed to assist in
financing the Shinyanga and Lindi water systems and the European
Development Fund is considering supporting the expansion of the
water systems in Mbeya, Mtwara and Mwanza. Morogoro water supply
would be financed through this Project but up to now no funds have
been found to finance the Iringa water supply system.
29.       The Long term program of rural water supply identified by
the Government in 1971 proposed that the entire rural population
be provided with reasonably accessible water by 1991. With the
subsequent speed-up of the villagization effort and the resulting
increase in demand for various social services (including water), TANU
and the Government decided in 1974 that by 1980 every village should
have at least a source of water supply. More recently, however, the
Government requested Bank assistance in reviewing comprehensively the



-13-
financiaL implications of the acceleration of this target (para 2).
The resulting joint Government/Bank study projected that in order
to achieve the official target of Universal Rural Water Supply by
1980, approximately 20 percent of total Government development funds
wouLd be required for the rural sector program alone. As Government
budgetary decisions have allocated a far lower proportion of develop-
ment funds than this to the rural water sector, it is apparent that
the target itself will not be achieved. However, by accelerating
the target, the Government did highlight the importance it gives to
providing social services to the rural areas and put its achievement
within a time frame which is not so distant that it could be ignored.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
30.       With the growth of industry and urban pcpulation and
the resulting rapid increase in deficits of individual urban water
supply systems, the Government requested Bank assistance in identi-
fying the highest priorities in thE urban water sector and develop-
ing appropriate investment proposals. As a result, a Bank Group
financed feasibility study of seven urban areas facing acute water
shortages was initiated in 1975 (financed under Credit No. 495-TA, the
National Sites and Services Project). With the completion of that
study, a Bank appraisal team in December 1975 reviewed and confirmed
the technical and economic viability of the urban water supply systems
proposed for these seven towns. However, because the total Project as
appraised was larger than available Bank financing, the Government
requested that the Bank support the development of the Morogoro sys-
tem (the largest investment and an essential prerequisite for the
proposed Bank investment in the Morogoro Industrial Estate) and both
the Government and the Bank actively sought additional financing for
the remaining cities.
31.        In November 1976 negotiations for this Loan took place in
Washington and Mr. F. K. LwegaruliLa, Principal Secretary of MWEM
led the Tanzanian delegation. An appraisal report entitled "Urban
Water Supply Project" (Report No. 1199-TA) is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. A Loan and Project Summary
is provided as Annex III to this report.



-14-
Obiectives
32.       This Project would make a substantial contribution to the
Government's investment program in the urban water sector by financing
the most costly system of the seven towns selected as having the most
urgent need for water in the country. Morogoro is a rapidly expanding
city located at an important transportation hub of Tanzania and pre-
sently faces a growing water shortage. Furthermore, the implementation
of Tanzania's largest industrial estate at Morogoro will depend directly
on the availability of water supplied by the proposed Project. The
physical need and priority of the Project are therefore clear.
33.       In addition, the Project has provided a focus for studying
and attempting to deal with major institutional and training problems
in the water supply sector. One of the major institutional problems,
that of financial independence and discipline, is being specifically
addressed by the urban water supply fund concept which developed from
discussions between the Bank and Government on this Project (para 26).
The Project will also finance a number of advisors who will assist MWEM
with its management and technical responsibilities and in addressing its
training needs (para 35). Finally, the Project will provide funds to
assist the Government in expanding its facilities for the training of
manpower in high priority skill categories (para 36).
Description
34.       Under this Project, the Ngerengere River wouLd be impounded
by the constjuction of the Mindu Dam. This earth dam would retain
10 million m of water at full capacity and would safely yield more
than 52,000 m3/day   of  water.       This reservoir would meet (with a
small surplus) projected urban water demand and downstream estate
demand in Morogoro until 1986 when the water treatment capacity developed
under the Project will be fully utilized. The small surplus of reservoir
capacity in 1986 reflects the fact that the dam has a minimum economic
height. The dam would include a 100 m long spillway sited on its rock
abutment and draw-off arrangements. Raw water would fLcw by gravity
to a 24,700 m /day capacity treatment plant designed to meet projected
demand up to 1986. There, treated water would be pumped through a
long pipeline to a 5,000 m3 reservoir. From the reservoir, one gravity
main would supply the new industrial area. A second outlet would be
connected to a booster station which would pump the water through a
pipeline to an elevated tank connected to the existing distribution
system. Replacement and extension in the reticulation system would
involve the laying of additional pipes.



-15-
35.        In addition to financing this construction (including the
related consultant services) the Project would include financing of
management advisory services and a training program for MWEM. The
management advisory services to be financed under the proposed Pro-
ject would provide three senior advisors to be attached to MWEM
headquarters: a technical expert, a financial expert and a personnet
and training expert. In addition to filling expertise gaps w-ithin
MWEM and assisting in Project implementation, these experts would
have a significant training role with respect to upgrading existing
staff. Agreerient has been reached that senior advisors would be
employed by MWEM by June 30, 1977 (Section 3.02b of draft Loan Agree-
ment).
36.        The trainina comnonent reflects an attempt by the rank to
address important training needs which are not being adequately met
by other available sources. Its focus on subprofessionals reflects
a judgment that the professional level training which already has
firm financing cannot be productively expanded at this time. Its
specific focus on the Water Resources Institute (WRI),operated by MWEM
for the pre-service trainina of water technicians, is a direct ouit-
growth of a Bank examination of the needs of all categories of
subprofessionals and how these needs can be most effectively met.
Under the Project, the WRI would be expanded and diversified. While
the WRI is already being expanded physically to raise the production
of technicians from about 20 annually in 1976 to about 120 annually
in 1979, no funds have been secured for construction of workshop,
laboratory and library facilities. The Project would therefore pro-
vide $1.5 million equivalent for construction of these priority
facilities and would provide finarcing to help diversify the training
program by upgrading courses for rechanics and electricians in the
present curriculum. In addition, to provide flexibility as training
opportunities arise or priorities change, $0.5 million is included
for unallocated training expenditures. Finally, to assist MWEM
in implementing its training programs, a second full time training
officer would be appointed in the Ministry (Section 3.08 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
ErQir    tZjaoasliolg
37.        The estimated total cost of the Project is about TSh 160
million (US$19.2 million) including estimated taxes of US$0.7 million
but. excluding interest and commitment charges during construction.



-16-
Foreign exchange costs would be equivaLent to about US$9.4 million
(49 percent). These estimates are expressed in December 1976 prices
and are based on data provided by the feasibility studies. Physical
contingencies of 15 percent have been added, except for construction
costs of Morogoro dam where contingencies of 20 percent were added
because rock excavation costs could be higher than in standard base
estimates. Price contingencies toralling about 19 percent of total
Project costs were included, based on the appraisal mission's best
judgment of the future price changes in Tanzania. These cost esti-
mates are detailed in Annex III.
38.       The Project is expected to be financed as follows:
US$ Million
IBRD Loan                          15.0
Government contribution             3.5
Total (net of taxes)             18.5
The Dank's contribution cf 31 percent of net Project costs
is in line with other Bank projects in Tanzania.
6dminis Lali n_an _Eanauem ea
39..       MWEM would have responsibility for Project implementation.
For that purpose MWEM would be assisted by the three senior advisors
financed under the Project in the management advisory services com-
ponent. To carry out the detailed design and supervise the construction
of new works in Morogoro, MWEM appointed Sir Alexander Gibb and Part-
ners as engineering consultants. This firm, which updated the feasi-
bility studies for this Project, is acceptable to the Bank. To carry
out desiqn and supervise construction of new training facilities for
WRI (parcgrarh 76), MWEM has appointed NEDECO from the Netherlands.
It is already working, financed by local funds. Engineering con-
sultants acceptable to the Bank wouLd be retained during Project
implementation for both of these components (Section 3.02a of the
draft Loan ^greement). -
10.        To actually run the water supply system (once constructed)
an urban water supply unit would be created and maintained in Morogoro,
responsible to the Regional Water Engineer (Section 3.05 of the draft



-17-
Lcen 'greement). 'Headed by a manager and including assistant managers
for operations and accounts and administration, this unit would handle
operation, maintenance, billing and accounting for the Morogoro system.
MlIEM would eventually set up similar units in other towns covered by
the urban water supply fund (paragraph 26). The design of the fund
itself and the timing of its implementation have been reviewed in detail
and found acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). Because some adjustments in the sector!s orginizational frame-
work may prove necessary with experience, these arrangements would be
reviewed from time to time with the Bank to identify and correct any
difficulties (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). Annual financial
accounts for the Morogoro urban water supply unit and the urban water
supply fund wouLd be audited by the Auditor General or other independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and the audited accounts would be sub-
mitted to the Bank not later than six months after the close of the
year (Section 4.02b of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
41.       All contracts over $100,000 (which would comprise most of the
work financed under tha Project) would be awarded on the basis of in-
ternational competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines
on procurement. A preference of 15 percent, or the applicable customs
duty, whichever is lower, would be applied to the bids of local manu-
facturers for equipment supply contracts. A preference of 7.5 percent
would be applied to bids from local civil works contractors. Contracts
under $100,000 would be awarded in accordance with Local procedures
which are satisfactory to the Bank. Total expenditures under such
contracts would not exceed $500,000.
42.        The Bank loan would be disbursed for 80 percent of the total
cost of civil works; 100 percent of foreign expenditures on equipment
which is directly imported, 100 percent of ex-factory costs of locally
manufactured equipment and 80 percent of total costs of locally pro-
cured imported equipment; and 100 percent of foreign expenditures on
consulting services, the senior advisors financed under the Project
and training expenditures not related to equipment or civil works.
The loan would be disbursed over 3-1/2 years as detailed in Annex III.
To prevent delays in Project start-up, the Government has retained the
consultants who prepared the feasibility study to complete detailed
engineering for the Project. The expenditures incurred for these
services since July 1, 1976 and expenditures related to the site
investigation at Mindu up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000 are
recommended to be financed retroactively.



-18-
UrbAka.2rj_Ia riffa
43.        Stated Government policy with regard to water tariffs is
one of non-subsidization for the urban water suppLy sector as a whole.
A second general policy is that of a unified price for water throughout
the entire country. Finally, as a result of previous unsatisfactory
experience with charging through kiosks and the Government's firm
and consistent commitment to equity, no charge is collected directly
from consumers for standpipe water.
44.        To promote efficient resource    allocation, tariffs should
at least reflect the long-run marginal cost of water (which is taken
here to equal the average incremental cost of water to be supplied
from expansion schemes). Calculations of the incremental cost of water
in the seven towns which were originally appraised indicate that, as-
suming an opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent for Tanzania, the
overall average incremental cost is roughly in line with the present
tariff of TSh 2.20/m3 (which reflects the substantial 67 percent tariff
increase of July 1975). However, since the Morogoro system is one of
the most expensive of the seven appraised, the average incremental costs
of its water are higher than the present tariff. While on efficiency
grounds this would justify differential tariffs to reflect the dif-
ferent costs of water supplied, the Government has decided to maintain
its present policy of charging uniform tariffs for all urban water supply
systems. Agreement was reached that water tariffs would be maintained
at the present level in real terms through periodic review and adjust-
ment in accordance with criteria to be agreed with the Bank (Section
4.03 of the draft Loan Aareement). Such adjustments would be based on
an appropriate Tanzanian price index.
45.       Since only a low proportion of water usage in Morogoro
will involve standpipes (about 14%), this is not a major issue on
pruject grounds. However, because the percentage of urban water con-
sumed nationally through standpipes is much higher, the present
Government policy of not charging for standpipe water would make it
impossible for the urban water supply fund to be financially viable
if there is no payment from any source for standpipe water. To
resolve this problem it was agreed that the Government would compensate
the fund for water consumed through standpipes (Section 4.04 of the
draft Loan Agreement).



-19-
Project Monitoring System
46.        Important project monitoring concerns will be the staffing
and training program, technical operations, financial performance and
physical construction of the water supply system. The Government has
agreed to establish a project monitoring system (Section 3.04c of the
draft Loan Agreement) and proposed guidelines have been developed.
Project Justification
47.        The existing water supply situation in Morogoro is inadequate.
Average water demand is far above the safe output of the river source
and there are severe water shortages and low pressure problems in the
dry season. With the projected population and industriaL growth in
Morogoro the deficit in water production facilities would grow rapidly,
presenting major health problems and a binding constraint to industrial
development. This Project has, therefore, been developed to address
the existing water problem and meet the growing water needs of Morogoro
up to 1986.   It would make up the deficits   faced  by   Morogoro's
present population (39,000) and provide adequate water to 27,000
additional people up to 1986.    It would also increase sevenfold
the amount of water available for industrial and commercial use.
Industrial use is particularly important as Morogoro's central location
has been fundamental in the Government's decision to place its first
major industrial estate in Morogoro. Without this water supply project
the estate could not be implemented as a number of key industries are large
water consumers. The directly productive implications of this Project
are reflected in the fact that by 1986 it is estimated that industrial
and commercial water consumption will represent about 59 percent of
totaL consumption.
48.       This Project will also have significant institutional impact
on the water supply sector. As a result of Government/Bank discussions
it appears that the first step has been achieved in the direction of
establishing commercial operations in the sector. With the establish-
ment of the urban water supply fund, water revenues and expenses will
now be separate from general revenues and expenditures, therefore
providing  a basis for ensurinr adequate financial resources for
operations, maintenance and future minor expansions. Finally, the
Project includes significant investment in manpower development, a
major constraint to improvement in sector performance. This invest-
ment would focus on the training of technicians and on improving the
management and technical capabilities in MWEM.



-20-
49.       The return on investment is estimated at 7.9 percent.     This
return does not measure the full benefits of the Project since the
social and health benefits cannot be quantified. It is expected that
the risk of diseases attributed to the lack of safe and adequate water
supply would be substantially reduced.
Risks
50.        Detailed technical examination by the consultants and the
appraisal team have indicated that there are no undue risks with
regard to the physical construction of the water supply system in
Morogoro. Nevertheless, because of the staff shortages in the sector,
delays in the execution of the Project are possible. Provisions for the
Project engineering consultant and management advisory services are
expected to resolve this potential weakness. Furthermore, close
Project supervision should ensure that any problems in this area are
quickly addressed.
51.        An area of major difficulty once the water system is estab-
lished -- the provision of adequate funds for operation and maintenance --
is also a focus of concern. However, the institutional arrangements
which were recently adopted by the Government significantly reduce
the risks in this area. The urban water supply fund concept is expected
to lead to far greater fiscal accountability in the sector. Further-
more, it is expected that a continuation of the dialogue with the
Government on the water sector (in regional rural development projects,
as well as in the supervision of the proposed Project and in possible
other efforts) wiLl lead to a further strengthening of these insti-
tutional arrangements and lessen significantly the probability of
future problems.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Loan Agreement between the United Republic of
Tanzania and the Bank, the recommendation of the Committee referred
to in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Rank and the draft resolution innrnvinrl the nronosed Lnan ir    hpinn
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The draft Loan
Agreement conforms generally to the pattern of the Bank's agreements
for water supply projects.



-21-
53.        Features of the draft Loan Agreement of special interest
are referred to in paragraphs 35, 36, 39, 40, 44, 45 and 46.
54.        I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would compLy with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 7, 1976






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of Ij pages
TAOLE 3A
TANZANIA- SOC IAL INDICATORS DATA SHET
LAND AREA (THOU KN2)                      -----------                 -------             ----
-------- ;;                        ~~~~~~TANZANIA                            REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
Oa L        915.1                                            MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     .                               1960        1970     ESTIMATE            KENYA            KOREA, REP. OF MtALAYSIA"'
~1NP PER CAP ITA (USS1                          700         1200          100                    0.0         7.0        41.
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION    MI    -YR - ILLIN               9.6 /a~     12.9 /a       14.7I/a              11.2         31 .4         1 0.4
POPULA TION DENSITY
PER SQUARE 'tM                             10. 0        14.0          16.0                 19.0         1 9 .0        32.0
PER SQUARE KM":    AGRIC. LAND              23.0 /a      23.0*..                                      1320.0         291.0
VITAL STATISrICs
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND              51.5         50.,         50.2                  49.o         35.0         4&2.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND              27.1         23.0         20.1                  1 7.0        11 .4        1 2.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (.'THOU)            190.0        1 60. 0b                           5 .5.0/a        .          43.8 /a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT 819TH (YRS)             36.7         4i1.a        44.5                  417.5        57.7         56.7 
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                                  S . 2         3.2                  3. 4         7. 6         2.6 /a
POPULATION GOWAGTH RATE (%I
TJTAL                                       2.3 Ia       3.0/a        2. 1 /a               3. 1         2.3     ~     .
J RdAN                                      5.05-                     5.7                   6.5          6.1.         3.6
URBAN POPULATION (I OF TOTAL)                  41.6         6. 0         6.8                   9.9         411.2        27.8
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
2 TO 14 YEARS                             112.5   b    44.4     ~     *                  4 1:4         42. 1        44.7 /a
15 TO b4 YAS55.5 /a                                     5 3.0    ~                         48.0         54.6b        52.1 7.
65 YEARS AND OVER                           2.0 /a1      2. 6           .3 . 6                           3 .3         3.2 7-a
AGE ODEPENDENCY RATIOa                        0. B4__      0. 9 A    ~    .                   1. 1         0.8           0.9 /a
Eca ORIC DEP'ENDENCY RATIO                     1.  L2a      1. 2 /&,b     ..1.1 lb                         1.4           1. 6 la.
FAMILY PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUMULAT IVE.     THOU)             ....                                         66.1           ..        222. 2 /a
USERS (Z OF MARRIED WOMEN)                   4....                                            .12.0                   8.0 7a
E MPLOIRE NT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (tHOUSAND)               4 900.0 ~g   5600.2 /a.    6300.0 Ab            5100.0:0/   1 04 000.0    2900.0 /a
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (1)                96.0 gj 1. o 7              .b                 90.0 l         50.  /a     13.0
UNEM4PLOYED (1 OF LABOR FaRCE)                  5..                        ..                                .2 To       6.-0a
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
OOF PR IRATE INCOME REC*O BY-
HIGHEST    80 OF   HOUSEHOLDS                ..         33.5            ..O .2 /d                       17.1         2S. 3
HIGHEST 201 OF     HOUSEHioLDS               ..         63. 3           .52.6d
LJWEST    2 00 OF  HOUSEHOLDS                 ..         2.3                                  64         4.3.9.
LOWEST    401 OF   ROUSEHOLDS                3. 9.7 .                                      11.74 
DISTR13UTIONi OF LAND OWAERS4IO
U 3JHNEO BY TOP 10! OF OdNERS                   ...                        ..                              8.0
O 34NED AT SMALLEST 10Z OWNERS                  .             ...                                          2. 0
'ICALT4 AND NUTRITION
POPLATIO   PERPHSIIA0?                         04a.d2157O.O/-     21450.0   ,,Vb         7810.0/e     2210.0 I/c
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSIN               89E00 0,dh4890.0/        417 0                 IAto 14.7e   1760.        100.    /.
PPLAT ION PER HOSPITAL AEO                5 30. 0 ziad 70oi             .                 eo.o        19 20. 0      2 70. 0 ~a
PEA ZAPITA SUPPLY oF 
CALOR IES (I OF REQJ IREMENTS)             69.0         70. -0       96.   /      0         1.0        10 3.3        9 4. 0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                    42.0         43.0         6 3 . 0               1.            50          4.
0F WHICH ANIMAL ANDPULSE         22.0    ~     2 3.0          ..29. 0                          1 9.0        2 0.0 /a,d
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 16                       .. 4                                           ..                       5.5
EDUCATION
A-;JU;TED ENROLLMENT RATIO                       -
PRIMARY SCHOOL                             24&:0        16:           11: 6_                           10 .          8. /
5/C0ON0ARY SCHOOL                                                                           9O.          .  0        3.7
YEARS OF SCHaOLING PROVIDED 
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                   1 3.0        1 3. 0       1 3. 0                1 3.0        12.0         1 3.0 /a
VOCATIONAL ENRO-LMENT
(U OF SECONDARY)                           23.0         10.0/d          ..                   .0/         16.0          3. 0 Ia
ADULT LITERACY RATE ()17.0                                   4. 19. /b                       oo0.o         87.0         77.0 If
HOUS1ING
PRONS PER 80DM (AVERAGE)                    1.8/           ....                                          2. 72.
OCCUJPIEO DWELLINGS AITHOUT
PIPED WATER (3)
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                                                     ..                    ..A        8 0.0 /d     6 5. 0 
(0 OF ALL DWLL.INGS)                         ..                         ..                              50.0         43S.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRIC ITY (z)                          ..                          ..                             10. 0        30.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)                 2.0         11.O         16. 0                48. 0       1 26. 0        4 1.0a
PASSENGER CAIRS (PER THOU POP)                 3.0 /a       3. 0         3 .0                  9.0          2.0         23.0 I
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)                  13.0 2       31 0   ~     37.0 /a              66.0         307.0        382.0 7
NEWSPRINT (80/YR PER CAP)                      0.1          0.1-O:       0.1                  0. 9          3. 4         4. 0 /a
SEE NOT;ES AN   DFIN ITIN     ONREVERSE



SNNREX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Uless otherwise noted, dora far 1960 refer to any yea between. 1959 and 1961~ for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most gonnat Fslnt-o betwoon
1973 and 1975.
00 Malaysia ban bensn    looseId asa    bjection  -ntry b-n.a.se ion popolatio   Is rnparable In sIne and ito e-onbl       do-nlopis-t In so    -rl steps ahead
of Ta..nanta.
TANZANIAO            1960     /   Mainland Taneanila    lb  1957, Afri... popsIation,     It  Ratio of papolation   od-r 15 and 65 and ave    to total lab.r
forte,    /d  1962,   In  1961-63,    If  1958, Za-ibar:     /a   1963,   /bi loolodsng nidelno   and -a-     with nidaifory
q-alifitations, rogint.erd, noat all prantticio   In the c...ntry,   /1  6-12 and 13-18 poarn of age    opttl
1970    I   Mainland Tan..ania,    lb  1967'   /n   Hos...l. he.,  Id  1965,   In  Urban only;    If   7-13 and 14-19 years of age
r-op-otl-ly.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:     Ia   Mainland Tanea..Ia,   lb  1972,    In  1969-71 at-rge,     id  7-13 and 14-19 pears of ago ronpot-i-ly
KIENYA               1970     Ia  Regintered only,    lb  Ratio of popolation onder 15 and 65 and ato     to labor foron ago 15-59 y-.sr,     I,  labor forte
ago 11-5  yearn,  d  Urbanl hoasobo1ds;  In  Rngoscrd, not all pratrining In thocoa-rly.         If  5-Il -o- of ago,
/9  Total snondor     cldo      mahrtann           ttethird In-el
K080A. REP. OF       1970    IAeI PoroenPge of enlysoe             b   Regtoterod,    It  Rogiatered, oat all pra-ltring to tbn t--try,       Id  Ppipd tootor
i.sido.
MALAYSIA             1970     I   West Malaysia.    /b  Rog-tstrod applin-oo    ft. oath    It  i-ernot only,        /d  1964-66,   /n   12-li tears of age.
/f  1967,    /a  Piped water inn-de.                          _
19. AoguoL 10. 1976
DtFINITIONS OF 118 RAIE ITCATORS1
Land Area (tbos i_2so2. Po                                                            _lt jao,g_r sars      asn- Popslatiaa diondad by nanon        of prat-Icing
Total  T-Ttal sorfac     optso     land area and Inland waters.                      nle and fos-lo gr-i-stnnor-s"nr-in-d" or          cortifiod"  -ro- . and
Annat.  M-Mot ren-t ntiasate of     grinoitra1 area s-od tonporarily or..siliasy p-oronno1 wntb training or -espri..t.
pernanetly fr amps, pantaros, narkot & kitobon gardens or to lie                Popolatian pat 1,.apita1 bed - Pnpnlatins dinidod by nanher of hospital bodo
fallow,                                                                           -nilabla in public aid poi-ano gosonal and spoos-Iiod hospital and
rolsabilitation onetors, enolodes n-s'ing ioins and nssat. is'-not    fnt
GNP per tepita (US$1 - GNP per .apits -nt-nat- at tarrnt natkot pric.-               castodial and pr-enetite cain.
o-1tnlasd by none cnntnrin onthod as World Blanh Atlas (1973-75                 Penapirsuyl          cinriosj~o      rosLoneLots     - Cnspatod fins energy
bants . 160. 170 ad 1971 data.                                            __qoi-s.alt nf not food sapplies alabeIs coan.try fat -aplia par day.
-nilabla -opplies -xapri-o dt-nstic prodo-ti.. t-p-rt        less  -p-trt-
Dosainad aisal siattssto                                                        adaan       in -tkt, not -opplie- ontlde ancoa      feod,..sods, wts
PonLacn(od-r milo)              - in of loy first'   if not anilable,                 ties as-d Is food poont-iog an     loose' in dstrsbatio. raistOo
-norge of two end-yeap   sotinat-s; 1960, 1970 and 1975 data,                     Worn -otia,atod by FAO honed on phyninlogi-1 nooda for otrna       -citity
and h-.,tb cannidertg eairnnoll         oporatorn    body .eightn- ago and
Poonlation dns,tey - no snqt Is-Mid-year pops,.lttan per sq-arn bil-                  stdinr-bttians of population, aid allowing IlL for        -ito it ha-s
PoePat"ia density - Por snoare Ion of agrl. land - Capated as        bate for       Potnpte     npy f~oeal~ynsprdy                   lst'naIshot-at Fper
agritoltoral land only.                                       ca~~~~~~,pita not sopply of food per day. set s-pply of food is dofinod a
shove; raqsirnes'ts fo    lltonr         -ntablinhod by VillA Eta-oir
Vita1 OtatOtitnc                                                                      gos..arob Serit_   pronido far a aininu   alnno      of 65) gr-n  of total
Crdobrs rt iont thoosand - A...aI line birtbn per ths..and of s.,id-            protein par day, aad 20 grans of anal and plse protnin.        of obith
yoar  apalaio;ten-year ait-~l tit -nragno ending in 1960 and 1970,            10 gran   sboold Io.a -i-I prsoin- thoe. standards ar      Itto  tI,-othc-
an,d fi.eo-yeara-e-ge endiog In 1975 far nont Pretest notin-te.                     of 75 grans of tata1 p--til and 23 gran      of a-ina   ptttotsata.-
irdodatt     rp pr busn         - A ...aI deatbo Per tboasand of   id-year             -e-rga!. to   h,,b world. prapased by  A(, in the Third World fond botay
paplaton    tnya     arithoeit. -nerges ending in 1960 and 1970,..ad           ?n.r sooo.go3i      so.pple to    anl     w  nwl*e -plt roi   norlo t    fond
ftyereragr eding In 1975 For -at r-etet       -sinser                       donned fr-s    ni -Is -idpos.itiacaP''d'
Isfantotroaopy rae ilooul -Anosa.l deaths of Ifants sd-r on    yea ..       at lP-.ti.o        nnIb-ina           datsparPosndInaogo.
ago pet thannan.d Isn bor,thl                                                      1-4 pasta  to thlild.e. In thl iga g.rasp, noggesrod an    n   distn-r of
Itfo _npoota_g at bsrth (yrn)     A-Anrgeg noher of years of life r...ainsog          nal-trttion.
at birth. onoally floe-year anerages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for
drnelopt_g aoont_sos                                                             idarotion
_ns. renrod,tti.n r_te- A-ergo nonbor of line daagbnern. a woman will               Adlated   ...al1n-nt raiso - prisary sth.ol - iara11onnt o,f all sonea
hoar t- hen nrmal_.  reprodoorine period if she -aperiontos pr.eset age-           por--tag- of prlocory oobool-age poptlatlan; istloden obild-e aged
s,potifst fe rtility rera; tonally ft n-year a-Oe-gon ending in 1960,              6- 11 yeara bot adjouted for differ-c,,.oeeph    of pti.-1yrptdt-oi.oa
1970 and9195 far d-nolping t-npies.                                                far tontrie   with sninor-a1 eda"tapon, eoralloost nay en..nd 1101Z
Papslatmow growth rate (.  I-Ctl       - fpoond a...saI growth rates of aid-          sin.on  o   papila at  helnaor shone the affsoia1 nohool age.
yea   popal   o  far1900-60,    960-70 and 1970-75.                              Atsae      nalntratin - _oetnnd-a1y,,tbn         - Conpoted an aloe;
Poowlation growth tate fZ) _ arban - Conpotod ,iho growth raIn of total              s..tandary edon-tion reqsites at Ioot foot pYar     of appa-od prin-ry
popolation; different definitionn of orbn aran nay offeop topara-                   I-nt-taio,, providesgeerl toartia...        or rea-her trinng
hility of data amog _osnr,ien.                                                     lo-trstions for papiln o     12 to 17 yeas o..   1,ton~ p-tl-j-o
Urban p.oelain(oft        al    - Ratio of orbas to tapal ppalatjoon.                 t--se   are gonoraly noludod.
diff.erot defioIi.iao  of   rban areas nay affetit nonpatability of dan           asft.sInjyoie               (firot_and srn     ees      - Tstai yaars of
anong contis.soeling. at setoodary leno1, --taion.1 in'-                                                                             ot-i-a nay ho por1
Age trairo(erot           - Childreo (0-14 yoaro5, workiog-age (15-6.4 years),        tially ar_coplotoly ..ntloded,
and retired (651 years and ae)a      posenratges of end-year papolatmon.          ve.Vctionel onroll1.~oet (2  f soopjw) -Varatioal isst,t.taion
Alge de pend enty ratio -RatIn  f popolamo ti .der 15 and 65    ad aver to            tnlsde tet-hnIoa, iod-tnria1 or other pr-gr--       hit1 operate
those of ages 15 thr-soh 66.                                                       Independently a   s doportemop    of secodary inotitfot-n.
Ecesnio dependenoy vratio - Ratio of popolation oder 15 and 65 and enr              Adalt ltrc      rae      - Litertat  ai,,lt  (abln to read tad write) a
to the labor forte In   ge groop 15-64 ynarn.                                      pertentago of Patal adult papslatia    aged 15 years and aver.
Fami-ly planning -aneRoe fsplt       inethusl -COsn       tlatvo omber of
planosog program   i.o. intoePtIon                                               Peron 00    o     nrag)       Anerage somber of person    parreas
paIy  ni.. g. - osers (2 of -ariod u    o     Peroentagos of maried               noo-pied o.nn..etiosal d-allingo in srba    aras   dsaellings es lode
women of thuld-bearing age (15-44 years) who at     bioth-tonstrol doninon         nonP--pnaent st-ruorse    mid anarapied parts.
to all, orried woa    isnsane age grasP.                                        Ootaeied d-11-sng    without pieed water_(7   - 0h.tapied to,t-etiooal
dwellings in arba   and t-ta   areas withst inside or rotnde piped
tooloy-.et                                                                            wae    folItIe    as peroonpag   of all ont-pied dealisogs.
Total labor fame, ith-wn   d) - Etononloaly attine person, inolodiog                Anne..s to Iele trioity_(%   2f_ldweinngs     - Caoe-tinsal deellings
armd forces and aneployed hut esolsdiog housewines, rtodeots, ett. ;                with 1eletritity in lining quarers as pooetof total dwellings in
def initions in varioun   -ot"ien are not osmpsrable,                              arbas and rsra1 area..
Labor forte in agrirlture (25    - Agr icsntora1 labor foree (in farming,           Rorsl _dollinA    ooete     oolcriiy_Z            Coapared as   bave for
fores try, booting and fishing) an perneoptoge    fPi       ao f  otto. b-rural dwelings only.
_loeeioyd (    sof labor forn) - U.-oPt yd are -nualy defined an persoun
who are able, and willing to take a job, ost af a job on a givnn day,            fanaronutina
romained onatof.aJob, and tekig wotk for a operifsed nininsa        period       Rd4ti. roeot-er  (per then one) - All types of reneineo for radto broad-
not esoding on     weeb; nay not be -nparable between tos-pries dso to             tasto to general pablit per thaasasd of pnpulatinn; en1.sdes
differet def initions of    nemploynd and sonrcn of data, e.g. , employ-           ominensed monitors In toontries and in yoars when registration of
moot off ice statisti-s, amPn --r--Y-, ooPo1sory soe-Ployme-t i--r_e               radIo onus assIn nffesit; data for retet years nay net be nnparable
since .- t no..ntries abolished licensing.
Inonn din tribstion - Per..estag   of prinate incoo     (both In .ash and hind)     Pasene..     r  (u,j5gflP...ng-r oars tonprine istor tats
rne.ined by tiohest 12, r.ohant 202, poorest 201, and poorest 402 of               seating less- than eight peroons; estLndes a,hlnn.baaaad
housholds,                                                                         military   .hbinlen.
ELeotrinity Qish/y_o__,pj, - Anm-a1 cotsssptios of industrial, na,
Dinlribstion of land oworship - Peroentages of land awod by we1tbiont                 martial, pobli anod prinate eleetricity In klloatr bairn per t.Pit.,
102 and poorest 102 of land ownrs.                                                 geserallty based so produ-tion data, without allowance     ~ f ....oss   in
gnrido hot allowing for imports and -aparto of ele.trin up.
Health and nutrition                                                                NseoPrint (hg/lyr ro or)- Per ..pi ta ann...l cousptioo is bilog-ais
Popolation per oyjio-Popolation d-nided by nomb-r of prastining                       etmrdfrndaotit prdsotmiu PIs. net imports of newptrit.
physicians qoalified Etoe a ..dital anhool at     ninrerity lenel.



TANZANIA
ECONOMIC DEVEIPPNENT DATA                                               Page 3 uf 4 Pages
(Amo_un_ts I_n _miions of  .S  dof_lara)-
_Actual   Estimated                 Projetd               1y67-   1973 -    1975 -   1980 -    17       95      l8
itO3  19 74     975         ur- iq80       -TBY       19-72   1975      1980     1985     -__               __
RAT [tHAL AICCnj1N ,.__
At 1973               Prices_ & E~xeic g  ftl         A. -Irag' An-u,  rowt h Rates     As Percert of LA20
kr,.Pm.atie Product          I8717F 1__9_203   714T.925_-T3W8-25    Z   .63  316.0                 I'        4C      -5.4     100.0   103.2    103.2
Gcairns from Termss Of Trade  5             -21.8   -61.0       -42.4     -75.1  -105.0         .       .         .        .      -        -3.2    -3.2
Gros Dome?stic fnore          1871.8     18998.5  1sET9      i 9 WrT  235TZ7   303T37.      5.0      0.3      4.6       5.3    iDOT     turn    iO0T
Inmort (tori. fIR'S)             534.8      500.7   478.4       470.6    549.1    700.2       7.4     -5.4      2.8       5.0     28.6    25.4     23.3
Exports   "1 (imPort capacity    415.6      306.4   282.3       315.7    336.6    512.5       2.7    -17.5      6.5       6.0     22.2     15.0    16.4
Re,source Gap,                   119.2      194.2   196.1       15T4.9   12-5      FT 7         .                 .                 7~    16Z.'    -7'
Consumption Expenditures         1584.3    1644.2  1618.4      1658.8   1966.0   2514.9       5.5      1.1      4.2       4.8     84.6     86.0    84.2
Investment   "1 (incl. slochs) 406.7        448.6   459.7       492.2    515.0    727.7       9.7      6.3      3.1       6.3     21.7     24.4    22.7
Domestic Savings                 287.5      254.3   263.6       337.3    3,22.5   540.1       2.5      4.4      7.2       7 .7    15.4     14.0    15.8
Rational Savings                  285.4     285.5   317.5       396.6    4032.6   541.3        3.2     5.5      4.9       6.1     15.2     16.9    17.1
MERCHANDISE TRA.DE                          Annual Data at Current Prices                                                         As Percent of TIotal
impor-ts                          -gy      -rT__r7T_                                                                                / 
Capital goods                   113.1     149.6   201.2                         309.4                                           23.9     20.8    27.3
intermediate goods (ma,3fuels) 176.5      228.5   215.0                         455.9                                           37.2     31.8    29.2
Fuels and related materials     40.6       74.6    88.2                         156.2                                            8.6     10.4    12.0
Cofswpichn   Peropii           4g)       f7     6  8.2                        (158.2)                                           (8.6)  (10.4)  (12.0)
Consnptin gods _4_                         66_       M.                         279.5                                           30.4     37.0    31.5
Total March. Imports (cif)     4-7w2      718.9   736.0                        1200.9                                          100.0    10-0.0  1 0-0.
Exports
Primary products (axl. f'uels)  262.2     314.7   268.1                         527.6                                           79.7     80.1    79.0
F'uels and related materials     12.5      18.7    18.7                          32.7                                            3.8      4.8     5.5
of which:   Petroleumn        (12.5)    (18.7)  (18.7)                        (52.7)                                          (3.8)    (4.8)   (5.5)
Manufactured goods             .5iA       ..a7     5A~                          1ZLI.1J.                                                 j       15.4
Toa  ec*Exports (fob)    329.1     393.1    339.2                        681.2                                           100.0   100.0   100.0
Tourism and Border I'raoe
1973      1974     1975       1976      1980    1985
Merchandise Trade Indit'o,                     -       T7-3'  100 
Export Price I1ndex            100.0      152.0   138.4       158.7    198.4    273.9
Import Prico~ Index            100.0      159.0   168.4       178.6    239.7   335.0
Terms of Trade   rI            100.0       95.8    81.0        88.9     82.8     81.8
Ei,rrnes Voiwne ins,,s         100.0       78.6    75.6        78.9    104.3    141.7
VAultI ADDED BY SECTOR             Aiuiual Data at 19 73-  Prices mnd Exchange rates            Aver.age Annual G7rowth RaLtes    As Percent of Total
555/L       1937      1975-80      1973     1975      1980
Ag:i culit,r-                  646.4      625.1   666.3       686.3    787.5    958.2         2.6         1.5       3.4        39.4      38.1     36.2
Industry moo Mining            306.9     306.0    299.2      309.7     383.6   584.8          5.0        -1.2       5.1        18.7     17.1      17.7
Seu,rite                       688.8     744.6    784.8      824.1    1001.7  1278.4          6.1         6.8       5.0        41.9   4.6t8    ...Q2.
Toisl                         15z2'     Th73.7   17T3-4     IOFlI     2fT-7-8  282-1.4        4.5         3.2       4.4       100.     100.0-    170.0
Actual         ~~~~Eat.  Eat.                                                    AS Percent Of 0GDP
PUBLIC' FTNJANO>                  Fy72       FY73    FY74        FY7 5    FY76                                                    FY72     FY73      FY74
(TCentral Gov'.rns.                - )(in mill-ions of -current T.7Shillings) 
Curen  i-.pts              1859      2357     3023       3990      3828                                                    17.6     19.3      20.7
Current_Esleid 'lures  ~1781      2226    2785        3975     3628                                                    16.9      18.2     19.1
BudAetary 'Ie h.gs               79       131      238          15      200                                                     0.77    -1.1       16
Other Public Sector 1/          241       264      ...                  ..2.3                                                            2.2
Puiblic Sect:-r inests.ent2/    884       956     1635       2130      3012                                                     8.4      7.8      11.2
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                   Actual        Praeli.   Est.
As % Total Current Expend.)           fl1972   FY1973    FY1974     1975
Education                              18.      16.1-     175.8     -15.1
Other Social Services                  12.9     13.7      15.8       11.2
Agr3 colture 
Other Economic Services                21.1     19.8      23.6       23.5
Adlu,lst.,jti.;n and Defense        ) 47.4      50.4      44.8       50.2
Total Cur,ot: Ixpendiso: ,c
SELECTED TNP ICATORS                            1965-      1973-      1976-   1981-
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)          1972       1975      1980     1985
Average ICON                                     3.9        8.4       4.9      4.2
Import Elasticity                                1.6       -2.4       0.6      0.9
Makrginal Domestic Savings Rate                  0.1       -5.3       0.1      0.2
Marginal National Savings Rats                   0.2       -2.0       0.1      0.2
LAB3OR FORCE AND                               Total Labor Force                                 Value Added Per Worker    currentL prices)
OUTPUJT PER WORKER                In Millions        %of Total                              In U.S. Dollars     Percent of Aseige
1971                                    1971                  1971
Agriculture                            5.3                91                                      98                    43
Industry                              0.1                 2                                     1590                   694
Service                                0.4                 7                                    2170                   948
Total.                                 5.8               100-                                    229                   1O00
not applicable        -nIll or negligible                             I/  Paataa      contribution to net current income.
not available        --leas than half the                             2/   Extra-budgetary investments by parastatals not Included.
smaLllest unit shown                         'SI  Averaged from calendar year.                                     EACPIA
November. 1976



Page 4 of 4 pagoo
TANZANIA
RALAIEE OF PAIMU, B=NAL ASSISTANCE AND DNW
(-oo.nte in rdllicne of U.S. dollare at current 'price)
Avg . Aoaoel
Act,.ao                      BEtiat.d                                 Pro loted                                  roeth Rote
Actual   73        974         19 75        7.9-76      1977           Pro,1ecd7          1980       719         1972-1980
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMFWTS
Eaporto (incl. NFS)                              397.5      415.6       475.1       467.3         554.1      615.4       699.6  /   794.7       911.2      1688.7        10.9
DRorte (incl. NFS)                               476.1      534.8       776.5       792.0         826.0      912.4      1035.3     1158.5      1294.1      2307.2        13 3
9iiliiio  olnwe (7I-m)                           -787.      -IIYr      -I=          -SE.7/       -7  . U7    -W77S/     -333.      -JJ. b      -_E         -6T8          22. 0
Cater-et (not)                                    _3) 4       0 4        -7.1       -14.6         -15.8      -17.9      -21.3       -28.1       -36.6      -96.6         37.0
Wor-kea' Rvrnttanc                                        )  0.8     )   0.0          0.0      )   0.0       -5.0     ) -5.0        -.0        -5.0     )-10.0
Current r-nforU(mt)                              _ 1.7       530         43.6        87.7         101.4      100.0       100.0      100.0       100.0       100.0
balance on Curre  Account.                       -          -1         _264.       -251.         -16,       -219.       -262.      -296.9      -324.5     -625.1         18.4
Privatc Direct In   le2tmet                        -          9.9         6.3         5.6           6.0         6.0        6.0        6.0         6.0         6.0
Offic al Capitol  ranto                           16.0        -           -           -             -           -          -          -           -           -
PablicM  LT Loana
D.1b-r-nent.                                   110.6       96.1       137.0       231.8 -       188.8      234.4       282.9      3Z8.7       364.7       698.0        16.1
-R.p.y-rt.                                      -15.4      -14.1       -11.6       -11.8         -15.4      -17.2       -17.9      -19.8       -28.2       -43 7         7.9
Net Disbur.sement7=                                          9T2   12739        1   7mr           T.2        7           M33     6      .5r       6         54.3         17.1
Oth.r MhLT loanr
USe of IMF Roeorc...                               -                     46.3         28.6                                                  Act, I
Capital frannactio.- n.e.i.                       28.2       46.1         5.1       -11.8                                      l9U      1973      1974     1975
Change in Not R..-rv,.                           -60.2      -25.0        81.7          9.2        LEBT ANO 0881 SERVICE
Pablic Debt Out. & Difbareed 332.3    428.9     578.1    762.1
GRANT AND I7AN (OOIThE00S
Official Gra,nt & Sr_nt-lik.                                                                       7ntrert an Public Debt       6.6      8.2       8.6      11.2
Repaynentt 0o Public Debt   28.0     14.1      11.7      11.9
Puhbl. MALT I-ann                                                                                  Total Public Debt Soonico   34.6     22.3      20.4      23.1
rpRD                                                        -          65.0         30.0         Other Debt Sarvice (net)
7DA.                                            10.8       28.8        61.2         10.0         Total Debt Seonice (net)
Other-                                                       -          --
Other Mltilatorol                               3.3         1.8        7.1          7.1        Burden on E7pnrt bR-,dnp (S)
Gov-ro.mn,t.                                    46.0        79.0      126.0         91.3
Suppliera                                        -           -          -            -           Public Debt Ser-ice          8.7       5.4      4.3       4.9
Finoncial stitntiono                             3.0         -          -            -           Tota3 Debt Srvice.
b.do                                             -                                               poDsbDirect D.vet. 7n_.      9.8       6.7      4.3       4.9
Public Loana n.e.1.
Tctaj. Fbblic MtLT moon                          -0         109T~ T. 6              TVB.         Average Torano of Public Debt
Actue     Debt Ottatedign o Doc. 311975                  CAt.   *e % Prior Yeor DN&D  2.6       2.3      2.0       1.9
KITEROAL DM71                                Dg_w                                                    Aeot. 60 % Prior Yeor DD4D 10.9        4.2      2.7       2.1
b~r1d Bunk                                 -i9      F
IDA                                               83.2                10.0                       0Rf0 Debt Out. & Di b-r.ed
Other Mlttil.teral                                19.0                  2.5                        "      a   Pub3io Debt OiD   7.2       7.7       7.1     10.6
SGenontor                                        554.5                 72.8                            A 00 % Public Debt ServioeiD 3.7   9.8      13.9     20.9
tacollorn,                                         0.1                D-                                                  r.337           98       39       2.
FiLmi0a.l Caotitatiunh                            11.3                  1.5                      IDA Debt Wat. & Dieburaed
Bond.                                              4.2                  0.5                         0- % Publio Debt 56D       148       1.        11.0     1.
Pabl-c Debts n.e.i                                 9.3                  1.2                         n0 % Pub-ic Debt Se.or ._/ 14.3         9      3        130.9
Total Public ASLT Debt                           762.1                100.0
Otber MILT Debts
Short-tee Debt (diob. onay)
ont opplicable                                               e 0tff eetirate                  1/   I.clod.e dr-oi.g oc Arab Food for Afrcn- (57.1 a.)
Wnt 0."ilablk                                                - nil or negligible              2/ Incllde. bil.tera1 a-d   oltilate.1l progra  saecitooco
rnt avaiable eprotely                                       -- lees than bale the             3/ IBkD od l17 debt .00i.c     - 1 of public debt -or.ice
but incl7ded in total                                          emolelt umit ehe,n                                                                       RACPeA
N--obe-. 1976



Page 1 of 11
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
-_ _ A_S- e QCIQBE 31         l_  L7- ------ - -----
(US$ million)
Amount_less_cqancLLatigos
No.      Year    Borrower      Purpose                         Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
Four Loans and seven credits fully disbursed                  70.2    52.0
586-TA   1969    Tanzania      Roads                            7.0              1.9
149-TA   1969         "        Education                               5.0       0.4
217-TA   1970                  Tobacco                                 9.0       0.7
232-TA   1970                  Education                               3.3       0.8
265-TA   1972                  Roads                                   6.5       1.6
287-TA   1972                  SmalLholder Tea                        10.8       3.4
371-TA   1973                  Education                              10.3       9.3
382-TA   1973                  Livestock1/                            18.5      11.2
454-TA   1974                  Cotton                                 17.5      15.2
460-TA   1974                  Tanzania Investment Bank                6.0       2.6
1014-TA   1974                  Cashewnut                       21.0             12.2
495-TA   1975                  Sites and Services                      8.5       5.7
507-TA   1975                  Highway Maintenance                    10.2       9.3
508-TA   1975                  Rural Development                      10.0       9.2
1041-TA   1975                  Sugar                            9.0              8.6
580-TA   1975                  Dairy                                  10.0       9.3
1128-TA   1975                  Textile                         15.0             14.4
1172-TA   1975                  Tanzania Investment Bank        15.0             12.9
601-TA   1976                  Technical Assistance                    6.0       6.0
606-TA   1976                  National Maize Program                 18.0      17.5
607-TA   1976                  Education                              11.0      10.9
1306-TA   1976                  Power2/                         30.0             30.0
1307-TA   1976                  Forestry                         7.0              7.0
652-TA   1976                  Fisheries                               9.0       9.0
658-TA   1976                  Tobacco Processing2/                    8.0       8.0
Total                                       174.2   229.6     217.1
of which has been repaid                   3.6        5 _
Amount sold                    0.1
of which has been repaid     0.1
Total now outstanding3/                     172.6   226.1
Total undisbursed                            87.0  130.1
------------------------------------------
1/  Includes grant participation of $6.2 million of which, $3.4 is undisbursed
?/ Not yet effective
3/ Net of exchange adjustments



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF OCTOBER 31 ~1976
(US$ million)
Amount Less cancellations
No.          Year       Borrower     Purpoe                     =ank     Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed                                     75.0
638 EA       1969       EAHC         Harbours                   35.0           2.0
674 EA       1970       EARC         Railways                   42.4          10.4
675 EA       1970       EAPTC        Telecommunications         10.4            .0-
843 EA       1972       EADB         Development Finance         8.0            .02/
865 EA       1972       EAHC         Harbours                   26.5           8.6
914 EA       1973       EAPTC        Telecommunications         32.5          10.0
1204 EA       1976       EADB         Development Finance        15.0          15.0
Total                                  244.8          46.0
of which has been repaid              35.0
Total now outstanding                  209.8
Amount sold                    24.4
of which has been repaid     24.4      0
Total now held by Bank/                209.8
Total undisbursed                       46.0
1/    $21,151.53 remains undisbursed
2/    $5,843.80 remains undisbursed
3/    Net of exchange adjustments



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of September 30, 1976)
There are currently 24 projects under execution In Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 217 TA-Tobacco Project: $9.0 million
Credit of October 9, 1970; Date of Effectiveness -
February 1, 1971; Closing Date - December 30, 1977
Project infrastructure investments are 95% complete; all 15 complexes
and 114 villages are establtshed and water development has improved with 54
villages having permanent water supplies, 50 temporary water and the remaining
10 are being surveyed for water. Only 314 km of roads have been established
compared with appraisal estimates of 1,104 km. The reduced road construction
program is however considered sufficient for present production. A total of
10,700 farmers, about 70% of appraisal target have been recruited and total
production of wet leaf from the project is estimated to increase from 675,000
kg in 1974-75 to about 1.2 million kg in 1975-76. Measures to enforce minimum
tobacco acreages per family are expected to contribute to increased tobacco
production. However, yields per hectare and quality of leaf have been below
anticipated levels. Improvements are required to strengthen the extension and
cooperative services.
Credit No. 287 TA-Smallholder Tea Project: $10.8
million Credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
July 26, 1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
After initial serious management problems the Tanzania Tea Authority
(TTA) has now finally reached a satisfactory level of senior staffing and
this has had a clear Impact on the working of TTA and a definite control
over the field activities. A-recent supervision mission estimated that
5,734 hectares had been planted by the end of 1975/76 seasons, i.e. 69%
of the target of 8,300 ha which should have been achieved by June 1974.
Yields are lower than expected due to competition from coffee and/or
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
and problems which are being encountered, and the actions being
taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with
the understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
maize in some areas and lack of labor and poor soil conditions elsewhere.
This may adversely affect the viability of TTA which is already seriously
overstaffed and depends on factory profits for its revenue. TTA has pre-
pared an initial proposal for a second phase project but before proceeding,
considerable examination of existing problems will be needed.
Credit Nc. 382--TA - Second Livestock Development Project:
$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Project implementation has teen extremely slow and disbursements
thus far have been a fraction of the appraisal forecast mainly as a result
of the size and complexity of the Project, delays encountered in recruiting
staff and in concluding contracts for the construction of abattoirs and the
supply of heavy earth moving machinery. Project implementation is expected
to pick up momentum now that these problems have been resolved. However,
a number of post appraisal developments such as marked reduction in the
world market price of bully beef and Treat products, escalation in project
costs, delays in project implementation and critical financial position
of the implementing organization have adversely affected viability of the
project.  Because of this an indepth review is being undertaken by the Bank
staff and consultants.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: $17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness - April 5,
1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
This project continues to face severe operational difficuties
although progress has been made during the year in the consolidation of
scattered holdings into village block farm areas. There have been continuing
difficulties in effectively using technical assistance and in properly in-
tegrating project management with the regional authorities. More important,
recent analysis of research data by RMEA and the Bank financed project pre-
paration team in Mwanza has raised questions about the technical pLickage
originally recommended for this project. This matter is presently under
close examination by the Government and the Bank and various options are
being considered.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: $21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 2, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The project l,aE been progressing satisfactorily with materials
for civil works either on site or in transit. Original completion target
dates are likely to be achieved in spite of an initial delay of about two



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
months. The Cashewnut Authority's ta'ke-over of the industry and consoli-
dation of its activities are proceeding slowly. The Finance and Accounting
Department needs strengthening to speed up the establishment of meaningful
financial and physical control over the Authority's activitie!s. Recruit-
ment of senior staff at departmental head level needs to be intensified
in order to develop capacity for grow-h resulting from the project's con-
struction of five additional cashewnu- processing factoties.
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project:
$10.0 million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effective
ness - November 20, 1974; CLosing Date - December 31, 1980
Project implementation during the present fiscal year has been
mixed. Villagers' tesponse under various self-help schemes has been
extremely positive. Progress in agricultutal production appears encourag-
ing, with improved husbandry practice, and widespread and timely use of
fertilizers where available. Fertilizers were delivered as scheduled
while insecticides were distributed late to eligible farmers. Performance
of the marketing parastatal organizations (TCA and NMIC) has been satis-
factory while that of the credit institution (TRDB) requires improvement.
Implementation of the program of village infrastructure, including water
supply, health and educational facilities and godowns, has been slow,
but measures are planned following the recent supervision mission to
improve implementation capacity. A total of 45 villages are to be
included for project financing during fiscal year 1976/77. Plreparation
of Mwanza and Shinyanga integrated rural development project, suppotted
under this project, is in an advanced stage and the preparation team's
initial report was recently received.
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan 11o. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project: $9.0 milLion Credit and $9.0 milLion
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 24, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
Estate field development and outgrower planting ptogram is
ahead of schedule with 2,740 acres of sugar cane planted during 1974/75
(about 500 acres over the target), but Kiliosa District Development
Corporation is lagging. Construction of the new sugar mill, financed
by Dutch and Danish loans, was completed on schedule and started production in
July 1976. Procurement of field machinety and equipment and supporting
project activities ate progressing reasonably well. Due to cost escalation
of the housing and community development component some problems h-iave
been encounteted in initiating construction of staff housing but this
should not hold up the actual production.     The credit portion of this
project is now fully disbursed.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
Credit No. 580-TA Dairy DeveLopment Project: $10.0 million
Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - November 28,
1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
The Government is proceeding with the recruitment of key personnel
and the first phase of procurement. The first supervision mission is scheduled
for early 1977.
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: $18.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976;   Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
The initial stages of project implementation are proceeding well.
Key personnel for the project have been recruited.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: $9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31,t 1981
This credit was recently declared effective and the first supervision
mission is scheduled for late 1976.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: $8.0 million
Loan of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - October 12,
1976; Closing Date -June 30, 1982
This Loan was recently declared effective. The first supervision
mission just returned from the field and reported that initial project start-up
has commenced.
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: $8.0 million
Credit of September 16, 1976; Closing Date -December 31, 1981
This Credit is not yet effect1ive.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 149-TA - Second Education Project: $5.0 million
Credit of 14ay 29, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - June 19, 1969;
Closing Date - December 31, 1976
Following successive extensions of the Closing Date by three years
to December 31, 1976, the project is now nearing completion.     A balance
of about US$60,000 equivalent for equipment remains to be committed, and
direct purchase has been agreed in order to facilitate completion. The pro-
cessing of applications for disbursement on account of expenditures for
equipment by Crown Agents of approximately $150,000 is a continuing problem,
but timely resolution appears feasible. The Government has tentatively agreed
to a Completion Mission early 1977.



AtNTNEX 1I
Page 7 of 11
Credit No. 232-TA - Third Education Project: $3.3 million
Credit of Februaty 5, 1971; Date of Effectiveness - May 10,
1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
The Closing Date for this project has been extended 18 months
to December 31, 1976, to provide ample time for its completion. All
civil works futniture and equipment contracts have been awarded. Civil
works are about 80% completed and the entire works is expected to be
completed before the current closing diate. Ineffective project unit
management, currently under-staffed because of budgetary problems and
shortage of qualified personnel has limited follow-up activities and
correction of deficiencies'and may result in further delays. A number
of changes in the programs and management of the institutions involved
in this project have been discussed with the Government.
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: $10.3 million
Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness - July 2,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
Statements of project cost overruns ate now reduced to about
25% over appraisal estimates as a result of curtailments of the project
(deletion of three secondary schools) and mote favorable than anticipated
bids on civil works. Out of 18 project institutions, construction works
have statted on 10 sites. Disbursements are less than 10% of appraisal
estimates. Time lost in design and tendering is heing made up, but
project completion is likely to be about 12 months behind schedule. A
medical health consuLtant has given impetus to the lagging medical
health components of the ptoject. The expetimental self-help construction
ptoject item (eight Community Education Centers) requires special attention
in future to help overcome problems of supply, distribution and control of
building materials and supervision of construction standards. Disbursements
are not a good criterion of the progress of implementation, which is now
satisfactory.
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: $11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
A good start has been made with respect to the Village Mlanagement
Technicians (VMT) Training Ptogram. All five lural Training Centers have
been rehabilitated and instructional staff trained. VHT courses commenced
at three of the five Centets. Budgetaty consttaints ate likely to impose a
reduction in the level of ttaining activity in the cominp year. l'he Project
Executive Is adequately staffed.    Also, the program has been handicapped
by slow ptocutement of vehicles and equipment and delays in the selection of
housing sites. Planning and tendering fot schools is progressing well.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
$6.0 million Credit of Februtary 13, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness - April 18, 174; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
This Credit has been fully committed.
Loan No. 1172-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: $15.0 million
Loan of November 12, 1975; bate of Effectiveness - February 20,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Commitments under- this loan are proceeding quickly. Ten sub-
projects totalling $9.0 million have been approved for disbursements.
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: $15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - July 1, 1979
The project is progressing extremely well and project execution
is on schedule. Tenders for the bulk of the plant and machinety have
been evaluated and contracts placed with suppliets. Contracts for civil
works have been concluded. Cost of project is currently well within
appraisal estimates. A study by consultants to examine the feasibility
of establishing a textile plant to produce cotton-polyester blend material
is undetway.
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: $6.0 million
Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - September 14,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB) has selected Tata Consulting
Engineers to man the key feasibility unit staff to supervise the execution
of this credit and a contract has been reviewed. The project was recently
declared effective and a first supervision report is under preparation.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II:
$30 million Loan of August 12,1976; Closing Date - December 31,
1981
This loan is not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 265-TA - Third Hlighway Project: $6.5 million
Credit of August 6, 1971; Date of Effectiveness - October 12,
1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
After long delays in completing tender arrangements, the contract
for the Mtwara-Masasi road was signed at nearly three times the appraised
cost. Most of the overrun is covered by a $4.4 million loan from ADB and
use of the $1.9 million balance from the Bank's Second Highway Project
(Loan No. 586-TA). The portion of the road now financed by the Bank is
nearLng completion. Execution of road betterment works in two agricultural
areas commenced about a year ago and is progressing satisfactorily in one
but is behind schedule in the other. Preinvestment studies for Kilombero
and Kilimanjaro areas have been completed and final reports are being
prepared.
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: $10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing D)ate - June 30, 1979
The project is more than one year behind schedule. Tenders for
equipment, vehicles and spares procurement were opened in October 1975,
notifications of bid acceptance have been issued(with the exception of
some equipment' contracts have been finalized, and equipment is beginning
to arrive. After a considerable delay, some progress has also been made
in obtaining technical assistance. Following the initiative taken by
the Bank staff, ORT, Geneva expressed interest in providing thle necessary
technical assistance. ORT subsequently visited Tanzania and reached
agreement with the Government on assisting in project implementation.
The problem of ensuring adequate local resources for project implementation
has been focused on and discussed with the Government by the recent
supervision mission.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - Sites and Services Project: $10.0
million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness --
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
The project is proceeding very well. Contracts for infrastruc-
ture construction at all seven sites have been awarded and are expected
to be completed on schedule. Other components of the project, i.e.
training, monitoring/evaluation and nutrition studies are progressing
satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page lO of 11
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
Currently, there are six projects under execution.
Loan 674 EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness -
October 30, 1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
The physical execution of the! original project has been seriously
delayed due to administrative and political problems within the Community
and the East African Railways Corporation's unsatisfactory procedures for
procurement, investment planning and coordination. In November 1974, the
Executive directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of
the Loan to be used for consultant ser-vices and emergency investments.
Agreement was reached in July 1975 for the hiring of consultants to assist
EARC with outstanding organizational and financial issues. Coopers and
Lybrand (financial consultants hired by ODM) completed their asset studies
in early 1976 and CANAC (technical consultants) have submitted a report on
decentralization of the railways.
Loan No. 638 EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness -
December 16, 1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
Loan No. 865 EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
April 16, 1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
Considerable delays have occurred in implementing the project
financed partly by Loan 638-EA, however, construction is 95% complete.
The Closing Date is being postponed to December 31, 1976 to allow the dis-
bursement of remaining funds. The major civil works financed by Loan 865-EA
were completed in September 1975, six months behind schedule. Some smaller
project elements intended to be financed under Loan 865-EA, will have to be
deleted. Serious cost overruns for cargo handling equipment, tugs and
lighters financed by CIDA have occurred, and its credit has been increased
accordingly from Can.$26.0 million to Can.$33.5 million. Cargo handling
productivity has stagnated in Mombasa, but improved in Dar es Salaam. At
the same time cargo throughput has declined considerably for Mombasa and
increased above forecasts for Dar es Salaam, where the three berths financed
under Loan 865-EA are now being used.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
Loan No. 843 EA - East African Development Bank Project:
$8.0 million Loan of June 28, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1972; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
The entire loan has been fully committed by EADB.
Loan No. 1204 EA - East African Development Bank Project:
$15.0 million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
June 7, 1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
Two project applications have been received and reviewed but no
funds have so far been committed under this loan.
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project:
$32.5 million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
All major works other than microwave and UHF/VHF system construc-
tion have now been completed despite initial delays caused by staffing and
other problems associated with the relocation of the headquarters. Because
of the long lead time required for the delivery of the microwave equipment
the project is expected to be fully completed in 1979 and postponement of
the Closing Date is accordingly under consideration.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
TAf4ZANIA : URBAN WATER SUFPLY PROJECT
Project and Loan Summary
BORROWER :       United Republic of Tanzania
AMOUNT    :      US$ 15 million equivalent
TERMS     :      PayabLe in 20 years, including 4-1/? years of orace
at an interest of 8.70 percent per annum.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION:     The principal project components are as follows:
a.  An earth dam across the Ngerengere river near
Morogoro with tower intake, culvert and spillway.
b.  Production facilities including transmission pipe-
lines, treatment and pumping stations, storage
reservoirs and reticulation extension in Morogoro
to increase by about 25,400 m3/day the existing
peak water procuction and transmission capacities,
increase by 5,450 m3 storage capacities and amend
and extend the existing distribution networks up
to an efficient state.
c.  SuppLy of new vehicles for the urban water surrLy
unit in Morogoro.
d.  Management advisory services in MWDEM's head-
quarters to assist in improving management and
operation of urban water suppLy systems.
e.  A contribution to the MWDEM's training program for
the whole sector, consisting mainly in the expansion
of the W.ater Resources Institute (WRI) in Dar es
Salaam.
COST
ESTIMATES:       The est-rated total cost of the project is about
TSh 160 million (US$19.2 million). Foreign exchange
costs would be equivalent to about US$9.5 million (49%).
The cost estimates are detailed below:



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
US$ Million (Equivalent)
Local   Foreign    Total
I. New Works in Morogoro
Dam                                 2.6      2.0       4.6
Civil Works                         1.7      1.5       3.2
Pipes and Fittings, SuppLy          0.2      0.6       0.8
Pumping Equipment                   0.1      0.2       0.J
Treatrnet Equipment                 0.1      0.5       0.6
II.  Vehicles for Morogoro               O.e      0.1       0.1
III.  Engineering Consultant              0.4      0.7       1.1
IV. Technical Assistance and
Training                            1.7      1.0       2.7
V.  Base Cost Estimates                 6.8      6.6      13.4
VI.  Contingencies - Physical            1.2      1.1       2.3
- Price Increase     1.8       1.7      3.5
VII.  Total Cost of Project               9.8       9.4     19.2
Taxes totalling $0.7 million are included in project costs
FINANCING
PLAN            The project is intended to be financed as folLows:
TSh Million        US$ Million
IBRD Loan                               124.5              15.0
Government Contribution                  29.0               3.5
Total (net of taxes)               153.5              18.5
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS:                           Fiscal Year     Annual           CummuLative
(US$ Million)
1978          1.5              1.5
1979          6.0              7.5
1980          4.5             12.0
1981          3.0             15.0
15.0



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
PROCUREMENT      Construction of new facilities in Morogoro would involve a
ARRANGEMENTS:    totaL of 5 main contracts incLuding 2 contracts for civil
works (Mindu Dam and other civil works contracts) and 3
contracts for equipment supply. Contracts under $100,000
up to an aggregate value of $500,000 would be awarded in
accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
All contracts over $100,000 to be financed by the Bank loan
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines on procure-
ment. A preference of 15%, or the applicable customs duty,
whichever is lower, would be applied to the bids of local
manufacturers for equipment supply contracts. A preference
of 7.5% would be applied to bids from local civil works
contractors. It is expected that most of the pipes will be
manufactured locally but that pumping and treatment equipment
will come from abroad. Civil works contractors might be
foreign or local.
Retroactive financing up to US$500,000 is recommended for
the consuLtant services financed by the Project and site
investigation at the proposed location of Mindu Dam.
CONSULTANTS:     Sir ALexander Gibb   and Partners of the United Kingdom and
Kenya were hired by the Government to complete the feasi-
bility studies for the seven towns which the Bank originally
was considering for financing. This study was financed under
the Bank's National Sites and Services Project (Credit No.
495-TA).  They were recently engaged     by the Government to
prepare detailed engineering for the Morogoro water system
and would serve as consulting engineers for project imple-
mentation. The average cost of this is estimated to be
$3,500 per man month including reimburseables. No firm or
individuals have been identified for the management advisory
services component. In order to estimate project costs for
this component, gross consultant fees of $6,200 per man month
have been used. However, less expensive sources of manpower
are expected to be investigated.
APPRAISAL        Report No. 1199-TA, dated November 30, 1976 and entitled
REPOR: -"Appraisal of Urban Water Supply Project."
MAP:             IBRD Map No. 12254



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. TimetabLe of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: Ten months
(b) Preparation by: Government of Tanzania and consuLtants
(e) Initial discussion with Bank: October 1973
td) First Bank mission: hiay 1974
(a)  AppraisaL mission departure:   December ', 1975
(f) Negotiations: November 1976
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: March 1, 1977
II.  5pgglal Bank Implementation Actions
None
Ill. SPecial Conditions
1. Throe senior management and training advisers to be attached to
the Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals (MWEM), would be employed
by June 30, 1977 (Section 3.02b of the draft Loan Agreement).
2.  To asit MWEM in implementing its training programs a second
fuLL-time training officer would be appointed in the Ministry
(Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
3. An urban water supply unit would be created and maintained in
Moregoro responsible to the Regional Water Engineer (Section 3.05
of the draft Loan Agreement).
4. The Goveonlment shall establish an urban water supply fund to be
administered by MWEM to receive all revenues earned from the suppLy
of water in Morogoro town and other towns. Disbursements from this
fund with respect to operating and maintenance costs, debt service
and minor extensions for Morogoro will be made in accordance with
budgeto prepared by the urban water supply unit and approved by
MWEM (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
5. The Borrower shall, from time to time, discuss with the Bank
the operations and activities of the urban water supply unit
and the urban water supply fund, to identify and correct any
difficulties in such operation or activities (Section 3.07 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
6. Water tariffs would be maintained at the present level in real
terms through periodic review and adjustment in accordance with
criteria to be agreed with the Bank (Section 4.03 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
7. The Government would compensate the urban water supply fund for
water supplied by public standpipes (Section 4.04 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
8. The Government would establish and apply, in consultation with
the Bank, suitable indices for monitoring the project and for
measuring the achievement of the staffing, training, financial
and water supply goals of the project (Section 3.04(c) of the
draft Loan Agreement).



V C  O R A  Shv              I TA-O       S
Bukoba  Musom  6          i} .i  91I  J   PII)JE4 T
W  T  I  KENATRO1)Ai                LWAY
W,.
E  :  *   t  C v - > \ G   Vpjm 2  ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~L.gu,l,  Ol duwa,   ,,
1 5 7   e   D S  g  C   |   k      S            _   X~~~~~~~~A S. 
ig~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eoh vDT  otgw  Tag N   )PEMBA
Kibondo  H  N   Y  G ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~Hode ~ , ana
i rnt\       1 2; =<9|z)<           />|PongrJni~~~~h,yong
[  | (y  \   2 l   \   \   XManyon;  < +  (~~~Dodonsa 41  \  ZANZIBAR
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
K <7  \iohndc  m a  m : N X o N S D O<WOOW\><  +  i fKtMs
'  <+  X  _t   >   R u nt) w o   4 ) P W ^ P *^e2 o e  ES  iLA
\___________ MR Tubwng>6  M                  'JA y   t g   /r fy \ uee >  -
| ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  o            - |  arj- , *I=1_ t  id
Ur mbo  TbombombcEBoy '  F,x
Tnr  s IORRmRa bUr RRPUO /:  ALAWI  ---  J  MOZAMBIQUE  400 A
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Ha  ,tgn



