CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1354 TA
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Urban Water Supply Project)
between     <7
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 5, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 5, 1977, between UNITED REPUBLIC
OF TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).


﻿-2-                                     (
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MWEM" means the Borrower's Ministry of Water, Energy
and Minerals;
(b) "urban water supply fund" means that fund referred to
in Section 3.06 of this Agreement; and
(c) "urban water supply unit" means that unit referred to
in Section 3.05 of this Agreement.
(1


﻿()                                     -3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen
million dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
01


﻿Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and seventy hundredths per cent (8.70%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿S                        -5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrover shall carry out the Project
through MWEM with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate utility, ingineering, administrative and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in design-
ing and supervising the construction of the new works at Morogoro
included in Part A of the Project and the new training facilities
included in Part B.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be as agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in providing the manage-
ment advisory services for Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ by June 30, 1977, or such later date as shall be
agreeable to the Borrower and the Bank ,three senior advisors to
be attached to the headquarters of MWEM, including a technical
expert, a financial expert and a personnel and training expert,
each of whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be as agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be


﻿-6-
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to re-
place or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction, procurement and
staff training schedules for the Project, and any material modi-
fications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress and cost of the Project and to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable
the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and ser-
vices financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-7-
(c) The Borrower shall establish and apply, in consultation
with the Bank, suitable indices for monitoring the Project and
for measuring the achievement of the staffing, training, financial
and water supply goals of the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall organize and maintain an
urban water supply unit in Morogoro for the operation, mainte-
nance, billing and accounting for water supply in Morogoro town.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall establish an urban water
supply fund to be administered by MWEM to receive all revenues
earned from the supply of water in Morogoro town and other towns.
Disbursements from this fund with respect to operating and main-
tenance costs, debt service and minor extensions for Morogoro
will be made in accordance with budgets prepared by the urban
water supply unit and approved by MWEM.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, from time to time, discuss
with the Bank the operations and activities of the urban water
supply unit and the urban water supply fund, to identify and
correct any difficulties in such operations or activities.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall appoint in MWEM a second
full-time training officer to assist in carrying out the train-
ing program of MWEM under the Project.


﻿-8- 
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect.
.(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
(ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date; and (iii) any charges on the General Fund of the East
African Community (hereinafter referred to as the Community)
securing a debt of the Community where the amount of the debt
service on such debt in any financing year together with other


﻿-9-
debt service on other debt of the Community payable from such
General Fund in such financial year does not exceed 2% of the
average of customs duties and excise duties collected by the East
African Customs and Excise Department in the three financial years
preceding such occurrence. For the purposes of this paragraph,
"debt service" shall include payments of the principal of and
interest and other charges on, debt; and any reference to incurring
of debt shall include the assumption and guarantee of debt and
any renewal, extension or modification of the terms of the debt
or of the assumption or guarantee thereof.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments, agencies or units of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.


﻿-10                                         0
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have the records referred to
in paragraph (a) hereof for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by its
Auditor General, or by other independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of such records for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by its Auditor General
or such other auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning such accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, in accordance with criteria
0
to be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, review and adjust
the water tariffs within Tanzania which apply to domestic and
industrial consumers at periodic intervals in order to maintaia
these tariffs in real terms at the level existing in July 1976.
Section 4.04. The Borrower agrees to compensate the urban
water supply fund for water supplied by public standpipes.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause the water supply
plant, equipment, properties and facilities serving Morogoro town
to be operated and maintained and all necessary renewals and repairs
thereto to be made, all in accordance with appropriate administra-
tive, engineering, public utility and financial practices.


﻿*                         -11 -
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date April 5, 1977 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
TREASURY
Dar es Salaam
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿*                                        -13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/ Paul Bomani
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 8,900,000        80%
(2) Equipment                   2,00,000       100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory, and
80% of local
expenditures for
imported items
procured in
Tanzania
(3) Engineering consul-         1,500,000        100% of foreign
tant services;                               expenditures
management advisory
services; and training
expenditures not
included in Categories
(1) and (2) above
(4) Unallocated                2,200,000
TOTAL      15,000,000


﻿-15-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods and services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the aiount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $500,000 may
be made in respect of Categories 1 and 3 on account of payments
made for such expenditures before that date but after July 1, 1976.


﻿5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Development of the production and distribution capa-
cities of Morogoro's water supply system by:
1.   Construction of an earth dam across the Ngerengere
river near Morogoro with tower intake, culvert and
spillway.
2.   Construction of production facilities including
transmission pipelines, treatment and pumping
stations, storage reservoirs and reticulation
extensions in Morogoro.
3.   Supply of new vehicles for the urban water supply
unit in Morogoro.
Part B:   Management and technical assistance consisting of:
1.   Strengthening of the management and operations in
the Borrower's water supply sector through provision
of management advisory services in MWEM's head-
quarters.


﻿- 18-
2.   Execution of MWEM's sector training program,
including expansion and diversification of the
Water Resources Institute.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿)                                -19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning December 1, 1981
through   June 1, 1996                       485,000
On December 1, 1996                               450,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 20-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                         1.30%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                         2.60%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                         4.8o%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                   6.95%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                   7.85%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                         8.70%


﻿-21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$100,000 shall be awarded after obtaining a reasonable number of
quotations from qualified and experienced suppliers or contractors,
provided that the aggregate amount of contracts awarded pursuant
to this paragraph shall not exceed the equivalent of $500,000.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods under paragraph A hereof: (i) bidders shall be
required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price
for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-
manufactured goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes


﻿- 22                                     0
on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically-
supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the
Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to
the delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation
shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Tanzania may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Tanzania if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Tanzania equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Tanzania.


﻿*                             -23 -
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿D.   Evaluation and CoMarion of Bids for Civil Works; Preference
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2%
to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
(a) Contractors applying for such preference shall provide,
as part of their bids information, including details of ownership,
as shall be required to determine whether, according to the
classification established by the Borrower and accepted by the
Bank, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic
preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the
preference and the method that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give,effect to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by the Bor-
rower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.


﻿-25 -
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, together with the recommendations for
award of the said consultants and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿- 26-
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


