Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7490-SE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SENEGAL
SECOND SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
FEBRUARY 6, 1989
Argiculture Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients ooly in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1 = CFAF 300
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEAO     Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
(West African Central Bank)
BNDS      Banque Nationale du Developpement du Senegal
(National Development Bank of Senegal)
CERP      Centre d'Expansion Rural Polyvalent
(Rural Development Center)
CNCAS     Caisse Nationale de Crddit Agricole du Senegal
(Agricultural Credit Bank of Senegal)
CONGAD    Conseil des Organisations Non-Gouvernementales d'Appui au
Developpement
(Association of Non-Governmental Organizations)
CRA       Capital Replacement Account
MDR       Minist&re du Developpement Rural
(Ministry of Rural Develupment)
MDS       Ministare du Developpement Social
(Ministry of Social Development)
NGO       Non-Governmental Organizations
NPA       Nouvelle Politique Agricole (New Agricultural Policy)
OMVG      Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du Pleuve Gambie
(Organisation for the Development of the Gambia River)
OMVS      Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Senegal
(Organisation for the Development of the Senegal River)
SAED      Soci4t4 d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation des Terres du Delta du
Fleuve Senegal et de la Faleme
(Agency for the Development of the Senegal River Delta and
Faleme River Valleys)
SODAGRI   Societe de Developpement Agricole de la Vallee de l'Anambe
(Agency for the Development of the Anambe River Valley)
SODEFITEX Societe de Developpement des Fibres Textiles
(Cotton and Eastern Senegal Rural Development Agency)
SODEVA    Societe de Developpement et de la Vulgarisation Agricole
(Rural Development Agency for the Groundnut Basin)
SOMIVAC   Socidt6 de Mise en Valeur de la Casamance
(Rural Development Agency for the Casamance Region)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
SECOND SHALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS ............ . iii-iv
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ........................................   v-vii
I.  Rural Sector     .............. ....................................   1
A.  Project Background .......................................     1
B.  Sector Characteristics ...................................     1
C. Sector Institutions                    ..                       2
D.  Government's Agricultural Objectives and Strategy ........   4
E.  Experience w       ith Past Lending .............................   4
F.  The First Small Rural Operations Project .................   5
G.  Sector Lending Strategy ................   7
II.  THE    PROJECT ........ ............... o......... ......................  8
A.  Objectives and Summary Description .......................     8
B.  Detailed Features .................. ....................   10
1.  Rehabilitation of 12 Rice Perimeters at Ngalenka .....  10
2.  Second Ngalenka Rice Perimeters ..................... .  11
3.  Small Irrigated Perimeters at Matam ..................  12
4.  Small Rice and Cereal Perimeters at Bakel ............  12
5.  Sirmang Fruit and Vegetable Perimeters ...............  13
6. Cereal and Fruit Perimeters at Fass ..................  14
7.  Beekeeping             ................. .   15
8. Banana Perimeters              ........... .   15
9. Unidentified Activities ............................. .   16
10. Project Management                  ..                    17
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission that visited Senegal
in April 1988. The mission consisted of J. Baah-Dwomoh (IDA). and A. Sow
(World Bank Resident Mission, Dakar) and J. Argoullon (Consultant).
Secretarial work was done by Mrs. C. Asare and Ms. Guillemette Rohan. Mhe
report was edited by Ms. Michele Moriarty.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rr ipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discloseo without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
C.  Project Cost and Financing ..............................    17
1.  Cost Estimates      t     i     m     a     t     es................  17
2. Proposed Financing Pan           l        ..                      19
3. Procurement              ...........20
4.  Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit.                      21
D.  Accounts, Audits and Peporting Requirements .............    22
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION..........   23
A.  Project Management .............                                     23
1.  Responsibilities of the Interministerial Committee              24
2.  Responsibilities of the Project Management Unit                 24
3.  Training. . . . ....... ... .............    25
4.  Responsibilities of Technical Service Agencies                  25
5.  Responsibilities of Producer Groups.                             26
6.  Participation of NGOs          .....                            26
B. Capital Replacemet Accounts                . . .27
C.  Small Rural Project Cycle for Unidentified Operations                28
D.  Technologtcal and Production Specifications    ...                   29
1. Inputs    ...29
2. Production Methods ..            ...            .30
3. Environmental Impact             .. ...... .30
4.  International Water Rights .....              ....................    30
5. Yields   . .30
6. Production                    ...31
E. Demand, Marketing and Prices               . . .31
P.  Financial Implications for Beneficiaries           . . .             32
G.  Cost Recovery and Financial Implications for Government              33
H.  Benefits and Economic Analysis        ....       .                   34
1. Benefits n....                                                    34
2. Economic Analysis and Risks  . .34
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .36
ANNEXES
1-1  Situation of Capital Replacement Accounts (First Phase SRO)
2-1  Project Cost Summary by Time and by Component
2-2  Project Cost Summary by Time and Nature of Expenditure
2-3  Project Cost by Subproject and by Year
2-4  Estimated Disbursement Schedule
2-5 Terms of Reference for Accounting and Auditing Services
3-1  Yield Estimates
3-2  Production Estimates
3-3  Financial Features of the Project
3-4  Beneficiary Incomes
MAP: IBRD No. 21200 - Second Rural Operations Project



- iii -
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
SECOND SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.   Technical
1.1  Les ProblAmes des Petits Perimbtres d'Irrigation au Senegal
1.2 Petits Perimatres Rv.raux de N'galenka
1.3 Petits Pdrim6tres Ruraux de Bakel
1.4  Petits Perimatres d'Irrigation de Medina-Gounass
1.5 Pbrimbtres Irrigues Bananiers
1.6 Rehabilitation de 12 Perimatres de N'galenka
2.  Proiect Cost Summary
2.1 Summary Project Cost by Time
2.2  Summary Project Cost by Component
2.3 Detailed Project Costs
1.1  Rehabilitation Ngalenka
1.2  Seccr T Ngalenka
1.3  Peri .ctres Irrigues de Matam
1.4  P6rimbtres Irrigues-de Bakel
1.5  P6rimbtres Irriguts de Sirmang
1.6  Perimatres Irrigues de Fass (Medina-Gounass)
1.7  Programme Apiculture de Kolda
1.8  Perimatres Banar.iers de Diende
1.9  Direction du Projet
1.10 Projets Non-Identifies
3.   Structures et Procedures du Service du Projet et du Comit6 de Gestion
4.   Dispositions Financiares
5.   Modeles d'Exploitations
5.1 REhabilitation Ngalenka
5.2 Perimatres Irrigues de Second Ngalenka
5.3 Perimetres Irrigues de Matam
5.4 PErim&tres Irrigues de Bakel
5.5 Perimatres Irrigues de Sirmang
5.6 Perimatres Irrigues de Fass (Medina-Gounass)
5.7 Programme Apiculture de Medina-Gounass
5.8 Perimatres Bananiers de Diende
6.   Caisses de Renouvellement par Perimbtres



- iv -
7.   Prix Economiq!ues
7.1 Au niveau de l'exploitation: riz, mals, sorgho, banane, orange,
tomato
7.2 Au niveau de l'exploitation: engrais
8.   Analyses Economiques
8.1 Rehabilitation Ngalenka
8.2 Perimetres Irrigues de Second Ngalenka
8.3  P4rimttres Irrigues de Hatam
8.4 Perimetres Irrigues de Bakel
8.5  Perimetres Irrigues de Sirmang
8.6 Perimetres Irrigues de Fass (Medina-Gounass)
8.7  Programme Apicole de Kolda
8.8 Perimetres Bananiers de Diende
9.   Additional Supporting Documents
1.   Rapport d'Execution-ler Accord de Credit 991/SE
2.   Etude de Factibilite de la Phase II du Projet
3.   Programme de Rehabilitation Ngalenka-Etude Previsionnels des
Costs Partiels et Globaux



- v -
SENEGAL
SECOND SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Republic of Senegal
Beneficiary:              Ministry of Social Development
Credit Amount:            SDR 12 million (US$16.1 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard, with 40 years' maturity
Cofinancier:              International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD)
Proiect Description:      The project is the second phase of the First
Small Rural Operations Project, a national
program supporting the development of small rural
activities. As such, it would continue the
process of channelling funds and technical
services co small groups of rural people, who
will provide labor and some cash for the
development of several types of productive
activities. The project introduces various
producer groups to rew technology and new
activities and reinforces the local capacity for
identification and preparation of small rural
projects. Eight subprojects have been appraised,
covering cereal, vegetable, fruit and honey
production in different regions of the country.
The project would finance land development works,
irrigation systems and equipment, vehicles,
inputs, training of farmer groups and staff, and
operating costs of the subprojects and a
management unit. It also includes a provision
for identifying and financing new subprojects in
the course of project implementation.
Beneficiaries are expected te make important
contributions in cash and in kind to the
investments, replace all medium-term assets and
bear all recurrent operating costs.
Project Benefits:         The project's directly productive activities are
expected to benefit about 4,500 farm families who
would increase their production of rice, local
cereals, vegetables and fruits. It is also
expected to create employment for the rural



- vi -
population. It would create additional money
making opportunities in rural areas currently
suffering from the decline in rainfall over the
past several years. The most important benefits,
however, would be the continued development of
self-reliant and creditworthy farmer groups and
the development of an institutional capacity in
the country to make sound investment decisions
for small rural operations and manage investment
funds.
Project Risks:            The main risks may involve inadequate maintenance
of assets created by the project and poor initial
construction of works due mainly to poor
supervision. The first risk is offset by the
fact that all farmers have to make cash
downpayments on assets and participate in their
construction. The project also emphasizes the
need for adequate maintenance to ensure sustained
yields. Development contracts to be signed
between technical agencies and farmer groups will
stress the necessity of opening both a Capital
Replacement and an Operating and Maintenance
Account. A clearer definition of the respective
roles of the project management unit and the
technical service agencies, as reflected in the
contracts to be signed between them, should
improve supervision of construction works.



- vii  --h
p X
Estimated Project Costs                                        Z of Base
-----------------------              Local  Foreign  Total       Costs
-----US$ million-----
Rehabilitation of Ngalenka             0.3       0.5    0.8        3.5
Second Ngalenka Rice Perimeters        0.7       1.1    1.8        8.5
Small Rice Perimeters of Matam         0.3       0.3    0.6        3.0
Small Rice Perimeters of Bakel         0.4       0.6    1.0        4.9
Sirmang Fruit & Veg. Perimeter         0.4       0.4    0.8        3.7
Fass Cereal & Fruit Perimeters         0.5       0.6    1.1        5.3
Beekeeping (Kolda)                     0.2       0.1    0.3        1.6
Banana Perimeter of Diende             0.5       0.6    1.0        4.8
Project Management                     3.4       2.1    5.5       25.6
Unidentified Activities                2.8       4.1    6.9       32.3
PPF                                    0.0       1.5    1.5        6.9
Base Costs                          9.5     11.9   21.4       100.0
Physical Contingencies                 0.6       0.8    1.4        6.7
Price Contingencies                    1.8       1.5    3.3       15.4
Total Project Costs                   11.9     14.2   26.1       122.1
(including tai.es)
Taxes                                  0.8        --    0.8
Total Project Costs                   11.1      14.2   25.3
(net of taxes)
Proposed Financing Plan
Government                             3.0        --    3.0
Beneficiaries                          1.0       1.0    2.0
IDA                                    6.0      10.1   16.1
IFAD                                   1.9      3.1    5.0
Total                                 11.9      14.2   26.1
Estimated IDA Disbursements (SDR million)
-----------------------------------------
FY90     FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95    FY96   FY97   FY98
Annual      1.1    0.6    1.0    1.4    1.4    2.0       2.3    2.0    0.2
Cumulative  1.1    1.7    2.7    4.1    5.5    7.5       9.8   11.8   12.0
Economic Rate of Return:  162



SENEGAL
SECOND SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. RURAL SECTOR
A. Project Background
1.01            The Government of Senegal has requested IDA's assistance in
financing the second phase of a small rural operations project (Cr 991-SE).
The first phase of the project was completed in December 1987. Although
the basic objectives of the first phase -- encouraging small-scale
productive investments in the rural sector through local initiatives and
participation, introducing producer groups to new revenue-earning
technology -- will remain valid for the second phase, greater emphasis will
be placed this time on training farmers and farmer groups to manage their
affairs. Initial project preparation was done by SONED, a parapublic
consulting firm, under PPF financing, and completed in November 1987.
B. Sector Characteristics
1.02            Senegal covers 200,000 km2.  Its population now totals about
6.8 million, and is growing by almost 3Z per annum as of 1986. Per capita
GNP for 1986 was estimated at US$ 420, placing Senegal among the lower-
income countries. Since 1960, Senegal has experienced one of the lowest
GDP growth rates (2-3Z per annum) of any African state not affected by war
or civil strife. Over the last few years, agriculture has provided about
222 of export revenues, about 20X of GDP, and nearly 50Z of all employment.
Over 93X of the total sector income is derived from rainfed agriculture,
with groundnuts representing 75? of the total cash income for a typical
rural family. Almost all rural sector output is produced by small-scale
units, but there is much diversity in farm size, labor availability,
ownership of agricultural equipment, productivity, and income. Since 70Z
of the population relies on the rural economy for its livelihood, the
sector will be the main source of employment and income for most Senegalese
for the foreseeable future.
1.03           Average rainfall has not only declined since 1972, but has
also become extremely variable. Arable land is estimated at 3.8 million
hectares (about 19X of the surface area), of which about 2.5 million ha are
cropped annually. Extensive agriculture still predominates and population
pressure is causing a constant shortening of fallow periods. The main
crops are groundnuts and millet/sorghum followed by maize, rice, cotton,
cowpeas and manioc. Agriculture, including fisheries, remains crucial to
Senegal's balance of payments, although export earnings have declined due
to a drop in the price of groundnut oil and in the value of the dollar vis-
a-vis the CFA franc.



- 2 -
1.04           Despite considerable efforts at modernization, agriculture
continues to hover around the point of stagnation. Aside from the poor
climatic conditions, constraints inclade: (i) the limited scope for
diversification, leading to overdependence on millet/sorghum for domestic
consumption and on groundnuts for export; (i-. the lack of an efficient
capital market and credit system; (iii) the low productivity of large-scale
public investments; (iv) the weak institutional capacity for project
identification and implementation; (v) the absence of long-term policies on
resource management, technology generation and transfer, and human resource
development; and (vi) the weak organizational structures at the farm level.
C. Sector Institutions
1.05           The Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) has overall respons-
ibility for the sector, but several other Ministries, notably Social
Development, Interior and Decentralization, Public Works and Water, and
Forestry and Inland Fisheries, each have some responsibility for rural
development. While the Ministries are responsible for policy-making, the
actual implementation of those policies has over the last decade been
increasingly entrusted to a number of parastatal regional development
agencies (RDAs) rather than to Government Departments. Each agency is
charged with implementing rural development programs in particular
geographic areas.
1.06           The Regional Rural Development Agencies include: SAED for
irrigation development in the Senegal and Faleme river valleys, SODEFITEX
for extension work and cotton marketing in Eastern Senegal, SODEVA for
extension work in the Groundnut Basin, SOMIVAC for planning and project
execution in the south and SODAGRI in the south-east. These agencies are
prLiarily concerned with crop-related services, but tney are increasingly
providing services to other subsectors, notably cattle production. The
staffs of these agencies are relatively well paid and equipped compared to
Government Departments, but the financial soundness of the agencies is
unduly dependent on foreign-financed projects; only SODEFITEX earns
significant revenues from cotton exports. The agencies have had different
degrees of financial and managerial autonomy. The proposed project would
include several operations for which technical services would be provided
by regional development agencies, namely SAED for three rice perimeters,
SOMIVAC for two banana perimeters, and SODAGRI for the irrigated perimeter
of Fass (see project description).
1.07           Government Departments and Rural Development Centers.  As
the responsibilities of the regional development agencies have expanded,
some Government Departments have at the same time retained considerable,
though no longer exclusive, responsibility for project execution. These
Departments include Animal Resources, Forestry, and Water Supply. Those
Departments that no longer have great responsibility for field-level
execution of agricultural projects and programs still retain a nationwide
network of field staff. At the local district level, staff from these
departments as well as from the Ministries of Decentralization and Social
Development are physically and organizationally grouped into Polyvalent
Rural Development Centers (CERPs). The CERPs consist of shared office,



warehousing and transport facilities and staff housing, and have been
installed in the country's 90 districts. Although based on the attractive
idea of the coordinated delivery of a technical package at the district
level, the CERPs have generally been ineffective and, in contrast to the
regional development agencies, increasingly starved G  operating funds.
The CERPs currently employ a large number of junior technical staff whose
abilities are under-utilized despite the heavy fixed cost. The proposed
project would include one operation for which the CERPs would provide
technical services, namely the Sirmang fruit and vegetable perimeter, and
another-- beekeeping-- for which technical services would be provided by
the Livestock Department.
1.08           Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs).  More than 100 NGOs
operate in Senegal, under the supervision of the Ministry of Social
Development. Slightly more than half of them have formed an alliance known
as CONGAD (Conseil des Organisations Non-Gouvernementales d'Appui au
Ddveloppement), a coordinating body that serves primarily as a vehicle for
communication with the Senegalese authorities. Almost all of the NGOs are
involved in village-level projects, though their approaches differ in terms
of the extent of beneficiary participation in financing and cost recovery.
The large number of NGOs and their different approaches have raised the
question of what officially constitutes an NGO under Senegalese law.
CONGAD members and other NGOs have started discussions with Government on
the criteria for official recognition as NGOs. Meanwhile, the Ministry of
Social Development has prepared a Protocol of Agreement that NGOs are
expected to sign in order to begin their activities. A decree is also
being prepared to better define NGO involvement in social and rural
development. As in the first phase project, NGOs will be encouraged to
become executing agencies for the unidentified activities, following the
criteria agreed upon for such sub-projects (para 2.04).
1.09           Financial Institutions in the Sector.  The sector is served
by two principal financial institutions. The Banque Nationale de
Developpement du Senegal (BNDS) was established in 1964 to assist
development projects in agriculture, livestock, fisheries, small
industries, housing and handicrafts, and to provide funds for agricultural
inputs supplied in kind to cooperatives. Since it considers the guarantees
too uncertain and the costs of debt collection too high, BNDS has not
actively sought to grant direct loans to small rural producers,
concentrating instead on loans to the agro-industrial sector and especially
for groundnut marketing. The Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole du
Senegal (CNCAS) was created in 1977 following the collapse of the main
institution (ONCAD) previously responsible for agricultural credit. Its
equity capital amounts to CFAF 2.3 billion (US$ 8.4 million) of which CFAF
1.7 billion (US$ 6.2 million) have been paid in. Its main shareholders are
the Government, BNDS, Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
(BCEAO), CNCA-France, and the French aid agency, Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique, CCCE.  CNCAS's field level activities started
around 1983 and since then it has distributed rural credit for agriculture,
forestry, livestock, fishing and trade, and has collected rural savings.
CNCAS plans to open branches in various towns to fulfill the short- and
medium-term credit needs of farmers, collect savings, and then
progressively replace the Rural Development Agencies as the main credit



- 4 -
supplier in rural areas. Recent audits of CNCAS suggest that it is having
trouble managing its credit portfolio and that it may have lost up to a
third to half of its capital through irrecoverable loans. A restructuring
stuly is in progress to review the situation.
D. Government's Agricultural Objectives and Strategy
1.10           Government objectives, strategy and policies in the rural
sector have evolved in response to chauging economic conditions and to the
poor performance of the sector. During the 1960s and 1970s, Government
efforts to promote agricultural production focussed almost exclusively on
groundnuts. Input distribution was tied to groundnut sales, and cereals
marketing policy did not encourage surpluses. For most farmers, groundnuts
were thus the single most important cash crop, while cereals remained
subsistence crops.
1.11           Economic adjustment became unavoidable at the end of the
1970s, when a combination of poor financial policies, overambitious
investment programs, excessive internal and external borrowings, worsened
terms of trade, and successive droughts plunged an already weakened economy
into a severe crisis. An adjustment program was introduced in the late
1970s to redress the situation through firm management of aggregate demand.
However, these policies were not sufficient to prevent deterioration of the
country's finances and the growth of external debt. A new adjustment
framework was thus formulated in which the agricultural sector plays a key
role. This new framework concentrates on lifting supply-side constraints,
creating an environment conducive to private sector activity, and improving
the management of the public and parapublic sectors.
1.12           Within this framework, the Government issued in 1984 its
f"New Agricultural Policy" (NPA), of which the basic aim was to promote food
self-sufficiency while consolidating the gains derived from industrial
crops. The NPA has four main goals: (i) organization and active
participation of farmers, and of the private sector in general, in rural
sector investments; (ii) reorganization and reduction of public sector
intervention; (iii) improvement of input supply through the provision of
adequate funding, and stimulation of private sector involvement; and (iv)
reduction of pre- and post-harvest losses through intensified pest control.
Thus the main thrust of the NPA was the management of both demand and
supply.
E. Experience with Past Lending
1.13           Bank Group lending to SeniRal's rural sector as of December
31, 1987 amounted to about US$168.7 million tor 18 projects, thirteen of
which had been completed. These operations have been in various
subsectors, including: five projects for engineering, technical assistance
and construction of polders and large irrigated perimeters; two
agricultural credit projects; two projects for rice cultivation in the
south; two resettlement projects in eastern Senegal; two rural development-
type projects, one in the Sine-Saloum area and the other in Eastern



- 5 -
Senegal; a livestock development project in eastern Senegal; a forestry
project, and an agricultural research project. In addition, the Bank Group
has financed two rural development fund-type projects, the Drought Relief
Fund and the First Small Rural Operations Project, for which the proposed
project is a follow-up.
1.14           As consistently noted in completion reports and audits,
project performance in general has been patchy, management performance
unsatisfactory, and ar..icipated benefits increasingly unrealized.
Contributing factors cited include: (i) external phenomena ranging from
poor rainfall to inadequate national policies regarding agricultural credit
and input pricing; (ii) poor choice of technologies; (iii) the weak
institutional environment and the poor management performance of national
development agencies; and (iv) the poor quality of engineering design and
supervision of construction works and other infrastructure development.
F. The First Small Rural Operations Project
1.15           The first phase project, which became effective in September
1980, channeled funds to small groups of rural producers who contributed
labor and cash for a variety of productive activities. Six small rural
operations were identified and appraised at the outset. They were: (i) the
development of 30 irrigated rice perimeters of 20 ha each in the Ngalenka
Valley; (ii) development of 18 irrigated vegetable perimeters of 2 ha each;
(iii) development of 15 irrigated banana perimeters of 4 ha each; (iv) a
beel- eping operation in the Casamance region; (v) provision of small
fishing boats and motors for a fishing subproject; and (vi) construction of
50 new wells and deepening of 5C others in the Sine Saloum region. The
project also included funds for activities to be identified and prepared in
the course of project implementation, and provided for a management
structure.
1.16           Project implementation was satisfactory and most of the
subprojects surpassed the initial physical targets. The component dealing
with subprojects "to be identified during implementation' generated much
interest and the project management unit received nearly 300 requests for
financing, many from individuals seeking financing for productive
activities, but who did not meet the selection criteria defined at
appraisal. Nearly all the financing requests that were approved were
similar to activities already being implemented.
1.17           Actual results in terms of the number of activities
undertaken have exceeded appraisal estimates. Some revisions were made in
the initial stages of supervision in order to take farmer demand and other
constraints into consideration. For example, the size of each rice
perimeter was increased from 20 to 30 ha, tubewells were used for
irrigation in the vegetable perimeters instead of ordinary wells, and the
banana perimeters were redesigned to account for the fact that surface
water was no longer available for irrigation. The average size of the
vegetable perimeters was increased from about 2 ha to about 6 ha, and the
average size of a banana perimeter increased from 4 ha at appraisal to
about 13.5 ha. Since project management did not set up any meaningful



- 6 -
monitoring and evaluation system, actual yield and production figures have
not been systematically monitored. In most cases, frequent personnel
changes in subprojects as well as farmers' reluctance to declare production
levels also meant that only fragmentary production data was available. It
is known, however, that production on the rice, vegetable and banana
perimeters has reached, and in some seasons surpassed, appraisal targets.
The various subprojects are still operating satisfactorily, with the
exception of the fishing subproject, which had to be closed down by project
management due to problems in getting the fishing group to respect its
commitments.
1.18            In addition to the increases in the size of the subprojects,
several new subprojects were approved and started under the category
"projects to be identified in the course of implementation". Four of these
were for banana perimeters of 15.5 ha each, involving four producer groups,
one was for fishing, and the rest for small vegetable perimeters of 2 - 8
ha and involving nine producer groups. About 1,700 families benefitted
from the already appraised operations, and about 1,200 families benefitted
from the subprojects identified in the course of project implementation,
for a total of about 2,900 families.
1.19           Capital Replacement Accounts.  One of the innovative
features of the first project was the Capital Replacement Account (CRA).
Results were mixed in terms of farmer acceptance and establishment of the
CRAs, which were supposed to provide farmer groups with sufficient funds
for future replacement of medium-term assets. With the possible exception
of the banana perimeters, the idea of the CRA was not fully accepted from
the beginning, the main difficulty being farmers' mistrust and incompre-
hension of its true function. Also, some farmers have always harbored the
notion that Government can be counted on to come to their aid and replace
worn-out equipment if they cannot do so themselves. Another problem was
the tendency of Rural Development Agencies, and especially SAED, to
emphasize debt reimbursement for inputs that they had provided on credit,
sometimes neglecting to mention also the need for contributions to the CRA.
This gave farmers the impression that the CRAs were less important. One
factor however, which affected regular contribution to CRAs was the
difficulties encountered by farmers in ensuring continuous cultivation each
season following land development, either for technical or agronomic
reasons. Thus even in cases where farmers were willing to contribute to
their CRAs, seasonal variations in cultivation and production results
sometimes made payments of the ammounts due difficult. Some farmer groups,
however, have used funds from their CRAs to replace their motorpumps and
have thus come to appreciate their utility. Farmers now seem convinced
that it is in their own interest to establish these CRAs, first as a means
of obtaining initial free capital, and second to reduce their dependency on
the Government. CRA contributions from the last season are therefore
encouraging, and groups are expected henceforth to give priority to the
creation of the CRAs. The situation of the CRAs are summarized by
subproject and by producer group in Annex 1-1.
1.20            The main problems encountered under the first phase project
were: (i) the poor quality of construction, especially on the small rice
perimeters; (ii) lack of clarity on the respective responsibilities of the



-  7  -
Project Management Unit and some executing agencies; (iii) farmers' initial
misunderstanding on the usefulness of CRAs; and (iv) inadequate provisions
for the maintenance of developed perimeters. Though most acute in the
Ngalenka rice subpioject, these problems existed to varying degrees
elsewhere, and made it difficult for farmers, especially in the rice
perimeters, to achieve reasonable yields and hence to honor their financial
obligations. Most of the executing agencies considered the project to be
peripheral to their main activities and thus did not pay close attention to
it. Staff initially chosen to head subprojects were not up to the task and
this, coupled with the absence of central units within the executing
agencies supporting the subproject teams, led to poor supervision during
construction, inadequate extension advice and farmer training, and a
failure to insist on the respect of financial obligations. There were thus
several changes in subproject leadership during the first three years.
1.21            The selection and appraisal process of the proposed project
has incorporated these lessons learned under the first phase. Executing
agencies for identified operations have been closely involved in the
preparation and appraisal of subprojects assigned to them. Contracts
linking the Project Management Unit and the agencies would spell out: (a)
supervision responsibilities during both construction and project
execution; (b) inputs expected from the agencies in preparing procurement
documents and the selection of contractors; and (c) the departments within
the executing agencies to be responsible for backing up the subproject head
and his team.
1.22            The second phase project emphasizes farmers' commitment by
asking for a greater initial contribution to the CRA: lOZ of medium-term
assets compared to 5Z under the first phase. It introduces the concept of
maintenance accounts to repair and maintain shared facilities, and will
intensify farmer training to make groups more aware of their
responsibilities. In addition, the encouraging financial results obtained
by some farmet groups during the latter part of the first project has shown
others that it is in their interest to make the project work accord'ng to
agreed upon criteria.
G. Sector Lending Strategy
1.23           Until a few years ago, Bank assistance was mostly project-
oriented. The acute financial crisis of the past several years and the
magnitude of the economy's structural distortions have led to a major shift
in strategy. The Bank Group's operations now have the following main
objectives: first, to assist the Government with structural adjustment
lending operations, accompanied where appropriate by technical assistance
to improve production incentives and the efficiency of economic management,
and to put medium-term development efforts back on sound financial footing;
second, to promote long-term economic growth and development by supporting
structural adjustment through well-prepared investments, rehabilitation
efforts and sectoral adjustment operations within a framework of
appropriate sectoral policies; third, to improve the Bank's knowledge of
Senegal's economic, social, institutional and administrative frameworks in
order to tailor policy reforms to the country's needs and absorptive



- 8 -
capacity; and finally, to help improve aid effectiveness in Senegal by
acting as the focal point for coordination between donors and the
Government, at the same time helping the latter to strengthen its own
planning and aid coordination ability.
1.24           Rationale for IDA Involvement.  The proposed project is
designed to be implemented in accordance with the New Agricultural Policy
(para 1.12). Through its continued involvement in this project, IDA seeks
to support Government's quest for less costly Government interventions,
greater private initiative, and a better mix of privateipublic sector
institutions. The project also provides an opportunity for farmer groups
to supplement their cash incomes with new productive activities. It is
hoped that, in time, the project will also create new institutions and
farmer groups capable of supporting themselves either through their own
resources or through direct borrowing from the banking system. Through its
involvement, IDA will seek to harmonize the implementation procedures of
the many small rural operations undertaken through NGOs that ate under the
supervision of the same Ministry as the Project Management Unit.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Summary Description
2.01           Objectives.  The proposed project would continue to channel
funds and technical services to small groups of rural people who would
undertake to provide labor, and some funds, for the development of several
types of directly productive activities. As was the case under the first
Small Rural Operations Project, for which the proposed project is a follow-
up, the broad objectives are to encourage local initiative and thereby
broaden popular participation in decision-making on rural investments, and
to undertake only those small rural projects that are manifestly in the
interest of the beneficiaries. Within this framework, the project would:
encourage small groups of producers to constitute themselves into legally
recognized units such as Economic Interest Groups (GIEs) and render these
creditworthy in the judgment of the local banking system; create employment
in the rural areas to help decrease rural-urban migration; and st-engthen
the existing Senegalese capacity for identification and preparatiol, of
small rural projects. The specific subprojects to be financed would
increase crop, fruit and vegetable production, enhance security of
production and raise rural living standards.
2.02            Summary Description.  The project, to be implemented over
five years by the Project Management Unit in the Ministry of Social
Development, would finance the following specific components:
(a)   consolidation and rehabilitation of 12 of the 28 irrigated
Ngalenka rice and vegetable perimeters developed under the first
Small Rural Operations project in the Saint Louis region;



(b)   construction, equipment and technical services for 10 rice and
vegetable perimeters of 30 ha each in the zone lying between the
Ngalenka and Senegal rivers in the Saint Louis region;
(c)   construction, equipment and technical services for four rice and
vegetable perimeters of 20 - 30 ha each in the Matam area for four
women's and youth groups;
(d)   construction, equipment and technical services for six perimeters
(rice, maize, sorghum and vegetables) of 30 ha each in the Bakel
area of Tambacounda region;
(e)   construction, equipment and technical services for a 15 ha
vegetable perimeter and a 45 ha fruit tree operation for 100
families at Sirmang (Lower Saloum region);
(f)   construction, equipment and technical services for two perimeters
of 60 ha each for rice, maize, banana and citrus fruit per
perimeter, at Fass near Medina-Gounass (Kolda region);
(g)   individual and collective equipment and technical services for 150
traditional beekeepers in three villages in the region of Kolda;
(h)   construction, equipment and technical services for 2 banana
perimaters of 15 ha each in Diende (near Sedhiou);
(i)   unidentified activities; and
(j)   improvement of the project management structure with the required
technical and administrative staff and logistLcal support,
including improvement of project accounting, monitoring and
evaluation and links between the Project Directorate and the sub-
projects.
2.03            Three of the eight appraised operations -- the Ngalenka
rehabilitation, the second Ngalenka subproject and the banana perimeters --
are in areas where similar actions were undertaken under the first project.
Though the remaining five appraised sub-projects are on new sites, their
activities are similar to those financed under the first phase. "he eight
directly productive appraised operations, namely (a) through (h) above,
would benefit about 2,500 families or some 28,500 people, nearly all in the
category of the rural poor. Assuming a similar cost per beneficiary for
the unidentified projects, most of which would likely be similar to those
already appraised, the total number of beneficiaries would be about 4,500
families, or some 51,000 people.
2.04            Subproject Selection Criteria.  The criteria used for
selection of the appraised operations were that they be: (a) directly
productive and environmentally sound rural development activities;
(b) financially and economically profitable, with a net income per labor-
day at full development of at least CFAF 650, being 25Z more than the
nationwide average rural income, and an internal economic rate of return of
at least 1OZ. (c) requested by, and manifestly in the interest of, a group



- 10 -
or groups of producers; (d) capable of being maintained by the
beneficiaries; and (e) environmentally sound. These criteria would be
retained for the preparation and appraisal of currently unidentified
activities. Most of the appraised operations originated from requests from
producer groups channeled either directly through the regional development
agencies or through the district and department development committees. As
a result of information disseminated during the first-phase project by the
Project Management Unit (PMU) concerning project selection criteria and
procedures, most groups seeking financing are now aware of the
availability of resources through the Small Rural Operations project. The
PMU would continue to disseminate information on project selection criteria
and procedures (para 3.13). It is expected that the allocation for
unidentified operations would be used for small rural projects in which the
producers had taken the key initiatives. In addition to such projects
being directly productive and environmentally sound, the same tests of
manifest interest on the part of the beneficiaries would apply, namely: (a)
a commitment to provide all unskilled labor during construction with no
remuneration, either in cash or in kind; (b) lump sum cash payments of at
least 1OZ of the value of medium-term assets into special Capital
Replacement Accounts (para 3.11) prior to the initial installation of
medium-term assets; and (c) a commitment to provide for replacement of such
assets and for operation and maintenance, by making annual payments,
calculated at replacement and maintenance costs, into each group's Capital
Replacement and Operating Accounts. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that the above three criteria and the tests of manifest
interest would be applied in the selection of additional small rural
projects to be financed from the allocation for unidentified activities,
including the portion earmarked for sub-projects submitted by women (para
2.23).
B. Detailed Features
1.    Rehabilitation of 12 Rice Perimeters at Ngalenka
2.05           During the first phase project, financing was provided to
develop 28 perimeters totalling 824.4 ha. Perimeters were developed for
full water control, allowing on each perimeter 20 ha of rice during the
rainy season and 10 ha of vegetables during the off-season, with the
possibility of more intensive cultivation after the completion of the Diama
and Manantali dams. Some of the perimeters have encountered technical and
organizational problems. The technical problems have to do with the poor
quality of some of the developments (lack of levelling, excessive length of
canals, etc.) and insufficient maintenance of the irrigation network, poor
civil engineering and the lack of control over agronomic practices.
Producer groups have often failed to organize themselves to do preventive
maintenance. They often do not respect correct irrigation practices and
have not always followed agronomic recommendations. All these problems
have led to poor water control, considerable waste of water and a further
degradation of the irrigation network and civil works.
2.06           The project would provide for the consolidation and
rehabilitation of the irrigation and civil engineering networks on 12 of



- 11 -
the 28 perimeters developed under the first phase. These 12 perimeters
were for the most part developed early in the first phase project and need
repairs most urgently. The main works to be financed would consist of: (a)
earthworks (levelling, primary and secondary canals, and embankments),
either to consolidate existing areas or extend the perimeters; (b) the
construction of new civil engineering structures and the replacement of
some existing ones; and (c) the reinforcement of some existing works. The
project will finance operating expenses for technical services provided by
SAED for the first four years, including training of farmer groups on
correct agronomic, irrigation and maintenance practices. The project will
be responsible only for the physical rehabilitation and technical services
described above. For some of the perimeters, the overhaul or replacement
of motorpumps may be necessary, and the produc   groups will be responsible
for this. The groups will also be responsible Lor acquiring their own
inputs and for earthworks necessary for cultivation. In order for the
rehabilitation works on any of the twelve perimeters included to be
financed, the producer group must have paid into their Capital Replacement
Account a minimum of 60X of the eligible amount as of December 31, 1988,
including any amounts the Group may have used to replace any medium-term
asset. Each Group would also be required to pay into a special maintenance
account 52 of the contract value of the rehabilitation and civil works to
be done. Such payment would be verified by the Project Management Unit.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
2.    Second Ngalenka Rice Perimeters
2.07           Between the Ngalenka, a tributary of the Senegal River, and
the Senegal River itself, 10 groups of producers would be helped to
construct and operate irrigated perimeters of 30 ha each with full water
control. The operation would be similar to that done along the Ngalenka
during the first phase. Some of the perimeters would, however, pump water
directly from the Senegal River. For this subproject as well as those that
would pump water from international waterways, Government has obtained
agreements and/or informed riperians on the use of water under the project
(para 3.20).
2.08           The project would provide: (a) soil and topographical
surveys; (b) construction of the water distribution network;
(c) installation of a 500 m3/hr motorpump on a floating base;
(d) construction of one access road and one store per perimeter; and
(e) first year inputs for 20 ha of rainy season paddy and 10 ha of dry
season crops, mainly vegetables. The small base for SAED operations
constructed during the first phase at Thille Boubacar would be respor.sible
for supervising the project under the overall technical responsibility of
SAED's Podor Delegation based at Nianga. SAED would be responsible for
doing surveys and drawing up plans (funds are provided for this under two
additional PPF advances of US$1.29 million), for supervising the
construction, and for providing technical assistance during initial farming
oDerations. SAED would assign the required staff -- an agricultural
engineer, a surveyor and three agricultural advisors -- to supervise the
project. In the framework of SAED's decentralization, the team would be
given sufficient operational autonomy with technical backstopping from the
Podor Delegation. Producer groups would be responsible for providing all



- 12 -
unskilled labor for perimeter construction, performing all farming
operations, paying for operation and maintenance of their pump and
providing, in cash and in kind, for maintenance of the water distribution
system. In accordance with Senegal's land teaure laws, each group would be
responsible for acquiring the land to be developed from the Rural
Community. Land allocation within the perimeters would be decided by the
producer group. Following the experience of the first phase Ngalenka
project, each group would have about 40 to 50 members who would each
receive about 0.75 ha. Further detailed features are in Working Paper 1
and costs are detailed at Working Paper 2, Table 2.
3.    Small Irrigated Perimeters of Matam
2.09           Along the Senegal River and one of its tributaries near
Matam, the Dioulol, four female and youth producer groups would be helped
to construct and operate small irrigated rice and vegetable perimeters with
full water control. Similar activities have existed in the Matam area
since 1975 and several such perimeters have already been developed.
2.10            The project would provide for: (a) the necessary studies;
(b) construction of the water distribution network; (c) installation of a
300 m3/hr to 500 m3/hr motorpump on a floating base; (d) construction of
one store per perimeter; and (e) first year inputs and tools for 20 ha of
rainy season paddy and 6 - 10 ha of dry season vegetables. The SAED
Delegation at Matam would be responsible for undertaking studies,
supervising construction and providing technical assistance on farming
operations. SAED would assign a rural engineer and an agricultural advisor
to the subproject and train pump operators in routine maintenance. As in
all other subprojects, the producer groups would be responsible for
providing all unskilled labor for perimeter construction, performing all
farming operations, paying for operation and maintenance of their pump, and
providing, in cash and in kind, for maintenance of the water distribution
system. Each group would be responsible for formally acquiring the land to
be developed from the Rural Community. Land allocation within the
perimeters would be determined by the producer group and it is expected
that each group would have about 60 to 80 members who would each receive
0.25 - 0.33 ha. Further detailed features are in Working Paper 1 and costs
detailed at Working Paper 2, Table 3.
4.    Small Rice and Cereal Perimeters at Bakel
2.11            The subproject would assist six producer groups along the
Senegal and Faleme Rivers in constructing, equipping and operating small
irrigated perimeters of 30 ha each for rice, cereal and vegetable
production. In almost all cases, the producer groups involved are
currently operating small irrigated perimeters developed with the
assistance of SAED starting in about 1984. For most groups, the area per
member of the group averages from a low of 0,10 ha to a high of about 0,3
ha. The groups are thus seeking extensions or new perimeters to increase
the holdings per member.
2.12            The project provides for: (a) studies and surveys;
(b) construction of the water distribution network; (c) installation of a



-  13  -
500 m3/hr motorpump or, a floating base; (d) construction of stores for each
perimeter; and (e) first year inputs for 25 ha of rairy season paddy and
cereals and 10 to 15 ha of dry season cereals and vegetables. The SIED
Delegation at Bakel, which has been implementing similar small irrigated
perimeters in the zone, would be responsible for undertaking the studies,
supervising construction and providing technical assistance on farming
operations. The key personnel to be assigned by SAED to the iubproject are
an agricultural engineer, two agricultural advisors and a rural engineer.
SAED's mechanics would intervene on a paid basis to repair motorpumps for
the groups.
2.13            In the Bakel area, SAED normally asks farmer groups to make
a downpayment of CFAF 145,000 in a Capital Replacement Account (CRA) before
it delivers motorpumps for their perimeters. It is not clear how this
amount was set, but it presumably represented about 5Z of the cost of the
motorpumps about six years ago. This contrasts with SAED's policy in other
areas, such as Matam, where the initial payment into the CRA is currently
fixed at 10 of the motorpump price before delivery and installation. In
the Bakel area, once the initial payment into the CRA has been made, SAED
has also not insisted on the creation of the replacement account. Thus,
most producer groups in the area are without operational CRAs even though
some of them already have three or more motorpumps. The replacement of
such equipment is therefore not guaranteed. In order to ensure consistency
and respect the spirit of the New Agricultural Policy (NPA), it will be
necessary for SAED to re-examine its policy on equipment replacement in
Bakel. Before any investments are made by the proposed project in the
Bakel area, SAED will therefore have to apply the same policy of capital
replacement and maintenance as it does in other areas and according to the
criteria agreed on under the propose project (para 2.04). As in all the
other subprojects, producer groups would be responsible for providing all
unskilled labor for perimeter construction, performing all farming
operations, and providing in cash and in kind for maintenance of the
perimeter. Sites have already been identified for the perimeters.
However, each group would be responsible for formally acquiring the land to
be developed from the Rural Community.   Land allocation within the
perimeters would be decided by the producer group.
5.    Sirmang Fruit and Vegetable Perimeter
2.14            In the Lower Saloum area, near the Gambia border, the
project would help a group of producers to construct and operate an
irrigated perimeter for vegetables (15 ha) and fruit trees (45 ha) with
water to be supplied by pumps erected on open wells. There are already
vegetable and fruit production activities in the zone, where some vegetable
gardens are irrigated from traditional shallow hand-dug wells. A vegetable
production project was also started in the area in 1977, with irrigation
from electric pumps on open wells between 8 and 15 m deep. Poor training
of farmers and poor planning in terms of providing for operating costs and
equipment repair and maintenance has caused difficulties when project
financing ceased. This project, however, has demonstrated the potential
for vegetable production in the zone as well as the possibility of
irrigation from open wells.



-  14  -
2.15            The project would provide modest additional operating means
for the Rural Development Center (CERP) of Toubacouta that would provide
technical services for the perimeter. On the perimeter itself, the project
provides for: (a) the necessary surveys and studies; (b) the construction
of five open wells about 20 m deep, each equipped with an electric pump;
(c) one large and 200 small water storage tanks in reinforced concrete,
built to existing design standards and connected by plastic piping; and (d)
a store, tools, fencing and windbreaks. Water would normally be carried by
hand from the storage tanks to the crops. First year inputs would be
supplied by the project, and reimbursements from these inputs would be used
to constitute a revolving fund for future input purchases to be done by the
producer group itself. Similarly, output wou'.d be sold to the well-
established network of private buyers. The CERP would assign a
horticulturalist as well as a cooperative agent to the perimeter. The
project will finance the training of a mechanic and allowances for the
mechanic for the first two years, after which the producer group would be
responsible for financing his services. The project also provides for the
training of farmer groups in adequate maintenance and organization. The
group would be responsible for providing all unskilled labor for
construction, performing all farming operations and paying for maintenance
of their pump and water distribution facilities. An area has already been
selected for the perimter. However, formal land acquisition from the Rural
Community would be the responsibility of the producer group. Land
allocation within the perimeter would be decided by the producer group, and
it is expected that the group would have about 100 members (to be divided
into 5 sub-groups) who would each receive 0.15 ha for vegetable cultivation
and 0.45 ha for fruit trees. Perimeter development and equipment costs
would be about CFAF 3.0 million (US$10.900) per ha. Costs are detailed in
Working Paper 2, Table 5.
6.    Cereal and Fruit Perimeters of Fass (Medina Gounass)
2.16            The Project would help two producer groups along the Gambia
river, some 20 km from Medina Gounass, to construct and operate two
irrigation perimeters with full water control for the production of rice,
maize, banana, and fruit trees. Crops in the zone are essentially rainfed,
although some groups are now installing irrigated perimeters along the
Gambia river following the decline in annual rainfall over the past few
years. This decline has also prompted the producer group of Fass and one
of the regional development agencies operating in the area, SODAGRI, to
request the perimeters.
2.17            The project would provide at each of the perimeters; (a)
soil and topographical surveys, (b) destumping and construction of the
water distribution network, with earth canals and all structures in
reinforced concrete; (c) installation of a 36 hp Group Motor Pump (GMP)
delivering 400 m3/hr on a floating base; (d) construction of an access road
and a storage shed; and (e) tools and first year inputs for 20 ha each of
rainy and dry season paddy and maize, 15 ha of banana and 5 ha of fruit
crops. SODAGRI would be responsible for undertaking the surveys and
drawing up plans, supervising construction and providing technical
assistance during initial farming operations. SODAGRI is performing
similar functions satisfactorily along the Gambia and Anambe rivers and



- 15 -
would assign an agricultural engineer and two extension workers to the
subproject. Producer groups would be responsible for providing all
unskilled labor for perimeter and access road construction, performing all
farming operations, paying for operation and maintenance of their pump, and
providing in cash and kind for maintenance of the water distribution
system. A site has already been identified for the perimeter. However,
the groups would be responsible for the formal acquisition of the land from
the Rural Community. Land allocation within the perimeters would bt
decided by the producer group, but it is expected that each perimeter would
have about 50 farmers who would each receive 1.2 ha. Perimeter development
and equipment costs are estimated at CFAF 1.6 million (US$5,700) per ha.
The cost is higher than on most such small perimeters owing to the high
cost of the access road to be constructed between Medina Gounass and the
perimeter. Further detailed features are in Working Paper 1 and costs are
detailed in Working Paper 2, Table 6.
7.    Beekeeping
2.18            In the Dabo district of Kolda Region, three groups of
beekeepers would be helped to install and operate 1,500 improved
traditional beehives and 300 modern hives, and three honey and wax
collectionlextraction centers. Kolda region is the largest honey producer
in Senegal, with the beekeeping center at Kolda alone extracting between 15
and 20 tons of honey per year. Collection of wild honey and wax is a
traditional occupation in the project area. The main demand in these areas
is for more modern equipment and for honey and wax extractian centers.
2.19            The subproject would provide for: (a) installation of
collective honey an, wax extraction equipment at three cienters for three
groups of 50 beekeepers each; (b) installation of two modern hives, 10
improved traditional hives as well as 20 additional ordinary traditional
hives per beekeeper and provision of mesh frames, fumigators and protective
clothing; and (c) collective equipment for the raising of queen bees. The
honey and wax produced by the three groups will normally be bought and
marketed by SERAS ("Societe d'Exploitation des Ressources Animales du
Senegal"). However, several new firms have shown an interest in honey
marketing and the producers would be free to sell their wax and honey to
any interested dealer. The Livestock Department in Kolaa Region would be
responsible for providing tochnical assistance for both production and
marketing. The Beekeeping Service at the Central Livestock Directorate in
Dakar would provide technical expertise. Producer groups would be
responsible for providing all unskilled labor for the construction of the
extraction centers and for performing all beekeeping and processing
operations, as well as paying for maintenance of their equipment and
extraction facilities.
8.    Banana Perimeters
2.20            The project would assist two groups of producers to
construct and operate irrigated banana perimeters, with water supplied by
electrical pumps erected on boreholes. Following the experience of the
first Small Rural Operations Project, water would be obtained from
boreholes of about 300 to 350 m and with yields of about 150 m3/hr, and



- 16 -
capable of irrigating medium-size perimeters of about 15 ha, such as farmer
groups are now demanding.
2.21            The project would provide at each of the two perimeters:
(a) topographical and pedological surveys; (b) a 50 hp pump delivering
about 100 m3/hr; (c) water distribution system and drainage canals, mostly
in concrete; (d) an equipment store, a banana sorting and treatment center;
(e) materials and supplies for the initial plantation; and (e) inputs for
the upkeep of the plantation and Cor preparing and packaging the first
production for sale. SOMIVAC would, as it was under the first phase, be
responsible for doing the studies, supervising construction and initial
plantation, and providing technical assistance for the operations. SOMIVAC
would provide one agronomist and one extension agent per perimeter. The
producer groups would be responsible for providing all unskilled labor for
perimeter construction, performing farming operations, paying for operation
and maintenance of their pump and providing in cash and in kind for the
maintenance of the water distribution system. Perimeter sites have already
been selected by the groups. However, formal acquisition of the land from
the Rural Community will be the responsibility of the producer groups.
Land allocation within the perimeter would be decided by the producer'
group. Basd on the experience of the first phase, it is expected that each
group would have about 150 members who would each receive 0.1 ha. The
perimeter development cost per ha would be CFAF 5.4 million (US$19,400), of
which 38Z is the cost of the borehole alone. Costs are detailed in Working
Paper 2, Table 8.
9.    Unidentified Activities
2.22            Towards the completion of the first phase project and in the
course of project preparation, many promising project ideas came up and
several producer groups requested financing for small rural projects.
Thus, in addition to the new project ideas and the strong demand for
financing of more small rural operations, the Project Management Unit has a
large file of proposals that are not yet appraisable for various reasons.
The proposed credit would therefore include an allocation (33Z of total
projects costs) for financing, during implementation, of additional
directly-productive small rural operations that have yet to be identified,
prepared and appraised, in accordance with the procedures specified in the
small rural project cycle (paras 3.13-3.15).
2.23            In the small rural projects being financed, women normally
do most of the work. Because of the social structure, however, these women
are not official members of the producer groups benefitting from the
project funds. They often constitute their own groups, outside of the main
male-dominated producer groups, to farm traditional vegetable gardens using
traditional wells for irrigation. In order to support productive female-
initiated activities, assurances were obtained at negotiations that about
30? of the IDA credit allocated to unidentified activities would be
reserved for groups made up entirely of females. This percentage would be
reviewed in the course of project execution. The reservation of a given
percentage of the funds allocated for "unidentified activities' for female
groups does not prevent women from joining the other groups, and project



- 17 -
management will continue to encourage them to join the existing, often
male-dominated groups.
10,   Project Management
2.24           The Project would c ntinue to finance the Project Management
Unit set up under the first phase. In addition to the project manager, the
unit will consist of seven technical specialists (three agro-economists,
one livestock economist, two rural engineers and a trainer), a chief
accountant, and a deputy, bookkeepers and support staff, all of whom will
be on fixed-term contracts for the duratiot of the project. A monitoring
and evaluation unit of two additional agricultural economists would be set
up within the project management unit to monitor the impact of the project
as well as follow up on the operation of all CRAs and operating accounts
includinp those under the first phase project. In order to ensure
continuous follow-up and supervision of activities under the first phase
and of those to be started in the proposed project, the project would
provide for the construction of two bases for the project unit - one in the
Senegal river valley region, possibly at Bakel and the other in the south
at Diattacounda. These bases will serve as headquarters of subprojects in
these areas and a supervision point for project management. The project
would finance office accommodation, vehicles, equipment and furniture, and
travel costs of staff, and would also include accounting support and audit
services, consultants and materials for training as well as office
operating expenses.
C. Project Cost and Financing
1.    Cost Estimates
2.25           Total project costs over the five year implementation period
are estimated at CFAF 7.8 billion (or US$ 26.1 million), of which
CFAF 4.3 billion (US$14.2 million), or 54Z of total costs, is in foreign
exchange.  Estimated taxes and duties amount to about CFAF 255 million.
Unit costs are based on May 1988 prices adjusted for inflation to November
1988, the date of negotiations. Project costs are siummarized below.



- 18 -
Project Cost Summary
(CFAE Million)         (US $ Million)                 J
Total     t
X Foreign Base
Local  Foreign  Total  Local Foreign Total  Exchange Costs
Rehabilitation of Ngalenka           76     148    224      0.3    0.5   0.8       66     3.5
Second Ngalenka Rice Perimeters   221       325    546      0.7    1.1   1.8       60     8.5
Small Rice Perimeters of Matam       81     113    194      0.3    0.3   0.6       58     3.0
Small Rice Perimeters of Bakel    130       181    311      0.4    0.6   1.0       58     4.9
Sirmang Fruit & Veg. Perimeter    125       110    235      0.4    0.4   0.8       47     3.7
Fass Cereal & Fruit Perimeters    160       181    341      0.5    0.6   1.1       53     5.3
Beekeeping (Kolda)                   58      42    100      0.2    0.1   0.3       42     1.6
Banana Perimeter of Diende          136     175    311      0.5    0.6   1.1       56     4.8
Project Management                 1015     627   1642      3.4    2.1   5.5       38    25.6
Unidentified Activities             836    1239   2075      2.8    4.1   6.9       60    32.3
PPF                                   0     441    441      0.0    1.5   1.5    100       6.9
Total Base Costs                   2838    3582   6420      9.5   11.9  21.4       56   100.0
Physical Contingencies           173     256    429      0.6    0.8   1.4       60
Price Contingencies              565     427    992      1.8    1.5   3.3       43
Total Project Costs                3576    4265   7841    11.9   14.2  26.1        54
(Including Taxes)               ====-=  ===== ======   ====   ====              ==
Taxes                               255     --      255     0.8    --    0.8
Total Project Costs                3321   4265    7586    11.1   14.2  25.3
(Net of Taxes)                  ======  ====== ======   ====   ====  ====
2.26      Costs include physical contingencies of 52 on all items except
foz the land development components, for which 1OZ was used. The total
allowance for physical contingencies amounts to 6.7Z of base costs. Price
contingencies, which amount to 15Z of base costs or 12.6Z of total costs,
were compounded at the following annual percentage rates:
Costs           1988      1989       1990       1991-1995
Foreign Costs   3.0        3.0        3.0          4.0
Local Costs      5.0        5.0       5.0          5.0
Total contingencies make up approximately 22Z of base costs and 17Z of
total costs. Annexes 2-1 , 2-2, and 2-3 give a breakdcwn of project cost
by component and type of expenditure and by year. Detailed costs are in
Working Paper 2.



- 19 -
2.   Proposed Financing Plan
2.27      It is proposed that an IDA credit of US$ 16.1 million equivalent
be made to Govrernment on standard terms to finance about 622 of project
costs. Additional external financing of US$5 million equivalent is
expected from the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) to
cover two already appraised subprojects and a portion of the unidentified
activities. Total external financing would be tys$21 million, or 812 of
total project costs. Government would contribute the equivalent of US$2.9
million which would mainly finance operating costs of subprojects and 52 of
investment costs. Beneficiaries' contributions would amount to US$2.0
million equivalent to finance operating costs of pumps and irrigation
networks and incremental cash purchases of inputs starting in the second
year of cultivation of each subproject. All external financing will be on
a parallel basis and hence    cross-effectiveness of the IDA Credit and the
IFAD Loan will not be required. Financing will be shared in the following
amounts and proportions:
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
IDA       IFAD       Govern-   Benefi-   TOTAL
ment      ciaires
Ngalenka Rehabilitation          0.7      --          0.2        --         0.9
Second Ngalenka                --          1.8        0.3      0.2          2.3
Matam                            0.5      --          0.2       0.1         0.8
Bakel                            0.9      --          0.2      0.2          1.3
Sirmang                        --          0.7        0.2      0.1          1.0
Pass                             0.9      --          0.3      0.2          1.4
Kolda                            0.2      --          0.2      0.0          0.4
Diende                           0.7      --          0.2      0.3          1.2
Unidentified                     4.7       2.5        0.6      0.9          8.8
Project Management               6.0      --          0.5      --           6.5
Refunding PPF                    1.5      --          --       --           1.5
16.1       5.0        3.0      2.0         26.1
Percentage                      62        19         11        8          100
2.28      The project's financial procedures would be similar to those set
up for the first Small Rural Operations Project (Credit 991-SE). Two
project accounts would be opened, one for the handling of Government funds,
the other at a commercial bank acceptable to IDA for withdrawals from the
IDA Credit Account. The latter would be designated a "Special Account",
into which payments could be made directly from the Credit Account without
passing through Government's Treasury Department. To meet local cash needs
and to ensure efficient and timely implementation of the project, and in
order to have sufficient funds to meet its share of expenditures for one
year, Government was asked at negotiations to replenish its project account
annually and in advance, on the basis of supporting documentation for
expenditures incurred and cash needs forecast by project management.
Government has already opened the project account and has made an initial



- 20 -
deposit of CFAF 150 million (US$500,000) corresponding to first year
counterpart fund needs. Upon effectiveness, IDA would deposit an initial
sum of CFAF 250 million into the Special Account. 'ihis would be used to
finance IDA'E share of project costs, and would correspond to about six
months of IDA-reimbursable expenditures. IDA would replenish the account
against SOEs and other claims. Should any disbursements made from the
Special Account not be acceptable to IDA, Government would be required to
deposit the corresponding amount back into the Special Account or, if IDA
so requests, refund to IDA an amount equal to the non-eligible amount. The
above assurances were obtained at negotiations.
3.   Procurement
2.29      Contracts exceeding US$ 200,000 would be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB). Contracts valued at less than
US$ 200,000 but more than US$ 50,000 for goods, and for more than US$
150,000 but less than US$ 300,000 for civil works and land development, may
be procured on the basis of locally advertised competitive bidding, for a
total of about US$ 3.7 million equivalent (including expected LCB of US$
1.2 million under the allocation for unidentified activities). Explicit
criteria for bid evaluation would be made available to bidders, and foreign
firms not established in Senegal would be allowed to participate in the
local competitive bidding procedures. Procurement for contracts amounting
to less than US$50,000 for goods, for a total of about US$ 1.0 million,
would be on the basis of quotations from at least three reputable firms or
suppliers. Disbursement for procurement under ICB and LCB would be against
full documentation. All other disbursements would be against Statements of
Expenses (SOEs). All decisions on procurement in excess of US$ 200,000
would be referred to IDA for prior review. Procurement arrangements are
summarized below with figures in brackets representing financing by IDA.
For goods and services for the unidentified subprojects, the allocations in
the table below are tentative; final procurement procedures will be decided
upon review of the subprojects.



- 21 -
Procurement Method
Local and
Interna-
tional                           Total
Project Element           ICB        Shopping  LCB   Other    N/A    Cost
Land Development &
Civil Wotks a/                               3.9     0.6              4.5
(2.5)   (0.3)            (2.8)
Vehicles and Equipment    1.7         0.2                               1.9
(1.0)     (0.1)                              (1.1)
Agricultural Inputs b/                                  1.3             1.3
(0.5)           (0.5)
Consultants, Training
and Audits                                           2.1              2.1
(2.1)           (2.1)
Personnel and Operating
Costs                              1.4               2.2      2.4     6.0
(0.8)            (1.2)   (1.4)   (3.4)
Goods and Services for
Unidentified
sub-projects c/          3.0       0.2        2.3    3.3              8.8
(1.7)     (0.1)      (1.1)  (1.8)            (4.7)
Refunding of Project                                    1.5             1.5
Preparation Advance                                 (1.5)            (1.5)
4.7       1.8        6.2    11.0    2.4    26.1
(2.7)     (1.0)      (3.6)   (7.5)  (1.4)  (16.1)
a/   Development of irrigation networks, tubewells, roads and stores spread
over space and time and hence not very suitable for ICB.
b/   Agricultural inputs and services would be procured by farmers under open
market conditions following procedures set up under Government's New
Agricultural Policy.
c/   Procurement allocations are tentative and will be decided upon review of
the subprojects when appraised.
4.   Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
2.30      The IDA credit is to be disbursed over a period of eight years in
accordance with the standard d'sbursement profile for agricultural projects
in Senegal (Annex 2-4). Each of the appraised sub-projects would
constitute a disbursement category. The proceeds of the IDA credit would
be disbursed to cover:



- 22 -
Category 1:    Ngalenka Rehabilitation: 95X of expenditures on studies,
surveys, rehabilitation works and consolidation of
irrigation network, vehicles and office equipment (SDR
520,000 or       US$ 720,000 equivalent).
Category 2:    Matam Rice Perimeters: 95Z of expenditures on studies,
surveys, civil works, vehicles and equipment and first year
inputs and supplies (SDR 520,000 or US$ 500,000 equivalent).
Category 3:    Bakel Rice Perimeters: 95? of expenditures on studies,
surveya, civil works, vehicles and equipment and first year
inputs and supplies (SDR 595,000 or US$ 800,000 equivalent).
Category 4:    Fass Cereal and Fruit Perimeters: 95? of expenditures on
studies, surveys, civil works, vehicles and equipment and
first year inputs and supplies (SDR 595,000 or US$ 800,000
equivalent).
Category 5:    Kolda Beekeeping: 95Z of expenditures on studies, civil
works, vehicles, equipment and supplies (SDR 150,000 or US$
200,000).
Category 6:    Diende Banana Perimeters: 95? of expenditures on studies,
surveys, civil works, vehicles and equipment and first year
inputs and supplies (SDR 560,000 or US$ 750,000 equivalent).
Category 7:    Unidentified activities: 95? of expenditures on studies,
surveys, civil works, vehicles and equipment, first year
inputs and supplies (SDR 3,310,000 or US$ 4,450,000
equivalent).
Category 8:    Project Management: 95? of expenditures or all net of tax
costs; (SDR 3,940,000 or US$ 5.3 million equivalent).
Category 9:    Refunding of Project Preparation Advance: 100? of amount due
(SDR 1,115,000 or US$ 1.5 million equivalent).
Category 9:    Unallocated (SDR 840,000 or US$1,100,000 equivalent).
2.31      Under the project, claims for disbursements against operating
costs would be submitted on the basis of SOEs. Supporting evidence would
be available at the Project Management Unit for review by supervision
missions. Terms of reference for external audits would include specific
instructions for the verification of SOEs submitted to IDA, which would be
kept at the PMU for review. Claims for other expenditures would be
reimbursed on the basis of supporting documents. Disbursement claims would
be submitted for amounts of US$ 20,000 equivalent and above.
D.   Accounts, Audits and Reporting Requirements
2.32      The PMU and individual subprojects would keep accounting records
for the project in accordance with acceptable accounting practices, and



- 23 -
would prepare annual project implementation budgets. Detailed budgets
would be submitted to IDA for review and comment no later than two months
prior to the beginning of the implementation year. The financial staff of
the project would be responsible for the consolidation and submission of
quarterly budget comparisons to project management and IDA. Accounts would
provide, as simply as possible, information needed by the project manager
to plan, record and control project expenditures and financing, and to
justify disbursement requests. Accounts for each group of farmers or
producers would be the responsibil,ty of the group, with PMU and executing
agencies advising and assisting then. when requested.
2.33      As under the first phase project, an audit firm acceptable to IDA
would be hired to: (a) help monitor the internal control systems of the
project; (b) verify at the end of each quarter the SOEs and statements used
to support disbursement applications; and (c) audit the annual project
accounts to check whether they conform to accepted accounting principles.
Audit reports would contain a long form report on the project accounts and
a detailed report on internal control. The auditor would also be required
to express an opinion on the reliability of SOE procedures, the legitimacy
of expenditures utilizing the IDA Special Account and the utilization of
goods an"i services financed under the project. Audited accounts would be
submitted to IDA not later than six months following the end of the
financial year. Unsatisfactory reporting or failure to provide such
accounts within 90 days of the above deadline would be cause for stopping
disbursements or reverting to disbursements on documentary evidence.
Agreement on these conditions were obtained at negotiations. Terms of
reference for the accounting and auditing services are in Annex 2-5.
2.34      Quarterly and annual reports would also be issued summarizing the
project's achievements, comparing them to agreed annual programs and
commenting on key problems and future needs and priorities. A mid-term
review of the project would be undertaken jointly by Government and IDA by
June 1992 in order to review: implementation of the various subprojects;
the status of the Capital Replacement Accounts; training of the various
farmer groups and their transformation into GIEs; and the efficiency of the
small rural operations cycle (paras 3.13 - 3.15); an assurance to this
effect was obtained at negotiations. Assurances were also obtained at
negotiations that Government would ensure the preparation of a project
completion report within six months of the closing date.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Project Management
3.01      The project would be executed by the Project Management Unit
(PMU) established under the first phase project, by existing technical
service agencies and by producer groups.  While direct implementation would
involve external technical agencies, the PMU would have ultimate
responsibility for this. The PMU's tasks would include carrying out the
already appraised subprojects and the identification, preparation,
appraisal and subsequent implementation of still unidentified operations.



- 24 -
Each operation would be confined to a limited area, with field execution
undertaken by one of several technical service agencies or NGOs, and by any
number of producer groups. The PMU would remain in the Ministry of Social
Development, would remain small and would coordinate its activities with
the technical agencies responsible for field-level implementation.
3.02      Responsibilities of the Interministerial Committee.  Under the
first phase, an Interministerial Committee for Small Rural Projects,
chaired by the Minister of Social Development, was created. Other members
include representatives of the Government Departments dealing with rural
development, planning and finance and the banking system. During the
second phase, the composition of the committee would have to be changed
slightly to account for new ministerial services responsible for execution
of appraised subprojects. The formal creation of the new committee by
Interministerial Decree would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Representatives of provincial Governors would chair provincial committees
that would screen new subprojects to be proposed to the National
Interministerial Committee. The committee's functions have been reviewed
and would remain the same as under the first phase, namely: (a) review and
approval of the project's annual work program and budget; (b) approval of
each new operation proposed for financing out of the allocation for
unidentified projects, taking into account regional balance, the portion
earmarked for women's activities and overall availability of funds; (c)
periodic review of procedures used in financing and implementing small
rural operations and taking steps to harmonize approaches; and (d)
examination of the status of each Capital Replacement Account and the
issuance of the necessary instructions for action in the case of delinquent
accounts.
3.03      Responsibilities of the Project Management Unit.  The PMU would
have essentially the same responsibilities as under the first phase, except
that it would improve its coordination with the executing agencies,
especially in procurement matters. For each activity, a contract detailing
the responsibilities of the PMU and of the executing agency would be drawn
up after discussion. This contract would also serve as the basis for
disbursements by the PMU to the agency involved with respect to equipment,
vehicles, and other operating costs. Other responsibilities ot the PMU
would include (a) drafting, together with the executing agency, a contract
between the executing agency and the producer groups, specifying the rights
and obligations of each party; (b) centralizing procurement of goods after
appropriate consultation with the technical agencies; (c) regularly
supervising the physical and financial execution of operations; and (d)
monitoring of subprojects under both the first phase and the proposed
project and periodic evaluation of the project. For the still unidentified
sub-projects, the PMU would be responsible for disseminating information on
project selection criteria, terms and conditions of financing, and
procedures to be followed, as well as for assisting technical service
agencies and producer groups in project preparation by issuing guidelines
and undertaking formal training courses. It would also organize
appropriate training for producer groups on how to manage their affairs in
conjunction with the technical service agencies and field staff of the
Ministry of Social Development. The PHU would also be responsible for
appraising each new operation proposed for financing and for reporting



- 25 -
thereon to the Interministerial Committee. The PMU's other main
responsibilities would be to prepare the annual work program and budget,
and quarterly and annual progress reports, including consolidated project
accounts and a statement of the status of each Capital Replacement Account.
These reports would be submitted simultaneously to the Interministerial
Committee and to IDA. The PMU would employ eight key people who would work
exclusively on the project: the project manager, two rural engineers, four
agricultural economists, two of which will be responsible for Monitoring
and Evaluation, and an accountant.
3.04      Training.  One of the PMU's tasks would be to conduct training
for executing agences and farmer groups. The objectives of these training
courses would be: (a) to disseminate information on selection criteria for
subprojects and the small rural projects cycle; (b) to explain to farmers
groups how they can organize themselves into Economic Interest Groups
(GIE); (c) to demonstrate to the farmer groups the need to provide for
equipment replacement through the Capital Replacement Accounts; (d) to
train farmers in perimeter and equipmenL maintenance and stress the
importance of these for sustained yields; and (e) initiate farmer groups to
simple bookkeeping and accounting. Staff managing subprojects will also be
provided with orientation and refresher courses on project objectives and
on selected technical topics as needed. Based on the results of project
monitoring, the PMU would arrange for courses to reflect lessons learned.
Courses would be offered by the management team, assisted by locally
recruited consultants, at appropriate places in the provinces and
districts.
3.05      Responsibilities of Technical Service Agencies.  For the
appraised operations, the agencies responsible for providing technical
services would be as follows:
Ngalenka Rehabilitation                         SAED
Second Ngalenka Rice Perimeters                SAED
Rice Perimeters at Matam                       SAED
Sirmang Fruit and Vegetable Perimeter          Rural Development
Centers, CERP
Fass Cereal and Fruit Perimeter                SODAGRI
Beekeeping                                     Livestock Development
Diende Banana Perimeters                        SOMIVAC
3.06      The extent of the various agencies' responsibility for sub-
project execution would vary from direct management of the establishment of
the first year's plantations in the case of small banana perimeters, to the
relatively light managerial input in beekeeping, depending on the
complexity of the operation and the producer group's activities. It is
expected however, that the executing agencies would be responsible for
preparing the basic technical specifications for procurement and contracts,
be involved as much as possible in bid evaluation and firm selection, and
would have full responsibility for supervision of construction works. The
remuneration of technical service agencies would take the diversity of
responsibilities into account. Such remuneration, specified in the
contract with the PMU, would, however, cover only the additional direct



- 26 -
costs incurred, with no contribution to overhead. An assurance to this
effect was obtained at negotiations. For each sub-project, the technical
service agency concerned would keep the accounts for project-financed
expenditures, verify the capital replacement and operating accounts
maintained by producer groups and make quarterly reports to projert
management. Each technical service agency would designate one Department
as having primary responsibility for supervision of the operation that it
implements.
3.07      Responsibilities of Producer Groups.  The responsibilities of
producer groups would vary as a function of that of the technical service
agencies and would remain the same as under the first phase. For all
operations, however, and for each sub-project, the producer group would
have to organize itself to: (a) provide all unskilled labor needed during
construction; (b) collect the cash required as a deposit prior to initial
installation of medium-term assets, and subsequently to collect the annuity
to be paid; (c) allocate land; (d) devise and apply rules governing access
to common goods and services; and (e) collect the cash and/or provide the
labor for operation and maintenance of shared facilities. Each group would
maintain simple accounts for common expenditures and receipts and the
technical agencies would assist them as necessary.
3.08      To exercise these responsibilities, the producer group would not
necessarily have to be a legally recognized entity, and would require only
a de facto identity with an appropriate operational structure, including
the capacity to enter into contracts with the technical service agencies.
However, since it is becoming increasingly important for such groups to
obtain legal recognition, and to be transformed into Economic Interest
Groups (Groupement d'Inter@t Economique - GIE) if they expect t.o contract
loans from the banking system, most of the producer groups under the first
phase project and those formed for the proposed project have either already
constituted themselves in GIE or are in the process of doing so. As part
of the objective of making groups creditworthy, the project would provide
training, advice and assistance (through consultants) to de facto groups to
convert them into legally constituted GIEs. Where the groups are already
constituted in GIEs the project would provide the necessary training and
advice on the correct functioning of such a legal entity. As a start,
however, each group would have a general assembly, a management bureau, and
members elected for such functions as financial control and water
distribution. The form of remuneration, if any, to members elected to
particular functions would be a matter for each group to decide.
3.09      Participation of NGOs.  Given their long experience in SRO-type
operations and their widespread presence in the field, the NGOs' competence
would be tapped to the extent possible for project execution. The main
task of NGOs would be to implement, as technical service agencies, specific
new subprojects. In cases where they intervene in this fashion, all the
operating rules for subproject implementation, CRAs, producer group
participation, operating accounts, etc., would apply. In addition, the
project would seek, through the interministerial committee, to harmonize
approaches for financing SROs, whether financed through the project or by
the NGOs themselves.



-  27  -
B.   Capital Replacement Accounts
3.10        Under the first phase project, the Capital Replacement Account
(CRA) was introduced as an alternative to orthodox medium-term credit,
which had demonstrated severe shortcomings. The problems with medium-term
credit in Senegal still persist and, since banks cannot secure adequate
guarantees on such lending, they are reluctant to channel funds to the
rural sector. Collection performance on medium-term credit is also very
disappointing and repayment rates for such loans are low. When farmers or
groups are not asked to provide for equipment replacement, small rural
operations often collapse. Under the first phase project, the late start
of project implementation and an initial apprehension on the part of
producer groups about the exact destination of funds going into the CRAs
caused the accounts to fall short of the level that had been envisaged.
However, most producer groups do have enough funds to ensure partial
replacement of their equipment, thus ensuring the sustainability of their
operations. The concept of the Capital Replacement Account is therefore
being retained to ensure that these small rural operations survive after
the project. Under the program, the PMU would retain ownership of the
equipment being provided to producer groups, while they accumulate enough
savings to purchase the replacement equipment when it becomes needed.
3.11      For each medium-term asset to be provided, the producer group
would open a CRA at the nearest branch of CNCAS or any other development or
commercial bank. Power of withdrawal from such accounts would be vested in
the group. Until enough savings have been accumulated to ensure
replacement, however, withdrawals from the account would be made by the
group only with the PMU's approval. As a condition for receipt of the
asset, the group would pay into its capital replacement account an amount
of at least 10 of the delivered cost of the asset; such payments would be
verified by project management and an assurance to this effect was obtained
at negotiations. The asset would remain the property of the Project
Management Unit until such time as the group has put sufficient funds into
the account to replace that asset. The first and subsequent replacements
of the asset would be financed by the group's savings in its CRA. Savings
would accumulate through annual payment of an annuity calculated at
replacement cost, inflation being estimated at 52 per year, interest on
deposits at the prevailing CNCAS rate (currently 6.52 per year), and the
useful life being estimated conservatively. The contract between the
technical service agency and the producer group would specify the amount of
the annual payment and the date payable. The contracts would also specify
payments necessary for maintenance of the assets, and assurances to this
effect vere obtained at negotiations.
3.12      The method used to estimate the annuity and to explain it to
groups would be the same as under the first project. The annuity concept
would be presented to farmers' groups in a simplified manner and the PMU
would provide appropriate guidelines to the technical service agencies.
The status of all capital replacement accounts, with attention drawn to any
instances of overdue accounts, would be reported by the technical service
agencies in their quarterly reports to the project manager who would, in
turn, report at least semi-annually to the Interministerial Committee. The



- 28 -
project manager would notify producer groups whose accounts were in arrears
that their equipment, of which ownership was vested in the Project
Management Unit, could be seized unless the arrears were paid off by the
time of the next meeting of the Committee. If any accounts remained in
arrears, the Committee (para 3.02) would issue the necessary instructions
to take appropriate action, such as seizure of the equipment. In addition,
IDA supervision missions would carry out a systematic review of the capital
replacement accounts and report on their status, including that of CRAs
constituted under the first phase project. Failure of producer groups,
even under the first phase project, to continue their contributions to the
CRAs could lead to a review of the whole concept of the CRA. Assurances to
this effect were obtained at negotiations.
C.   Small Rural Project Cycle for Unidentified Operations
3.13      Identification/Preparation.  The cycle of initiation,
preparation, appraisal and approval would comprise the following phases.
Initiation would originate increasingly with producer groups responding to
information on eligibility criteria. A technical service agency or an NGO
may initiate a project idea but, during preparation, it would have to
provide evidence that a producer group was seriously committed to it.
Preparation would then be undertaken by producer groups which would enlist
the help of a local technical service agency in writing up a proposal.
This draft project proposal would be distributed for comments
simultaneously to the Rural Community Council, district and provincial
officials, and the project management. The PMU would facilitate the
preparation process by providing early feedback on the project's
suitability for financing and by providing detailed information on
techniques and costs. More generally, the PMU would also provide simple
guidelines on project content, organize training sessions for leaders of
producer groups and local technical staff, and make frequent field trips to
review ongoing preparation. The final product of the preparation phase
would be a request for financing.
3.14      Appraisal.  Appraisal of the request would be undertaken at three
levels, namely by the Rural Community, the Provincial Development Committee
and Project Management. Appraisal would involve visits to the sites of
proposed sub-projects, discussions with potential beneficiaries, especially
to clarify their financial commitments, a review of technical and financial
viability, as well as a verification that a sub-project meets the selection
criteria. For financial analysis, appraisal would make sure that farm
budgets indicate a cash flow sufficient to cover all operating costs and to
remunerate labor adequately.
3.15      Approval. The power of approval of new subprojects would be
vested in the Interministerial Committee, subject to IDA approval of: (a)
all operations other than extensions of appraised operations; and (b)
extensions of appraised operations, in cases where the cost per producer
group exceeds   CFAF 30 million (US$100,000) or the cost per participating
family exceeds CFAF 750,000 (US$2,500), subject to a maximum of CFAF 450
million (US$ 1.5 million). An assurance to this effect was obtained at
negotiations. Between meetings of the Interministerial Committee, the



- 29 -
Chairperson of the Committee can approve operations for which the estimated
total cost does not exceed CFAF 10 million. As soon as a proposed
operation is approved, project management would make a contract with the
technical service agency and draft a contract between the agency and the
producer group concerned. Generally, these contracts would be
confirmations of agreements reached during preparation, except in cases
where important modifications are made during appraisal and approval. In
such cases, project management would ensure that the changes are explained
to the producer groups and any disagreements resolved, if necessary by
submitting a revised request for financing rather than by proceeding with
an investment to which the producer group is not fully committed. Further
detailed features of the small rural projects cycle are in Working Paper 3.
D.   Technical and Production Specifications
1.   Inputs
3.16      The technical and production specifications for the appraised
operations are based on experience acquired with similar small-scale
projects in or close to the areas where the proposed operations would be
implemented, as well as on experience gained under the first phase project.
There would be no innovations with respect to input types or quantities,
except insofar as technical service agencies can produce new, widely-
applicable evidence that changes are warranted.  In accordance with
Government's New Agricultural Policy, inputs for all the operations would
in general be purchased from private suppliers.  The technical service
agencies will in some cases help producer groups to acquire inputs in zones
where private suppliers have not fully taken over and where these agencies
would normally provide such services for farmers.
3.17      For the small perimeters cultivating rice, vegetables or mixed
crops, rice would be sown pregerminated during the main cropping season and
transplanted during the off-season plantings. Input specifications would
be adapted to soil types and would correspond to intput types currently
being used in similar activities in the subproject zones. In general,
however, inputs for rice would include 100 kglha of DAP; 150 kg/ha of urea
and 50 kg/ha of KCL; maize 100 kg/ha of urea, 100 kg/ha of TSP and 50 kg/ha
of KCL; tomatoes at 400 kg/ha of NPK (8.18.27) and 300kg/ha of urea; and
onions at 300 kg/ha of 8.18.27 or (10.10.28) depending on the zone,
150 kg/ha of urea and 50 kg/ha of TSP. Where sorghum is included in the
cropping rotation, a supplement of 50 kg/ha of urea would be applied.
Bananas would be set out at 2,500 plants per ha, and would receive a basal
application of 550 kg/ha of tricalcium phosphate, 500 kg/ha of magnesium
sulphate and 22 tons/ha of organic matter. This basal application would
normally be repeated every three years at the time the plants are renewed.
Annual inputs would include 1 ton/ha of NPK (10.10.20), 350 kg/ha of urea
and 400 kg/ha of potassium sulphate. Initial planting material would be
purchased by the PMU from existing banana producers. The plants would be
replaced every three years using their own offshoots. The other fruit
crops (mangoes, oranges and cashew) would be planted out at 100, 200 and
150 plants/ha, respectively. Inputs would include basal application of
organic matter, and 200 - 250 kg/ha of tricalcium phosphate for mangoes and



- 30 -
oranges. The basal application for cashew would be 50 kg/ha of NPK
(10.20.10) and 3 tons/ha of organic matter. Annual applications would be
50 kg/ha of NPK (10.10.20) for mangoes, and lOO kg/ha of urea and 50 kg/ha
of potassium sulphate for oranges at the time of flowering.
2.   Production Methods
3.18      Based on acquired experience, the production methods in the
small-scale irrigation op3rations would be quite different. In small
perimeters in the Senegal and Gambia river valleys, irrigation would be
done by flooding of hand-levelled plots of 0,3 - 0,75 ha per family. In
small vegetable perimeters, water would be carried by hand from storage
tanks to the crops. In small banana perimeters, water would be distributed
by furrows between every two rows. Most of the appraised operations would
complement existing production systems. Questions of labor allocation
between existing and new activities would therefore arise, particularly for
work to be undertaken during the rainy season. Labor availability is not
considered a problem, however, given the levels of participation in
existing small rural projects and the demand for more projects, and also
given the fact that the recent droughts have somewhat reduced farmers'
rainfed production possibilities even during the rainy season.
3.   Environmental Impact
3.19      In general, cultivation practices would involve introducing
intensification techniques in order to sedentarize farming and hence reduce
the usually destructive shifting cultivation methods. The use of
insecticides and pesticides would not only be minimal, but the products
envisaged are also of low mammalian toxicity and their use conforms to Bank
Guidelines on pesticide use. Extension advice normally includes the
training of farmers in the correct use and handling of pesticides. This
practice will continue under the project, and assurances to this effect was
obtained at negotiations. In most of the perimeters, funds are available
for planting group woodlots and windbreaks to be used as firewood. In
perimeters where surface runoff is high, soil conservation programs would
be included. The project is therefore not expected to have any adverse
environmental impact.
4.   International Water Rights
3.20      For purposes of complying with requirements concerning the use of
water from International Waterways (the Senegal and Gambia Rivers), the
Government has obtained the agreements of OMVS and Guinea for water use by
the subprojects along the Senegal River in accordance with the OMVS treaty.
For the use of water from the Gambia River Government has complied with the
reLevant reguLations of the OMVG treaty.
5.   Yields
3.21      Based on the experience of the First Small Rural Operations
Project and on experience acquired with similar small-scale operations in
Senegal, the technical and production specifications stated in para.3.16
should give the yields indicated in Annex 3-1. Under the first phase



- 31 -
project, although a number of farmers exceeded appraisal yield targets for
certain years, the first two cropping seasons, especially for rice and
vegetables, were usually below par because of problems with the irrigation
network, improper levelling, and some farmers' inexperience with
irrigation. A second lesson learnt from the first phase project was that
farmers often made inadequate provision for network maintenance, which
resulted in waste and poor water control. Emphasis in the second phase
would be on farmer training on the need for maintenance, and on putting the
maintenance account on the same level of importance as the Capital
Replacement Account. Project design also provides for levelling by the
farmers, assisted where necessary by machinery. Given these facts, yield
forecasts include a time lag between the start of cultivation and full
development, and also take into account the fact that farmers may not
cultivate the entire developed area in the first year or two.
3.22      Average yields for rice are expected to start at about 3 tons/ha
and to reach 4.5 tons/ha at full development. Tomato and other vegetable
yields would be between 15 tons/ha to 25 tons/ha at full development, while
banana yields are projected to increase from about 15 tons/ha to 25 tons/ha
at full development. Traditional cereals, maize and sorghum are projected
to yield 2 - 3 tons/ha. Mangoes, oranges and cashew plants are not
expected to start producing until the fifth year after planting. Yields
for mangoes and oranges will start at 3 tons/ha and reach full development
of 10 tons/ha from around year 12 after planting. Cashew yields are
expected to start at 150 kg/ha in year 5 after planting and to reach full
development of 600 kg/ha in year 15.
6.   Production
3.23      Individual subprojects would be relatively small and individual
families's land holdings would thus be small. To obtain maximum benefits
and returns from the project, individual farmers would have to make full
use of the joint assets and parcels attributed to them. Cropping intensity
is expected to increase from a low of about 0.9 in the first year of
cultivation to about 1.4 in year 4. In almost all cases, no production is
expected in the first two project years, which are to be devoted to land
development and asset acquisition. In some cases, production will start
later with a gradual buildup to full development from PY4 to PY6. Expected
production by volume and value is summarized in Annex 3-2.
E.   Demand, Marketing and Prices
3.24      Demand. For the appraised and future operations, outputs would
eithei substitute for imports (paddy, maize, tomatoes for paste, bananas)
or would be additions to the domestic market (vegetables, honey and wax).
However, much of the output is small relative to imports or to aggregate
domestic production. Production from the project will likely be sold near
production sites (except for bananas and honey, for which most market
outlets are in urban areas, notably in Dakar) or consumed by producers
themselves. Nationwide demand for most crops is known to be strong, except
for honey, for which market behavior is not well understood. In this
regard however, the PMU, in collaboration with the Ministry of Social



- 32 -
Development, prepared an analysis of the market prospects for honey and wax
products based on the 1988 marketing campaign that shows that a large
number of new firms have now started marketing honey and wax products
including buying for export.
3.25      Marketing.  Where cereals are concerned, producers are free to
sell either on the free markets or to parastatals at officially determined
prices. For vegetables, aside from market outlets provided by private
traders either at the farmgate or in town, the market provided by hotels is
quite large. However, more formal trade contacts need to be established
between hotels and producers. This will not only help farmers make their
production decisions more efficiently, but will also strengthen their
bargaining power in the free market since the products are highly
perishable. The project's training program for farmer groups will include
discussions of how they can develop such contacts and plan their production
decisions. It will also orovide direct assistance, through the executing
agencies, in making contacts with some of the hotels. A quota system for
bananas is currently in effect whereby private importers are required to
market local production before obtaining licence to import additional
quantities. Thus, imports represent the gap between domestic consumption -
currently estimated at 1200 tons per month - and domestic production, which
represents from 1/3 to 1/2 of total consumption. Given the improving
quality of local bananas, demand for them will be at least as strong, if
not stronger, than demand for imported ones. Hence, marketing is not
expected to ?ose a problem even with a more liberal banana import policy.
3.26      Prices.  For cereals, official prices are determined by
Government, with fixed prices for paddy rice and floor prices for maize.
However, floor prices for maize are not very effective due to the inability
of the relevant agency, the "Commissariat de Securite Alimentaire" to
purchase producer surpluses. Thus open markets, on which prices are often
lower than official prices, are the most readily available outlets for
farmers, and these prices have been used in analyzing the financial impact
on producers. For most vegetable products as well as for honey, prices are
determined by supply and demand. For bananas, however, wholesale prices at
which producers market to licensed traders are determined by Government,
producers and wholesalers, although retail prices are market determined.
F.   Financial Implications for Beneficiaries
3.27      The incremental cash incomes of beneficiaries, net of cash inputs
and contributions to the Capital Replacement and Maintenance accounts for
the appraised subprojects, together with other financial features of the
project, are given in Annex 3-3. Annual beneficiary family incomes from
the start of their involvement in the project and full development are
summarized in Annex 3-4. Detailed Farm Budgets are in Working Paper 5.
For all subprojects, except for the Ngalenka Rehabilitation and Beekeeping
subprojects, it is assumed that there would be a small substitution of
project activities for current rainfed activities. This assumption is
based on the fact that rainfall in Senegal has been declining for several
years. Thus, project beneficiaries are likely to substitute project
activities for otherwise time-consuming and revenue-losing ones. Most of



- 33 -
the labor used in the project would therefore be labor that would otherwise
be idle because family activity is below what it would normally be in good
rainfall years. However, in the cases where there is labor substitution,
income obtained from participation in the project would more than offset
any drop in pre-project incomes.
3.28      From year 5 of cultivation (full development for most
subprojects), family income, after deducting all inputs costs and making
provisions for annuity payment and for equipment and asset maintenance,
would vary from about CFAF 57,000 (US$190) for the beekeeping subproject to
about CFAF 476,000 (US$1,590) in the Fass (Medina Gounass) Fruit and Cereal
subproject, with a weighted average of about CFAF 229,000 (US$760).
Incomes per man-day would vary from CFAF 2,245 (US$7.50) for the second
Ngalenka subproject to about CFAF 4,000 (US$13.25) in the Banana
subproject. The nationwide average rural income per twelve-member family
in 1986 was about CFAF 650,000 (US$1,900), with considerable variation
between localities reflecting rainfall and availability of water for
irrigation. In the relatively well-watered eastern and southern regions of
Senegal, for example, rural family incomes would average close to CFAF
850,000, compared to about CFAF 350,000 - 400,000 for the North and parts
of the groundnut basin.
3.29      Income per labor-day at full development (year 5 for most
subprojects, except for subprojects with fruits), would be in the range of
CFAF 2,245 - CFAF 3,360, with the exception of the Banana subproject at
CFAF 4,000. The relatively high average income per labor-day reflects in
part the high official price paid for rice, a crop which would be
cultivated in most of the subprojects. Incremental labor requirements per
family are also quite low, especially given the size-of each perimeter.
G.   Cost Recovery and Financial Implications for Government
3.30      Experience with cost and rent recovery in Senegal has been poor.
Even the CNCAS, recently established with considerable safeguards to ensure
a viable agricultural credit system in Senegal, is now experiencing
difficulties in credit recovery. Recent audit reports suggest that CNCAS
has lost about a third to half of its capital through irrecoverable loans
(para 1.09). The proposed project therefore adopts a different approach,
whereby incentives are given to farmer groups to make direct provision,
both in kind and in cash, for specific items of capital and operating
costs. Medium-term assets are provided to the groups and they are expected
to recover costs, equivalent to the replacemetnt value of the assets, in
order to be able to replace these assets at the end of their useful life.
Recovered funds are to be placed in a Capital Replacement Account to be
used only for replacing the assets (para 3.10). Farmers are also expected
to pay for inputs provided through the project during the first year of
cultivation, to constitute a revolving fund for input purchase, and to pay
for maintenance of their assets and of the irrigation networks provided by
the project. Because of this beneficiary participation, and unlike other
project approaches in Senegal, the public sector would finance neither
operating costs of the subprojects nor any maintenance of assets. More
positively, the approach adopted in the project is likely to be more



- 34 -
sustainable and, because subprojects are scattered all over the country,
the approach is more geographically equitable.
3.31      There would be no directly generated revenue for Government,
since none of the project outputs are commodities on which taxes are
levied. Beneficiary incomes would, however, increase by about 352, thereby
raising incomes above the relative poverty level by about the same
proportion, and expenditures on consumer goods subject to indirect taxation
can therefore be expected to be significant. This effect cannot be
quantified with much accuracy, but an estimate based on expenditure of 502
of incremental net income on goods taxed at 202 yields the figure of about
CFAF 55 million (US$180,000) per year from year 5 for Government coffers.
H.    Benefits and Economic Analysis
1.   Benefits
3.32      One of the most important benefits of the project would be the
continued development of an institutional capacity for encouraging and
supporting of local investment initiatives for small rural operations and
for managing investment funds. By instituting the Capital Replacement
accounts and ensuring that they work, the project would render small groups
of producers creditworthy in the judgement of the local banking system. An
important benefit shown by the first phase project has been the tendancy of
more young people to remain in rural areas because of interesting new
investment opportunities engendered by the project. By focussing on the
principle that beneficiaries must manifest, both in cash and in kind, their
interest in operations, sustainability is enhanced. The principle is also
encouraging Government to bring order into the diverse terms and conditions
of financing for small rural operations, especially those executed by Non-
Governmental Organizations.
3.33      Assuming that the cost per beneficiary in the still unidentified
operations would be the same as that in the appraised operations, the
project would benefit at least 4,500 families, or about 51,000 people. The
project would introduce an additional revenue-producing activity for these
families, who in many cases would be among the poorer segments of the
population. However, the nature of the project, which requires initial
investments in labor and in cash, suggests that it would be the more
enterprising individuals, not necessarily be the poorest groups, who would
benefit most from the project. Results from the first phase suggest,
however, that the project does touch a large proport_on of the local
population, regardless of financial standing.
2.   Economic Analysis and Risks
3.34      No attempt has been made to measure the main project benefits
from the development of institutional capacity, increased creditworthiness
of producer groups, reduced rural-urban migration, and other benefits
described in para 3.32. Economic rates of return have been calculated for
all appraised subprojects, however. The following are the main assumptions
used in estimating the ERR.



- 35 -
A.   Costs: (i) all costs, including development costs and studies,
field activities, operation and maintenance costs for each
subproject were applied; (ii) in all cases, an opportunity cost
of labor of CFAF350 per labor-day was used; (iii) a standard
conversion factor of 0.72 was applied to all local costs. An
exchange rate of CFAF 300 - US$1 was used.
B.   Prices.  Farmgate prices for rice, sorghum, maize, banana,
oranges, tomatoes and fertilizer are calculated based on IBRD's
commodity price forecast (January 1988). For non-traded goods,
mainly vegetables, honey, cashew nuts and mangoes, economic
farmgate prices were estimated based on observed local market
prices.
C.   Other Assumptions.  Project life was estimated at 20 years, with
no residual values.
3.   Economic Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
3.35      Based on the above assumptions, the ERR for individual
subprojects and the project as a whole are as follows:
Operations                      Z of Project Cost         Rate of Return
Ngalenka Rehabilitation              4                          31.2Z
Second Ngalenka Rice                 9                         22.2Z
Matam Rice Perimeters                3                          16.8Z
Bakel Rice Perimeters                5                          14.6Z
Sirmang Vegetable and
Fruit Perimeter                    4                         13.2Z
Fass Cereal and Fruit Perimeter    5                            19.5Z
Beekeeping                           2                          12.6Z
Diende Banana Perimeters             5                          20.6?
All appraised subprojects            37                         20.4Z
All appraised subprojects
with 502 of project
management costs                     47                         16.0Z
Unidentified with 50?
of Project Management
Costs                                43                         14.4Z
Sum of Above                         90                        15.2?
3.36      The ERR calculation for the unidentified subprojects is based on
the assumption that their ERR would be equal to the weighted average ERR of
the appraised subprojects. Hence, the benefit stream is estimated prorata
to the cost stream, with a one-year lag.



-  36  -
3.37      Risks.  Experience under the first phase project suggests that
the main risks involve farmers' misunderstanding of the importance of the
maiatenance of assets, and poor construction of works due mainly to poor
supervision. To offset the first risk, the project includes an important
farmer training and outreach component to sensitize them to the need for
permanent maintenance to ensure high productivity. Agreements to be signed
between farmer groups and the executing agencies would include provisions
for opening operating and maintenance accounts in addition to the Capital
Replacement Accounts. Second, the executing agencies have sometimes had
poor relations with project management due to misunderstandings about their
respective roles. In such cases, the executing agencies have not paid
sufficient attention to supervision. This was one of the key issues
discussed at appraisal, and a clearer definition of the role of the
Management Unit vis-a-vis the executing agency has been prepared and agreed
on with project management and the agencies responsible for appraised
projects. This would be reflected in the contracts to be signed between
the Management Unit and aach executing agency.
3.38      The risk of underestimates of costs or overestimates of yields is
less worrisome with thie proposed project than with many other rural sector
projects. Cost estimates reflect experience gained during the first phase,
with sufficient provision made for inflation to the appraisal period.
Production estimates are based on experience, with sufficient allowances
made for start-up time and for gradual increases in yields to full
development. The economic analyses and sensitivity tests in Working Paper
4 show that a 10? decline in the benefit stream for each subproject would
entail a relative decline of 10 - 23% in base ERR rates, while a 102
increase in costs would entail a relative decline of 9 - 23Z. In all
subprojects, either a 1O0 decline in benefits or a 1O0 increase in costs
would still give a rate of return of at least 102 with the Bakel, Hatam and
Beekeeping subprojects the most sensitive to shifts in costs and benefits.
The discrete nature of the operations means that failure of one would not
have serious repercussions on the others.
IV. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIO0
4.01      Assurances were obtained from Government on the following
principal points during negotiations:
(a) for selection of small rural operations to be financed from
the funds allocated for unidentified activities, the
criteria would be that the operations must be: directly
productive! financially and economically profitable, with a
net income per labor-day of at least CFAF 650 and an
internal economic rate of return of at least 10o; and
requested by, and manifestly in the interest of, a group or
groups of producers. Such interest would be manifested by:
(i) a commitment to provide unskilled labor during
construction with no remuneration either in cash or in kind,
(ii) a lump sum cash payment of at least 10% of the value of



-  37  -
assets prior to the initial installation of the medium-term
assets, (ii) a commitment to provide for replacement of such
assets by annual payment of annuity calculated at
replacement cost, and (iii) a commitment to provide for
maintenance of such assets in kind and by annual cash
contributions (para 2.04);
(b) as a condition of disbursement for each perimeter in the
Ngalenka Rehabilitation Subproject, farmer groups
benefitting from rehabilitation works would be required to
have paid into their respective CRAs a minimum of 60? of the
eligible amount as of December 31, 1988, including any
amounts the groups may have used to replace worn out assets.
Each beneficiary group would also be required to pay into a
Maintenance account 5? of the contract value of the
rehabilitation and civil engineering works to be done (para
2.06);
(c) about 30? of the funds allocated for unidentified activities
would be reserved for projects executed solely by women's
groups (para 2.23);
(d) remuneration of technical service agencies would be
specified in contracts linking them to the project
management unit and would normally cover only direct costs
associated with implementing the given subproject, with no
contribution to overhead (para 3.06);
(f) as a condition for provision of medium-term assets to any
group cf producers, the group would open and pay into its
capital replacement account an amount equivalent to at least
10? of the delivered cost of such assets, and the payments
would be verified by the project management unit (para
3.11).
(g) each contract between a technical service agency and a
producer group would specify the amount of the annual
payment and the date payable into the group's capital
replacement account, as well as payments necessary for asset
maintenance (para 3.11);
(h) for both the CRAs under the first phase project and those
under the proposed project to which payments were overdue at
the time of any meeting of the interministerial committee,
the latter would issue the necessary instructions to take
appropriate action to pay up the arrears (para 3.12); and
(i) power of approval of operations to be financed from the
unidentified category would be vested in the
Interministerial Committee subject to IDA approval. This
would apply to all operations other than extensions of
appraised operations, and in the case of extensions of
appraised operations where the cost per producer group



-  38  -
exceeded CFAF 30 million (US$100,000) or where the cost per
participating family exceeded CFAF 750,000 (US$2,500);
between meetings of the Committee its chairperson can
approve operations for which the estimated cost does not
exceed CFAF 10 million (para 3.15).
4.02      The Condition of effectiveness would be that:
(a) an interministerial decree creating the Interministerial
Committee would have been issued (para 3.02);
4.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the project is suitable
for an IDA credit of US$16.1 million equivalent to the Republic of Senegal
on standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.



-39-
ANNEX 1 - 1
SENEGAL
SECOND SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
Situation of Capital Replacemnt Accounts tSR0 1)  L/
No. of    Area     Years  Status of Capital Replacement Accounts (End Dec. 1987)
Farmers Developed  Cult.
Annuity  Total to  Total Paid  Amount Amount in   X of CRA
be Paid               Usd    Account    Paid
I. Small Rice Perimeters of Npalenks          ---------------------  CFAF  '000)---------------
DIANIOUM  I            40       88       6    1,297.0    6,760.0     2,898.6   2,126.0    268.6      86
DIANIWUM  II           40       B0     8.5    1,297.0    4,804.6     1,922.3   1,677.0      46.8     40
DIANIOUM  III          40       8o     1.5    1,297.0   2,210.6        606.0    --         606.0     23
DIANIWM  IV            48       80       2    1,297.0   2,869.0        488.9      --       488.9     17
DIMAR  I               46       ao       6    1,297.0    6,760.0     8,069.8   1,764.4  1,806.2      46
DIMAR  II              48       80       8    1,297.0    4,168.0     1,898.0     --      1,898.0    84
DIMAR  III             40       28       8    1,297.0    4,166.0     1,634.8      -      1,634.8     a9
DIMAR  IV              40       81       2    1,297.0    2,869.0       780.0      -        780.0    27
DIMAR  VI              46       80       2    1,297.0   2,869.0    2,089.8        -      2,089.8     78
DIMAR  VII             48       48     1.6    1,297.0    2,210.5     1,620.2             1,820.2    78
DIEURBA  I             40       8o       2    1,297.0   2,869.0        204.7               294.7     10
DIEURBA  II            40                2    1,297.0    2,869.0       276.0               276.0    10
FANAYE  I              40       26       6    1,297.0   6,760.0      8,678.6   1,764.4  1,809.2    65
FANAYE  II             40       28       6    1,297.0   6,760.0      2,189.8   1,639.8   600.0       82
FANAYE  III            s0       40       6    1,297.0   8,760.0      2,498.9  1,876.9    622.0       37
FANAYE  IV             40       28     2.6    1,297.0    8,607.6     1,290.      --      1,290.8     87
FANAYE  V              40       27     2.6    1,297.0    8,607.6     2,690.0      -      2,690.0     77
FANAYE  VI             40       22     2.6    1,297.0    3,607.6     1,609.7     --      1,609.7     46
FANAYE  VII            40       28     2.6    1,297.0    8,607.6     1,446.8             1,448.3     41
FANAYE  VIII           40       27     2.6    1,297.0    8,607.6     1,691.9             1,691.9    48
SOUMOUNABE             40       30     1.5    1,297.0    2,210.6     1,246.7      -      1,246.7    65
THIANGAYE  I           46       28       4    1,297.0    5,465.0     2,780.2  2,164.4    665.8       60
THIANCAYE  II          46       21       4    1,297.0    6,463.0     2,152.6   1,639.8    613.2      39
THIANOAYE  III         42       80       8    1,297.0   4,166.0      1,061.6    --       1,061.6     26
THIANOAYE  IV          41       go     2.6    1,297.0    8,607.5     1,608.9             1,608.9     48
THIANOAYE  V           40       30     1.6    1,297.0    2,210.5       984.9               984.9     46
THILLE BOUBACAR  I    40      82.6       6    1,297.0   6,760.0      2,067.8   1,794.4   283.4    80
THILLE BOUBACAR  II   40      27.6       8    1,297.0    4,156.0       824.8     --        824.8    20
TOTAL SUB-PROJET     1165      796     8.0    1,297.0  117,016.6    46,973.1  18,846.1 29,828.0      89
II. Small Vetable Perimeters
NDIARAO                65        6       3      570.0   2,088.0      1,836.2    --       1,888.2     04
NDAME                  48        4       8      462.0    1,686.0       786.0    --         786.0    47
KEUR EL HADJI          60        6       a      670.0   2,070.0      1,100.0    --       1,100.0     63
WUELOR                 48        4       8      882.0    2,933.0     1,876.0     --      1,876.0     64
NDIOUDIWF              e6        6       8    1,020.0    3,466.0     2,889.8     --      2,889.8     69
TACKIHOUM              80       12       a    1,182.0    8,942.0     2,033.0      --     2,038.0    62
DABDIOR                64        6       2      873.6    1,983.2     1,897.6     --      1,897.6    96
NIOUAR                 as        6    0.6       886.1      679.0       236.0     -         288.0    38
NDIOUK-THIOUCK         64        6     0.6      921.8      696.8       625.0     --        526.0     76
DIOLOFIRA              62        6     0.6      902.1      687.1       626.0      --       626.0     76
TATTAGUINE                       2
SESSENE                          1
TOTAL SIU-PROJET     e61        65                      20,221.1    12,702.6    0.0    12,702.6      63
III. Banana Perimeters
NCUINDIR             134      13.4       2    2,881.0   6,298.0    5,819.0   --          5,819.0     92
MALIFARA             146      14.6       2    8,117.6    6,816.0     6,739.6    --       6,789.6    86
BAMBALY              117      11.7       2    2,616.6    6,499.0     4,299.6    --       4,299.6     78
TEMENTO              184      13.4       1    2,881.0    3,866.6       474.6    --         474.6    14
SIBANA               186      13.6       2    2,881.0    8,298.0     4,448.0   --        4,443.0    71
MANGAROUNGOU         160      1656       0    3,830.0      760.0       783.2   --          788.2   104
SATHIOUM             150      1656       0    8,330.0      760.0       760.0   --          760.0   '.00
KOUGNE               160      1656       0    3,330.0      760.0       760.0   --          760.0   100
TOTAL SUB-PROJET   1,116     118.1            3,033.8  80,61656    23,108.7    --       23,108.7    78
IV. Fishing (Hann Beach)
25                  2    1,860.0    4,060.0     8,678.0   --       8,678.0    91
1   Figuroe  in gonoral reprosent Mission Estimatos based on scattered information.  No data is avoilablo
fir the Beekeeping subproject. The Lompoul Fishing subproject was stopped for nonpayment of CRA.



-40-
ANNEX 2 -1
SENEGAL
SECOND SMALL RURALOERATIONS PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY TIME AND BY COMPONENT
---------------- CFAF  Million----------------US8 00  UBase Foroign  Local
0      1      2     a      4      6    Total Total Costs  Costs   Costs  Taxes
Rehabilitation of Ngalonka  0.0  60.1  69.4   92.0    8.4    4.0   224.0   0.76    4   148.0   78.0    6.1
Second Ngalnka Perimeters  0.0   92.9  110.0  126.0  168.2   69.4   545.5   1.82    9   324.7  220.8  10.3
Small Perimeters of Metam   0.0   19.6  106.8  20.7  22.7  26.9   194.5   0.66    8   113.7   80.7    7.1
Small Perimeters of Bakal   0.0   44.1  106.0   87.8   84.6  39.2   811.6   1.04    6   181.4  130.1    9.4
Sirmang PorImeter           0.0   22.1  145.3   81.6   17.1   19.0   236.1   0.78    4   109.6  126.5    7.3
Foss  Porimeters            0.0  139.4   93.6   41.1  38.2   83.6   840.9   1.14    6   180.7  160.2   13.6
Boeekeping (Kolda)          0.0   63.9  11.9   11.4   11.4   11.4    99.9   0.33    2    42.1   67.8    9.2
Diende Banans Perl tors    0.0  166.7   40.5   81.2   31.2   41.1   810.8   1.04    6   176.8  136.5   12.1
Project Manageont           0.0  383.3  862.8  312.8  298.1  805.2  1842.8   5.47   28   626.8 1016.6  59.4
Unidentified Activities     0.0    0.0  884.0  656.0  886.0  660.0  2076.0   6.92   82  1288.8  836.3  67.7
PPF                       440.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   440.9   1.47    7   440.9    0.0   0.0
Base Costs             440.9  962.0 1379.8 1808.6 1260.9 1088.7  6420.4  21.40  100  3582.0 2838.4 201.0
Physical Contingencies   6.6   70.5  107.6   96.5   86.3   84.4   428.8   1.43    7   266.7  173.0  11.7
Price Contingencies      3.2   60.2  149.7  210.8  270.7  297.1   991.6   8.80   16   426.8  564.8  42.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS       449.6 1082.7 1683.6 1614.7 1608.8 1460.3  7840.6  28.1          4264.6 3578.0 264.6



-41-
ANNEX 2 -2
SENEGAL
SECOND SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY TIME AND EXPENDITURE TYPE
-------------------- CFAF  Million---------------- US1000 X Base  Foreign  Local
0    1      2       a      4      5   Total  Total Costs   Costs  Costs Taxes
-------------------------------------------------
Vehicles and Equipment   0.0  177.6  203.2   44.4   84.0   15.8   474.7    1.6    7.4   362.0  122.7   23.3
Land Development         0.0  209.7  266.8  165.6   48.8    0.0   679.9    2.8   10.6   424.0  26B.0    0.0
Wells and Tubewells      0.0   64.0   18.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    82.0    0.8   1.3    66.1   26.9    0.0
Rural Roads              0.0  100.0   12.6   12.6    0.0    0.0   126.0    0.4    1.9    68.3   68.8    0.0
Other Civil Works        0.0   64.2  108.1   83.0   26.4    0.0   281.7    0.8    3.6   130.0  101.7   0.0
Materials and Tools      0.0   48.8   28.8    9.0    6.0    0.0    82.0    0.8    1.3    47.8   34.7    4.6
Agricultural Inputs      0.0    0.0   41.9   52.6   61.0   76.2   231.8    0.8    8.6   131.0  100.8    0.0
Consultants and Training 0.0   90.1  109.2  123.8  10V.2  109.2   641.0    1.8    8.4   426.6  114.6    0.0
Salaries and Allowances  0.0  108.2  116.6  117.1  116.2  111.8   670.1    1.9    8.9       0.0  670.1    0.0
Operating Costs          0.0   96.0  163.2  198.1  213.2  226.9   886.8    3.0   13.8   424.8  461.6  105.5
Unidentitfed Projects    0.0    0.0  834.0  666.0 636.0  660.0  2076.0    6.9   32,3  1238.8  836.3   67.7
PPF                    440.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   440.9    1.5    ^ 9   295.4  146.6    0.0
BASE COSTS             440.9  962.0 1379.8 1808.6 1260.9 1088.7  6420.4   21.4  100.0  3682.0 2838.4  201.0
Physical Contingencies   6.5   70.6  107.6   96.6   86.8   64.4   428.6    1.4    6.7   265.7  173.0   11.7
Price Contingencies      8.2   60.2  149.7  210.6  270.7  297.1   991.6    3.8   16.4   426.8  654.8   42.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS    449.5 1082.7 1636.5 1614.7 1606.8 1460.3  7840.6   26.1  122.1  4264.6 3676.0  264.6



-42-
ANNEX 2 - 8
SENEGAL
SECOND SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
Project Cost by Subproject and by Year
FOREIGN
Project Component                  PYL   PY2       PYS      PY4      PYS     TOTAL    TOTAL   EXCHANGE
----------'--00)---------------------------------- (St 00)
----------------(CFAF millon)---------------------                 X
Ngslenks Rehabilitation
Investment                        44.1    61.0    88.6      0.0      0.0    188.7       829     72
Operating Costs                    6.0      8.4     8.4     8.4      4.0     86.8       118     82
Sul-Total                      60.i    8 0                               224. mT             68
Second N.alenka Perimeters
Investment                        88.8    98.?    98.7   114.8       0.0    400.6      1885     82
Incremental Inputs                 0.0      4.1     9.0    17.8    21.1      61.4       171     73
Operating Costs                    4.1      7.8    17.2    28.6    88.8      98.6       812     42
Sub-Total                      92.9  I10.0   126.0   1117!    9i.    FiFWg          18T1     80
Matam Rice Perimeters
Investment                        16.6   100.2      0.0     0.0      0.0    116.8       889    e6
Incremental Inputs                 0.0      0.0     4.0     6.0      9.8     19.8        66     60
Operating Costs                    2.9      6.6    16.7    16.7    16.1      57.9       198     42
Sub-Total                       W7U   106.8I    077    sE7    9i         Ti91                se 58
Bakol Rice Perimeters
Investment                        89.8    96.2    64.2      0.0      0.0    198.7       682    68
Incremntal Inputs                  0.0      1.0     4.7     9.4    14.1      29.2        97     63
Operating Costs                    4.8      9.7    18.9    26.1    26.1      88.7       279     42
Sub-Total                      44.1   108.0    77ff     NU 8.    89      811.5      1088     68
STrman IFruit A VYe. Perimeters
Ynvestment                       19.4   188.8    16.0      0.0      0.0    178.2       677     48
incremental Inputs                 0.0      1.8     2.2     2.5      2.8      8.8        29     s0
Operating Costs                    2.7      5.1    14.5    14.8    13.2      68.1       177     41
Sub-Total                      221   145.8   31.    i77!    19.0    FHET            Va      47
Fass Fruit A Cereal Perimeters
Investment                       182.7    61.3      1.6     0.0      0.0    196.6      862      60
Incremental Inputs                 0.0    18.8    20.8    18.6    18.8       61.4       205     62
Operating Costs                    6.7    18.6    19.8    19.7    19.7       84.0       280     88
Sub-Total                     I189.     93.8    ilii    88.2    38.8 7              T1188    58
Beekeeping (Kolda)
investment                        48.8      0.6     0.0     0.0      0.0     48.8       168     49
Operating Cost.                    7.6    11.4    11.4    11.4    11.4       63.2       177     86
Sub-Total                      68.9    11.9    11.4    11.4    11.4       99.9      188      42
Banana Perimeters (Diende)
Investment                       160.8      0.0     0.0     0.0      7.8    187.9       630     69
Incremental Inputs                 0.0    21.7    12.4    12.4    14.7       61.2       204     49
Operating Costs                    6.4    18.8    18.8    18.8    18.8       81.7       272     88
Sub-Total                     166.7    40.56    1.2    81.2    41.1    810.8        108      67
Prolect Mana montl
Constr.a E*quip of Antennas       49.0    40.6      0.0     0.0      0.0     89.6       299     69
Vehicles, Equip. A Supplies       71.4    84.8    10.8    10.2    17.8    144.0         480     78
Consultant. A Training            90.1   109.2   128.8   109.2   109.2    541.0        1808     72
Salaries A Allowances            109.8   116.8   116.8   115.8   116.8    671.1        1904      0
Operating A Travel Costs          48.0    63.4    68.4    88.4    63.4    296.6         989     66
Sub-Total                     368.3   362.8   298.1   805.2   286.2   1642.8        647i     61
Non-Identified Projects            3.0   334.0  566.0  686.0   660.0   2076.0          8917     60
Refunding PPF                    440.9       --      --       --      --    440.9      1470    100
Total Base Costs             1892.9  1879.8  1808.6  1260.9  1088.7   6420.4    21401    56
Physical Contingencies            76.0   107.6    95.5    85.8    64.4    428.6        14289    60
Expected Price Increases          68.4   149.7   210.6   270.7   297.1    991.6        8806     48
Total Project Costs          1682.2  1638.6  1814.7  1608.8  1460.8   7840.5    28186        54



SENEGAL
SECOND SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(SDR Million)
IDA FY and               Estimate by   Cumulative
Quarters Ending          Semester     D_ISBURSEMENT  F'ROFILE
iIt.TORi4AL AND ESTIMATEO P9iLE
1990                                                                          1 2                     -_                                     _
II                  --               -- 
IV                  1.1              1.1                              II
II                  0.2              1.3                              10                                                     ,/
IV                  0.4              1.7                                                                                 //
1992                        014 2.1
II                  0                2.1                               a 3/
IV                  0.6              2.7                                 1
1993                        0.              8.8                                 j
II                  0.9              I.4                                 1                                                                     Jr 
IV                  0.6              4.1                        3                                              -
1994
ii            ~~~~~0.7          4.8                        U
IV                  0.7              5.5                                                              ,-
1996                                                                                                            e
II                  0.9              6.4 
IV                  1.1              7.5 '6 
19962
IV                  1.2              9.8                               1, 
1997 
II                  1.1             10.9
198 IV                  0.9             11.8                               19a'JO 11 P1 1-991 11 IV 1992 11 P/ 19931 III 1994 11 P1lg IP 199 6 11   Pd 19 97 11 PvIS7  V296,   II
II                  0.2             12.0 CiA FSLAL YhAR
a  E5AMtE             +  PkrliE
(a) Assuming Board Approval In February 1989
(b) The historical profile for Sonegal's Agricultural sector
was used. However it Is assumed that the PPF would be paid
off at effectiveness and th-reforo was taken out of the
credit amount in estimating disbursements by semester.
X



-44-
Annex 2-5
Page 1 of 2
SENEGAL
SECOND SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING SERVICES
The firm appointed to provide accounting and audit services to
the Project will carry out three distinct, though related, tasks: first, it
will review and advise on the adequacy of the existing budgeting,
accounting, internal control and management information system, make the
necessary modifications and thereafter monitor the implementation of the
system; second, it will carry out a quarterly verification of project
expenditures; and third, it will perform an annual audit of the Project's
financial statements and report thereon.  These tasks are -nore fully
described below.
Under the first-phase project, a system was established to
ensure that expenditures for each operation and for the project as a whole
are properly budgeted, accounted for, and controlled. Under this system,
annual budgets are prepared by the Project Manager for each operation and
for the whole project, and these are then agreed with the agencies that
provide technical services. The agencies ensure that separate accounts are
kept for each operation, and that monthly records of expenditure are
submitted to the Project Manager. The Project Manager prepares monthly
expense statements for each operation, showing actual expenditures for the
month and for the year to date against the budget for that year, and for
total expenditures on a given operation to date (including prior years)
against the total budget for that operation. The Project Manager also
prepares a consolidated expenditure statement. The system would normally
provide adequate internal control over expenditures on each subproject and
over assets acquired, ensuring that such expenditures and assets are used
only for the project. The information needed by management to plan and
/control project expenditures was to be furnished through the budgets and
periodic expenditure statements, together with such additional analysis and
commentary as the statements might require.
Under the second phase of the project, this system would
continue. The appointed firm would, however, propose additional procedures
for monitoring the performance of subprojects and for ensuring better
relations between the subprojects and the Project Management Unit (PMU).
Relations between the PMU and subprojects would be formalized. The firm
will also introduce a simple computerized system for keeping accounts and
tracking expenditures. In the course of carrying out the quarterly
verification of expenditutres and the annual audit, the firm would be
expected to review the accounting procedures and to make whatever
recommendations it considers appropriate for improving and supplementing
them.



-45-
Annex 2-5
Page 2 of 2
The firm will carry out a quarterly verification of project
expenditures to ensure that: (i) expenditures submitted by executing
agencies are supported by adequate documentation; (ii) the monthly
expenditure statements have been properly prepared; (iii) applications for
disbursements from the IDA Credit and Statements of Expenditure are
supported by the accounts books; and (iv) evidence is provided of cash in
hand and at banks. Normally, the quarterly verification of expenditures
would be performed at project headquarters and, where necessary, during
field visits. The firm will make a brief report on the quarterly
verification to the Project Manager and the Minister for Social
Development.
The firm will carry out, in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards, an annual audit of the project's financial statements
(expenditure statement and balance sheet), and will certify whether or not
they represent fairly the financial position of the project. In
particular, the firm should satisfy itself as to the existence of assets
financed under the project and of cash and bank balances. The firm should
report to the Project Manager and the Minister on its findings, commenting
on such matters as the accounting organization, budgeting control, control
by and over executing agencies, disbursement applications and internal
control. The report will include a specific opinion on the accuracy of
statements of expenditures furnished in support of requests for
disbursements from the IDA credit.



-46-
ANNEX a -
SENEGAL
SECOND SMALL RUWAL  PRATIONS PROJECT
Yild Estimates (Tons/ha)
Year of Cultivation            0    1    2    8    4    6    6        7     8      9   10+
Rehabilitation Ngal.nka Porimeters
Rico (Rainy Season)           S.6   4      4   4.6  4.6  4.6  4.5   4.6   4.6   4.5  4.5
Rice (Dry Season)               4   4      4   4.6    5    6    6       6     6      6    5
Mlizo                           2   2   2.6      8    8    8    8       a     8      8    a
Tomatoes                       18  18    20    26   26   26   26    26    26    26   26
Onions.                        10  12    16    20   26   26   25    26    26    26   26
Second N alenka Perimeters
Ric  (Rainy Season)                 8   8.5   4.6  4.6  4.6  4.6  4.6   4.6   4.5  4.6
Rice (Dry Season)                 8.6      4   4.6    6    5    6    6       6      6    6
Maize                               2   2.6      a    3    a    a    8       8      a    a
Tomatoes                           15    20    26   26   26   26   26    26    25   26
Onions                             10    16    20   26   26   25   25    26    26   25
Matam Perimeters
Rice (Roiny Season)               8.6      4     4  4.6  4.6  4.6  4.6   4.6   4.6  4.6
Rice (Dry Season)                   4   4.5   4.6    6    5    6    6        6      5    6
Sorghum                             2   2.2   2.5  2.6  2.5  2.5  2.6   2.6   2.6  2.6
Maize                               8      a     8    a    8    a    a       8      3    8
Tomatoes                           26    80    80   80   80   80   80    80    80   80
Onions                             10    16    20   26   26   25   26    26    26   26
Potatoes                           15    20    20   26   26   26   26    26    26   26
Bakel Perimeters
Rico (Roiny Seson)                  3   3.5   4.6  4.6  4.6  4.6  4.5   4.6   4.5  4.6
Rice (Dry Season)                 3.5      4   4.5  4.6  4.5  4.6  4.6   4.6   4.6  4.5
Sorghum                           1.6      2   2.6  2.6  2.6  2.6  2.6   2.6   2.6  2.6
Maize                               2   2.6      8    8    8    8    3       a      8    8
Tomatoes                           15    20    25   26   25   25   25    25    26   26
Onions                             10    16    20   25   25   26   26    26    26   26
Potatoes                           15    18    20   26   26   26   26    26    26   26
e;irmano Perimeter
Tomatoes                           18    19    22   22   26   26   26    25    26   26
Onions                             15    20    22   22   26   25   26    26    26   26
Cabbege                            15    18    20   20   20   20   20    20    20   20
Popper                              8    10    12   16   15   16   16    15    15   15
Aubergine                          16    20    20   22   26   26   26    26    26   25
Cashew Nuts                                              0.16  0.2  0.8   0.4   0.6  0.6
Mangoes                                                     a    6    S      8    10   10
Irri-ated Perimeters of Fass (Medina-Gounass)
Rice (Rainy Season)                 8   8.5   3.8    4    4    4    4        4      4    4
Rice (Dry Season)                 8.6      4   4.6  4.6  4.6  4.6  4.6   4.6   4.6  4.5
Maize (Rainy Season)                2      2   2.6  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.6   2.6   2.6  2.5
Maize (Dry Season)                  2   2.5      8    8    8    8    8       8      8    8
Banna                                     16  17.5   20   20   20   20    20    20   20
Mangoes                                                     a    5    6      8    10   10
Oranges                                                     8    6    6      8    10   10
Beekeeping Kolda (kg of cake/Bee-hive)
Traditional Hives              4  4.6      6     6    6    6    6    6       6      6    5
Improved Traditional Hives          8    10    15   18   18   18   18    18    18   18
Modern Hives (2 Levels)            38  43.2  62.8   60   60   60            60 so    60   6o
Diende Banana Perimeters
Banana                                    15    20 22.6   25   26   25    25    26   26



-47-
ANNEX 3 - 2
SENEGAL
SECOND SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
Production Estimates (Tons)
Proect Year                     0    1      2     a      4     6      6     7      8     9    10    11    12   16+
Rehabilitation Ngalenks Perimeters (Incremental Production)
Rice (Paddy)                               18    62   180   314   488   528   528   528   628   528   628   628
Maize                                      10    38    88   126   168   156   168   168   166   166   168   166
Tomatoes                                    0    60   840   940  1620  1920  1920  1920  1920  1920  1920  1920
Onions                                      4    18    92   280   420   480   480   400   480   480   480   480
Second Ngolenks Perimeters
Rlce (Paddy)                                    135   348   717   958  1122  1160  1160  1160  1160  1160  1150
Maize                                            21    61   103   180   160   150   160   150   150   150  10
Tomatoes                                        225   626  1200  1750  2300  2600  2500  2600  2600  2600  2500
Onions                                           16    60   186   880   460   500   500   600   600   600   600
Matam Perimeters
Rice (Paddy)                                    221   272   811   371   371   371   371   371   871   371   371
Sorghum                                           9    10    23    28    28    28    28    28    23    23    23
Maize                                            14    14    27    27    27    27    27    27    27    27    27
Tomatoos                                        113   136   270   270   270   270   270   270   270   270   270
Onions                                           45    68   138   226   225   226   226   226   226   226   225
Potatoes                                          0    90   136   226   225   226   ?26   225   226   226   226
Bakel Perimeters
Rice (Paddy)                               46   208   407   670   876   702   702   702   702   702   702   702
Sorghum                                     6    24    47    66    76    76    76    76    76    76    76    76
Malze                                       8    34    61    80    90    90    90    90    90    90    90    90
Tomatoes                                    8    33    70   120   160   160   160   160   150   150   160   160
Onions                                     10    46   106   213   880   376   876   376   376   375   376   375
Potatoes                                    0     9    67   201   330   375   376   376   375   876   376   376
Sirmang Perimeter
Tomatoes                                         63    88    99   110   126   126   126   125   126   126   126
Onions                                           88   120   186   165   188   188   188   188   188   188   188
Cabbage                                          28    86    40    60    60    60    50    50    60    50    50
Pepper                                           12    20    24    38       8    88    88 8    38    88    38    38
Aubergine                                        46    70    70    77    88    88    98    88    88    88    88
Cashew Nuts                                                                 1      1     3      6     6     8    11
Mangoes                                                                    18    48    84   132   174   204   240
Irrigated Perimeters of Fass (Medina-Counass)
Rice (Paddy)                               46   118   163   205   239   260   260   260   260   260   260   250
Maize                                      38    80   112   136   185   186   135   136   185   186   136   136
Banana                                      0   225   488   4683   400   400   400   400   400   400   400   400
Mangoes                                     0     0      0     0      8    20    28    36    46    60    50    50
Oranges                                     0     0      0     0      0     8    20    28    35    46    50    50
Beekeeping Kolda (Incronental Production)
Honey (Traditional Beehives)                4     9    16    19    21    22    22    22    22    22    22    22
Honey (Modern Boehives)                     2     4      8     9    10    11    11    11    11    11    11    11
Wax                                         1     2      3     4      4     4     4      4     4      4     4      4
Diende Banana Perimeters
Banana                                          460   800   460   600   600   600   600   600   600   600   500



- 48 -
ANNEX 8 - 8
SENEGAL
SECOND SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
FINANCIAL FEATURES
________________________________________________________________________________________________________.
RICeo      Rice   Rice    Fruit Veg. Fruit  Beekeeping Bananas  Ngale
Unit    Ngalonka 2  Matam Bak-l  Sirmang        A Cereal    Kolda   Diend.   Robal
Faso
Base Data
Tot. Base Cost   CFAF million    639      194     322        234       327         100     317      222
Benef. Families  No.             400      260     600         100       100        150     800      512
Cost per Family  CFAF '000   1347.6    776.0   636.7      2a40.0    3270.0      666.7  1056.7   433.6
US 3           4492    2687      1789      7800      10900      2222     8622    1446
Area Developped Ha               8OO       90     180         60        120                 81      380
Cost per Ha.    CFAF '000       1797    216e    1789        3900      2725                10226     684
us S           6989    7186    6983       13000      9083               34086    1947
Tot. Operations  No.              10        4       6          1         2          8        2       12
Families/Oper.   No.             40       63      100        100        so         50      150       43
Cost/Operation   CFAF million   63.9    48.6    63.7       234.0     163.6       83.3    158.6    18.6
US I '000       180      162      179       780       546         1ll     628       62
Capital RejDlc_ment Account and Operating Cost at Full Development psr Producer Group
Init. Payment   CFAF '000     840.0   779.1    848.0      2186.0    1043.6      837.6    948.0    n.a
Annuity        CFAF '000    1876.0  1764.2   1890.0    4248.0    2276.5         1796.0  2096.6   1876.0
Op. Costs (F.D) CFAF '000    6e48.0  4933.9  6191.0    11194.7  13144.8         700.0  11736.4  6648.0
Income and Not Return at Full Development per Family
Full Development    Year of Cul.  4         4       4          15       18          4        6        4
Gross Income        CFAF '000   6B7       288      247       427       840         106     208      531
Input A Oper. Costs CFAF '000   141       79       62        112       263         14       78      132
Capital Replacement CFAF '000    47       28       19         42        46         84       14       44
Net Income (F.D)    CFAF '000   879       181     166        V?2        532        67      le      365
Labor Input        Man-days/yr   169       72      a6         63       221         21       29      158
Net Income/m-day    CFAF        2242    2626      2578      4360       2410      2740    3977      2245
Net Income per ha  CFAF '000   560.2   601.6   664.6         464.0     443.0      n.a      1123.7   478



- 49 -
ANNEX 3 - 4
SENEGAL
SECOND SMALL RURAL OPERATIONS PROJECT
Beneficiaries' Incomeu
Cross    Input A    Capital Roplaceomnt    Total    Not    Labor   Not Income
Incom    Othor Op.  ---------------------  Cost    Incom    Input          per
Cost        Initial   Annuity                (b)    (Mondays)  Monday
------------------------------------------------------------__---------
---------------------  CFAF  '000)------------------------                CFAF
Second Ngslenko Riee Perimeters
Per F_ilY (0.76 MO
Year 1                       173.8       91.2       21.0       46.9    169.1      14.6         92      167
Year 2                       274.6      109.9          -       46.9    166.8    117.8         118     1000
Year 3                       492.0      132.2          -       46.9    179.1    312.9        16      2011
Year 4 on                    668.9      141.2          -       46.9    188.1    378.8         169     2246
Small Mateo Irrigated Perimeters
Per Family (0.3 he)
Year 1                        92.4       43.2       12.6       28.1      83.8      8.6         44      196
Year 2                       128.6       63.0          -       28.1      81.1     47.4         49      958
Year 3                       214.8       71.1          -       28.1      99.2    116.6         66     1769
Year 4 on                    287.6       78.9          -       28.1    107.0    180.6          72     2626
Small Bokol Irrigated Permeeters
Per Family !0.8 he)
Year 1                        69.0       33.7        8.S       18.9      61.1     (2.1)        34        0
Year 2                        98.7       42.0          -       18.9      60.9     37.8         44      864
Year 3                       193.0       66.9          -       18.9      74.8    118.2         67     2077
Year 4 on                    247.2       61.9          -       18.9      80.8    166.4         65     2678
Sirmng Vegetable & Fruit Perimeters
Per Family (0.16 ha You. A .45 Fruit)
Year 1                       148.1       82.9       21.9       42.6    147.2       0.9         28       33
Year 3                       288.0      117.6          -       42.6    160.1    127.9          46     2876
Year 6                       368.3      116.6          -       42.6    168.0    200.3          60     8363
Year 16 on                   426.8      111.9          -       42.5    164.4    272.4          63     4360
Fess Cereal & Fruit Perimeters
Per Family (0.8 ha Cereals A 0.4 Fruit)
Year 1                       112.5       55.8       20.9       46.6    122.2      (9.7)       166        0
Year 3                       878.3      246.9          -       46.6    291.4    686.9         193     3044
Year 6                       784.6      262.9          -       46.6    308.4    476.1         217     2199
Year 12 on                   840.0      262.9          -       46.6    308.4    531.6         221     2410
Diends Banana Perinters;
Per Family (0.1 he)
Year 1                         0.0           -       6.3          -       6.3     (6.3)        28        0
Year 2                       187.6       77.1          -       14.0      91.1     96.4         30     3234
Year 3                       260.0       77.1          -       14.0      9i.1    168.9         30     6332
Yoar 6 on                    208.3       78.2          -       14.0      92.2    116.1         29     3977
Kolda Beekeeping SubproJect
Per Family (2 modern *10 Improved Trad.t20 Trod hives)
Year 1                        64.5       14.0       16.8       36.9      66.7     (2.2)        18        0
Year 2                        76.6        14.0         -       36.9      49.9     26.6         21     1279
Year 3                        93.3       14.0          -       36.9      49.9     43.4         21     2088
Year 4 on                    106.2       14.0          -       86.9      49.9     66.3         21     2660
Rehab. Ng.lenks Perimeters
Per Family (0.76 he)
Year 0                       243.9         Q.7         -       46.9    146.6      98.3        111      807
Year 1                       276.0      1'  S          -       46.9    163.4    121.6         117     1042
Year 2                       317.3           7         -       46.9    166.6    161.7         127     1197
Yoar 3                       492.0         .. 2        -       46.9    179.1    312.9         156     2011
Year 4 on                    666.9      .41.2          -       46.9    188.1    378.8         169     2248



IBRD 21200
Ir                                                                    ItanIei    oEQoE-o
Ir                                                                                                                                                                                      LIOYA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LEI  IY
SEX  /  M                                                                                                                                                                                                          A                              U R I T A NEG A  A  N  A  .  I  A A U RI  ALGERA
SECOND SMALL RURAL OPERATION PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                   MAU1TEANIA           '
SECOND PHASE PROJECT,                                                                                                                                                                                               SENE.           _AL   N, IGER                       I
Fruit and Vegetable Perimeter                                                                                                                                                                              THE GAMBIA  -  /              B' IAK NA
Fruit, Rice and Banana Perimeter                                                                                                                                                                           GUNAFSA                         ASOi- 
GU NEA             I   NfT
Rice Rehabilitation Perimeter                                                                                             GL NERIA    I T
16           Rice ond Vegetable Perimeters                                                                                                                                                                           _       SAERA (EONE  i      1t   RE NIIANA
LIREEAt
Banana Perimeter                                                                                                                                S                                                                                         TOG)             'CAMERGONk
Beekeeiexping Operation                                          t    t     |         )           e,e,                                 \        S  A   I N   T  -          >       -\                       A t 1-a n t S                TOGO BENIN      J R         )
B eek epin   O peratianLa9b>r                                     90J0   \    L       U                       \                              C   c    e  n                      EQ .   G UIN EA    _ J  L -
L 0   U I S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A tON
FIRST PHASE PROJECT;                                                                                                                                                                                                               _
r-.-nSmall Rice Perimetert
Smoll Vegetoble Perimeter                           Ti                                                                                                                              /    yt.:dr
[       Small Banana Perimeter                                                                                                                                                          ,"         -.L
0    Beekeeping                                 M       M                                                                                                i\o 
*   Fishing Sub Projects                                                khQ S.IIbbby
Villoge Woter Supply Base                               M    tor      one   Mvn1v z. . -                                                                                   /
M bayadk              0 ioes)B.b. G-r9\>n1 .U  uv \C  N 
-      Paved Roads                                         #t                                                        Wi'               .,..J{\B\a/>?2-s* 0"'  b-T.',
Gravel Rowds
Earth Roads
     ;Paed Roads Under Co struction
4  ---Railroads                                                 NfO  Kov   p.N,, ua            I 
Fe-resK-h1s
w    Awports                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0.tunu&u
_   _  Region Boundaries                                                                                                                                                                 A    M       B   A   0        U   D_A
-  -Internotionol Bovndories
T 1- r    ;* >,-j   y                              -x /$                                                R                                                                 f
-                                                              Coo SkIrirajo.                           '                       U I N E A - B I S S A U                                                                                   I2  7>o  -             _    (V    ~
I -  - ---  *-                                                                          -                                                                                                                                           
|v-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              "NILHT . I . .tt.'>12?NU



