Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1992 SE
              (Second Small Rural Operations Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated April 3, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1992 SE
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated April 3,  1989,  between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to contract from International Fund
for Agricultural Development (IFAD) a  loan  (the IFAD Loan) in an
amount equivalent to  about  five  million dollars ($5,000,000) to
assist in financing part of  the  Project  on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in an  agreement  (the  IFAD Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and IFAD; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Project Preparation Advance"  means  the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to exchanges of letters  dated  December  16,  1986, May 28, 1987,
November 26, 1987, December 30, 1987, July 11, 1988 and August 11,
1988 between the Borrower and the Association.
     (b)  "Project Unit"  means  the  unit  within  the Borrower's
Ministry  of  Social  Development  to  be  maintained  pursuant to
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
     (c)  "Interministerial Committee"  means the interministerial
committee  established  pursuant  to  Section  3.01  (b)  of  this
Agreement;
     (d)  "Sub-project" means any sub-project  financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit or proposed  to be so financed under Part A
of the Project;
     (e)  "SAED" means the Societe d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation
des Terres du Delta du Fleuve  Senegal  et de la Vallee de Falame,
an etablissement public, established and operating pursuant to the
Borrower's Law No. 65-001,  dated  January  20,  1965 and the Bor-
rower's Decree No. 65-026,  dated  January  20, 1965, and includes
any successor thereto;
     (f)  "SOMIVAC" means Societe de la Mise en Valeur Agricole de
la Casamance, an  etablissement  public  a caractere industriel et
commercial, established and  operating  pursuant to the Borrower's
Law No.  76-69,  dated  July  2,  1976  and  the Borrower's Decree
No. 76-836,  dated  July  24,  1976,  and  includes  any successor
thereto;
     (g)  "CERP" means Centre d'Expansion  Rural Polyvalent of the
Borrower's Ministry of Interior;
     (h)  "SODAGRI" means Societe de  Developpement Agricole de la
Vallee de l'Anambe, a  societe d'economie mixte, established under
the laws of Senegal and registered in the register of the tribunal
civil de Dakar on  February  27,  1974  and includes any successor
thereto;
     (i)  "Group of Producers"  means  a  group of rural producers
with membership and  responsibilities  appropriate  to operate the
facilities under a Sub-project  and  empowered, through its autho-
rized representatives, to carry  out  the obligations specified in
Section  3.03  of  this  Agreement,  all  in  accordance  with the
Borrower's relevant procedures and applicable laws;
     (j)  "Special Account" means  the  account  to  be opened and
operated pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (k)  "Project Account" means the account to be maintained and
operated pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement;
Page  3
     (l)  "Capital Replacement Account"  means  the account opened
or to be opened by a  Group of Producers for the purposes referred
to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement; and
     (m)  "CFAF"  and  "CFA  Franc"   mean  the  currency  of  the
Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies equi-
valent to twelve million Special Drawing Rights  (SDR 12,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF  a  special account in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions  satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special  Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of  the  Project  Preparation  Advance  withdrawn  and out-
standing as of such date  and  to  pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The  Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates  as  may  be  set  from  time  to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.   The  rate  set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed  by,  or  in  the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the  currency  specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of  the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as  may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Page  4
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15,
commencing February 15,  1999  and  ending  August  15, 2028. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on August 15,
2008 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five  consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of  the  Association and after due con-
sideration by them of  the  development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08.  The  currency  of  the  Republic  of France is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this  end,  shall  carry out the Project through
the Project Unit (with the  assistance,  as required, of the rele-
vant entities, agencies  and  departments  referred  to in Section
3.02 of this Agreement) with  due  diligence and efficiency and in
conformity   with    appropriate   administrative,   agricultural,
engineering and financial  practices,  and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the  funds,  facilities,  services  and other resources
required for the Project.
     (b)  For the  overall  coordination  and  supervision  of the
Project,  the   Borrower   shall   maintain   an  Interministerial
Committee, chaired by  the  Minister  of Social Development, which
shall hold meetings at least twice a year, and shall inter alia:
          (i)  review  and  approve   annual  management  reports,
               annual work programs and annual budgets;
         (ii)  approve any proposed Sub-project  under Part A.9 of
               the Project  provided,  however,  that Sub-projects
               whose estimated cost are  less than CFAF 10,000,000
               may be approved directly  by the chairperson of the
               Interministerial Committee;
        (iii)  examine  the  status  of  each  Capital Replacement
Page  5
               Account,  including  Capital  Replacement  Accounts
               established in  accordance  with  the provisions of
               the Development Credit  Agreement  (Cr. No. 991 SE)
               between the  Borrower  and  the  Association, dated
               April 2, 1980 (Small Rural Operations Project) and,
               in case  of  delinquency,  issue necessary instruc-
               tions so that all appropriate measures are taken to
               ensure  that  all  arrears  are  made  up  promptly
               thereafter; and
         (iv)  periodic review  of  procedures  for  financing and
               implementing small  rural  operations  in  order to
               harmonize approaches.
     (c)  The Borrower shall  maintain:  (i)  at  the  head of the
Project Unit a project manager whose qualifications and experience
shall be satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) Project manage-
ment team working exclusively  for  the  Project, consisting of at
least two rural engineers,  a  livestock economist, three agricul-
tural economists and  a  chief  accountant,  to assist the Project
Manager, all qualified and  experienced.  Said project manager and
Project management team shall  have functions and responsibilities
acceptable  to  the  Association,  including  those  set  forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (d)  Pursuant to  the  provisions  of  paragraph  (a) of this
Section, but without any limitation thereon, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  for the purposes  of  the  Project, maintain in its
               Treasury the  Project  Account  for  the purpose of
               making available the Borrower's counterpart funding
               for the Project; and
         (ii)  out of its own  resources,  make annual deposits of
               funds sufficient to  meet  Project expenditures for
               the immediately following year. The amounts of such
               funds to be estimated on  the basis of Project cash
               requirement forecasts.
     Section 3.02. For carrying  out  Part  A  of the Project, the
Borrower shall, through the Project  Unit, enter into an agreement
or  arrangements  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the
Borrower and the Association  with  each of the following relevant
entities, agencies or departments  pursuant  to which such entity,
agency or department shall  assume certain technical responsibili-
ties and, as the case  may be, certain managerial responsibilities
under a Sub-project  (providing,  inter  alia, for remuneration of
direct costs for assuming  said  responsibilities exclusive of any
contribution to overhead expenses), namely with SAED for Parts A.1
through A.4 of the Project, the  CERP for Part A.5 of the Project,
SODAGRI for Part A.6,  the  Livestock Department of the Borrower's
Ministry responsible for livestock  for  Part  A.7 of the Project,
SOMIVAC for Part  A.8  of  the  Project,  and any relevant entity,
agency or department  for  a  Sub-project  under  Part  A.9 of the
Project.
     Section  3.03.  Pursuant  to  the  agreement  or arrangements
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, each entity, agency
or department involved in the  carrying out of a Sub-project shall
obtain by written  contract  with  the  Group  of Producers rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association
and the entity, agency or  department, including the right of said
entity, agency or department to:
     (a)  require the Group of Producers:
          (i)  to provide all  unskilled  labor  required for con-
               struction of the  facilities  to  be financed under
               the Sub-project concerned;
         (ii)  to  deposit  into  a  Capital  Replacement  Account
               opened at the  nearest  branch  of a development or
Page  6
               commercial bank, prior  to  initial installation of
               medium-term assets,  said  cash amount representing
               at least ten  percent  (10%)  of the delivered cost
               including installation charges of the assets;
        (iii)  to collect  and  pay  into  the Capital Replacement
               Account cash  annuities  calculated  at replacement
               cost; the amount of  such annuities and the payment
               dates to be specified in such contract;
         (iv)  to acquire and allocate  land within each perimeter
               to  the  respective   members   of   the  Group  of
               Producers;
          (v)  to  set  up  appropriate  operating  procedures for
               access to common  facilities,  inputs and services;
               and
         (vi)  to collect the  cash  and/or  provide the labor for
               operation and maintenance of shared facilities;
     (b)  inspect and monitor,  by  itself  or jointly with repre-
sentatives of the Borrower  and  the Association, the goods, sites
works, construction,  facilities  operated  by  the  Group of Pro-
ducers,  the  operation  thereof,  and  any  relevant  records and
documents.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall select proposed Sub-projects
under Part A.9 of  the  Project  in  accordance with the following
criteria:
     (a)  the Sub-project shall be directly productive;
     (b)  the Sub-project  shall  be  financially and economically
profitable, with a net income  per  labor-day of at least CFAF 650
upon reaching full development, and with an internal economic rate
of return of at least ten percent (10%); and
     (c)  the Sub-project shall  have  been  requested  by, and be
manifestly in the  interest  of,  a  Group  or Groups of Producers
having shown willingness to accept  the provisions of the contract
referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
     Section 3.05. In carrying  out  Part  A.9 of the Project, the
Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that at least
30% of the funds allocated to  Category (6) of the table set forth
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1  to this Agreement shall be disbursed
for Sub-projects benefitting Groups of Producers whose members are
solely women.
     Section  3.06.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.07. Not later  than  June  30,  1992, or such other
date as may be  agreed  between  the Borrower and the Association,
the  Borrower  and  the   Association  shall  jointly  review  the
efficiency of the execution of the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain in the Project
Unit consolidated Project accounts  including records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
the operations,  resources  and  expenditures  in  respect  of the
Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
Page  7
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of  this  Section including those for
               the Special Account verified quarterly and for each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.O1. The following  event  is  specified as an addi-
tional condition to  the  effectiveness  of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of  Section  12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely that the  Borrower  has issued an arrete estab-
lishing the Interministerial Committee.
     Section 5.O2. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.O4 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01.  The  Minister  of  the  Borrower  at  the time
responsible for finance  is  designated  as  representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.O3  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 6.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
Page  8
purposes of Section 11.O1 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances
          Rue Charles Laine
          B.P. 4017
          Dakar
          Senegal
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MINIFINANCES                     3203 SG
                Dakar
                Senegal
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
                          By /s/ Ibra Deguene KA
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works,                  520,000       95%
     vehicles, equip-
Page  9
     ment and surveys
     under Part A.1
     of the Project
(2)  Civil works,                  375,000       95%
     vehicles, equip-
     ment, inputs
     and supplies
     under Part A.3
     of the Project
(3)  Civil works,                  595,000       95%
     vehicles, equip-
     ment, inputs and
     supplies under
     Part A.4 of the
     Project
(4)  Civil works,                  595,000       95%
     vehicles, equip-
     ment, inputs,
     supplies and
     surveys under
     Part A.6 of the
     Project
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5)  Studies, civil                150,000       95%
     works, vehicles,
     equipment, inputs
     and supplies under
     Part A.7 of the
     Project
(6)  Studies, civil                560,000       95%
     works, vehicles,
     equipment, inputs
     and supplies under
     Part A.8 of the
     Project
(7)  Civil works,                3,310,000       95%
     vehicles, equip-
     ment and supplies
     under Part A.9
     of the Project
(8)  Studies, civil              3,940,000       95%
     works, vehicles,
     equipment and
     operating cost
     under Part B of
     the Project
(9)  Refunding of                1,115,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(10) Unallocated                   840,000
                                __________
         TOTAL                  12,000,000
2.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
Page  10
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)  for expenditures in respect  of  Category (1) before the
Groups of Producers benefitting from  the carrying out of Part A.1
of the Project have: (i)  deposited  at  least 60% of the eligible
amount under the  Development  Credit  Agreement  (Cr. No. 991 SE)
dated April 2, 1980 as  of  December  31, 1988 into the respective
Capital  Replacement  Accounts;  and  (ii)  deposited  5%  of  the
contract  value  of  rehabilitation   works  into  the  respective
maintenance account;
     (c)  for expenditures in respect  of  Category (7) for a Sub-
project under Part A.9 of the Project, unless:
          (i)  the  Sub-project  has  been  approved  pursuant  to
               Sections 3.01 (b) (ii)  and 3.04 of this Agreement;
               and
         (ii)  the   Sub-project   has   been   approved   by  the
               Association, except  for  any  of  the Sub-projects
               which: (A)  constitutes  an  additional Sub-project
               similar to any one  of the Sub-projects included in
               Parts A.1 through A.8  of  the Project; and (B) has
               an  estimated  cost  per   Group  of  Producers  of
               CFAF 30,000,000 or  less  or  an estimated cost per
               producer  of  CFAF   750,000   or  less,  provided,
               however,  that the aggregate amount of Sub-projects
               to be financed out  of  the  proceeds of the Credit
               without  approval  by  the  Association    does not
               represent more than $1.5 million equivalent.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are to promote the development
of productive activities, which  are  directly  in the interest of
groups of rural people representing about 4,500 families.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   A series of Sub-projects as follows:
1.   Rehabilitation of 12 Rice Perimeters of Ngalenka
     Rehabilitation and  consolidation  of  12  irrigated rice and
vegetable perimeters in the Ngalenka Valley.
2.   Second Ngalenka Rice Perimeters
     Construction of,  and  provision  of  equipment and technical
services for, 10 rice and vegetable perimeters of about 30 ha each
in the zone lying between  the  Ngalenka and Senegal rivers in the
Saint Louis region.
3.   Small Irrigation Perimeters of Matam
     Construction of,  and  provision  of  equipment and technical
services for, four rice and  vegetable perimeters of 20-30 ha each
for four women's or youth's groups in the Matam area.
4.   Small Irrigation Perimeters of Bakel
     Construction of,  and  provision  of  equipment and technical
services for,  six  perimeters  (cereal  and  vegetables) of about
30 ha each in the Bakel area of Tambacounda region.
Page  11
5.   Sirmang Fruit and Vegetable Perimeter
     Construction of,  and  provision  of  equipment and technical
services for, a 15 ha vegetable  perimeter  and a 45 ha fruit tree
operation for about 100 families  in the Lower Saloum area (Fatick
region).
6.   Cereal and Fruit Perimeters of Fass
     Construction of,  and  provision  of  equipment and technical
services for, two perimeters of about  60 ha each per perimeter at
Fass near Medina - Grounoss (Kolda region).
7.   Bee Keeping
     Construction  of  three   extraction  centers,  provision  of
equipment and technical services for  three Groups of Producers in
three villages in the region of Kolda.
8.   Banana Perimeters
     Construction of,  and  provision  of  equipment and technical
services for, 2 Groups of  Producers operating 2 banana perimeters
of about 15 ha each in the Diende area in the region of Kolda.
9.   Unidentified Sub-projects
     A program of activities for Sub-projects to be identified and
carried out after approval  in  accordance  with the provisions of
paragraph 2 (c) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Part B:   Project Management
1.   Construction and equipping  of  two  office facilities in the
field for the Project Unit.
2.   Strengthening  of  capabilities   of   the  Project  Unit  to
identify, prepare and supervise small rural projects.
3.   Training of: (i) personnel  of  the  Borrower involved in the
execution of the Project; and (ii) members of Groups of Producers.
                           *   *   *   *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof,  goods  manufactured in Senegal may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  the  Borrower  may grant a margin of
Page  12
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for vehicles  and  goods whose estimated individual
cost shall not exceed $200,000 and contracts for civil works whose
estimated individual cost  shall  not  exceed $300,000 equivalent,
may be awarded  on  the  basis  of  competitive bidding advertised
locally  and  in  accordance  with  procedures  acceptable  to the
Association.
2.   Contracts for  civil  works  whose  estimated individual cost
shall not exceed $100,000  equivalent, and contracts for equipment
and materials whose  estimated  individual  cost  shall not exceed
$50,000 may be purchased  after  solicitation  from at least three
local suppliers or contractors.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $200,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished  to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)   The provisions of  the  preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory  to  the  Association.   Such  consultants  shall  be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                        Project Management
     The project manager, assisted by the Project management team,
will  specifically  perform  the  functions  and  responsibilities
Page  13
outlined hereunder, for the purpose of the Project:
     (a)  preparation of annual  work programs, management reports
and budgets;
     (b)  entering into the agreements or arrangements referred to
in Section 3.02 of  this  Agreement,  which  shall define the res-
pective roles and authorities  of the contracting parties relating
to the execution of Sub-projects.
     (c)  verification of  payments  made  by  Groups of Producers
into their respective Capital  Replacement Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 3.03 (a) (ii) of this Agreement;
     (d)  preparation of bidding documents, evaluation of bids and
award of contracts for goods and civil works, in consultation with
any entity, agency or department concerned, provided, however that
such functions may  be  delegated  to  any  such entity, agency or
department;
     (e)  collection of data and establishment of a monitoring and
evaluation system for Sub-projects  in  close cooperation with the
relevant entities;
     (f)  with respect to proposed  Sub-projects under Part A.9 of
the Project:
          (i)  diffusing information on  selection criteria as set
               forth in Section 3.04  of this Agreement, financial
               terms and conditions  applicable,  procedures to be
               followed until approval,  and  more generally, pro-
               viding assistance as  may  be  required to relevant
               entities,  agencies,  departments   and  Groups  of
               Producers   in   project   preparation,   including
               training courses; and
         (ii)  carrying out of a technical, economic and financial
               appraisal  for  each  Sub-project,  submission  for
               approval  in  accordance   with  the  provision  of
               Section 3.01 (b)(ii)  and,  if required, submission
               to the Association for approval, in accordance with
               the provisions of paragraph 2  (c) of Schedule 1 to
               this Agreement;
     (g)  maintenance  of   consolidated   Project   accounts  and
preparation and submission  of  financial statements in accordance
with the provisions of Section 4.01 of this Agreement;
     (h)  preparation and submission of quarterly progress reports
to the Interministerial Committee and the Association, including a
statement on the status of each Capital Replacement Account;
     (i)  acting as secretary  for the Interministerial Committee;
and
     (j)  acting  as  liaison  between  the  Association  and  the
entities, agencies, departments  and  Groups of Producers involved
in the  carrying  out  of  any  part  of  the  Project, and having
authority over the entire Project management team.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  Categories"  means Categories (1) to
(8) set forth in the table  in  paragraph  1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
Page  14
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term  "Authorized  Allocation"  means  an  amount of
CFAF 250,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests,  the  Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and  deposit  into the Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to  the  eligible  Categories,  less  the  amount of any
outstanding special  commitment  entered  into  by the Association
Page  15
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories shall follow such  procedures  as the Association shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may  request;  or  (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the  Association  shall  so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so  eligible  or  justified.  Unless the Asso-ciation shall 
otherwise agree, no  further deposit by the Associa-
tion into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal by the Borrower or for cancella-
tion in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
